 annual report 2006 Contents
Our core business values
Financial discipline
Integrity of communication
Respect for the individual
Safe behaviour
Team first culture
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
6 Asset portfolio
8 Business and financial review
8 Group overview 
14 Our approach to risk and risk management 
20 Key performance indicators and financial highlights
26 Regional reviews 
38 Financial position and resources 
44 Board of Directors
46 Senior management team
48 Corporate governance
56 Corporate responsibility
62 Employees
64 Directors’ remuneration report
76 Directors’ report
77 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
78 Independent auditor’s report
79 Consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2006
132 Company financial statements
139 Five-year financial summary
141 Shareholder profile
142 Shareholder services and information
142 Financial calendar
143 Glossary
Disclaimer
This document includes certain forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and 
projections of the Company about future events. However, by their nature forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future. Actual results may
differ from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the economic and
business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries in which the Group operates, changes in trends in the
general global or regional economies, changes in trends in the global energy sector, changes in regulation and natural disasters 
or other calamities.
P
P
P
P
P 2006 highlights
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Excluding exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements
Revenue
(including joint ventures and associates) 3,645 2,980
Profit from operations 773 536
Profit before tax 525 334
Earnings per share in pence (basic) 22.4p 14.6p
Including exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements
Revenue
(including joint ventures and associates) 3,783 2,936
Profit from operations 898 611
Profit before tax 624 419
Earnings per share in pence (basic) 27.6p 19.4p
Dividend per share in pence 7.9p 4.5p
Cash generated from operations 769 512
Free cash flow – see page 39 456 285
Capital expenditure
Maintenance 128 72
Growth 142 188
Major acquisition expenditure
Coleto Creek 621 –
Levanto 129 –
Saltend – 495
* Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Net assets 2,740 2,375
Net debt (3,485) (2,979)
Gearing 127% 125%
Debt capitalisation 56% 56%
Profit from operations*
Earnings per share* (basic)
Free cash flow
Annual Report 2006 1
In 2006 our profit from operations* increased significantly from
£536 million in 2005 to £773 million and earnings per share*
increased from 14.6p to 22.4p, an improvement of 53%.
Uthmaniyah, Tihama, Saudi Arabia
0
£ million
100 200 300 400 500
456
285
2006
2005
0
£ million
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
773
536
2006
2005
0 5 10 15 20 25
22.4p 2006
2005 14.6p
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/22/07  08:17  Page 1 Chairman’s statement
Last year I said we expected 2006 to be a year of further growth and 
I am glad to report that it was. In 2006 our profit from operations*
increased significantly from £536 million in 2005 to £773 million, an
improvement of 44% and earnings per share* (EPS) increased from 14.6p
to 22.4p, an improvement of 53%. In addition, free cash flow increased 
by 60% from £285 million in 2005 to £456 million in 2006.
In 2004, when we announced our first dividend payment, we stated
that our dividend policy was to commence paying a dividend
representing a pay-out ratio of 30% of pre-exceptional EPS progressing
towards a pay out of 40% in the medium-term. This year the Board is
proposing a dividend of 7.9p per share which reflects a pay-out ratio of
35%*, and an increase of 75% on last year’s payment.
The financial results reflect the good operational performance of 
our assets, the improvement in the UK and US merchant markets 
and the continued growth of the business. In 2006 we completed the
acquisition of a 40% interest in the 910 MW and 30 MIGD (gross)
Hidd power and water plant in Bahrain, the coal fired 632 MW Coleto
Creek power station in Texas, the 140 MW Indian Queens oil fired
peaking plant in Cornwall, UK and the 436 MW Levanto wind farm
portfolio, which has wind farms that are currently operating or under
construction in Germany and France plus further potential growth from
a pipeline of development opportunities. These acquisitions all met our
financial criteria whilst fitting in with our strategic aims. The Hidd
acquisition continued our growth in the Middle East in a new market for
us – Bahrain. Coleto Creek increased our presence in Texas and added
good fuel diversification. The Indian Queens peaking plant increased our
ability to provide system support. Levanto represented our first major
renewables business in Europe and, in addition to providing fuel
diversification, gives the business immediate scale and credibility in 
this increasingly important area of electricity generation. 
Chairman’s statement 2
Profit from operations* of £773 million
(2005: £536 million) – up 44%
EPS* of 22.4p (2005: 14.6p) – up 53%
Free cash flow of £456 million 
(2005: £285 million) – up 60%
Dividend per share of 7.9p proposed –
up 75% from 4.5p in 2005 * Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
2006 was another successful 
year for the Company in terms 
of both strong growth in earnings
and cash flow, and expansion 
by acquisitions and greenfield
developments. The business is
well placed for further growth 
in 2007.
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 2 The successful growth that has taken place in the last few years is
testament to the strong leadership of the Chief Executive Officer, 
Phil Cox, and his executive team and the professionalism and efforts 
of all the Group’s employees. On your behalf I would like to thank them
all for their contribution to the continued success of the Company.
Whenever I visit our assets (and in 2006 I visited plants in Australia 
and the Middle East), I have been very impressed by the enthusiasm
demonstrated by the employees for our business and the obvious 
pride they all take in their work.
We take our commitment to safety very seriously. One of our core
values is to instil safe behaviour in everything we do. We therefore
decided to ask DuPont, an acknowledged world authority in this field, 
to carry out a safety review at a selection of our assets around the globe
to ensure that our commitment to excellent health and safety standards,
across our portfolio, is checked and challenged and that best practice 
is shared by all our plants. Health and safety is of vital importance in 
our business and therefore the accident frequency rate is one of the
non-financial key performance indicators we use in managing 
our business.
Once again, I would like to express my thanks to our Non-Executive
Directors, whose guidance, challenge and support continues to be
invaluable. During the year there were changes at Board level. Following
the retirement of Jack Taylor, as a Non-Executive Director, at last year’s
Annual General Meeting, John Roberts, formerly Chief Executive of
United Utilities plc, has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
John brings related power industry and international experience to the
Board and has already made a positive contribution to the business.
Our broadly based international portfolio has been strengthened by 
the successful integration of acquired assets and the addition of new
greenfield projects commissioned in 2006, and provides a solid platform
for our business. This, coupled with a largely forward contracted position
for our merchant capacity, gives us confidence that 2007 will be a year
of further growth. We will continue with our disciplined approach to
pursuing value enhancing growth opportunities in our core regions,
alongside our commitment to increase our dividend pay-out ratio 
over the medium-term. 
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
Annual Report 2006 3
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 3 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Dear Shareholder,
2006 was a strong year, with very good operational and financial
performance reflected in a significant increase in our share price. 
The key commercial drivers were the continued recovery of the US 
and UK merchant markets, together with contributions from selected
acquisitions and greenfield growth projects. However, none of this
would have been possible without the continued enthusiasm,
commitment and drive from our dedicated teams of professionals
across the entire Group, and I thank every individual for this. 
This performance needs to be viewed in the wider context of our
industry. Power generation, and the energy sector as a whole, is right at
the centre of a number of key international debates, including security
of supply, high and volatile fuel prices, the environmental impact of
emissions, and carbon dioxide in particular, technology advances, and
government energy policies. It is critically important that we actively
keep all these key themes under continual review to ensure we
understand their impact and therefore best position International Power
in all of the markets in which we operate.
Clear strategy to create value
Our results are based on a clear strategy to create value from power
generation and very closely related activities, such as desalination and
district heating. A key strength comes from our international portfolio
approach, which provides a breadth of geography, market structure, fuel,
and technology. This portfolio approach not only provides excellent risk
mitigation, but also outstanding access to growth opportunities across
all of our markets. Growth continues to be an important part of our
business model, and our combination of in-depth regional market
knowledge with a rigorous capital allocation process is designed to
ensure only the best projects are selected. We will continue to focus on
both carefully researched liberalised merchant markets, where we take
full price risk for the power that we generate, and regulated markets
where we have long-term offtake arrangements for our power with
contractually agreed pricing. 
Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which 
we operate, is that our investments make money for our shareholders
over the long-term. To deliver strong performance over the long-term, we
must have strong values that all International Power employees ascribe to
and live by. It is our values and behaviour that drive our performance, and
it is worth a short reminder of our five core values, listed below.
These values, running through the heart of our core competencies –
greenfield development, acquisitions, financing, asset and project
management, trading, and plant operations – will continue to be 
our foundation.
A successful year – strong operational 
and financial performance
In terms of performance in 2006, it was a very good year across the
portfolio with all regions contributing well, but with especially strong
performances in the UK and in the US. Environmental upgrades and
initiatives are a common theme across our portfolio, and you will see
reference to a number of these in this review.
North America In the US, our two key merchant markets of Texas 
and New England continued their recovery. Oversupply continues to 
be reduced through consistent demand growth, enabling our plants 
in both Texas and New England to run at higher load factors and at
higher margins than in 2005. In July 2006, we acquired Coleto Creek, 
a 632 MW coal fired plant in Texas, and this asset has been quickly 
and successfully integrated into our US portfolio. Coleto Creek provides
good fuel diversity, and its access to low cost, low sulphur Powder River
Basin coal from Wyoming represents a long-term cost advantage. We
are now investing to improve the environmental performance of Coleto
Creek by upgrading its dust emission control equipment. Coleto Creek
also comes with expansion potential at site, and we are keeping this
growth opportunity under close review. In New England, December
2006 saw the introduction of an enhanced Forward Capacity Market –
this is a very welcome development, as it rewards capacity for 
being available.
Europe In Europe, the main driver for the increase in profits was the UK.
As in the US, the reserve margin – the difference between installed
capacity and peak demand – continues to reduce. This, when coupled
with a high oil and gas price that generally sets the price of power in
the UK, resulted in a much improved year for Rugeley, our 1,050 MW
coal fired plant. We are investing some £145 million in environmental
improvements at Rugeley to reduce sulphur and other emissions,
providing this plant with a long-term role within UK generation. Price
volatility, and the continual need for power at very short notice to
ensure security of supply, combined to make 2006 a very good year for
First Hydro, the largest fast-response pumped storage peaking unit in 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 4
Our core values:
Financial discipline – we assess
opportunities and risks carefully, we won’t
overpay for assets, and we look after
shareholders’ investment
Integrity – honesty, openness, and fairness
underpin all our business dealings,
internally and externally
Respect – for the individual, for opinions, 
for nationalities, genders, religions and 
ethnic backgrounds
Safety – safe behaviour and attitude in
everything we do – all day, every day
Team culture – success in a complex business
means bringing people of many different
disciplines together into co-ordinated teams
P
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 4 the UK. For gas fired generation, the high price of gas generally meant
that margins remained depressed – however, this was not the case for
Saltend, our 1,200 MW gas fired plant, as this plant benefited from an
attractively priced gas contract in 2006. 
The balance of our European portfolio is largely contracted, and
delivered an excellent performance, characterised by high plant
availability. As in the UK, we are also installing improved emission
control equipment at Pego, our Portuguese coal fired plant. We were
also very pleased to announce two acquisitions during the year – 
Indian Queens, a 140 MW peaking plant in the UK, and Levanto, a 
436 MW portfolio of wind farms in operation or under construction 
in Germany and France. Levanto represents our first significant move
into renewables in Europe, and we plan to use this as a platform for
further growth in renewables, using the acquired expertise and the
inherent development opportunities.
Middle East Our performance in the Middle East in 2006 reflects
additional capacity coming on line, our four plants in Saudi Arabia
progressively reached full commercial operation during the year, in
Qatar, our power and desalination plant commenced partial commercial
operation and we also acquired the Hidd power and desalination plant
in Bahrain in early 2006. By the end of 2006, we had 2,033 MW (net)
of power plant, and 75 MIGD (net) of desalination plant in operation in
the Middle East, with a further 355 MW (net) and 42 MIGD (net) due
to come into operation from existing projects. Our existing plants
continue to perform well under their long-term contracts, and we
continue to target this region as a source of long-term growth through
leveraging our operational and development skills, alongside our
excellent market relationships.
Australia In Australia, our headline profit is down, due to lower achieved 
prices which were anticipated in this merchant market. Our forward
contracting policy has significantly insulated the business from weaker
market prices over the last few years, but 2006 margins reflect more
recent, and hence lower, prices. However, the market background is
now more encouraging, with forward prices showing an improvement.
As we are largely contracted for 2007, we should see most of the
benefit from this improvement from 2008 onwards. We are also
investigating means of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from brown
coal generation at our Hazelwood plant in Victoria, working with both
federal and state governments, and with selected technology specialists.
This is a medium to long-term project, and we are pleased to be at 
the forefront of addressing such an important issue for Australian 
power generation.
Asia In Asia, all of our assets operate under long-term offtake contracts,
and all have performed well, with high availability the main driver. Profit
is a little down year-on-year, primarily because the tax free status of one
of our assets in Pakistan (KAPCO) has time expired, as originally
planned. We continue to target growth opportunities in Asia, including
both greenfield and acquisition opportunities, and accordingly we have
strengthened our development resources in the region.
Focus on growth opportunities
Our strong operational performance has been matched by a very
significant improvement in free cash flow. This ensures that our balance
sheet remains robust, with gearing and debt capitalisation at levels very
similar to last year, despite the acquisitions made during 2006. Our
corporate liquidity also remains good, providing us with great flexibility
to pursue growth opportunities, alongside our commitment to
progressively increase our dividend pay-out ratio.
The foundation of our business is stronger, and we are focused on
growth opportunities through greenfield development and acquisitions
across our core regions. Recovering power markets are resulting in
generally higher asset prices, but we will use our key strengths of
regional market knowledge and financial discipline to ensure that we do
not overpay, and that long-term shareholder value remains at the very
top of our agenda.
Philip Cox
Chief Executive Officer 
Annual Report 2006 5
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 5 Asset portfolio
The tables below and opposite set out details in relation to our operating plants and 
assets under construction as at 5 March 2007.
Asset portfolio 6
Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross IPR net
capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
power % power heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
MW MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
steam steam
As at 5 March 2007 (million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
North America 
Hartwell, Georgia Gas (OCGT) 310 50 155
Bellingham, Massachusetts
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 570 100 570
Blackstone, Massachusetts
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 570 100 570
Milford, Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 100 160
EcoEléctrica, Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 524 35 183
Coleto Creek, Texas Coal 632 100 632
Hays, Texas
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 1,100 100 1,100
Midlothian, Texas
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 1,650 100 1,650
Oyster Creek, Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 425 50 213 100 MWth 50 MWth
North America total in operation 5,941 5,233
Europe 
International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic
(2)
Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 100 585 2,040 MWth 2,040 MWth
Levanto, Europe Wind 361 100 361
ISAB, Italy Gas (IGCC) 528 34 181
Tejo Energia (Pego), Portugal Coal 600 50 300
Turbogás, Portugal Gas (CCGT) 990 60 594
Spanish Hydro, Spain Hydro 84 67 57
Uni-Mar (Marmara), Turkey Gas (CCGT) 480 33 160
Deeside, UK Gas (CCGT) 500 100 500
Derwent, UK Gas (CCGT) 214 23 50
Indian Queens, UK Oil (OCGT) 140 100 140
First Hydro, UK Pumped storage 2,088 70 1,462
Rugeley, UK Coal/50 MW of OCGT 1,050 100 1,050
Saltend, UK Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 70 840 0.30m lbs/hr 0.21m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation 8,820 6,280
Middle East 
Hidd, Bahrain Gas (CCGT)/desalination 910 40 364 30 MIGD 12 MIGD
Al Kamil, Oman Gas (OCGT) 285 65 185
Ras Laffan B, Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 600 40 240 15 MIGD 6 MIGD
Tihama, Saudi Arabia Gas (Cogen) 1,074 60 645 4.5m lbs/hr 2.7m lbs/hr
Shuweihat S1, UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,500 20 300 100 MIGD 20 MIGD
Umm Al Nar, UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,495 20 299 185 MIGD 37 MIGD
Middle East total in operation 5,864 2,033
Australia
Canunda, South Australia Wind 46 100 46
Pelican Point, South Australia Gas (CCGT) 485 100 485
Synergen, South Australia Gas/distillate 360 100 360
Hazelwood, Victoria Coal 1,635 92 1,500
Loy Yang B, Victoria Coal 1,010 70 707
Kwinana, Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 49 58
Australia total in operation 3,654 3,156
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 6 Annual Report 2006 7
Image caption
International Power portfolio
Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross IPR net
capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
power % power heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
MW MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
steam steam
(million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation continued…
Asia 
Paiton, Indonesia Coal 1,230 31 385
Malakoff, Malaysia
(5)
Gas (OCGT/CCGT) 3,760 18 677
HUBCO, Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219
KAPCO, Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 36 575
Uch, Pakistan Gas (CCGT) 586 40 234
TNP (Pluak Daeng), Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 100 143 7.7 MWth
(4)
7.7 MWth
(4)
Asia total in operation 8,609 2,233
TOTAL in operation around the world 32,888 18,935
Assets under construction
Levanto, Europe Wind 75 100 75
Hidd, Bahrain Desalination – 40 – 60 MIGD 24 MIGD
Ras Laffan B, Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 425 40 170 45 MIGD 18 MIGD
Umm Al Nar Expansion, UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 925 20 185
TOTAL under construction around the world 1,425 430
Other investments
BioX, Netherlands Renewable energy company 10
Opus Energy, UK Independent supplier of electricity to small and 30
medium-size businesses
EnergyAustralia, Victoria and South Australia
(3)
Electricity and gas retailer 50
SEA Gas pipeline, Victoria and South Australia 687km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia 33
(1)
Capacity shown for these assets is the nameplate capacity.
(2)
Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
(3)
EnergyAustralia services circa 415,000 electricity and gas retail accounts in Victoria and South Australia.
(4)
District cooling system capacity.
(5)
Gross capacity amount shown for Malakoff represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by Malakoff. International Power’s investment in Malakoff is classified on its Group balance sheet as an asset
held for sale following Malakoff’s shareholder approval to divest its business to MMC, another Malaysian corporate.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 7 Our strategy
We aim to maximise value to our shareholders over time through: 
• a portfolio approach; 
• maximising the value of our existing portfolio; 
• growing the portfolio.
Our portfolio approach
Our balanced geographical presence gives us access to growth
opportunities with attractive risk reward profiles whilst protecting 
the overall business from a downturn in any particular market.
The portfolio approach also extends through to our operational
capabilities. We are able to operate a range of power plant
technologies, namely thermal, hydro, pumped storage and wind. 
These technologies produce electricity using different fuel types that
include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such as wind and water. 
This operational experience allows us to capture opportunities that 
are most economic and best suited to the market in question.
As electricity is a critical service for any economy, governments carefully
decide whether or not they wish to liberalise this key sector. Several
governments have retained full control of the sector and others have
fully liberalised both the production and supply of electricity. The skills
required for operating in liberalised (merchant) or non-liberalised
(contracted) markets are very different – and we have both. 
The government controlled markets offer opportunities to sell power 
to government bodies via long-term contracts that offer stable and
regulated returns. Assets in the liberalised or merchant markets are
subject to the forces of supply and demand, and these markets are
generally cyclical and more volatile. Both these markets offer attractive
risk/reward environments for investments. International Power maintains
a balanced presence in both types of markets, providing the business
with a stable platform of contracted earnings and cash flow overlaid 
by merchant generation which offers greater potential when markets
are favourable.
Group overview
International Power plc is a leading independent electricity
generating company with interests in over 32,000 MW (gross) 
of power generating capacity, located in 20 countries. We add 
value and manage risk through a portfolio management approach,
which involves maintaining a balance in the portfolio in terms of
geographical spread, fuel diversity and contract type. This portfolio
approach gives us access to multiple opportunities to create value
whilst mitigating the risks associated with over exposure to any
particular market, fuel or contract type.
Business and financial review – Group overview 8
10%
17%
12%
28%
33%
Geography
North America
Europe
Middle East
Australia 
Asia
IPR portfolio 
All charts are presented based on net operating MW
P
The Business and financial review is based on 
the guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews
published by the Accounting Standards Board. 
To assist shareholders with their understanding of 
our business we look at issues affecting the Group as
a whole on pages 8 to 25 followed by reviews of our
five regions on pages 26 to 37. We cover our
financial position and resources on pages 38 to 43.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 8 Annual Report 2006 9
11%
38%
8%
43%
Contract type*
Uncontracted 
Long-term 
contracted/PPA 
Pumped storage
Short-term 
contracted 
* 2007 full year position as at
20 February 2007 and excludes
assets under construction.
P
Maximising the value of our existing portfolio
Our specific strategies for value enhancement in each country and for
each individual asset are tailored to local requirements, but generally 
we seek to achieve the following:
• Optimise the operations of our power plants We optimise the
operation of our power plants through several means, including
managing all of our assets to high standards of safety and operating
performance; managing our assets on a portfolio basis, particularly
with regard to contingency and strategic spare parts planning, so as to
minimise the loss of generation during planned and forced outages;
closely co-ordinating plant operation with trading activity to maximise
the value of our uncontracted output; standardising management
reporting for all investments; and utilising our management experience
to prepare successfully, certain of our plants, for the introduction of
competition in some of the energy markets in which we operate.
• Leverage our existing assets We leverage our investments to
enhance earnings in several ways, including financing at a variety 
of corporate, project and intermediate corporate levels; capturing
operational, trading, and administrative economies of scale in asset
aggregation; capitalising on market knowledge derived through asset
ownership and leveraging off the skills, expertise and ideas of the
people we and our associates employ.
• Trade assets to maximise value We expect to increase the size of
our portfolio over time. However, as part of our strategy to maximise
the value of our investments, we will sell an asset if this generates a
higher return, or if we can obtain a comparable return with lower 
risk elsewhere.
• Seek effective routes to market We seek to improve our access 
and routes to the market in those geographical areas where it is
appropriate. In July 2005, for example, we formed a partnership 
with EnergyAustralia to supply power and gas to retail customers,
predominately in South Australia and Victoria.
Our growth 
Following the establishment of the business in October 2000, on the
demerger of National Power PLC, the Group has grown significantly,
more than doubling our operational capacity through successful
acquisitions and greenfield developments in our core markets.
Growth continues to be an important part of our business model, and
when we look at opportunities we have very clear investment criteria. 
In merchant markets, we focus on the following key factors:
• the balance of supply and demand for power, both current and 
future – to ensure that conditions for a wholesale power generator
are attractive; 
• the regulatory framework – to ensure the market structure
encourages open competition, and that the playing field is level;
• ensuring that our assets will deliver reliable power at margins that 
will support our investment.
Although we do not take any significant price risk in our long-term
contracted markets, we do look for many of the same key factors.
Essentially, we want to ensure that we generate power that is affordable
to the local economy, that we are in countries that have high growth in
demand and encourage inward foreign investment, and that our plants
are well situated close to the major centres of demand. We do, of
course, require all the necessary legal and contractual safeguards in 
our offtake contracts, but our best guarantee of long-term contractual
security is the economic viability of the power plant in the local
economy in which it operates.
25%
3%
61%
8%
0.5%
2.5%
Fuel type
Gas
Coal 
Oil 
Pumped storage
Hydro
Wind
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 9 We review very carefully market fundamentals before making any
investment in new markets. We consider entering into alliances with
other companies through partnerships, if we believe such alliances will
enable us to implement our strategy, in relation to particular markets 
or more generally. We ensure that all acquisitions and greenfield
projects are quickly and efficiently integrated into our regional business
structures. The expected returns from the acquisitions are built into
regional business performance targets and we measure delivery against
these targets at a regional and Group level through growth in profit
from operations, earnings per share (EPS) and free cash flow.
Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which
we operate, is that our investments make money for our shareholders
over the long-term. We subject new investment opportunities to
rigorous evaluation criteria, with a focus on the following elements:
• Financial return New investments must meet stringent financial return
criteria. We use a range of financial criteria in our project evaluations
including assessing the effect of the transaction on our financial key
performance indicators (KPIs); profit from operations, EPS and free
cash flow, but the fundamental principle is that we must reasonably
believe any prospective capital investment will yield, on an after-tax
cash flow basis, a return (adjusted for risk) in excess of our estimated
cost of capital. As part of this evaluation, we test investment
projections to ensure that they are both reasonable over the life 
of the investment and balanced in terms of timing of cash flow, 
based on realistic assumptions.
• Market suitability We intend to invest in countries that have a track
record of respecting foreign direct investment, that offer a significant
opportunity for future investment and growth, have strong market
fundamentals in terms of demand/supply balance and that
complement our portfolio of assets.
• Degree of control We focus our investments where we have a
controlling share or are otherwise able to contribute directly to the
realisation of projected return on investment. Generally we do not
intend to make passive investments. In some cases we have agreed 
to share management control of our investments where we have
partners that have complementary or similar commercial, technical
and operating expertise. 
With non-recourse project debt as a fundamental building block, our
capital structure is prudently balanced to provide us with the flexibility 
to carry out growth initiatives without overstretching our financial
resources. We have access to multiple financial resources – including
strong cash generation from our portfolio, our borrowing facilities 
and capacity, and our partnering capabilities – to execute selected
opportunities which meet our stringent investment criteria.
In addition to pursuing the development and acquisition of single assets,
we will also seek to acquire portfolios of generation assets if they
become available on attractive terms.
In conjunction with our focus on value enhancing growth opportunities,
we also remain committed to delivering free cash flow needed to fund
that growth and, of course, our dividend policy.
Business and financial review – Group overview 10
0
5
10
15
20
00 01 02 03 04 05 06
8.4
9.1
10.9
11.1
15.7
16.2
18.8
International Power’s net generation capacity (GW)
Asia North America
Europe
As at 31 December each year
Middle East
Australia
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  09:05  Page 10 Annual Report 2006 11
Umm Al Nar, UAE
Our capabilities
Our core capabilities for implementing our strategy can 
be categorised into the following seven areas:
International Power’s high quality asset portfolio, together with the
capabilities of our teams around the world, forms a strong combination
for revenue optimisation, effective risk management and future growth
in earnings and cash flow.
International Power has in-depth experience in plant operations and
engineering. This not only ensures smooth plant operations, but also
ensures that we understand all operational and technical issues relating
to the potential acquisition or development of new power plants. Today,
the Group has skills to execute power projects right from inception
through to the delivery of power in the most advanced and complex
traded markets of the world.
Greenfield development and construction management We have
excellent experience of developing large capital intensive infrastructure
projects – from selecting the appropriate site to securing multiple
government/stakeholder approvals and project managing the entire
construction programme right through to successful commercial
operation. International Power’s successful growth in the Middle East is
the most graphic example of our greenfield development expertise,
where, in the six years from 2000 to 2006 the Company has developed
and has an interest in six major projects with a total enterprise value of
approximately £4 billion.
Acquisitions We have demonstrated our ability to execute acquisitions
at the right time and at the right value, together with the capability to
integrate quickly and seamlessly newly acquired assets into the portfolio.
An excellent example of International Power’s acquisition capabilities 
is the successful purchase of the EME international asset portfolio, in
association with Mitsui, which was completed in late 2004. The portfolio
has since met or exceeded financial and operational performance
targets. Other examples are the acquisitions of Saltend (UK) in 2005,
and Coleto Creek (Texas) in 2006.
Financing Given the very capital intensive nature of our business, 
the ability to fund projects is vital for success. International Power 
has consistently proven its financing capabilities through the execution 
of numerous greenfield and acquisition financings, together with
refinancings of existing assets. We have completed this in different parts
of the world, under different circumstances and through the combined
use of local and international capital. As examples, Shuweihat S1 and
Umm Al Nar, two power and water projects in the Middle East, were
both financed in a challenging geopolitical environment, and Saltend,
when acquired in 2005, was the first merchant plant in the UK to be
project financed with non-recourse debt in over five years. In 2006 we
refinanced Rugeley power station in the UK and successfully put in place
project finance for the acquisition of Coleto Creek in Texas. Non-recourse
project finance is at the core of International Power’s financing strategy
and capital structure – this provides the most appropriate level of debt
for each asset and also excellent risk mitigation for the Group.
Plant operations We have comprehensive power station operational
experience and skills. Through-life engineering and maintenance plans,
meticulously implemented, ensure maximum availability and are key 
for delivering value in both our merchant and long-term contracted
markets. Effective plant operations are enhanced by ensuring
information is shared around the portfolio and key operational staff 
are rotated to different assets on a regular basis. Safe behaviour is 
a cornerstone of International Power’s operations, and we share best
practices across the portfolio to ensure all of our assets operate to 
the highest possible safety standards. 
Acquisitions
Financing
Plant operation
Trading
Long-term
contracts
Greenfield
development 
and construction 
management
Existing asset
management
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 11 Long-term contract expertise We have strong commercial skills 
to structure and negotiate long-term power and water contracts 
in regulated markets such as Asia and the Middle East. Under these
contracts, key cost risks such as fuel and turbine maintenance are
mitigated through long-term hedging and supply arrangements. 
Overall, the contracts provide visibility and stability of earnings and 
cash generation over the long-term.
Trading We operate in a number of merchant markets. We have
developed the skills necessary to maximise our returns in these markets,
with a practical focus on co-ordinating trading and operations to ensure
we optimise our returns by having our plant available whenever our
trading teams see value. For us, trading predominately means selling 
the physical output generated by our plants. Our traders operate 
within strict guidelines and risk policies to ensure our traded position 
is carefully monitored and managed. This includes matching fuel
purchases with power sales and carrying out only a very limited amount
of non-asset backed trading. Where possible we will forward sell output
if we consider the return is favourable, which provides some certainty
for near-term earnings and cash flow. We also ensure that lessons 
learnt in any particular market – for example experience of the
environmental legislation in Europe relating to CO
2
allocations – 
are shared across the business.
Existing asset management All our investments have to deliver
performance targets on a standalone basis first, and then as part of 
the regional and global portfolio. Through regular and robust technical,
commercial and financial reviews, the corporate headquarters and
regional offices together monitor the performance of each asset in the
portfolio. We work to ensure that we maximise fleet efficiencies where
we operate plants with similar technologies, for example through global
spare parts supply agreements or by bringing certain engineering
services in-house. In addition, we have a Health, Safety and Environment
Committee which co-ordinates the Group’s activities and enables best
practices to be adopted at all plants. This co-ordinated approach helps
us manage operational risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
Guiding philosophy
Our capabilities are underpinned by our core values which form 
the guiding philosophy for everyone within International Power. 
Our corporate values are set, reviewed and refreshed by representatives
from assets and regional offices around the world. They are:
Financial discipline 
Integrity of communication 
Respect for the individual 
Safe behaviour 
Team first culture
Business and financial review – Group overview 12
Spanish Hydro, Spain
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 12 Coleto Creek, Texas
Annual Report 2006 13
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 13 Business and financial review – Our approach to risk and risk management 14
Our approach to risk 
and risk management
Our general approach to risk management and risk governance is set
out below. This is followed by a description of the principal risks faced
by the business. 
Risk management framework
Our risk management philosophy is designed to deal with the 
diverse nature of our asset base. International Power owns, or has equity
stakes in, over 40 plants and businesses located in 20 countries on four
continents. Our portfolio contains all major technologies and fuel types
with the exception of nuclear power. In terms of age, our plants range
from those which entered service in the 1950s through to those still
under construction. Overall, the majority of the portfolio entered service
less than 15 years ago. Politically and economically the portfolio is
similarly diverse, having a presence in developed and developing
countries, with a variety of cultural, political and legal systems.
To reflect the profile of our business we have developed a system 
that contains both bottom up and top down elements to identify 
and manage risks. 
International Power’s principal activities are the development,
acquisition and operation of power generation plants together with
closely related activities, such as desalination and district heating.
These principal activities are supported by a number of local,
regional and corporate offices which carry out activities such 
as trading and treasury operations. All of these activities 
have inherent risks. 
Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set at the corporate
level, with the Board of Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
Acceptable business practices and health, safety and
environmental standards are set centrally. 
Market and trading risks are managed regionally within 
the framework set at corporate level. Political risks are also
managed regionally with support from the corporate centre.
Risk assessments and action plans are mainly business unit
based. Health, safety and environment compliance activities are
also managed at asset level, albeit within a central policy
framework. Business managers are accountable for managing
the risks within their areas of responsibility. This principle also
applies to managers of corporate functions.
Hub, Pakistan
Corporate level Regional business Business units
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 14 Annual Report 2006 15
We own or have equity stakes in over 
40 plants and businesses in 20 countries
on four continents
Overall, the majority of our portfolio
entered service less than 15 years ago
There is a continuous process for
identifying, evaluating and managing 
key risks faced by the Group
The centrepiece of our risk management
activities is an annual, Group-wide 
risk review
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the key risks faced by the Group. Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk
Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and
comprises Executive Directors, other regional directors and senior
managers. The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf of the
Board, for ensuring: 
• the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks;
• that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are 
in place; 
• that residual exposures are consistent with the Company’s strategy
and objectives.
During the business planning process, each business unit and functional
group identifies and assesses the key risks associated with achievement
of its principal objectives and assesses their impact. These assessments
are conducted by all material entities. During the year, significant
changes in the risk profile are highlighted through the business
performance reporting process.
The centrepiece of our risk management activities is an annual, 
Group-wide, risk review. This is based on the outcome of the business
planning exercise, updated as necessary to take account of ‘post
business plan’ events. The assessments are synthesised into a Risk
Report that identifies all the principal risks and which is reviewed by the
Risk Committee. Where risks are considered to exceed the Company’s
risk appetite, the Risk Committee directs which actions are to be taken.
The Risk Report is reviewed by the full Board and the Audit Committee.
Schematically the annual Risk Report system functions as follows:
In order to compare risks across the Group on a systematic basis 
we segment our activities as shown below. In reality, certain exposures
interact and other exposures apply to more than one ‘risk area’ (for
example regulatory risk applies to all of our activities). Such cross-
segment risks are assessed in each of the areas in which they occur.
Principal risks and exposures
Financial risks
Our business can be subject to financial volatility. This can originate 
from a number of sources, including project company and counterparty
related events. One example is the insolvency of TXU Europe in 2002
which resulted in the termination of the Rugeley Tolling Agreement 
(a long-term agreement to purchase coal and sell power), which caused
a shortfall in revenues for that asset. Our capital structure is designed 
to address these risks. 
At the corporate level we have a number of loan facilities which provide
us with a prudent level of financial headroom (cash plus outstanding
credit lines, less known obligations) which can be applied to any aspect
of our business should the need arise. These facilities will meet the short
to medium-term funding requirements envisaged by the business.
Longer-term funding requirements or funding for a particularly large
transaction (e.g. the acquisition of the EME international asset portfolio
in 2004) may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and
suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds or by raising additional
equity. The actual choice of funding instrument(s) will depend on
market conditions at that time. 
In merchant markets we are sometimes required to provide trading
credit support for our trading operations. Fuel and electricity markets
periodically experience sharp price movements. When price movements
occur this has an immediate knock-on effect on our trading credit
Financial risks
Market and trading risks
Fuel supply risks
Country and political risks
Construction and operational risks
Health, safety and environmental risks
Staffing and HR risks
Synthesis by Risk Report working group
Risk assessments by business units and functions
P P P
Review by full Board and Audit Committee
Review by Risk Committee
P
P
Actions
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:10  Page 15 support requirements, which can be volatile as a consequence. 
The maintenance of financial headroom offers protection against
escalating margin calls (payments we are required to make when 
power prices increase above the contract price). 
Project development can, on occasions, require credit support. 
This support can take the form of parent company guarantees or 
credit support instruments issued by banks. In the unlikely event 
that credit support facilities are unavailable to support the growth
developments that we are planning, this could require us to reduce our
development activities. We consider it highly unlikely that we will have
to forego opportunities as a result of this constraint due to the prudent
level of financial headroom that we maintain and the availability of
additional bilateral facilities with banks.
At the individual business level we finance our projects with 
non-recourse debt. We use non-recourse finance as this insulates 
the Group from adverse events occurring at the project level, limiting 
our balance sheet exposure to a given project to the loss of the 
equity in that project. Other financial exposures and their mitigants 
are set out below.
Counterparty risk
We manage our credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties
by establishing clearly defined limits, policies and procedures. Energy
trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated
authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the
management of credit exposures in each of our key regions. With
respect to our treasury activities, the financial counterparty credit
exposure is limited to arrangements with relationship banks and to
commercial paper that has an investment grade credit rating.
Counterparty exposures arising from sale and purchase agreements with
our customers are monitored and managed locally with assistance from
Group treasury. In addition, Group treasury manages the consolidated
(Group-wide) counterparty credit positions, with the active involvement
of the global risk manager. 
Currency and interest rate exposures
Project company borrowings are normally made in the project
company’s functional currency. Hence exchange rate fluctuations do not
affect the financial stability of our assets. In countries with historically
weak currencies we aim to have power purchase agreement (PPA)
tariffs denominated in a major international currency. This protects
future returns against large and rapid devaluations.
Variability in interest payments can introduce further volatility into
project returns. We mainly mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates,
principally by using interest rate swaps. A limited number of our PPAs
also have interest rate pass through mechanisms. Overall, 77% of our
borrowings were protected from interest rate fluctuations in these 
ways, at the end of 2006.
In order to hedge the net assets of non-UK operations, borrowings are
generally in the same currency as the underlying investment. The Group
aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this
way. It is not our policy, however, to hedge currency translation exposures
through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps. This exposes our
sterling profits and our balance sheet assets and liabilities to fluctuations
that are not related to underlying business performance. 
For 2006 and 2005 average and year-end sterling rates for major
currencies, which are significant to the Group, were:
Average At 31 December
2006 2005 2006 2005
US dollar 1.85 1.82 1.96 1.72
Australian dollar 2.44 2.39 2.48 2.34
Euro 1.47 1.46 1.48 1.46
Czech koruna 41.51 43.56 40.85 42.27
When one of our projects makes sales and purchases in a currency
other than its functional currency this gives rise to a currency transaction
exposure. Transaction exposures also arise when dividends or other
funds are remitted from our overseas companies. We match transaction
exposures in advance where possible, and hedge any unmatched
transactions as soon as they are committed. We use foreign currency
contracts and similar instruments for this purpose. 
Investment structures and contingent liabilities
Going forward, the complexity of the Group and its investment
structures, together with the rapidly growing body of tax legislation, 
will make tax planning and forecasting an increasingly complex and
uncertain process. We closely monitor actual and potential changes 
in tax legislation in order to assess the continued effectiveness of 
our corporate structures and financial planning assumptions. We are
supported by a major global specialist firm in making these assessments. 
International Power has a number of contingent liabilities. These arise
from certain tax planning assumptions that are not yet confirmed by the
relevant fiscal authorities and from ongoing legal actions, one of which
dates back more than a decade. We have fully provided for all sums that
we believe will become due. 
Funding of pensions obligations
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
These schemes guarantee their members that they will receive pensions 
Business and financial review – Our approach to risk and risk management 16
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:52  Page 16 Annual Report 2006 17
Midlothian, Texas
related to their final salary at retirement, which gives rise to a risk that
our pension funds will not be sufficient to meet these obligations. This
risk crystallised during the first part of the decade as share prices fell
worldwide and more onerous actuarial valuation assumptions were
mandated by government. The Group’s defined benefit pension funds
recorded a deficit of £15 million when they were last reviewed, and
actuarial assumptions updated, in December 2006. Whilst this is not
large compared to a number of other UK groups, the adequacy 
of our pension funds will remain an area of focus for some time. 
In order to address this we have increased the level of contributions.
Furthermore, the comparatively small number of staff within our defined
benefit pension schemes (approximately 1,400 as at 31 December
2006) significantly reduces the level of our potential exposure relative 
to many other FTSE 100 companies.
Financial processes 
We consider that we have an appropriate and robust internal control
system. During the past year our systems of financial control have been
subject to a comprehensive review to meet the requirements of Section
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We anticipate that the systems will
meet the standards of this Act and the rules that have been developed
during its implementation. 
In order to identify variances to our forecasts in a timely manner and
provide an early warning of changing circumstances, we monitor a
number of performance indicators. The principal financial KPIs are profit
from operations (PFO), EPS, and free cash flow, details of which are set
out on pages 20 to 22.
Insurance risk management
Our risk management processes assist us in the identification of events
that can be partly or entirely mitigated through use of insurance, 
or which we can self-insure. Risks that we insure include business
interruption, Directors’ and officers’ liability and property damage.
Insurance providers recognise the robust nature of our processes 
and this is reflected in the cost of our policies. 
Market and trading risks
A significant number of the projects in which we have an interest
operate without PPAs and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces,
which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel
purchased. In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK, North
America and Australia operate on a merchant basis. In order to limit 
our exposure to market movements, we hedge a proportion of our
anticipated output by forward selling power and buying forward related
commodities including fuel, transmission rights, capacity and emission
credits. The key risks facing our market and trading activities and their
mitigants are set out below.
Hedging activities
Unhedged output is subject to price and volume volatility. To reduce this
uncertainty, we operate a ‘rolling hedge’ programme under which we
increase the proportion of output that is sold forward as the production
date approaches. As at 20 February 2007 around 90% of expected
output at Rugeley and Saltend was contracted for 2007 and
approximately 80% for 2008. In Texas 60% of our expected output at
Midlothian and Hays, and 95% at Coleto Creek, has been forward
contracted for 2007 and for our Blackstone and Bellingham, New
England plants, 55% has been forward contracted. In Australia, both Loy
Yang B and Hazelwood are highly contracted for 2007, with 85% and
75% of output sold forward respectively. Due to market liquidity
considerations the majority of our hedging activity is for a maximum
period of two years ahead.
It is not always possible to achieve an exact match between power 
sales and purchases, and the purchases and sales of related commodities.
Mismatched positions have the potential to result in substantial losses.
This potential exposure is addressed in our trading policies, which do
not allow us to take significant unmatched positions. 
In addition to asset-backed trading we carry out some proprietary
trading (trading not linked to the expected output of our power plants).
Our proprietary trading activities are limited in scope and any exposures
are correspondingly small.
Framework for trading activities
Our trading activities operate within a robust framework of policies 
and oversight functions. Trading and forward contracting strategies 
are continually reviewed by regional and corporate trading and risk
management professionals, to ensure they are best suited to both 
local market conditions and corporate risk guidelines. Company-wide
oversight of our trading operations is provided by a global commodities
risk committee (GCRC) which includes the Chief Executive Officer
(CEO), the CFO, and the global trading and risk managers. The GCRC
acts under the authority of the Board, and delegates limits and authorities
to local risk committees, which have been established in each of 
our trading operations to oversee the management of the market,
operational and credit risks arising from our marketing and trading
activities. The local risk committees include the trading manager, 
global and local risk managers, Directors and senior managers. 
Energy market risks and counterparty exposures on our asset 
and proprietary portfolios are measured and managed using various 
statistical techniques.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 17 Business and financial review – Our approach to risk and risk management 18
ISAB. Italy
Investments in new projects
When we invest in assets that operate, or will operate, on a merchant
basis we make assumptions regarding long-term spreads. There is 
a large degree of uncertainty in these forecasts, which include
assumptions concerning:
• supply and demand characteristics;
• new entrant economics used to forecast power prices from the 
date at which new capacity is required;
• market and environmental regulation, particularly the cost of 
carbon dioxide (CO2) allowances and limits on other emissions;
• correlations between power prices and fuel prices.
We carry out detailed investigations and develop sophisticated 
market models prior to investing in new merchant plants.
Fuel supply risks
Fuel supply security is fundamental to our business. Most of our markets
have robust supply infrastructures, and other measures that further enhance
our position. These include: mines local to the power plant, fuel storage,
dual-fuel capability and sourcing from a number of reputable suppliers.
Consequently, we have experienced very few supply interruptions that
have had an impact on operations, and none that have had material
adverse effects on financial performance.
We procure fuel under a variety of contractual arrangements ranging
from long-term fuel supply agreements (FSAs) to on-the-day merchant
gas purchases. The principal determinant of our fuel supply activity is the
need to match purchases to power sales, both in terms of volume and
price. Hence, we operate long-term FSAs at assets where we have long-
term PPAs and predominantly merchant supply arrangements in our
merchant power markets. 
It is not always possible to achieve an exact balance between fuel
purchases and power production. This is particularly an issue for our
projects with PPAs, where the associated FSAs often have minimum 
fuel purchase obligations. By structuring the purchases flexibly and
incorporating appropriate force majeure protection, we are able
to mitigate this risk to ensure as far as possible that the price and
volume obligations in the PPA and FSA mirror one another. 
Country and political risks
Most of our projects with PPAs are in countries with some degree of
country risk. In the past, some PPA tariffs have been reopened by our
offtakers and renegotiated. We do not currently foresee the prospect 
of further renegotiations but this remains a possibility.
We address country risk exposures in several ways. Country risk
assessment is an important element of our due diligence prior to
participating in a project and we favour projects where international
arbitration is available for resolving disputes. Once projects are
operational, International Power always strives to be a ‘good neighbour’,
supporting the local, regional and national communities wherever
possible. We also attempt to maintain good relationships with political
institutions and our customers. 
The size of our portfolio dilutes the effect of a dispute, at any given
asset, on the Group as a whole. Furthermore, non-recourse debt
arrangements limit our financial exposure to the loss of our equity
investment and the future cash flows from the project. Thus, whilst the
loss or impairment of a project would affect the financial performance
of the Group, other operating companies would remain unaffected.
Construction and operational risks
Costs of new power plants are significant, and the build phase has
programme (delayed completion) and technical performance risk. 
It is our policy, wherever possible, to award major projects on an
engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) basis to suitably
qualified contractors. EPC contracts transfer the majority of the design
and construction risks to the contractor, and provide substantial
protection through liquidated damages, in the event of failure on 
the part of the contractor to meet contractual completion or plant
performance targets. We supplement this contractual protection 
with insurances.
As with many other industrial sectors, the power plant sector has
consolidated over the past two decades. Whilst there is currently a
competitive market, further consolidation could change this situation,
increasing prices and reducing our ability to secure commercial
protection within EPC contracts. We would also be exposed to
concentration risk, becoming dependent on a very small number of
suppliers for replacement parts, overhaul and maintenance contracts.
Currently we have long-term relationships with a number of original
equipment manufacturers across our fleet, including Alstom, 
General Electric, Mitsubishi and Siemens.
Power plants are characterised by extremely high temperatures,
pressures, rotational velocities and voltages. Providing a safe
environment for people on our sites and in surrounding areas is 
a major priority. We achieve this by a combination of engineering and
operational procedures and standards, provision of training, performance
monitoring and by employing experienced staff.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 18 Annual Report 2006 19
We are a minority partner in a number of projects and do not set
operational standards in all cases. In such circumstances we provide
support where appropriate and attempt to use our influence to achieve
standards that are equivalent to our own. However, our ability to
influence partners varies.
During the build period we closely monitor the progress of four major
factors: construction programme, cost, quality and safety. Once a plant 
is in operation we monitor performance by reference to a number of
performance indicators, including the technical availability KPI, which is 
a measure of reliability.
Health, safety and environmental (HS&E) risks
Poor health, safety and environmental performance has the potential to
adversely affect our business. Risks range from enforced plant closures
and substantial fines to damage to the well-being of our staff and to
our reputation in the wider community.
HS&E compliance activities
At plant level, HS&E requirements are set by local and national standards
and regulations, and individual plants operate within site specific
environmental licensing limits. We have an ongoing HS&E audit
programme to provide assurance in this area and we closely monitor
accident frequency rate (AFR) statistics and breaches of environmental
permits. AFR and reportable environmental incidents are amongst
our KPIs.
Plant operating and monitoring procedures are effective in ensuring that
we comply with the conditions of our environmental licenses and consents.
Whilst we have experienced occasional breaches of our environmental
operating limits, there have been no recent incidents that have posed a
significant threat to the environment or to our ability to run our plants.
Sites are required to adhere to a set of corporate health and safety standards
and to local regulations. Health and safety performance is the responsibility
of our plant managers, who are supported by local health and safety
specialists. Our global health and safety manager is responsible for ensuring
that our corporate standards remain current and are understood by all of
our sites.
Global warming and development of environmental regulation
Environmental legislation is one of the key drivers of the long-term
development of the electricity industry. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions are expected to increasingly restrict our ability to emit
CO
2
, and hence our ability to use fossil fuels to generate power without
the use of carbon capture and storage. The impact of carbon reduction
measures is currently most apparent at our European plants, where we
are required to ensure that we have sufficient carbon credits to support
our expected levels of generation. Certain of our projects have change
of law protection, which enables us to pass on any carbon costs to the
offtaker. In such cases carbon risk is removed.
In the US and Australia there are active discussions at both the state and
federal level that could lead to CO
2
limitations being introduced some
time in the future. The absence of single, centrally sponsored, debates
increases the unpredictability of final outcomes. At the global level there
is uncertainty over what, if anything, will replace the Kyoto convention
on climate change when it expires at the end of 2012. 
Most governments in developed countries have introduced legislation 
to incentivise renewable generation to the point where growth in
renewable generation may have a material impact on our fossil fuelled
plants. In response, we made a major investment in renewable energy
during 2006 and we are implementing clean coal and carbon capture
technology at Hazelwood.
We have also dedicated resources to reviewing technology trends in
order to ensure that we are well positioned to participate in the drive
towards a lower carbon environment. 
Staffing and HR risks
The power industry has a history of long-term employment at plant 
and corporate level and staffing is not generally a day-to-day risk issue. 
Our industry is highly competitive and we have to balance resources
against the need to contain costs. We utilise our extensive experience 
to make these judgements and have the ability to mobilise people at
short notice to mitigate the risk of loss of key staff. To date we have 
not experienced any disruption of note as a result of unexpected 
staff unavailability. 
We anticipate that terrorism will remain a threat to our staff and 
assets for the foreseeable future. In order to reduce this threat we liaise
with local law enforcement organisations on security issues and our
corporate security specialist assists vulnerable sites to assess and reduce
their exposures. We also utilise the services of a global security
consultancy to ensure that our risk assessments and physical security
measures fully reflect local conditions. The consultancy additionally has
the capacity to provide personal security services if required.
Certain of our sites are highly unionised. We have not been affected by
industrial action for several years but this remains a risk. We maintain
active dialogues with staff unions to ensure that we are aware of any
potential issues in good time to mitigate our risks.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:13  Page 19 Key performance indicators
and financial highlights
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
We use a range of performance indicators, both financial and non-
financial, to measure both the delivery of the Company’s strategic
objectives and to manage the business. The most important of 
these measures are considered KPIs and their targets are determined
annually during the business planning process. The KPIs are used by
management to compare actual performance during the year, and 
the latest monthly forecasts, against the annual budgeted targets. 
Our KPIs, both financial and non-financial, are set out below.
* Financial KPIs are presented excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements
The explanations of our KPIs are as follows:
Profit from operations (PFO)
PFO is a measure of the operating profitability of the Group. It excludes
the impact of all non-operating costs from subsidiaries, including
financing costs and income tax expense, and therefore provides a
comprehensive measure of operational and financial performance. We
consider PFO excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements to be an appropriate indicator of performance, as
this measure: excludes significant items which, by virtue of their size 
or incidence, could potentially distort year-on-year comparisons; allows 
a better understanding of the financial information presented, and
specifically the Group’s underlying business performance by excluding
fair value movements on economic hedges; and assists shareholders and
analysts who have expressed a preference for the reporting of results
without the inclusion of the effects of exceptional items and specific IAS
39 mark to market movements. Presenting the Group’s segment and
total PFO excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements is consistent with the way management measures
the Group’s performance in its budgets, forecasts and management
accounts on a day-to-day basis. PFO excluding exceptional items and
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is presented in the
consolidated income statement on page 79. The results of this KPI for
2005 and 2006 and the objective for 2007 are set out on page 22.
Earnings per share (EPS)
EPS is a measure of the overall profitability of the Group and
shareholder returns. It is defined as the profit in pence attributable to
each Ordinary Share in the Company, based on the consolidated profit
for the year, after deducting tax, minority interests, and when applicable,
preference share dividends. The calculation is shown in note 11 to the
financial statements. Growth in EPS over time is indicative of the ability
of the Group to add value. We consider EPS excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements as an appropriate
indicator of performance as it: excludes significant items which, by virtue
of their size or incidence, could potentially distort the year-on-year
comparison; allows a better understanding of the financial information
presented, and specifically the Group’s underlying business performance
by excluding fair value movements on economic hedges; and assists
shareholders and analysts who have expressed a preference for the
reporting of results without the inclusion of the effects of exceptional
items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements. This is consistent
with the way management measures the Group’s performance in its
budgets, forecasts and management accounts on a day-to-day basis.
The results of this KPI for 2005 and 2006 and the objective for 2007
are set out on page 22.
In 2005 we reported this KPI as EPS before exceptional items. We have
changed the basis of measurement in 2006 to reflect how we now
measure underlying business performance before both exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Business and financial review – Key performance indicators and financial highlights 20
Financial KPIs
•
Profit from operations*
•
Earnings per share*
•
Free cash flow
Non-financial KPIs
•
Accident frequency rate
•
Reportable environmental incidents
•
Technical availability
P P
Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs
Our financial key performance
indicators address two key aspects
of the business, its profitability 
and its cash generation:
Our non-financial key 
performance indicators address
other aspects of the business:
safety, environmental and
operational performance:
Profit from operations (PFO)* Accident frequency rate (AFR)
Earnings per share (EPS)
*
Reportable environmental 
incidents
Free cash flow Technical availability
* Financial KPIs are presented excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 20 Free cash flow
Power generation is a capital intensive business and hence it requires the
assets within the Group to generate sufficient cash to repay the initial
investment in the assets, to provide returns for shareholders and to
provide funds for future investment opportunities. We define free cash
flow as net cash flow from operating activities excluding exceptional
cash flows associated with items recorded as exceptional in the income
statement, and capital expenditure for growth projects (which enhances
the economic benefits of the Group). Free cash flow includes capital
expenditure to maintain the operating capability of the Group (by
replacing or restoring individual assets or components), interest, and tax. 
We consider this measure of cash flow to be a key indicator of 
business performance as it measures the cash generated from
underlying business performance from continuing operating activities.
This is consistent with the way management measures the Group’s
performance in its budgets, forecasts and management accounts on 
a day-to-day basis. The derivation of free cash flow and the results of
this KPI for 2005 and 2006 are set out on page 22.
Accident frequency rate (AFR)
Health and safety is of vital importance in our business. Not only is it
important to provide employees with a safe place to work, any accident
is disruptive to the running of the business. AFR is the normal reporting
standard and is defined as the number of lost time accidents (LTAs)
divided by the number of hours worked, multiplied by 100,000. A LTA
is an accident where an individual is away from work for more than one
day and is an auditable indicator across a number of industries. 
In 2005 the AFR for employees and contractors combined was 0.23. 
In 2006 there was a very strong improvement to 0.12. International
Power intends to consolidate this by establishing a target of 0.12 for
2007. This does not mean we tolerate unsafe behaviour; we seek to
have zero LTAs but targets need to be realistic and challenging. The data
underlying these calculations is submitted by individual plants directly
into the corporate reporting system.
Reportable environmental incidents
The environment and how we care for it is central to the business 
of International Power and we have always had a policy commitment 
to comply with all applicable environmental regulations. One measure 
of our compliance with this policy is compliance with environmental
licences for our power plants, issued by the relevant statutory
authorities. Environmental licences require that any environmental
incident is reported. The underlying data is submitted by individual
plants directly into the corporate reporting system. The results of
this KPI for 2005 and 2006, and the objective for 2007 are set
out on page 22.
Technical availability
Technical availability measures when a plant is available for dispatch.
Each of our plants will generally be unavailable during some periods in
the year due to a combination of planned outages for maintenance and
unplanned outages due to plant breakdowns or operational problems. 
An important part of our business is ensuring that our trading and
power purchase agreements are closely aligned to our operational
activities and availability planning is a key factor in this regard. The year-
to-year variance in the profile of planned outages influences both the
achieved and targeted availability. Technical availability is calculated by
first determining the potential maximum amounts of electricity that
could be generated in the year if all the plants were operated at full
output for the entire year. We then deduct from this the electricity that
could not be produced due to planned and unplanned outages that
occurred at the plants throughout the year. This number is then
expressed as a percentage of the potential maximum electricity that
could be generated, where all these quantities are calculated in terms 
of electrical energy (GWh). This calculation is carried out using data
submitted by the individual plants directly into the corporate reporting
system. The results of this KPI for 2005 and 2006, and the objective for
2007 are set out on page 22.
Annual Report 2006 21
Pelican Point, South Australia
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 21 Financial highlights
The financial information included in the consolidated financial
statements has been prepared on the basis of all applicable IFRSs as
adopted by the EU. A discussion of the policies we believe to be most
critical in considering the impact of estimates and judgements on the
Group’s financial position and results of operations are set out on 
pages 42 and 43.
In order to allow a full understanding of the financial information
presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically
the Group’s underlying business performance, the Group presents its
income statement such that it separately identifies:
• the results excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements;
• the effect of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to 
market movements;
• the total result.
The basis of preparation is outlined more fully in note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements. However, in summary, those items
that the Group separately presents as exceptional are items which, 
in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately 
by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper
understanding of the financial information. Those items that the Group
separately discloses as specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are
those mark to market movements recorded in the income statement
which relate to: derivative contracts into which the Group has entered 
in order to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial
exposures; and fair value gains and losses on equity conversion features
embedded within convertible bonds, so as to separately identify a 
non-cash movement which, if the conversion option is exercised, 
will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity.
Business and financial review – Key performance indicators and financial highlights 22
2005 Result 2006 Result 2007 Objectives
Financial KPIs
Profit from operations* (PFO) £536 million £773 million To increase on prior year
Earnings per share* (EPS) 14.6p 22.4p To increase on prior year
Free cash flow £285 million £456 million To increase on prior year
Non-financial KPIs
Accident frequency rate (AFR) 0.23 0.12 0.12
Reportable environmental incidents 16 16 10
Technical availability 90.1% 89.6% 90.0%
Key performance indicators
* Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 22 A summary of the Group’s financial performance during the year 
is as follows:
Income statement
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Excluding exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements
Revenue (including joint ventures and associates) 3,645 2,980
Profit from operations
- from subsidiaries 565 345
- from joint ventures and associates 208 191
Profit from operations 773 536
Interest 248 202
Profit before tax 525 334
Tax 122 68
Profit for the year 403 266
Minority interests 71 52
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 332 214
Earnings per share (basic) 22.4p 14.6p
Including exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements
Profit from operations 898 611
Profit for the year 477 330
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 410 285
Earnings per share (basic) 27.6p 19.4p
Cash flow
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit for the year 477 330
Depreciation, amortisation and other movements
(1)
322 183
Dividends received from joint ventures 
and associates 113 92
Capital expenditure – maintenance (128) (72)
Movements in working capital (15) (21)
Net tax and interest paid (313) (227)
Free cash flow 456 285
(1) 
Depreciation, amortisation and other movements include income statement charges for interest,
tax, depreciation, the share of profit of joint ventures and associates, the exceptional profit on the
TXU settlement, and the exceptional profit on compensation for breach of contract.
Balance sheet
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Net assets 2,740 2,375
Net debt (3,485) (2,979)
Gearing 127% 125%
Debt capitalisation 56% 56%
Annual Report 2006 23
Milford, Massachusetts
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 23 Profit from operations (PFO)
2006 PFO (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) at £773 million is 44% ahead of 2005. This principally
reflects improved spreads and load factors in New England and Texas, strong contributions from First Hydro, Rugeley, Saltend and our Czech
businesses, and first time contributions from assets in the Middle East. PFO (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements) is discussed in more detail in the Regional review sections which follow.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Reconciliation from PFO to PFO (excluding 
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
Profit from operations 898 611
Deduct exceptional items (profits) (55) (110)
(Deduct gains)/add losses on specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (70) 35
PFO (excluding exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements) 773 536
Segmental results
Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total
ventures and ventures and 
associates associates
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit from operations 
(excluding exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 73 28 101 21 27 48
Europe 381 69 450 229 54 283
Middle East 32 20 52 12 12 24
Australia 121 3 124 136 4 140
Asia 38891 6 94 100
610 208 818 404 191 595
Corporate costs (45) – (45) (59) – (59)
565 208 773 345 191 536
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements 119 6 125 68 7 75
Profit from operations 684 214 898 413 198 611
The regional performance is discussed in more detail on pages 26 to 37. Corporate costs are discussed on page 38.
Business and financial review – Key performance indicators and financial highlights 24
TNP (Pluak Daeng), Thailand
P
0
£ million
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
2006
2005
2004 222
536
773
PFO* 
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 24 Earnings per share (EPS)
2006 EPS (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements) at 22.4p is 53% ahead of 2005. This increase
principally reflects those items discussed under the heading ‘profit from
operations’ and also reflects an increase in interest and tax expense
(both of which are discussed on page 38).
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Reconciliation from EPS to EPS (excluding 
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements)
EPS 27.6p 19.4p
Deduct after tax and minority interest 
profit impact of exceptional items (2.7)p (5.8)p
(Deduct)/add back after tax and minority 
interest (profit)/loss impact of specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements (2.5)p 1.0p
EPS (excluding exceptional items and 
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) 22.4p 14.6p
Free cash flow
Free cash flow in 2006 at £456 million is 60% ahead of 2005. This
increase was driven by strong operational and financial performance
across the Group together with higher dividends from joint ventures
and associates. This was partially offset by increased tax and interest
payments (£86 million higher) and an increase in maintenance 
capital expenditure of £56 million.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Reconciliation from net cash inflow from
operating activities to free cash flow
Net cash inflow from operating activities 475 338
Add back exceptional finance costs – 5
Less exceptional receipt from TXU Administrators (14) (58)
Less exceptional receipt of compensation 
for breach of contract (5) –
Free cash flow 456 285
A review of liquidity is included on pages 38 and 39.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a dividend of 7.9p per share (2005: 4.5p), 
an increase of 75% year-on-year and representing a pay-out ratio of
35% of EPS (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements). This increase is in line with the Group’s policy 
of progressively moving towards a dividend pay-out ratio of 40%.
Payment of this dividend to shareholders registered on the Company share
register on 25 May 2007 is due to be made on 26 June 2007, following
approval at the 2007 AGM, which will be held on 15 May 2007.
Outlook
Our broadly based international portfolio has been strengthened by 
the successful integration of acquired assets and the addition of new
greenfield projects commissioned in 2006, and provides a solid platform
for our business. This, coupled with a largely forward contracted position
for our merchant market capacity, gives us confidence that 2007 will 
be a year of further growth.
Annual Report 2006 25
P
0 5 10 15 20 25
pence per share
2006
2005
2004 8.6
14.6
22.4
Earnings per share* (basic)
P
0 100 200 300 400 500
£ million
2006
2005
2004
456
285
104
Free cash flow
* Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 25 Regional review North America
This increase in profitability was driven by an improved performance
from the merchant assets and a first time contribution from Coleto
Creek, which was acquired in July 2006. EcoEléctrica and the other
contracted assets, Hartwell and Oyster Creek, also performed well
delivering a consistent financial performance.
In Texas and New England, International Power benefited from increased
output and improving spreads. At Midlothian in Texas, the achieved
spread increased from $12/MWh to $14/MWh at a load factor of 60%
compared to 55% in 2005. The Hays plant, which was mothballed until
May 2005, delivered a full year of contribution with an average achieved
spread of $14/MWh at a 55% load factor. In New England, the
achieved spread increased significantly from $6/MWh to $12/MWh
and our plants in the region ran at a 60% load factor compared to 
40% in 2005.
The acquisition of the 632 MW coal fired Coleto Creek plant in Texas was
successfully completed in July for a total consideration of $1.14 billion
(£621 million). Since acquisition Coleto Creek has operated with excellent
availability of 98% and at a load factor of 98% setting an all time annual
generation record for this plant. Construction of the dust emission
reduction equipment continues with completion expected in Q2 2007.
Profit from operations increased to £101 million compared to 
£48 million last year. 
Business and financial review – Regional reviews 26
Profit from operations increased to 
£101 million compared to £48 million 
last year
Increased output and improved spread 
at merchant assets
First time contribution from Coleto Creek,
acquired in July 2006
Year ended Year ended
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations 111 49
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements
– (profits)/losses (10) (1)
PFO (excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements) 101 48
Hartwell 
Georgia 
Hays 
Texas 
Oyster Creek 
Texas 
Coleto Creek 
Texas 
EcoEléctrica 
Puerto Rico 
Blackstone 
Massachusetts 
Bellingham 
Massachusetts 
Milford 
Massachusetts 
Midlothian
Texas
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 26 For 2007, approximately 55% of our expected merchant combined cycle
gas turbine (CCGT) output in Texas and New England has been forward
contracted and 95% of Coleto Creek’s expected output for 2007 has 
also been forward contracted. 
The Texas and New England markets continue their recovery. Driven 
by warm weather and a heat wave, 2006 saw new demand peaks 
in both Texas and New England. In Texas, peak demand touched 
62,339 MW, up 3.5% on 2005, and in New England peak demand
reached 28,130 MW, up 4.5% on 2005. With consistent demand
growth, Texas and New England will require additional capacity over 
the next 3-5 years in order to maintain sufficient reserve margins.
In order to encourage new capacity, the system operator in New England
has launched a capacity market. The Forward Capacity Market (FCM)
started operating in December 2006, and our assets are benefiting 
from this regime. Under this market incremental payments are made 
to generators based on plant availability, and from 2010 capacity
payments will be determined through planned auctions. 
In Texas, reserve margins continue to tighten and this supports the need
for capacity additions throughout the state. In 2006, TXU and other
generators announced plans to install additional generation capacity of
around 14,000 MW to meet growing demand, although 6,900 MW 
of these additions have since been cancelled. These cancellations are
expected to result in a further tightening of reserve margins. 
The tightening reserve margin in both Texas and New England provides
potential growth opportunities for our business in these markets.
Spread ($/MWh) Load factor (%)
2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 
forecast forecast
Blackstone & Bellingham,
New England* 6 12 21 40 60 45
Midlothian, Texas 12 14 17 55 60 55
Hays, Texas** 12 14 13 65 55 50
Coleto Creek, Texas*** n/a 24 28 n/a 98 80
* Includes FCM payments
** Hays mothballed until 2005
*** Excludes SO2 costs
Annual Report 2006 27
Fuel / Type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity power capacity power capacity heat capacity heat
MW MW (MWth) (MWth)
Assets in operation 
Hartwell, Georgia Gas (OCGT) 310 155 – –
Bellingham, Massachusetts
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 570 570 – –
Blackstone, Massachusetts
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 570 570 – –
Milford, Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 160 – –
EcoEléctrica, Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 524 183 – –
Coleto Creek, Texas Coal 632 632 – –
Hays, Texas
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 1,100 1,100 – –
Midlothian, Texas
(1)
Gas (CCGT) 1,650 1,650 – –
Oyster Creek, Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 425 213 100 MWth 50 MWth
North America total in operation 5,941 5,233
(1)
Capacity shown for these assets is the nameplate capacity.
P
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
0
5
10
15
20
Peak reserve margin (%)
Projected reserve margin – Texas
P
Peak reserve margin (%)
0 
5 
10 
15 
20 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Current projected
reserve margin
 
Indicative reserve
margin with FCM
Projected reserve margin – New England
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:14  Page 27 Regional review Europe
Profit from operations increased by 59% to £450 million, from
£283 million in 2005. This growth reflects strong contributions
from our UK assets, primarily First Hydro, Saltend and Rugeley, and
International Power Opatovice in the Czech Republic. Our assets 
in Iberia, Italy and Turkey are all contracted and continue to deliver
good operational and financial performance.
Business and financial review – Regional reviews 28
Profit from operations increased to 
£450 million from £283 million last year
Strong contribution from the UK business
First major wind farm acquisition with
purchase of Levanto wind farm portfolio 
in Germany and France
Year ended Year ended
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations 615 370
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements
– (profits)/losses (165) (87)
PFO (excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements) 450 283
Turbogás
Portugal
Levanto
Germany & France
BioX
Netherlands
Indian Queens
UK
Tejo Energia (Pego)
Portugal
Spanish Hydro
Spain
ISAB 
Italy
Uni-Mar (Marmara)
Turkey
International Power 
Opatovice
Czech Republic
Saltend
UK
Opus Energy
UK
Derwent
UK
First Hydro
UK
Rugeley
UK
Deeside
UK
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 28 Annual Report 2006 29
Turbogás, Portugal
Fuel / Type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity power capacity power capacity heat capacity heat
MW MW (MWth) (MWth)
steam steam
As at 5 March 2007 (million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation 
International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic
(1)
Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 585 2,040 MWth 2,040 MWth 
Levanto, Europe Wind 361 361 – –
ISAB, Italy Gas (IGCC) 528 181 – –
Tejo Energia (Pego), Portugal Coal 600 300 – –
Turbogás, Portugal Gas (CCGT) 990 594 – –
Spanish Hydro, Spain Hydro 84 57 – –
Uni-Mar (Marmara), Turkey Gas (CCGT) 480 160 – –
Deeside, UK Gas (CCGT) 500 500 – –
Derwent, UK Gas (CCGT) 214 50 – –
Indian Queens, UK Oil (OCGT) 140 140 – –
First Hydro, UK Pumped storage 2,088 1,462 – –
Rugeley, UK Coal/50 MW of OCGT 1,050 1,050 – –
Saltend, UK Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 840 0.30m lbs/hr 0.21m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation 8,820 6,280
Assets under construction
Levanto, Europe Wind 75 75
Europe total under construction 75 75
Other investments
BioX, Netherlands Renewable energy company ––––
Opus Energy, UK Independent supplier of electricity to small ––––
and medium-size businesses
(1) 
Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:12  Page 29 In the UK, power prices were driven by high gas prices during 2006.
With its relatively low and stable fuel (coal) costs, Rugeley benefited
from higher power prices and achieved an average spread (excluding
CO
2
costs) of £28/MWh, compared to £15/MWh in 2005. First Hydro
delivered a strong performance as it benefited from high power price
volatility, an improved peak/off peak power price differential, and
increased demand for ancillary services. With over 40,000 successful
mode changes (the number of times the plant changes from stop to
start or from part to full load generation) during the year, an increase 
of 19% on 2005, and with reliability of almost 100%, operational
performance at First Hydro was robust and enabled the plant to 
capture value from attractive market conditions.
Saltend benefited from a lower-than-market gas cost in 2006 
(secured under the indexed gas contract), and operated at a load factor
in excess of 90% during the first half of the year. In the second half,
after completing a planned outage in Q3, the original equipment
manufacturer advised of a further modification required to the gas
turbine following a failure at a third party location. This modification
work was completed in Q4 2006 and despite the unplanned outage,
Saltend was a key contributor to profit growth in the region. 
Profit at Deeside improved as the asset used its high flexibility to 
capture strong peak prices in 2006. This, together with a planned
outage in Q1 accounts for its low load factor, which was more 
than offset by higher achieved prices.
Given the high level of power prices in 2006, we took the opportunity
to forward contract most of the output at both Rugeley and Saltend 
for 2007 and 2008. For 2007, we have contracted 90% of expected
output at Rugeley and 95% at Saltend. For 2008, we have contracted
80% of expected output at Rugeley and Saltend. 
The installation of flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) equipment, required
to significantly reduce sulphur dioxide (SO
2
) emissions at Rugeley, is
progressing well. The final commissioning of the FGD equipment will 
be carried out alongside a major planned outage in Q2/Q3 2008. The
planned outage and FGD installation will together take approximately
13 weeks, resulting in an expected load factor of 60% in 2008.
The 140 MW oil fired open cycle gas turbine (OCGT) Indian Queens
peaking plant in Cornwall was acquired from AES for £32 million 
and has been integrated into our UK asset portfolio. Since acquisition
the asset has performed well and our experience in the balancing 
and reserve markets should enable us to create additional value 
from this asset.
In May, International Power acquired a 30% equity interest for a cash
consideration of £7 million in Opus Energy, an independent supplier 
of electricity in the UK that focuses on the small business sector.
International Power has a call option on the remaining 70% of Opus,
exercisable in 2009.
The mild winter in Q4 2006 resulted in lower heat sales in the 
Czech Republic although this was more than offset by higher power
generation sales and increased year-on-year power prices. This 
helped International Power Opatovice deliver another strong 
financial performance.
Construction of FGD and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) equipment
at Pego is progressing well and is expected to be completed by mid
2008. As a consequence Pego emissions of SO
2
and oxides of nitrogen
(NOx) will be significantly lower than the limits imposed by the EU
Large Combustion Plant Directive (LCPD).
In May, International Power agreed to develop bio-fuel fired plants 
and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects with BioX Group,
one of Europe’s leading integrated bio-fuel traders. As part of the
agreement, International Power acquired a 10% stake in BioX Group 
for £8 million, and a call option over the remaining 90%, exercisable 
in 2010. 
In November, International Power completed its first major wind farm
acquisition through the purchase of the 436 MW Levanto onshore wind
farm portfolio from Christofferson Robb & Company (CRC) for an
equity investment of £129 million (including acquisition costs). The
Levanto wind farm portfolio comprised 286 MW of capacity in operation,
126 MW under construction and 24 MW of fully permitted capacity.
Since acquisition, 75 MW of wind farms under construction have
reached commercial operation. The acquisition and our partnership with
CRC provides the Group with an immediate renewables business of
scale and access to a pipeline of development opportunities in Europe. 
Spread* (£/MWh) Load factor (%)
2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007
forecast forecast
Rugeley 15 28 32 60 55 70
Deeside 12 22 19 60 40 70
* Excludes CO2 costs
Business and financial review – Regional reviews 30
International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic
P
Peak reserve margin (%)
2007
10 
15 
20 
25 
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Projected reserve margin – UK
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  10:21  Page 30 Annual Report 2006 31
Indian Queens, UK
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 31 Regional review Middle East
Profit from operations increased to £52 million from £24 million
last year, principally reflecting new capacity coming on stream at
Tihama in Saudi Arabia and Ras Laffan B in Qatar, together with 
a first time contribution from Hidd in Bahrain. The other assets in
the region, namely Al Kamil, Shuweihat and Umm Al Nar continue
to deliver a good performance.
Business and financial review – Regional reviews 32
Profit from operations increased to 
£52 million from £24 million last year
Construction of Tihama plants in Saudi
Arabia completed and fully operational
New capacity (phase 1) now on stream
from Ras Laffan B in Qatar
First-time contribution from Hidd in Bahrain
Year ended Year ended
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations 52 24
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements
– (profits)/losses – –
PFO (excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements) 52 24
Al Kamil
Oman
Hidd
Bahrain
Ras Laffan B
Qatar
Umm Al Nar
UAE
Shuweihat S1
UAE
Ras Tanura
Tihama, Saudi Arabia
Ju’aymah
Tihama, Saudi Arabia
Shedgum
Tihama, Saudi Arabia
Uthmaniyah
Tihama, Saudi Arabia
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 32 Construction at Tihama in Saudi Arabia was completed on schedule
during 2006 and all sites are now fully operational. The project consists
of four separate plants (Shedgum, Uthmaniyah, Ras Tanura and
Ju’aymah) with a total capacity of 1,074 MW of power and 4.5m lbs/hr
of steam. Performance to date has been robust with average availability
of 95%.
In Qatar, construction continues to make good progress at the 
Ras Laffan B project where the first three 200 MW gas turbines 
(phase 1) and the first desalination distiller entered commercial operation
during 2006, providing 600 MW of power and 15 million imperial
gallons per day (MIGD) of water. Another 300 MW is expected to reach
commercial operation in the first half of 2007, and final completion of
the 1,025 MW, 60 MIGD project is expected in 2008. At Umm Al Nar,
the 25 MIGD desalination extension is now operational and the first
three gas turbines, providing 600 MW of power, entered commercial
operation during Q1 2007. The balance of the new plant (925 MW) 
is expected to be completed in H1 2007. At Hidd in Bahrain,
construction of the 60 MIGD desalination extension is well underway
and this additional capacity is expected to be operational in two phases
by the end of 2007.
During October, International Power signed a heads of agreement with
CIC Energy Corporation (CIC) for the development, construction and
operation of a coal-fired project at Mmamabula in Botswana.
Driven by economic growth, demand for power and water in the
Middle East remains high and is forecast to grow at high rates in the
future. For example, the countries in which we operate require some
50,000 MW of additional power capacity by the year 2015. This
presents International Power with an opportunity to expand its
operations in the region, and the Company will seek high quality
projects to create additional value. Overall, the Company’s reputation
and track record in the region places it in a good position to deliver 
on further growth.
Annual Report 2006 33
Hidd, Bahrain
Fuel / Type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity power capacity power capacity capacity
MW MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
steam steam
As at 5 March 2007 (million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation 
Hidd, Bahrain Gas (CCGT)/desalination 910 364 30 MIGD 12 MIGD
Al Kamil, Oman Gas (OCGT) 285 185 – –
Ras Laffan B, Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 600 240 15 MIGD 6 MIGD
Tihama, Saudi Arabia Gas (Cogen) 1,074 645 4.5m lbs/hr 2.7m lbs/hr
Shuweihat S1, UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,500 300 100 MIGD 20 MIGD
Umm Al Nar, UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,495 299 185 MIGD 37 MIGD
Middle East total in operation 5,864 2,033
64
Assets under construction
Hidd, Bahrain Desalination – – 60 MIGD 24 MIGD
Ras Laffan B, Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 425 170 45 MIGD 18 MIGD
Umm Al Nar Expansion, UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 925 185 – –
Middle East total under construction 1,350 355
P
0
As at 31 December each year
Forecast
1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000
6,464
5,239
2,655
2007
2006
2005
Al Kamil Shuweihat Ras Laffan B Umm Al Nar
(expansion)
Umm Al Nar Tihama Hidd
gross MW
Middle East year-on-year capacity growth
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:22  Page 33 Regional review Australia
Profit from operations in Australia decreased 11% to £124 million
(£140 million in 2005) primarily due to the expected reduction in
achieved prices at Hazelwood and the sale of the 300 MW Valley
Power peaking plant in August 2005.
Business and financial review – Regional reviews 34
Profit from operations reduced to 
£124 million from £140 million last year
Improved forward prices in Victoria 
and South Australia
Reserve margin continues to tighten
Year ended Year ended
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations 74 125
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements
– (profits)/losses 50 15
PFO (excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements) 124 140
Kwinana
Western Australia
Canunda
South Australia
EnergyAustralia
Victoria and South Australia
Synergen
South Australia
Pelican Point
South Australia
Hazelwood
Victoria
SEA Gas pipeline
Victoria
Loy Yang B
Victoria
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 34 Low levels of hydro generation and a tightening reserve margin have
contributed to an improvement in forward electricity prices in Victoria.
In 2008 and 2009 base load prices have risen to over A$40/MWh.
Expected output for 2007 is largely contracted and therefore
International Power should benefit from these price increases from 2008.
Achieved power price (A$/MWh) Load factor (%)
2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 
forecast forecast
Hazelwood 34 33 34 80 80 80
The retail partnership with EnergyAustralia in Victoria and South
Australia continues to increase its customer base, with the number of
power and gas accounts now at some 415,000, up from 175,000 on
formation of the partnership in July 2005.
In October, Hazelwood was awarded an A$80 million grant by the
federal and Victorian governments to develop innovative retrofit low
emission technology to one of its 200 MW generating units. The
project includes coal drying and turbine efficiency improvements and is
targeting a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The project also
includes a pilot CO
2
capture scheme which is expected to be
operational by mid 2008. 
Driven by steady demand growth, the reserve margin in Victoria and
South Australia continues to tighten, and forward prices have risen.
We will consider growth opportunities (greenfield and acquisitions) in
our existing and other Australian markets (e.g. New South Wales and
Western Australia) that meet our investment criteria.
Annual Report 2006 35
Fuel / Type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity power capacity power capacity heat capacity heat
As at 5 March 2007 MW MW (MWth) (MWth)
Assets in operation 
Canunda, South Australia Wind 46 46 – –
Pelican Point, South Australia Gas (CCGT) 485 485 – –
Synergen, South Australia Gas/distillate 360 360 – –
Hazelwood, Victoria Coal 1,635 1,500 – –
Loy Yang B, Victoria Coal 1,010 707 – –
Kwinana, Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 58 – –
Australia total in operation 3,654 3,156
Other assets and investments
EnergyAustralia, Victoria and South Australia
(1)
Electricity and gas retailer ––––
SEA Gas pipeline, Victoria and South Australia 687 km gas pipeline from 
Victoria to South Australia ––––
(1)
EnergyAustralia (50% owned by International Power) services circa 415,000 electricity and gas retail accounts in Victoria and South Australia.
P
2006/07 2008/09 2010/11 2012/13 2014/15
Reserve margin (%)
 
0
5
10
15
20
25
Victoria and South Australia
forecast reserve margin
Hazelwood, Victoria
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:22  Page 35 Regional review Asia
Profit from operations decreased to £91 million from £100 million
in 2005. Performance in this region, where all assets have long-term
offtake contracts, was characterised by high levels of availability and
good underlying profitability and cash flow. 
Business and financial review – Regional reviews 36
Profit from operations decreased to 
£91 million from £100 million last year
First full year’s contribution from Uch 
in Pakistan
The sale of Malakoff in which we have an
18% shareholding is expected to complete
in 2007
Year ended Year ended
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations 91 102
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements
– (profits)/losses – (2)
PFO (excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements) 91 100
KAPCO
Pakistan
Uch
Pakistan
HUBCO
Pakistan
TNP (Pluak Daeng)
Thailand
Malakoff
Malaysia
Paiton
Indonesia
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:22  Page 36 The region benefited from a full year’s contribution from Uch, although
this was more than offset by a decrease in KAPCO’s earnings as it
became a full tax payer following the expiry of its tax holiday in June
2006. Earnings at Malakoff were down on 2005 due to lower 
output levels in 2006. 
On 22 December 2006, the shareholders of Malakoff Berhad approved
the sale of their wholesale power generating business to MMC for
10.35 Malaysian ringgits per share. International Power has an 18%
shareholding in Malakoff and on completion this sale would equate 
to approximately £240 million (at current exchange rates) for
International Power’s shareholding, which is substantially above 
its book value. The sale process is progressing with completion 
expected in mid 2007.
All Asian assets are covered under long-term contracts with
contractually agreed pricing for the contract duration. The completion
for current contracts ranges from 2017 to 2040.
Demand for power in the region is high and is forecast to grow
significantly. This offers International Power an opportunity to expand
capacity at existing sites. In 2006, an additional 23 MW was added to
Thai National Power and we are at early stages of reviewing expansion
opportunities in Pakistan, Indonesia and Thailand. Similarly, we will
consider acquisition opportunities in the region (in existing and new
markets) where these add value to the portfolio. Decisions to proceed
will be based on project economics.
Annual Report 2006 37
Paiton, Indonesia
Fuel / Type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity power capacity power capacity heat capacity heat
MW MW (MWth) (MWth)
As at 5 March 2007 desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
Assets in operation 
Paiton, Indonesia Coal 1,230 385 – –
Malakoff, Malaysia
(1)
Gas (OCGT/CCGT) 3,760 677 – –
HUBCO, Pakistan Oil 1,290 219 – –
KAPCO, Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 575 – –
Uch, Pakistan Gas (CCGT) 586 234 – –
TNP (Pluak Daeng), Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 143 7.7MWth
(2)
7.7MWth
(2)
Asia total in operation 8,609 2,233
(1)
Gross capacity amount shown for Malakoff represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by Malakoff. International Power’s investment in Malakoff is classified on its group balance sheet as an
asset held for sale following Malakoff’s shareholder approval to divest its business to MMC, another Malaysian Corporate.
(2)
District cooling system capacity.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 37 Financial position and resources
Business and financial review – Financial position and resources 38
Canunda, South Australia
Corporate costs
International Power’s headquarters is in London, where corporate and
business functions are based to support our worldwide operations.
Corporate costs at £45 million are £14 million lower than 2005. This 
is mainly due to higher costs in 2005 arising from a number of non-
recurring items, including a provision raised against certain CEGB legacy
pension obligations and a high cost of employees’ share options arising
from the significant growth in the share price during 2005.
Interest
Net interest expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements at £248 million is £46 million higher than
2005. This is mainly due to the impact of additional debt relating to the
acquisition of Coleto Creek, a full year impact of Saltend, which was
acquired in July 2005, and first time interest expense at Tihama, where
interest costs ceased to be capitalised as the assets became operational
in 2006.
Tax
The tax charge excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements at £122 million is £54 million up on the 2005
charge. This is due to higher profitability slightly offset by a decrease 
in the effective tax rate from 31% in 2005 to 30% in 2006.
Tax on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements was a charge of £25 million (2005: £21 million).
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements
Net exceptional gains before tax of £55 million were booked in 2006
(2005: gain of £120 million) comprising:
• £36 million – impairment reversal of Deeside power plant;
• £14 million – final TXU settlement receipt;
• £5 million – compensation for breach of contract in Turkey.
The specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in the year
amount to a profit before tax of £44 million (2005: loss of £35 million).
Liquidity
Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2006 was 
£456 million, an increase of 60% compared to the previous year 
(2005: £285 million). This increase was driven by strong operational 
and financial performance across the Group, together with higher
dividends from joint ventures and associates. This was partially offset 
by increased tax and interest payments (£86 million higher than 2005)
and an increase in maintenance capital expenditure of £56 million.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:22  Page 38 Acquisitions of £842 million in 2006 mainly relate to Coleto Creek and the Levanto onshore wind farm portfolio, together with acquisitions 
of Indian Queens, Hidd, Opus Energy and BioX. A summary of the Group’s cash flow is set out below:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 
£m £m
Profit for the year 477 330
Depreciation, amortisation and other movements
(i)
322 183
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 113 92
Capital expenditure – maintenance (128) (72)
Movement in working capital (15) (21)
Net tax and interest paid (313) (227)
Free cash flow 456 285
Receipt from TXU Administrators – exceptional 14 58
Receipt of compensation for breach of contract – exceptional 5 –
Finance cost – exceptional – (5)
Debt financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt (14) (7)
Capital expenditure – growth (142) (188)
Returns from joint ventures and associates (net of investments) 24 48
Acquisitions (842) (571)
Disposals 1 211
Dividends paid (67) (37)
Proceeds from share issue 15 2
Net funding from minority interests 3 80
Foreign exchange and other 213 (181)
Increase in net debt (334) (305)
Opening net debt (2,979) (2,745)
Transitional adjustment on first time adoption of IAS 39 – 44
Net (debt)/funds on acquisition of subsidiaries (172) 27
Closing net debt (3,485) (2,979)
(i) Depreciation, amortisation and other movements include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, the share of profit of joint ventures and associates, 
the exceptional profit on the TXU settlement, and the exceptional profit on compensation for breach of contract.
Annual Report 2006 39
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:22  Page 39 Business and financial review – Financial position and resources 40
Summary balance sheet
A summarised, reclassified Group balance sheet is set out below:
As at As at
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment and intangibles 4,840 4,590
Investments 1,290 1,409
Long-term receivables and others 1,278 593
7,408 6,592
Net current assets/(liabilities) (excluding net debt items) 69 (327)
Non-current liabilities (excluding net debt items) (1,252) (911)
Net debt (3,485) (2,979)
Net assets 2,740 2,375
Gearing 127% 125%
Debt capitalisation 56% 56%
Net debt – joint ventures and associates (1,524) (1,625)
The increase in property, plant and equipment and intangibles of £250 million principally reflects the acquisition of Coleto Creek and capital
expenditure on growth projects, including Levanto. This was offset by depreciation and amortisation charges and the impact of currency retranslation
of £246 million, principally on our Australian and US dollar assets. 
Long-term receivables and others increased by £685 million due to the acquisition of Levanto (£278 million), which is accounted for as a number of
finance leases, and the transfer of £344 million from property, plant and equipment to finance lease receivables at Tihama and Levanto, as further
capacity became operational during the year. 
Non-current liabilities have increased by £341 million mainly due to the recognition of a provision for £156 million at Coleto Creek in respect of out
of the money contracts on acquisition and an increase in deferred tax liabilities of £139 million. 
Net debt has increased during 2006 as a result of the acquisitions of Coleto Creek and Levanto and further capital expenditure at Tihama, partially
offset by strong cash flow generation.
Net assets increased to £2,740 million
Net debt increased to £3,485 million
Debt capitalisation remains at 56%
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 40 Net debt and capital structure
Group net debt 
at 31 December comprised:
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 980 620
Assets held for trading 42 52
Convertible bonds (237) (125)
Other bonds (678) (445)
Secured bank loans and preferred equity (3,592) (3,081)
Net debt (3,485) (2,979)
The above net debt of £3,485 million excludes the Group’s share of joint
ventures’ and associates’ net debt of £1,524 million (2005: £1,625 million).
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint
venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International
Power plc or any other Group company. In view of the significance of this
amount, it has been disclosed separately.
The Group has sufficient credit facilities in place to fund and support
adequately its existing operations and to finance the purchase of 
new assets. These facilities comprise a revolving credit facility and two
convertible bonds. The revolving credit facility of US$640 million 
(£327 million) expires in October 2009 but can be extended by a
further year subject to bank approval. The convertible bond of 
US$252 million (£129 million) matures in August 2023 but with bond
holders having the right to ‘put’ the bond back to the Group in August
2010, 2013, 2018 and 2023. A new convertible bond of €230 million
(£155 million) was issued in July 2006 with a maturity date of July 2013
but with bondholders having the right to convert the bond into our shares
at anytime. In addition, the Group has uncommitted bilateral credit lines
from various banks at its disposal at the corporate level. 
Secured non-recourse finance
The Group’s financial strategy is to finance its assets by means of 
limited or non-recourse project financings at the asset or intermediate
holding company level, wherever that is practical. As part of this strategy,
Loy Yang B repaid the existing amortising facility of A$ 617 million
(£249 million) and replaced it with an interest only facility (with full capital
repayment in 2012) of the same size, and Rugeley, UK was refinanced
with a non-recourse facility of £485 million, of which £145 million will
be used for the installation of FGD equipment. In addition, the Group
raised non-recourse facilities of US$935 million (£477 million) to
support the acquisition and operation of Coleto Creek, Texas. 
Corporate and Group debt
On 31 December 2006 we had aggregated debt financing of 
£4,507 million denominated principally in US dollars, Australian
dollars, sterling, euro, Czech koruna and Thai baht. Of this amount
only £389 million is recourse at corporate level, the remaining
£4,118 million being secured by fixed or floating charges over
the assets of certain subsidiaries.
Aggregated debt financing of £240 million is due for repayment in
2007, with the majority of the remaining debt balance due after 2011.
During 2006 Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s reviewed the credit
rating at corporate level. Standard & Poor’s maintained the rating of BB-
but upgraded the outlook to positive. Fitch maintained its rating of BB
with stable outlook and Moody’s maintained its rating of B2 with 
stable outlook. 
Short-term deposits
Surplus funds are placed for short periods in investments that carry 
low credit risk and are readily realisable in major currencies.
Interest rate policy
The Group’s policy is to fix interest rates for a significant portion of the
debt (71% as at 31 December 2006) using forward rate or interest rate
swap agreements. Turbogás interest costs are a pass through in the PPA
tariff and therefore not an exposure to the Group. Adjusting for this item
would increase fixed rate debt to 77%. The Group is broadly neutral to
changes in interest rates as variable rate debt is similar in size to variable
rate cash and cash equivalents. Significant interest rate management
programmes and instruments require specific approval of the Board. The
weighted average interest of the fixed rate debt was 7% in 2006. Where
project finance is utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt
with the contractual terms of the customer offtake agreement.
Annual Report 2006 41
KAPCO, Pakistan
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:19  Page 41 Accounting policies
A discussion follows on the policies we believe to be the most critical 
in considering the impact of estimates and judgements on the Group’s
financial position and results of operations.
Critical accounting policies and estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in compliance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
EU. As such, we are required to make certain estimates, judgements
and assumptions that we believe are reasonable based upon the
information available. These estimates and assumptions affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements, the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during 
the periods presented and the related disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates using historical
experience, consultation with experts and other methods considered
reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure full compliance with
IFRS and best practice. Actual results may differ significantly from our
estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in which the
facts that give rise to the revision become known.
Our Group accounting policies are detailed in note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements. The table below identifies some of the
areas where significant judgements are required, normally due to the
uncertainties involved in the application of certain accounting policies.
Income recognition
The majority of our income is derived from owning and operating
power plants worldwide. In merchant markets the Group enters into
various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling
of commodities related to this activity: principally sales of electricity and
the purchase of fuel for its own power plants. These contracts typically
fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and as such
are required to be fair valued. Accounting for these contracts as cash
flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedge is effective, the changes in
value of the derivatives to be deferred in equity. In order to achieve cash
flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an
on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and
whether the hedge is effective. This requires both subjective and objective
measures of determination (see also Fair values of energy derivatives).
When our power plants sell their output under long-term power
purchase agreements it is usual for the power plant owning company 
to receive payment (known as a ‘capacity payment’) for the provision of
electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to purchase
electricity output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group 
to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether 
they constitute a form of lease or a service contract. Where the
arrangements are determined to be or to contain a form of lease an
evaluation is then required of where the substantial risks and rewards of
ownership reside in order to determine the form of lease it represents.
For those arrangements determined to be finance leases, it is necessary
to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be
treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service
provision and for operating leases the split between rental payments
and fees for service provision.
The Group receives amounts from contractors in respect of late
commissioning and under performance of new power plants. Receipts
which relate to compensation for lost revenue are treated as income
when the compensation is due and payable by the contractor. Those
receipts that relate to compensation for plants not achieving long-term
performance levels specified in the original contracts are recorded as a
reduction in the cost of the assets.
Fair values of energy derivatives
The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with 
the requirements of IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Presentation and
Disclosure) and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement). In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its
derivative contracts on balance sheet at fair value (unless they qualify 
for the ‘own use’ exemption). Changes in the value of its derivative
contracts in each period are recorded in earnings unless strict hedge
accounting criteria are met which allow the movement in fair value 
to be recorded within equity. The Group estimates the fair value of 
its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price curves. 
A forward price curve represents the Group’s view as to the prices 
at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement
of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates. Generally the
forward price curve is derived from published price quotations in an
active market, over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation
techniques over the more distant horizon period. The assumptions 
used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact
the shape of the forward price curve. The forward price curves are 
only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty
and subjectivity.
Business and financial review – Financial position and resources 42
Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from the determination of the:
Income recognition – correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual arrangements in place and the allocation of 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant
– appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors
Fair values of energy derivatives – forward price curve for commodities where there is an inactive market
Recoverable amount of property, 
plant and equipment
– indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using projected cash flows, together with risk 
adjusted discount rates, or other more appropriate methods of valuation
Fair values on acquisition – useful economic life and residual value of certain assets
– fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and hence how much of the purchase price is attributed to goodwill 
arising on acquisition of a business
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:23  Page 42 Recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment
The original cost of greenfield developed power plants and other assets
includes relevant borrowings and development costs:
• Interest on borrowings relating to major capital projects with long
periods of development is capitalised during construction and then
amortised over the useful life of the asset. 
• Project development costs (including appropriate direct internal costs)
are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the project will proceed
to completion and income will be realised. 
Depreciation of plant is charged so as to write down the value of the
asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life:
• Gas plant is depreciated over 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless
the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate
a shorter period or a lower residual value. 
• Wind farms, coal and hydro plants are considered on an 
individual basis.
Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of
impairment to carrying values of property, plant and equipment and
other assets (e.g. the impact of current adverse market conditions).
Impairment reviews are generally based on risk adjusted discounted cash
flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future
market prices over the remaining lives of the assets. 
Fair values on acquisition
The Group is required to bring assets and liabilities acquired in business
combinations on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value. Power
plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often
bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs. Hence
determination of the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts
can require a significant amount of judgement.
Consolidation policy – amount of influence
The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a
business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors
that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities 
in the consolidated financial statements. At entities which are not
subsidiaries we achieve influence through Board representation and 
by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions. We generally treat
investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as
investments available for sale. These investments available for sale are
carried at market value where market prices are available. Where quoted
market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value
cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured
at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an
entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the
entity’s operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as an
associate or jointly controlled entity. Equally, where the Group holds a
substantial interest (but less than 20%) in an entity and has the power
to exert significant influence over its operations, we treat it as an
associate or jointly controlled entity.
Exceptional items
The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are
material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed
separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial
position and financial performance of the Group. The Directors label
these items collectively as ‘exceptional items’.
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in
nature is often a subjective matter. However, circumstances that the
Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate
disclosure would include:
• disposals of investments; 
• discontinued operations; 
• impairments and impairment reversals. 
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement
line to which they relate. In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is
made of all such items in one column on the face of the income
statement.
Taxation
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is dependent on
subjective judgement as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the
tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions in which International
Power operates.
It is necessary to consider the extent to which deferred tax assets should
be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are
regarded as recoverable.
Annual Report 2006 43
Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from the determination of the:
Consolidation policy – 
amount of influence
– extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the operations, strategic direction and financial 
policies of entities in which it holds an equity stake
Items of income and expense which
require separate disclosure –
‘exceptional items’
– items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount which require separate disclosure. 
The Directors consider these items most appropriately disclosed as ‘exceptional’
Taxation – appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated decisions of the tax authorities
– assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:23  Page 43 Board of Directors
Board of Directors 44
Chairman
Sir Neville Simms (62) 
Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of National Power in
August 1998 and was appointed Chairman of International Power in
October 2000. He is currently a member of the President’s Committee
of the CBI, a Governor of Ashridge Management College, Chairman 
of the BRE Trust and Chairman of the Government’s Sustainable
Procurement Task Force. Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director 
of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002.
Executive Directors
Philip Cox (55) Chief Executive Officer
Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 from Invensys plc as 
Chief Financial Officer. Philip was appointed Chief Executive Officer of
International Power in December 2003. He has responsibility for the
overall management of the business and the delivery of its strategy. 
He is a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
Mark Williamson (49) Chief Financial Officer
Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer of International Power 
in December 2003. His responsibilities include financial control and
reporting, tax and risk management. Mark joined the Company in
September 2000 from the Simon Group plc as the Group Financial
Controller with responsibility for the Company’s financial reporting.
Bruce Levy (51) Executive Director, North America 
Bruce runs International Power America, formerly American National
Power (ANP). He joined the Company on 1 December 2004 having
previously worked for US power company GPU, where he was senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Bruce was appointed to the
Board in June 2005.
Steve Riley (45) Executive Director, Europe
Steve joined the business in 1985, holding senior positions in two UK
power stations. He was appointed International Power’s Managing
Director, Australia in January 2000. In August 2003 he took up his
current position as Executive Director, Europe. Steve was appointed to
the Board in January 2004. He has been appointed a Non-Executive
Director of Shanks Group plc with effect from 29 March 2007.
Tony Concannon (43) Executive Director, Australia
Tony joined the industry in 1982 and has worked in a number of business
areas including; power station operations, trading and international business
development (based in Asia until 1999). He left his role managing two
power plants in the UK to manage International Power’s Australia business
in August 2003 and was appointed to the Board in January 2004.
Non-Executive Directors
Adri Baan (64) Non-Executive Director
Adri became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in June 2002. He is
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. He was previously CEO of
Philips Consumer Electronics, and Member of the Board of Management of
Royal Philips Electronics. He is currently on the Boards of KVWS, ICI PLC
and OCÉ. He is Chairman of Hagemeyer and Wolters Kluwer.
Antony (Tony) Isaac (65) Non-Executive Director
Tony became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in October
2000. He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit
Committee. He was previously the Chief Executive of The BOC Group
plc and is a Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger Limited and Hogg
Robinson Group plc.
Struan Robertson (57) Non-Executive Director
Struan became a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 1 October
2004. He was Group Chief Executive of Wates Group Ltd until January
2004. Before that he had a 25-year international career with BP plc,
during which time he held a number of senior roles, including Chief
Executive Officer of BP Oil Trading International and Executive Chairman
of BP Asia Pacific. He is currently a Non-Executive Director at Forth
Ports plc, Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc and Tomkins plc
and is the Senior Independent Director of Salamander Energy plc.
Previously he was the Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
John Roberts (61) Non-Executive Director
John became a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 18 May
2006. He was previously Chief Executive of United Utilities, a position
he held for over six years. Before that, he was Chief Executive of Hyder
Utilities and of Manweb. He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of
Engineering, the Institution of Engineering and Technology and the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. He is a Non-Executive
Director of Royal Bank of Canada (Europe) Limited.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 44 Annual Report 2006 45
1. 2. 3. 4.
5. 6.
9. 10.
7. 8.
1. Sir Neville Simms Chairman
2. Philip Cox Chief Executive Officer
3. Mark Williamson Chief Financial Officer
4. Bruce Levy Executive Director, North America
5. Steve Riley Executive Director, Europe
6. Tony Concannon Executive Director, Australia
7. Adri Baan Non-Executive Director
8. Tony Isaac Non-Executive Director
9. Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director
10. John Roberts Non-Executive Director
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 45 Senior management team
Peter Barlow
Peter is the head of corporate finance for International Power and is
responsible for funding and bank relationships. He is also primarily
responsible for the relationship with Mitsui, our partner in IPM Eagle,
which owns the international asset portfolio we acquired from EME 
in 2004. Peter joined us in 1998 and has been especially involved in
corporate finance, project finance and treasury activities since that time.
Penny Chalmers
Penny is head of global resources. She is responsible for Group human
resources, information technology and corporate communications.
Penny has nearly 20 years’ experience in the energy sector and has 
been with us since 1997.
Gareth Griffiths
Gareth manages global trading, with responsibility for our trading
operations in the UK, US and Australia. He has 14 years’ experience in
the industry and was previously Vice President, Marketing and Trading
for our North American business.
Vince Harris OBE
Vince is the head of our Asia region and was previously head of one 
of the UK’s first cogeneration businesses prior to becoming CEO of
HUBCO in Pakistan. He is a chartered engineer and has 38 years’
experience in the power generation industry. Vince was awarded his
OBE in 2007 for services to British industry in Pakistan.
Ed Metcalfe
Ed heads up operations and engineering and has 33 years’ experience 
in the industry. Prior to his appointment in July 2006 he was executive
managing director of Arabian Power Company and was previously
responsible for our operations in South Australia, specifically Pelican
Point, Synergen and SEA Gas.
Sean Neely
Sean heads up mergers and acquisitions at International Power. He is a
chartered accountant with 15 years’ experience in the power sector. He
joined us in October 1998, and has a background in project finance and
investment banking.
Ken Oakley
Ken joined the Group as head of tax in October 2000 and has
responsibility for managing the Group’s tax affairs. After qualifying as 
a chartered accountant and chartered taxation adviser, he now has 
13 years’ experience in the commercial tax sector.
Stephen Ramsay
Stephen is our Company Secretary and General Counsel. He joined the
Company in 1996, after 10 years as a solicitor in private practice, first
working at National Wind Power and then in the international legal
group before becoming Company Secretary in October 2000.
Ranald Spiers
Ranald is head of our Middle East region. He has been with us for 
14 years, having previously worked for the BP Group for 12 years across
a wide spectrum of industries, including petrochemicals, detergents, 
oil refining, downstream gas, advanced materials and aerospace.
Senior Management team 46
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:23  Page 46 Annual Report 2006 47
1. Peter Barlow
2. Penny Chalmers
3. Gareth Griffiths
4. Vince Harris OBE
5. Ed Metcalfe
6. Sean Neely
7. Ken Oakley
8. Stephen Ramsay
9. Ranald Spiers
1. 2. 3.
4. 5. 6.
9. 7. 8.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  11:23  Page 47 Corporate governance 48
In 2006 the effectiveness of the Board
was underpinned by a balance of
Executive and Non-Executive Directors
The Board is accountable to shareholders
for the performance and activities of 
the Group
The Board has responsibility for the
Group’s system of internal control and for
monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness
The Board has responsibility for defining
strategy, ensuring the successful
implementation of approved
projects/proposals and for the financial
policies of the Group
Ras Laffan B, Qatar
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 48 The Board
In 2006 the effectiveness of the Board was underpinned by a balance
between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Board believes that
it has the skills and experience necessary to provide effective leadership
and control of the Company.
Jack Taylor retired from the Board on 17 May, 2006 and, on 18 May
2006, John Roberts was appointed a Non-Executive Director. There
were no other changes during the year. At the end of the year the
Board comprised of the Chairman (Sir Neville Simms), Executive
Directors (Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley
and Bruce Levy) and four Non-Executive Directors (Tony Isaac, 
Adri Baan, John Roberts and Struan Robertson). Sir Neville Simms 
was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman and 
the four Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent.
Tony Isaac is the Senior Independent Director.
The structure of the Board is not in strict compliance with the
Combined Code in that the number of Non-Executive Directors is 
less than the number of Executive Directors. However, the Directors
consider that the Board currently works effectively to carry out its duties
and that the Non-Executive Directors have a strong independent
presence at Board meetings to provide an effective counter balance 
to the Executive Directors. The size and structure of the Board is 
kept under review.
1. In 2006 the Audit Committee held three main meetings relating to the preliminary statement,
the interim statement and audit planning. All members of the Committee attended these
meetings. The remainder of the meetings related to quarterly reports and US reporting issues.
2. Tony Isaac missed one Board meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting during 2006
due to an overriding business commitment. He passed comments on each of the relevant
papers to each of the chairmen prior to the meetings. 
3. John Roberts joined the Board on 18 May 2006. He has attended all Board and committee
meetings since that date except one Board meeting and one meeting each of the Audit,
Remuneration and Appointments Committees which was due to a pre-existing commitment at
the time of his appointment. For all the meetings he missed, he passed his comments on the
relevant papers to each of the chairmen, prior to the meetings.
4. Jack Taylor retired from the Board on 17 May 2006. He attended all Board and committee
meetings up to the date of his retirement.
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance 
and in this section set out how we comply with the principles in 
the Combined Code, and explain our reasons for any areas of 
non-compliance. 
Annual Report 2006 49
Board
(7 meetings)
Audit
Committee
(5 meetings)
(1)
Remuneration
Committee
(4 meetings)
Appointments
Committee
(1 meeting)
Sir Neville Simms 7 n/a 4 1
Philip Cox 7 n/a n/a n/a
Adri Baan 7 5 4 1
Tony Concannon 7 n/a n/a n/a
Tony Isaac
(2)
6 5 3 1
Bruce Levy 7 n/a n/a n/a
Steve Riley 7 n/a n/a n/a
John Roberts
(3)
3 2 1 –
Struan Robertson 7 4 4 1
Jack Taylor
(4)
3 2 2 n/a
Mark Williamson 7 n/a n/a n/a
Corporate governance
First Hydro, UK
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:01  Page 49 The full Board met seven times during 2006. Attendance by Directors
at these and the Board committee meetings held during the year are
detailed in the table on page 49.
In addition to the Board and committee meetings, a meeting of the
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors was held without the
Executive Directors being present. The Non-Executive Directors also
met without the Chairman being present. This meeting was chaired by
Tony Isaac, the Senior Independent Director, and included a review of
the Chairman’s performance.
Board membership
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Company’s Articles 
of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-election every
three years and newly appointed Directors are subject to election by
shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. In addition, the
Board seeks to maintain a balance between continuity and new blood
amongst the Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with this policy, Jack Taylor stepped down as a Non-
Executive Director at the 2006 AGM and, following a search carried 
out by an external agency, John Roberts was appointed in his place
immediately following the AGM and will submit himself for re-election
at the 2007 AGM. 
In addition three Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the
2007 AGM in accordance with the three year re-election policy. They
are Sir Neville Simms, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon.
Board training
Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly appointed Directors
receive a comprehensive briefing on the Company, and training is
provided for Directors on their roles and their legal obligations to
ensure that they are fully conversant with their responsibilities as
Directors. In accordance with this policy John Roberts met all the
members of the Executive Management team individually, over a period
of two days. In addition he has received guided visits to two power
stations in the UK, so that he has a good understanding of the business
of the company. A programme of continuous training is also provided
for the Directors. Periodically the Board meets at the site of one of the
Group’s assets and briefings are also given at Board meetings on
particular parts of the business, including regional and functional
reviews. In January 2007 the Board visited the Group’s business in the
Middle East where it met the regional management team and received
a briefing about the local business operations. Directors are also kept
informed of changes to the regulatory regime such as the revisions to
the Combined Code, the new Companies Act and Transparency
Directive and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. All of the Directors have
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and also 
to external independent advice should they so wish.
Insurance
The Company has in place appropriate insurance cover in respect 
of legal action against its Directors.
Operation of the Board
The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, ensuring the successful
implementation of approved projects/proposals and for the financial
policies of the Group. It also reviews the risk policies and profile of the
Group. It maintains a schedule of all matters requiring specific Board
approval. Throughout 2006 this included all strategy decisions and
significant capital investment proposals and acquisitions. The Board
receives information on capital expenditure projects and investment
proposals in advance of Board meetings, as well as management reports
on the operational and financial performance of the business. Financial
performance is monitored on a monthly basis and the overall
performance of the Group is reviewed against approved budgets. 
At least once a year, the CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to 
the Board for review and approval. Each investment decision is made 
in the context of this plan.
The Board has established business values and standards for the
Company, which provide a framework for the Company to balance 
the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its business. 
The business values (FIRST) are set out in brief in the CEO’s statement
section of this Annual Report. The Company’s Code of Business 
Conduct has been formally adopted by the Board and is set out on the
Company’s website. This code includes a whistle blowing procedure.
Corporate governance 50
Uch, Pakistan
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:01  Page 50 In respect of Board performance for 2006, the Board, following the
assessment of Board performance in 2005 by an external facilitator,
decided to carry out this assessment internally for 2006. A questionnaire
was circulated to the Directors and was discussed in two separate
meetings – one with Executive Directors and the other with Non-
Executive Directors – chaired by the Chairman and minuted by the
Company Secretary. The meetings discussed overall Board performance,
the effectiveness of the Board’s committees and the contributions of
individual Directors. The results of the review demonstrated that the
Board members were satisfied with the operation of the Board. The
contribution by individual Directors to Board and committee meetings
was considered to be high.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company
between the roles of the Chairman and the CEO. The Chairman is
responsible for the leadership and effective operation of the Board, in
terms of its agenda, decision making and the utilisation of the skills and
experience of the Directors. He monitors, with the assistance of the
Company Secretary, the information provided to the Board to ensure
that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear. The Chairman is also
responsible for ensuring that there is effective engagement and
communication with shareholders. The CEO is responsible for the
running of the Company, and leading the executive and operational
teams in implementing the strategies approved by the Board.
Philip Cox is also a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc. His
remuneration from this role is retained by him. His remuneration 
for the year ended 31 March 2006 was £41,000.
Non-Executive Directors and their function
Through membership of the Board committees, the Non-Executive
Directors have responsibilities for: overseeing that systems of internal
control and risk management are appropriate and effective; managing
the relationship with the external auditor; evaluating the performance of
management in meeting targets and objectives; setting the remuneration
of Executive Directors; appointing Executive Directors; and planning
senior management succession.
Board committees
The Company has established the following committees: the Audit
Committee; the Remuneration Committee; and the Appointments
Committee. No person other than a committee member is entitled to
attend the meetings of these Committees, except at the invitation of
the Committee. The full terms of reference for each Committee are
available on the Company’s website.
Audit Committee
The Committee manages the relationship with the external auditor,
including fixing the level of the auditor’s remuneration and the scope
and adequacy of the audit. The Committee also puts in place policies
and procedures to ensure that the external auditor remains independent.
The Committee reviews all financial reports (preliminary statement,
Annual Report, Form 20-F, interim statement and quarterly reports)
including consideration of the Group’s accounting policies and major
judgemental areas. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the
Group’s systems of internal control, and reviews the scope (and the
annual plan) of the internal audit function and satisfies itself of its
adequacy, particularly in terms of resources and its performance against
its annual plan. In addition it reviews the report prepared by the Risk
Committee to ensure all relevant risks are addressed in these external
and internal audit processes. The Committee has also reviewed the
Company’s Sarbanes-Oxley compliance programme to ensure that the
Company’s internal control system and safeguards are such that they
comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
During 2006 the Audit Committee was comprised of all the
independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The Audit
Committee Chairman is Tony Isaac, who is a Fellow of the Chartered
Institute of Management Accountants and, before becoming Chief
Executive of The BOC Group plc, was its Group Finance Director. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Time was set aside for the Committee to meet the external auditor 
and the head of internal audit without executive management present.
In addition to the members of the Committee, regular attendees at 
the Audit Committee meetings included representatives of the external
auditor, the Chairman, the CEO, CFO, other Executive Directors, the
group controller and the head of internal audit.
Annual Report 2006 51
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:26  Page 51 Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for ensuring that the
remuneration package of Executive Directors is maintained on a sensible
and comparative basis and enables the Company to compete effectively
for good calibre executives. It monitors the performance of Executive
Directors against targets, it sets the performance conditions for
long-term incentive plan awards and reviews the remuneration levels
and other conditions of service of senior managers, immediately below
Board level.
The Committee comprises all of the independent Non-Executive
Directors of the Company and the Chairman. The Chairman of the
Committee is Adri Baan. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to
the Committee and the head of global resources acts as adviser to the
Committee. Towers Perrin acts as external adviser to the Committee.
Appointments Committee
The Appointments Committee is responsible for matters of
management succession and the identification and appointment of
Directors. It also reviews the Board structure, size and composition and
makes recommendations to the Board with regard to changes that are
deemed desirable. The Committee comprises of the Chairman and all 
of the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The
Chairman of the Committee is Sir Neville Simms. The Company
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and
activities of the Group. International Power ensures that its AGM
provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive comprehensive
information on all aspects of the Group’s business activities and to
question senior management about business issues and prospects.
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes lodged for each
resolution is reported at the AGM and on the Company’s website. 
In line with best practice, the Company aims to ensure that the notice
of AGM and the Annual Report are sent to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the AGM.
International Power also runs, within the terms of the regulatory
framework, frequent contact programmes with industry analysts and
institutional investors to discuss matters of strategy and financial
performance. Contact is made principally by the CEO and the CFO. 
On issues of major importance the Chairman communicates with major
shareholders. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (Tony
Isaac) is also available as an alternative point of contact if shareholders
have concerns over the Chairman’s performance or where contact with
the Chairman or the use of other communication channels would 
be inappropriate. At each Board meeting, an update is given on
movements in major shareholdings and on contact programmes
between the Executive Directors and institutional shareholders. Reports
issued by financial analysts on the Company are circulated to Board
members. These summaries and reports enable the Directors to gain an
understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the
Company. All results presentations and Stock Exchange announcements
are available to shareholders on the Company’s website.
Accountability and audit
The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of International Power’s financial
position and prospects, both to investors and regulatory authorities. 
The Annual Report, preliminary, interim and quarterly results
announcements are the principal means of achieving this objective.
An explanation of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and
external auditor in connection with the financial statements is set out in
the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities. The Directors confirm in the
Directors’ report their view that the Group is a going concern.
The Audit Committee has a process in place to approve all non-audit
services provided by the external auditor to ensure that the objectivity
and independence of the external auditor is not compromised. In line
with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our procedures
specify the services from which the external auditor is excluded and 
the approval process for all other services.
Corporate governance 52
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:01  Page 52 Internal control
The Board has responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control
and for monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
Systems are in place to meet the requirements of the Combined Code
and Turnbull Guidance and procedures and systems have been
implemented to ensure compliance with the requirements of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. The system
can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against
material financial misstatement or loss. The Board reviewed the internal
control procedures during 2006. The principal features of the Group’s
systems of internal control are:
Control environment
The Board encourages a culture of integrity and openness. The
Company has an organisation structure with clear lines of accountability
and authority across its worldwide operations, supported by appropriate
reporting procedures. Each of the regional businesses is accountable to
the CEO and is managed within the strategic guidelines and delegated
authorities adopted by the Board. An executive management team,
chaired by the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors, regional
directors and functional heads, meets regularly to discuss issues facing
the Group.
Control procedures
Control procedures have been established in each of the Company’s
operations to safeguard the Group’s assets from loss or misuse and to
ensure appropriate authorisation and recording of financial transactions.
All acquisition and investment decisions are subject to disciplined
investment appraisal processes. Risk management procedures are in
place for the Company’s operations, including its energy marketing 
and trading activities, which are overseen by the Global Commodities
Risk Committee, which comprises Executive Directors and senior
management, and is chaired by the global risk manager. The Group
treasury function operates under defined policies and the oversight 
of the Treasury Committee, chaired by the CFO.
Performance reporting and information
Corporate plan Executive management submits an annual corporate
plan to the Board for approval. The plan for each business unit is 
the quantified assessment of its planned operating and financial
performance for the next financial year, together with strategic reviews
for the following four years. Group management reviews the plans with
each operational team. The individual plans are based on key economic
and financial assumptions and incorporate an assessment of the risk 
and sensitivities underlying the projections.
Performance monitoring Monthly performance and financial reports
are produced for each business unit, with comparisons to budget.
Reports are consolidated for overall review by executive management,
together with forecasts for the income statement and cash flow.
Detailed reports are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Performance review Each business unit is subject to performance
reviews with Group management regularly during the year. Actual
results and forecasts for the year are compared to budget. Key
operational and financial results are reviewed together with the 
risk profile and business environment of the reporting unit.
Investment projects These are subject to formal review and
authorisation procedures with designated levels of authority, including 
a review by an Investment Committee chaired by the CEO and
comprising the Executive Directors and senior managers. Major 
projects are subject to Board review and approval.
Corporate reporting The Company has a Disclosure Committee 
which is chaired by the Company Secretary and is comprised of
members from the internal audit, corporate communications, human
resources, operations and engineering, company secretariat and financial
reporting departments. It reviews the Annual Report, the Summary
Annual Report and Form 20-F, and also monitors compliance with
disclosures required under UK and US reporting regulations.
Annual Report 2006 53
Rugeley, UK
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 53 Risk identification and management
As outlined in the section ‘Our approach to risk and risk management’
there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the key risks faced by the Company. Activities are co-ordinated by the
Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, and has responsibility, on
behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying
and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and
other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are
consistent with the Company strategy and objectives.
Monitoring
The Board reviews the effectiveness of established internal controls
through the Audit Committee which receives reports from
management, the Risk Committee, the Group’s internal audit function
and the external auditor on the systems of internal control and risk
management arrangements.
Internal audit reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk
management through a work programme which is based on the
Company’s objectives and risk profile and is agreed with the Audit
Committee. Findings are reported to operational and executive
management, with periodic reporting to the Audit Committee.
Business unit managers provide annual self-certification statements 
of compliance with procedures. These statements give assurance that
controls are in operation and confirm that programmes are in place 
to address any weaknesses in internal control. The certification process
embraces all areas of material risk. Internal audit reviews the statements
on behalf of the Disclosure Committee and reports any significant issues
to the Audit Committee.
Compliance with the Combined Code
There were two areas where the Board was not fully compliant with 
the requirements of the revised Combined Code throughout 2006.
Throughout 2006 there were more Executive Directors than Non-
Executive Directors. The Board has reviewed the structure of the Board
and has concluded there is no need at this time to appoint another
Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director does not have a contact programme
to communicate with institutional investors, primarily to avoid potential
confusion over channels of communication. During 2006 no
institutional shareholder has requested such communication.
In all other respects, the Company has complied with the provisions 
of the Combined Code throughout the period of the review.
US corporate governance compliance
There are no significant differences in corporate governance practices 
as undertaken by International Power as compared to those followed 
by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards.
The Company has securities registered in the US and, as a result, it is
required to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
2002 (the Act) as it applies to foreign private issuers. The Board
continues to monitor the new rules arising from the Act and reviewed
the arrangements that were developed to ensure that the Company can
report on its systems of internal controls over financial reporting as
required as at 31 December 2006.
Corporate governance 54
Shedgum, Tihama, Saudi Arabia
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:01  Page 54 Annual Report 2006 55
Levanto, Europe
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 55 Corporate responsibility
Electricity is a unique product that has the power to enhance the quality
of life for people throughout the world. Companies involved in the
provision of this commodity must also demonstrate responsibility. For 
a global wholesale generating company like International Power, this
equates to following fair and ethical principles to govern the way we
manage and conduct our business. It means working in a smart and
integrated way – by ensuring our key competencies, technical expertise
and best practices are properly implemented over a widely dispersed
and diverse range of assets to produce power, water and process heat
safely and cleanly. It also means that corporate responsibility (CR) as a
specific element forms an integral part of our business decisions and
contributes to our global competitiveness and reputation.
Establishing a sound reputation requires commitment at all levels of the
Company. We work hard to build long-term sustainable partnerships in
the communities in which we operate. Our strategy is to provide local
employment, support the local economy and act as a responsible
neighbour and employer whilst contributing to the improvement 
of local health and education services. 
This strong commitment to CR flows from the top. The Board is
briefed regularly on our CR performance and we are committed to
delivering high standards of implementation throughout the business.
Consequently, environmental and social considerations form part of our
strategic decision-making process. In those instances where we share
ownership of an asset, we encourage our partners to adopt our CR
standards and principles, typically through influence at business level
board meetings.
Power production is a complex process and our assets throughout 
the world use different fuels and different technologies to generate
electricity, heat, water or steam. However, the way we record and 
report our CR performance must be undertaken in a consistent and
transparent way. By working to the Global Reporting Initiative and 
the Association of British Insurers’ reporting guidelines we, and our
stakeholders, can check and compare our performance with that 
of other power companies.
In 2006 International Power was ranked 44th in the top 100 companies 
in the Business in the Community corporate responsibility and
environment index (in 2005 the ranking was 48th). Involvement in
Business in the Community provides peer group recognition 
of our commitment to improve continually our corporate 
responsibility performance. 
Our aim is to ensure that International Power is known throughout
the world as a responsible, efficient and successful company. Our
stakeholders – our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers,
regulators and host communities – expect nothing less of us.
Corporate responsibility 56
The strong commitment to corporate
responsibility flows from the top down
Corporate responsibility forms an 
integral part of our business decisions and
contributes to our global competitiveness
and reputation
We record and report our corporate
responsibility performance in a consistent
and transparent way
We were ranked 44th (2005: 48th) in 
the top 100 companies of Business in the
Community’s corporate responsibility and
environmental index for 2006
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:22  Page 56 Annual Report 2006 57
Al Kamil, Oman
Guidance
Our aim of improving and developing CR is aided by the provision 
of policies which help provide guidance. Our CR policies include:
Business standards
Community
Environment
Health and safety
Human rights
Business standards
We strive to demonstrate our responsibility through protecting and,
wherever possible, enhancing the working conditions of our employees,
the environment and the host communities who trust us to do our job
safely, competently and efficiently. The following statements reflect 
our policies.
Competitive practices International Power will comply with
competition laws throughout the world; we will not take part in
unlawful cartels or any form of restrictive trade practice. 
Confidentiality and honesty International Power and its contractors are
required to comply with the terms of confidentiality agreements under
which information is provided; all information should be true and not
misleading by omission. 
Ethics International Power will conform to local social norms and 
values enshrined in host countries’ laws, regulations, customs and
business practices, so long as compliance does not breach our code 
of ethical behaviour. In such cases we would seek to lead with new,
higher, local standards. 
Human resources We believe in fairness and equal opportunities for all
our employees or applicants, regardless of race, religion, marital status,
sexual orientation, age or disability. 
Procurement Our procurement will be conducted so that any supplier
that has the necessary abilities to be of service to us has a fair
opportunity to secure our business. 
Whistle-blowing International Power encourages employees or others
with serious concerns about any aspect of work to come forward and
express those concerns on a confidential basis without fear of reprisal 
or victimisation.
These business policies are set out in a code of conduct which is
circulated to all businesses, which certify their compliance with its 
terms on an annual basis.
Community
Our policy is to provide local employment, support the local economy,
act as a responsible neighbour and employer and contribute towards
the improvement of local health and education services. 
The need for electricity, fresh water and heating touches every area 
of modern life – this gives us considerable reach and global impact on
people’s lives. We, in turn, accept a reciprocal responsibility to conduct
our business with a proper concern for the world around us, particularly
in the spheres upon which we have direct effects. Community support 
is a major focus of International Power’s corporate activities.
We play a positive role in the communities in which we operate, not
because we have to but because we want to. We aim to provide local
employment; support the local economy; act as a responsible neighbour
and employer; and contribute towards the improvement of local health
and education services. 
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 57 Environment 
We strive for excellence in environmental performance through legal
compliance, certified management systems, stakeholder engagement
and the efficient use of natural resources. 
As a global power generation company we recognise the importance 
of developing and implementing a low carbon strategy over both the
medium and long-term, and we are taking active steps to address this
issue. We have a broad portfolio of assets with a small but growing
percentage of renewable generation. We use state-of-the-art, proven
environmental technology at our new assets and, where possible are
upgrading the older assets. We believe that our performance
demonstrates our committed approach with reductions in our net
CO
2
/kWh over the last two years, from 0.889 kg of CO
2
/kWh in 2004,
to 0.715 kg of CO
2
/kWh in 2006. We use net reporting for CO
2
,
which reflects our ownership interest in an asset. As of today, due to 
the different regulatory regimes that exist in the markets in which we
operate, the level of carbon emissions has limited impact on our
business. However, we believe this will change in the near future, 
and we are taking steps to address our carbon emission levels 
whilst still remaining commercially competitive.
Most governments in developed countries have introduced legislation 
to incentivise increased supply from renewable sources of generation.
Growth in renewable generation is likely to impact production forecasts
for our fossil fuelled plants. We have dedicated resources within our
operations and engineering teams to review technology trends and
advances, to ensure we are best positioned to participate over the 
short, medium and long-term in our drive towards a lower carbon
environment – not only in the UK, but very importantly, also
internationally. For example, we are also investigating means of reducing
CO
2
emissions from brown coal generation at our Hazelwood plant in
Victoria, working with both federal and state governments, and with
selected technology specialists. This is a medium to long-term project,
and we are pleased to be at the forefront of addressing such an
important issue for the Australian power generation business.
With respect to environmental compliance, plant operating and
monitoring procedures are effective in ensuring that our plants comply
with the conditions of their licenses and consents. Whilst we have
experienced occasional breaches of our environmental operating limits,
there have been no recent incidents that have posed a significant threat
to the environment or to our ability to run our plants. Compliance with
environmental limits is reported as one of our KPIs.
Full details of our environmental performance are set out on our
website www.ipplc.com/ipr/environment/env/endata/
Health and safety
We are committed to the best possible health and safety performance
through management commitment, legislative compliance, certified
management systems and continuing stakeholder engagement. 
One of our core values is to instil safe behaviour in everything we do.
We therefore decided to ask DuPont, an acknowledged world authority
in this field, to carry out a safety review at a selection of our assets
around the globe (Paiton in Indonesia, Hays in Texas, Rugeley in the 
UK, Pego in Portugal and Ras Laffan in Qatar) to ensure that our
commitment to excellent health and safety standards, across our
portfolio, is checked and challenged, and that best practice 
is shared by all our plants. In addition DuPont reviewed the corporate
headquarters and the ‘tone at the top’ and the management link
between the corporate centre and the assets. The lessons learnt from
the review will be shared across our business once the review is
complete. Health and safety is of vital importance in our business 
and therefore AFR is one of the non-financial KPIs that we use to
manage our business.
Corporate responsibility 58
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:32  Page 58 Annual Report 2006 59
Saltend, UK
Safety is achieved by focusing on three main areas:
Safety by engineering Delivered by comprehensive design reviews 
for new build projects, or in the case of an acquisition; a rigorous due
diligence process is carried out to identify any risks. Plants are operated
and maintained in line with applicable engineering standards with
regular maintenance programmes ensuring that the equipment is
always operating within design parameters.
Safety by management All International Power assets have formally
documented management systems which are derived from a set of
corporate principles. These systems are reviewed against international
best practice and updated regularly. The majority of our assets have
obtained external accreditation of their management systems through
OHSAS 18001. A process is ongoing to ensure that the remaining 
few assets obtain accreditation by the end of 2007.
We also ensure that anyone in a supervisory position has an externally
accredited health and safety qualification. In January 2007 the Executive
Directors and senior managers undertook the Institute for Occupational
Safety & Health examination for senior executives.
Safety by behaviour Safety by engineering and management can only
be effective if everyone involved behaves in the appropriate manner,
namely, complies with the rules, looks after themselves and their
colleagues and reports unsafe conditions. To support safety by behaviour
we have introduced a behaviour-based safety programme, across the
company, called ‘Fresh Eyes’. The aim of ‘Fresh Eyes’ is that through
regular work observations by colleagues, ‘at risk’ behaviour and
complacency can be identified and corrective action taken before 
any risks escalate into an incident.
We carry out regular benchmarking both internally and externally to
ensure that we are constantly up to date with international best practice.
In addition to providing a safe place of work for our employees, we also
have proactive health programmes in place at the majority of our assets.
These programmes provide regular health checks and encourage
healthy lifestyles through a combination of training, health monitoring
and subsidised gym memberships.
The reporting of health and safety issues is part of the Company’s
regular performance reporting and review process. 
Human rights
As we regard our employees as the greatest asset in the Company,
mutual respect is given the highest priority. We support the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and apply its principles throughout our
workforce. This commits International Power to ensure:
• the health and safety of our employees and the environment in which
they work; 
• respect for the opinions of our colleagues; 
• abuse of a personal nature has no place within International Power; 
• respect for the value of our time, both at work, and the value of time
devoted by our colleagues to their families; 
• respect for different cultures and religions and equal opportunity
regardless of employees’ location, nationality, gender, ethnic origin,
sexuality or religion. 
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:30  Page 59 Corporate responsibility 60
Loy Yang B, Victoria
Charitable giving
The Company’s charities and donations committee oversees the award
of charitable and other donations. In addition to assessing requests and
making awards in response to applications for assistance from a variety
of charities and good causes, the committee is also responsible for
selecting the Company’s community-based nominated charities and
annual flagship projects. Donations are also made to alleviate hardship
and to support relief efforts in response to natural disasters.
Within our regional businesses, each of our assets has an annual 
fund for charitable projects in the local area.
Nominated charities
International Power designates a number of organisations as nominated
charities for periods of three years, providing a guaranteed level of
annual funding over this time to support longer-term projects and
planning. In 2006, the decision was made to continue to support our
three nominated charities with an annual sum of £20,000 to each of
them. These include Sight Savers to fund cataract operations and train
medical staff in Pakistan. In addition we have provided equipment and
instruments for a clinic dealing specifically with child blindness. This clinic
is now fully operational. Our other nominated charities continue to be
CRISIS, a London-based organisation which supports the homeless, the
Queen Elizabeth Foundation who provide support for the disabled
through training, and mobility services. It was decided to add a fourth
charity namely Wellchild, where, in conjunction with Clifford Chance
(our legal advisors), International Power are part-funding the services 
of a community nurse, to serve the Tower Hamlets area of London, 
for children who would otherwise have to remain in hospital.
During 2006 International Power and its subsidiaries contributed
£1,050,000 to charitable causes and other community projects.
Companies in which we have a minority shareholding (associates 
and joint ventures) contributed a further £346,000.
Flagship projects
Our flagship project programme, selected each year from staff
nominations, has been running for five years. These are community
projects corporately funded annually by International Power. Flagship
projects can range in size and scope, but they all have a common goal:
to improve the quality of life in the community. 
The 2006 Flagship projects were awarded to:
• The Traralgon Conservation Reserve in the Latrobe Valley, Australia,
supporting the final phase of development. The award will cover an
information shelter and panels illustrating the native flora, fauna and
history of the Reserve. An education and development pack for
students has also been produced. 
This facility is a vital community asset providing the opportunity to
learn about and enjoy the ever-diminishing natural environment. It is
ideally situated to provide numerous recreational and educational
benefits for the local community. 
This project was proposed by Loy Yang B power station located in 
the Latrobe Valley, Victoria, Australia
• A second grant was awarded to Rugeley power station in the UK 
to support Southern Staffordshire Forest Schools Cluster Group to
provide an educational approach to outdoor play and learning. The
philosophy of the Schools is to encourage and inspire individuals of
any age by engaging in motivating tasks and helping to develop
personal, social and emotional skills. 
The award will provide the relevant equipment, materials and publicity
to launch the Forest School in the Rugeley area.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 60 Annual Report 2006 61
EcoEléctrica operates the only natural gas-fired power plant in Puerto
Rico, and was the first independent power producer in the world to
integrate a power plant with a liquefied natural gas terminal. Based in a
depressed area in the south – with high unemployment, few educational
opportunities and contamination from a rundown petrochemical
industry – the company opted to be a source of economic regeneration.
EcoEléctrica instigated a social engagement plan called ‘EEE’ –
Employment for the community, Education, and Environmental
enhancement. The construction of the plant created over 1,000 jobs
and today 82% of employees are from the local community. 
The company invests annually in a college scholarship programme 
for 40 students, and supplies materials and equipment to schools. It
provided half the funds needed to purchase 85 acres of the El Convento
Cave, the only ecosystem in Puerto Rico that has an underground river.
EcoEléctrica and its employees are also actively involved in many other
community projects. 
In the opinion of the judges, EcoEléctrica’s efforts in community
development outshine those of much larger energy businesses for 
sheer commitment and social responsibility.
This is just one of International Power’s global community
programmes. For more details visit our website at www.ipplc.com
EcoEléctrica wins prestigious award
EcoEléctrica in Puerto Rico won the ‘Community Development
Program of the Year’ award at the Platts Global Energy Awards 
in 2006, beating over 200 nominees. This is a prestigious award 
in the energy sector, that places particular emphasis on precision 
and full commitment.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 61 Employees
• We value our reputation as a caring employer and seek to attract 
and retain high calibre employees. 
• We endeavour to ensure that all of our staff conduct themselves 
in a manner of the highest integrity. 
• We have a number of share-based long-term incentive remuneration
plans that are an integral part of our strategy to reward and 
retain employees.
We operate an incentive weighted compensation scheme which 
we believe rewards and develops staff on the following basis:
• Achievement of tangible personal objectives Annual targets are set
for all personnel, calibrated at levels designed to ensure that individuals
are able to contribute to the attainment of these objectives. 
• Professional and educational advancement We promote and
facilitate mid-career training, internal and external seminars, personal
development plans and other educational programmes. In addition, we
encourage our employees to participate actively in their own personal
development and in relevant professional organisations. 
• Leadership We expect our employees to exercise leadership in their
dealings with colleagues, partners, customers and suppliers. 
This all relies on a foundation of personal integrity and respect. 
Clear communication links are critical to enhance business and
commercial awareness throughout our Company. Corporate
publications, the International Power website, employee awareness
briefings from executive management and team briefings are all used
to promote communications and an understanding of the development
and application of policies and strategy. We use the latest technology to
aid rapid communication with all staff around the world.
Learning and development
During 2006 particular attention was devoted to the Group’s learning
and development strategy. A worldwide leadership programme for
high-potential managers was developed in conjunction with Ashridge
Business School in the UK. Two programmes were run in 2006 with 
48 managers from around the Group attending. An additional two
programmes will be run in 2007.
Following a major review of all our health, safety and environmental
policies and procedures, a behavioural-based safety initiative was
launched in 2006 as a way to improve power station health and safety
management. This programme, Fresh Eyes, focuses on people rather
than plant or procedures. It involves a colleague or workmate observing
their peers and giving feedback on safe behaviour and unsafe behaviour. 
International Power operates in an increasingly complex business
environment. We place a high priority on the recruitment, retention
and training of staff at all levels, whether employed by us directly or
by any of our subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. 
Employees 62
We value our reputation as a 
caring employer
We endeavour to ensure our staff 
conduct themselves in a manner of 
the highest integrity
We seek to attract and retain high 
calibre employees
We operate an incentive weighted
compensation scheme which we 
believe rewards and develops our staff
We promote and facilitate career training
and personal development programmes
P
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:28  Page 62 Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to equal opportunities, both from a sense of
social responsibility and also because it makes sound business sense to
benefit from the wide ranging knowledge and experience of individuals
in all sectors of society. This commitment to equal opportunities means
that decisions to appoint, reward, train, develop and promote are taken
purely on the basis of skills and abilities, as matched against the
requirements of the job.
The Group values its reputation as a caring employer and seeks to
attract and retain high calibre employees. Opportunities for training are
given a high priority to ensure that all individuals can contribute to their
own career development. This approach extends itself to the fair
treatment of people with disabilities in relation to their recruitment,
training and development.
Diversity in the workplace
Cultural awareness and diversity training is provided to all relevant
managers within the business and specific cultural awareness training 
is provided to our employees prior to overseas assignments.
At a regional level a number of our assets are members of diversity
organisations. Our UK assets are registered as ‘Investors in People’.
Rugeley is also accredited to the ‘Positive about Disability’ standard. 
Our UK assets also have established a set of policies and procedures 
to ensure diversity in the workplace. This ensures equal opportunities
are integrated into their recruitment and selection processes and
subsequent employment.
The Company uses a variety of techniques for assessing applications 
as part of its selection process. Where external selection techniques 
are implemented, the Company is at pains to ensure that the providers
are able to demonstrate their methodologies are free of bias. Internal
selection processes revolve around objective assessment of the
candidates insofar as they are able to meet the specification of the job.
Involvement in the community
The Group attaches particular importance to its programme of
community support which includes the active participation of staff. 
The Group actively supports Business in the Community and takes part
in their ‘Companies that Count’ initiative in the UK, whilst in Indonesia,
staff at Paiton are involved in supporting local communities with their
medical and nutritional requirements for babies. In Pakistan, at Uch
power station, support has been provided for educational, health and
infrastructure projects. Staff at Deeside in the UK, and Hub in Pakistan
worked together to raise money for the relief effort following the
Pakistan earthquake. 
Employee share plans
International Power has in place a number of share-based remuneration
plans under which employees of the Group and its subsidiary companies
may acquire shares in International Power plc.
These plans form an integral part of the Group’s strategy to provide
appropriate reward and retention strategies for employees and, to align
employee and shareholder interests through incentive targets based on
clear financial criteria. Executive share options have been granted to
employees in seven countries outside the UK and the Global Sharesave
Plan is now in operation in four countries outside the UK. As the Group
continues to grow and employee numbers continue to increase, we
anticipate that the extension of share plans to overseas jurisdictions will
continue apace.
Annual Report 2006 63
Blackstone, Massachusetts
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:02  Page 63 The establishment of remuneration policy and the determination of 
the compensation of Executive Directors is undertaken on behalf 
of the Board by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Company’s remuneration policy for each Executive Director 
takes account of the changing nature of the business in both the 
UK and overseas.
Executive Directors receive a remuneration package aligned with 
short and medium-term corporate and personal targets. The 
package comprises:
• a market competitive salary; 
• a performance related annual bonus; 
• a long-term share-related incentive scheme; 
• pension benefits; 
• other benefits (healthcare, company car allowance).
The Remuneration Committee has access to external independent
remuneration advice. Towers Perrin has been appointed by the
Committee to provide specialist advice on Executive Director and 
senior management remuneration. Towers Perrin did not undertake 
any other services on behalf of the Company during the year ended 
31 December 2006.
In addition, the Committee received advice from Penny Chalmers,
director of global resources, on all aspects of remuneration. The CEO
attended Committee meetings to report on Executive Directors’
performance (other than his own).
This report to the shareholders by the Committee covers the following:
remuneration policy (including information on share options, long-term
incentive plans, Directors’ service contracts and Directors’ pension
benefits); Directors’ aggregate remuneration and compensation; and
Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s remuneration policy for the Executive Directors takes
account of the changing nature of the business and remuneration
practices both in the UK and overseas. The Committee has based its
executive remuneration policy on the following principles to ensure that
it remains relevant to business needs in the medium term:
• Total remuneration levels will be sufficient to retain and motivate top
quality executives; 
• Remuneration packages will include a significant performance 
related element; 
• Incentives will be based upon the achievement of specific and
measurable performance objectives that align executives’ rewards 
with the creation of value for shareholders; 
• Remuneration packages will include significant opportunities 
to acquire, and obligations to retain, International Power 
shares, consistent with our strategy of building a strong share
ownership culture. 
This approach applies to the current year and the Committee intends 
to continue it for the foreseeable future, taking into account developing
market practice. 
Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration report 64
The establishment of remuneration 
policy and the determination of Executive
Directors’ compensation is undertaken 
on behalf of the Board by the
Remuneration Committee 
Executive Directors receive a remuneration
package aligned with short and medium-
term corporate and personal targets
The Company’s remuneration policy for
the Executive Directors takes account of
the changing nature of the business and 
in remuneration practices both in the 
UK and overseas
Our pay policy is to be competitive around
the median of the FTSE 51-100 group of
companies. This reflects the Company’s
market capitalisation in the FTSE 100
P
P
P
P
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:02  Page 64 Our pay policy is to be competitive around the median of the 
FTSE 51-100 group of companies. This reflects the Company’s market
capitalisation in the FTSE 100. The Committee also has regard to the
pay of staff and management generally within the Group, to ensure 
that an appropriate balance is maintained in remuneration levels.
During 2006 the Company consulted with major institutional
shareholders, together with the ABI and RREV, regarding changes 
to the remuneration arrangements of our Executive Directors.
In order to maintain market level remuneration packages for Executive
Directors, from 1 January 2006, the Remuneration Committee decided:
• to increase the maximum level of bonuses from 70% of base salary 
to 100%, for implementation in the 2006 financial year onwards. 
The target bonus for hitting budget is increased from 47% to 67%; 
• to increase Performance Share Plan awards to 200% of base salary for
the CEO, and to 150% of base salary for other Executive Directors. 
The Committee has concluded that the maximum level of bonus and the
Performance Share Plan awards set out above will also apply for 2007.
Also, effective from 1 January 2006, the Remuneration Committee
removed, for Executive Directors:
• The Bonus Share Retention Plan, which has achieved its objectives 
of providing a mechanism for Directors to increase substantially 
their shareholdings in the Company by foregoing a portion of their
cash annual bonus. Therefore, no more awards will be made under
this arrangement; 
• Participation in the annual grants of the Executive Share 
Option Schemes.
Elements of remuneration
Executive Directors receive a remuneration package aligned with 
short and medium-term corporate and personal targets. The package
comprises a market competitive base salary; performance related annual
bonus (for 2006 satisfied wholly in cash); a long-term share-related
incentive; pension benefits; and other benefits including a healthcare
programme and a company car allowance.
Executive Director remuneration packages are structured to provide
significant awards for superior performance.
Main fixed and performance related elements of
remuneration effective from 1 January 2007
Fixed elements Performance elements
Base salary Annual bonus
Pension Performance Share Plan
Benefits
(e.g. car allowance, healthcare)
The face value of the performance related elements (annual bonus 
and long-term incentives) represents 300% of base salary for the CEO
and 250% of base salary for other Executive Directors. The level of
remuneration receivable in respect of the performance-related elements
is dependent upon the achieved level of performance in the relevant
performance period.
Annual Report 2006 65
Total shareholder return (TSR)
The graph shows the TSR performance of International Power’s 
shares relative to the FTSE 100 index from the year 2002 to 2006.
The FTSE 100 index is considered to be the most appropriate
benchmark for comparative purposes as the Company is a 
constituent member of the FTSE 100.
P
0
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
50
100
150
200
250
Source: Thomson Datastream
International Power FTSE 100
Total shareholder return
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/24/07  11:33  Page 65 Base salary as at 1 January 2007
Salaries for the Executive Directors were reviewed with effect from 
1 January 2007 against the background of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report 2005 which noted shareholders’ concerns about escalating base
pay. As a result the Committee has determined that unless there are
changes of role, salary increases are only likely to be in line with inflation
and market movements. This approach was followed in setting salaries
for Executive Directors, effective from 1 January 2007, as set out below,
and, therefore the salaries for UK-based Executive Directors increased
by an average of 6%. 
After a careful consideration of Bruce Levy’s pay positioning against the
US market, taking into account total pay including base pay, annual
bonus and long-term incentives the Committee concluded that a salary
increase of 25% should be awarded to him. The increase was required
to establish his total pay on a market median competitive basis.
Name Salary
Philip Cox £650,000
Mark Williamson £382,000
Tony Concannon £350,000
Steve Riley £350,000
Bruce Levy US$750,000
Annual bonus
The International Power annual performance bonus is a non-
pensionable payment for the achievement of targets set by the
Remuneration Committee at the start of each financial year. The 2006
targets included EPS and regional profit from operations, both excluding
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements,
Group free cash flow, regional free cash flow, regional return on equity
and personal targets. The maximum annual bonus opportunity for
Executive Directors was set at 100% of base salary for the performance
year 1 January to 31 December 2006 which will be paid fully in cash
(i.e. no longer part in cash and part in shares). 
For the 2006 performance period, the Committee reviewed the
performance of each Executive Director against their qualitative 
and quantitative objectives. EPS and regional profit from operations, 
both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements, Group free cash flow, regional free cash flow and regional
return on equity all exceeded target in each region for the performance
year 2006. In addition the Committee agreed that the Executive Director
team had worked well to deliver the benefits of integrating the assets
purchased as part of the Coleto Creek, Indian Queens and Levanto
acquisitions whilst maintaining good operational results from the regions.
The Committee used their discretion to enhance the 2006 bonus for
Bruce Levy to recognise the contribution of the significantly improved
performance from our North American business.
Name Bonus Award
Philip Cox 100% £610,000
Mark Williamson 100% £360,000
Tony Concannon 100% £330,000
Steve Riley 100% £330,000
Bruce Levy 200% £650,336
The details of these payments are set out in the Directors’ aggregate
remuneration table.
For 2007 the maximum target bonus levels have been established on
the following basis:
Maximum 2007 bonus achievable
Personal EPS Free Profit Free
(Group) cash from cash
flow operations flow
(Group) (Region) (Region)
Philip Cox 10% 60% 30% - -
Mark Williamson 10% 60% 30% - -
Tony Concannon 10% 30% 15% 30% 15%
Steve Riley 10% 30% 15% 30% 15%
Bruce Levy 10% 30% 15% 30% 15%
Selection of performance criteria 
For awards previously made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan
and the Approved, Unapproved and Global Executive Share Option
Plans, the performance conditions have been aligned with the key
objective of growth in the EPS measure, which reflects the underlying
business performance of the Company, as presented in the 
financial statements.
Prior to 2006 the performance condition for Performance Share Plan
awards was based exclusively on EPS growth. In 2006 the Remuneration
Committee concluded that the performance condition should include
an element of TSR. As a result, 50% of the 2006 award is subject to a
TSR performance condition measured against companies in the FTSE
51-100, whilst 50% of the award is subject to the achievement of a
specific EPS growth target. The inclusion of a significant TSR element
recognised shareholders’ wishes to have a relative, market-based
measure, when assessing performance and will be incorporated into 
the performance condition for future Performance Share Plan awards.
For the TSR element of the performance measure, 25% of this element
of the award will vest for median TSR performance and 100% will vest
for upper quartile performance. In addition, before releasing any award
in respect of the TSR element, the Remuneration Committee will satisfy
itself that the Company’s TSR performance is a genuine reflection of 
the underlying performance of the Company.
For the 2007 Performance Share Plan awards, the threshold and
maximum EPS performance conditions have been fixed at 27p
(representing 6.4% compound annual growth on 2006 EPS
performance) and 34p (representing 14.9% compound annual growth
on 2006 EPS performance) respectively. They have been selected to
provide a challenging performance requirement. 
Straight line pro-rating will apply for performance between the
threshold and maximum data points for both the TSR and EPS 
growth elements. 
If either the TSR or EPS performance measure is not achieved the other
half of the award may still vest if the relevant performance measure has
been achieved. The extent of vesting will be dependent upon achieved
performance as described above.
The Remuneration Committee will assess the level of performance 
in respect of any performance condition.
Given that the principal performance measures for the Company’s share
plans is based on growth in EPS and TSR, the Committee will also take
into account, and adjust appropriately for, the enhancement effects of
any purchase and subsequent cancellation of shares, or placing of shares
into treasury, by the Company.
Directors’ remuneration report 66
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:35  Page 66 Annual Report 2006 67
Date of award Performance 
period
Threshold performance
condition
Maximum performance
condition
Vesting rate
10 March 2003 
(Philip Cox only*)
1 January 2003 to 
31 December 2005
30% of the award will vest if EPS
performance for the year ended 
31 December 2005 is not less 
than 9.7p.
100% of the award will vest 
if EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2005 is 
equal to or greater than 11.5p.
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for EPS
performance between
these two points.
2005 EPS 13.5p: Performance condition met. 100% of the award vested on 8 March 2006.
10 March 2003 1 January 2003 to 
31 December 2005
30% of the award will vest if EPS
performance for the year ended 
31 December 2005 is not less 
than 9.7p.
100% of the award will vest if 
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2005 is 
equal to or greater than 13.0p.
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for EPS
performance 
between these 
two points.
2005 EPS 13.5p: Performance condition met. 100% of the award vested on 8 March 2006.
2 March 2004 1 January 2004 to 
31 December 2006
30% of the award will vest if EPS
performance for the year ended 
31 December 2006 is not less 
than 8.2p.
100% of the award will vest if 
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2006 is 
equal to or greater than 11.5p. 
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for EPS
performance 
between these 
two points.
2006 EPS 22.4p: Performance condition met. 100% of the award to vest on 12 March 2007.
11 March 2005 1 January 2005 to 
31 December 2007
30% of the award will vest if 
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2007 is 
not less than 13.7p.
100% of the award will vest if EPS
performance for the year ended 
31 December 2007 is equal to or
greater than 15.0p.
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for EPS
performance 
between these 
two points.
8 March 2006 1 January 2006 to 
31 December 2008
12.5% of the award will vest if 
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2008 is 
not less than 21.0p.
50% of the award will vest if 
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2008 is 
equal to or greater than 24.0p.
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for EPS
performance between
these two points.
12.5% of the award will vest 
at the median of FTSE 51-100
companies’ TSR performance 
for the three years ended 
31 December 2008.
50% of the award will vest 
at the upper quartile of FTSE 
51-100 companies’ TSR
performance for the three years 
ended 31 December 2008.
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for TSR
performance between
these two points.
Share Plans for Executive Directors: performance conditions
2002 Performance Share Plan
The annual awards made under this Plan will normally vest after the end of a three-year period. Each award incorporates a performance condition
that from 2002 – 2005 has reflected only EPS. For the award made in 2006, the performance condition was based on EPS and TSR. The
performance conditions for awards currently outstanding are as follows:
* As part of the Company’s 2003 succession management plan, a special conditional award was made in March 2003 to Philip Cox.
2007 awards
After the release of its preliminary results, the Company will make Performance Share Plan awards to Philip Cox equivalent to 200% of his base
salary, and to Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley and Bruce Levy equivalent to 150% of their base salary. These awards are subject to the
performance conditions described under ‘Selection of performance criteria’. Shares will vest subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied
with the level of achievement against the applicable performance conditions.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 67 Approved, Unapproved and Global Executive Share Option Plans
Pre-Demerger “Legacy” Share Option Plans
In accordance with the rules at the time, there are no performance conditions attached to the National Power ‘Legacy’ Unapproved Options granted
to Tony Concannon and Steve Riley prior to the demerger from National Power.
International Power Share Option Plans
Options granted under these plans will normally become exercisable after the end of a three-year period. Each grant includes a performance
condition reflecting EPS growth. There is no re-testing of the performance condition applicable to each option grant. Performance conditions for
options granted are as follows:
No awards of Executive Share Options were made to the Executive Directors in 2006 and the Executive Directors will not participate in future grants
of Executive Share Options. 
As a result of the 2006 performance conditions being met, the following shares under the Performance Share Plan will be released to the Executive
Directors on 12 March 2007; also the following Executive Share Options become exercisable from 7 March 2007:
Performance Shares Executive Share Options
Philip Cox 384,529 384,529
Mark Williamson 202,384 202,384
Tony Concannon 190,240 190,240
Steve Riley 190,240 190,240
Directors’ remuneration report 68
Date of award Performance 
period
Threshold performance
condition
Maximum performance
condition
Vesting rate
3 October 2000 1 January 2001 to 
31 December 2003
Fully exercisable if average annual growth in normalised earnings per International Power Ordinary
Share for the financial reporting period ending on 31 December 2000 to the reporting 
period ending on 31 December 2003 is equal to or exceeds 7%. 
Performance condition achieved.
24 May 2002 1 January 2002 to 
31 December 2004
Fully exercisable if average annual EPS growth over the Performance Period 
(being 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2004) is not less than RPI+4%.
Performance condition not achieved.
10 March 2003 1 January 2003 to 
31 December 2005
30% of the award will be
exercisable if EPS performance 
for the year ending 31 December
2005 is not less than 9.7p.
100% of the award will be
exercisable if EPS performance for
the year ending 31 December 2005
is equal to or greater than 11.5p.
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for EPS
performance between
these two points.
2005 EPS 13.5p: Performance condition met, 100% of the award exercisable from 10 March 2006.
2 March 2004 1 January 2004 to 
31 December 2006
Fully exercisable if EPS for the 2006 financial year is not less than 8.7p.
2006 EPS 22.4p: Performance condition met. 100% of the award fully exercisable from 
7 March 2007.
11 March 2005 1 January 2005 to 
31 December 2007
30% of the award will be
exercisable if EPS performance 
for the year ending 31 December
2007 is not less than 13.7p.
100% of the award will be
exercisable if EPS performance for
the year ending 31 December 2007
is equal to or greater than 14.5p.
Vesting will be 
pro-rated for EPS
performance between
these two points.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 68 Pensions policy
The Committee has reviewed its pensions policy for the Executive Directors against the background of the changes in pensions legislation effective 
from 6 April 2006. The Committee has concluded that no compensatory payments will be made as a result of this change in legislation.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed to maintain the application of the earnings cap on pensionable earnings to members who joined the
Electricity Supply Pension Scheme on or after 1 June 1989.
The Committee has also concluded that from April 2006 no further contributions should be paid into a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit
Scheme (FURBS) fund. In lieu of future contributions to a FURBS fund, from April 2006, a non-pensionable cash allowance will be paid. The cost
ceiling for the provision of pension benefits for the Executive Directors who are affected by the earnings cap is 33% of salary. The value of the
allowance payable is determined by deducting from the cost ceiling an allowance for actual pension provision and the cost of unapproved life cover. 
Directors’ service contracts
Service contract – Philip Cox
Philip Cox has a service contract subject to 12-months’ notice by the Company. For termination other than for cause, he may receive a payment of
125% of annual basic salary (which includes the 12-months’ notice) to take account of the value of contractual benefits. The date upon which this
contract was entered into was 25 February 2003.
Service contracts – Mark Williamson, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon
Mark Williamson, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon have service contracts which are subject to 12-months’ notice by the Company. For termination
by the Company, these Executive Directors may receive a payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which includes the 12-months’ notice) which will
be paid on a monthly basis until the Executive Director secures alternative employment, up to a maximum of 12 monthly payments. The date upon
which these contracts were entered into was 23 February 2004.
Appointment agreement – Bruce Levy
Bruce Levy has a US appointment agreement which is subject to 12-months’ notice by the Company. For termination by the Company, he may
receive a payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which includes the 12-months’ notice) which will be paid in semi-monthly instalments, plus
benefit continuation. If the Company elects to release Bruce Levy from the restrictive covenants in his contract, he can be required to account for any
salary received to reduce the amount of these semi-monthly payments, to a maximum of 24 semi-monthly payments. The date upon which his
agreement was entered into was 21 December 2005.
Service contracts – Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman of International Power plc, Sir Neville Simms, has a letter of appointment with a 12-month notice period. The letter of appointment
was signed on 22 February 2000. The other Non-Executive Directors are appointed on a three-year fixed-term, annual fixed-fee basis. Their
appointment is reviewed at the end of each three-year period and extended for a period of one to three years if both parties agree.
The following table summarises the appointment and termination dates for Directors:
Date contract entered into Contract expiry
Executive Directors
Philip Cox 25 February 2003 12-months’ notice
Mark Williamson 23 February 2004 12-months’ notice
Tony Concannon 23 February 2004 12-months’ notice
Steve Riley 23 February 2004 12-months’ notice
Bruce Levy 21 December 2005 12-months’ notice
Executive Director service contracts automatically terminate on the date they reach normal retirement age which is 22 September 2011 for Philip
Cox, 16 December 2015 for Bruce Levy, 29 December 2017 for Mark Williamson, 16 August 2021 for Steve Riley and 17 December 2023 for
Tony Concannon.
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Neville Simms 22 February 2000 12-months’ notice
Tony Isaac 2 October 2000 AGM May 2009
Adri Baan 30 May 2002 31 December 2007
Jack Taylor 2 October 2000 17 May 2006
Struan Robertson 27 September 2004 AGM May 2008
John Roberts 18 May 2006 18 May 2009
Sir Neville Simms’ contract will expire at the 2010 AGM, following his 65th birthday, or earlier, subject to the above notice period.
Annual Report 2006 69
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:48  Page 69 Non-Executive Directors’ fees and shareholding requirements
Non-Executive Director fee levels were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2006 (last increased in July 2003). Non-Executive Directors will no
longer be required to use a proportion of their fee to purchase International Power shares. The annual fees for 2006 are set out below: 
Sir Neville Simms £250,000
Tony Isaac £60,000
Adri Baan £55,000
Jack Taylor £45,000
Struan Robertson £45,000
John Roberts £45,000
The above fees for the Non-Executive Directors comprise a basic fee, which covers Board membership (i.e. attendance at Board meetings, general
duties as Directors and their membership of Board committees) of £45,000, a fee of £10,000 per annum for chairing each of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees and a fee of £5,000 per annum for acting as Senior Independent Director.
Audit
The detail of the Directors’ remuneration, pensions and interests in share options and long-term incentive plans as disclosed below have been
audited by the Company’s external auditor.
Directors’ pension benefits
The pension arrangements for Philip Cox and Mark Williamson are provided through the Senior Section of the International Power Group of the
Electricity Supply Pension Scheme, which is an Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC)-registered scheme. The scheme provides for: a normal
retirement age of 60; an accrual rate that targets two-thirds of pensionable salary at normal retirement age; four times salary death-in-service
benefits; a widow’s pension of two-thirds of Executive’s pension; and Executive’s contribution of 6% of salary up to 15% of an earnings cap based 
on the limits previously imposed by HMRC.
The benefits provided through the scheme are also restricted by an earnings cap based on that previously imposed by HMRC. To compensate for
this, the scheme benefits are supplemented by the Company arranging additional life assurance cover and, until 31 March 2006, paying contributions
to a FURBS. The cost ceiling for the provision of pension benefits is 33% of salary. The contributions to the FURBS were determined by deducting
from the cost ceiling an allowance for actual pension provision and the cost of unapproved life cover. With effect from 1 April 2006 the contributions
to the FURBS were replaced by a non-pensionable cash allowance.
The pension arrangements for Tony Concannon and Steve Riley are also provided through the Senior Section of the International Power Group of
the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme. As they are not restricted by the HMRC earnings limit, the scheme provides for them: a normal retirement
age of 60; an accrual rate that targets two-thirds of pensionable salary at normal retirement age; four times salary death-in-service benefits; a
widow’s pension of two-thirds of Executive’s pension; and Executive’s contribution of 6% of salary. The Company does not supplement this
arrangement.
Accrued benefit Transfer value of accrued benefit
Increase in year
At 31 December Including inflation Excluding inflation At 31 December At 31 December Increase less
2006 2006 2005 Directors’
contribution
£££££££
Philip Cox 15,400 4,200 3,900 292,200 194,000 82,000 57,200
Mark Williamson 22,900 4,200 3,600 362,200 257,000 89,100 41,500
Steve Riley 105,500 20,400 18,100 1,551,200 1,090,100 444,100 249,100
Tony Concannon 98,900 19,000 16,900 1,307,900 920,300 370,500 206,000
• The accrued benefit, as at 31 December 2006, is the pension entitlement which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end
of 2006. In addition to the pension shown above for service prior to 2 October 2000, Mark Williamson has an entitlement to an accrued lump
sum of £346, Steve Riley has an entitlement to an accrued lump sum of £185,930 and Tony Concannon has an entitlement to an accrued lump
sum of £176,471. The normal retirement age is 60. 
• Dependants’ pensions on death are 58% of members’ pension in respect of service prior to 2 October 2000 and two-thirds of members’ pension
in respect of service thereafter. On death-in-service a lump sum of four times salary is payable. On death within the first five years of retirement, 
a lump sum is payable equal to the balance outstanding of the first five years’ pension payments. 
• Post-retirement increases are expected to be in line with inflation (guaranteed up to the level of 5% p.a. and discretionary above that level). 
• The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. 
• Members of the pension scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions; neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits 
are included in the above table. 
• In addition to the above entitlements to 31 March 2006, contributions to a FURBS were £32,000 in respect of Philip Cox, and £20,900 in respect
of Mark Williamson. 
Directors’ remuneration report 70
Transfer value of
increase in accrued
pension excluding
inflation less
Directors’ 
contributions
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:48  Page 70 The pension arrangements for Bruce Levy are provided through a 401k Savings Plan, a Retirement Plan and a Supplemental Retirement Plan, which
are money purchase schemes operated by International Power America (formerly American National Power), up to a cost to the Company of 30%
of salary. With effect from 1 January 2006, this cost ceiling was increased to 33%.
2006 Directors’ remuneration and interests
Directors’ aggregate remuneration
The table below shows the aggregate remuneration of the Directors of International Power plc for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Salary Fees Performance Payment in Other Aggregate Aggregate
related bonus lieu of benefits remuneration remuneration
– cash pension year to year to
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£££££££
Sir Neville Simms – 250,000––– 250,000 210,000
Philip Cox 610,000 – 610,000 137,512 16,109 1,373,621 1,342,397
Mark Williamson 360,000 – 360,000 86,429 13,441 819,870 801,173
Tony Concannon 330,000 – 330,000 – 97,860 757,860 728,148
Steve Riley 330,000 – 330,000 – 74,008 734,008 765,061
Bruce Levy 325,168 – 650,336 107,306 46,458 1,129,268 453,905
Tony Isaac – 60,000––– 60,000 50,000
Adri Baan – 55,000––– 55,000 45,000
Jack Taylor – 22,500––– 22,500 40,000
Struan Robertson – 45,000––– 45,000 40,000
John Roberts – 27,944––– 27,944 –
Total 1,955,168 460,444 2,280,336 331,247 247,876 5,275,071 4,475,684
1. The International Power plc Non-Executive Directors’ basic fee, which covers Board membership (i.e. attendance at Board meetings, general duties
as Directors, and their membership of Board Committees) was £45,000. In addition, Tony Isaac received an additional fee of £5,000 for his role 
as Senior Independent Director. Tony Isaac also received £10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Adri Baan received an
additional fee of £10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. John Roberts joined the Company on 18 May 2006. 
Jack Taylor resigned as a Director on 17 May 2006.
2. Sir Neville Simms’ fee for 2006 was £250,000.
3. For Philip Cox, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made to his death-in-service insurance
premium, Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme (FURBS) to April 2006 and a cash allowance in lieu of contributions to a FURBS from
April 2006. He also received a company car allowance and private medical insurance, which are included in ‘Other benefits’. 
4. For Mark Williamson, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made to his death-in-service insurance
premium, FURBS to April 2006 and a cash allowance in lieu of contributions to a FURBS from April 2006. He also received a company car
allowance and private medical insurance, which are included in ‘Other benefits’. 
5. Tony Concannon was appointed an Executive Director on 1 January 2004. He received a company car allowance and private medical insurance,
both of which are included in ‘Other benefits’. Also included in ‘Other benefits’ is the value of his relocation and expatriate support. In addition,
International Power Australia Pty Ltd incurs local charges regarding taxation of remuneration. For 2006, this cost is £348,157 (2005: £318,028)
which was fully funded by Tony Concannon. 
6. Steve Riley was appointed an Executive Director on 1 January 2004. He received a company car allowance and private medical insurance, 
both of which are included in ‘Other benefits’. Also included in ‘Other benefits’ is the value of his relocation and repatriation support. 
7. Bruce Levy was appointed an Executive Director on 1 June 2005. His salary from that date is included in the above table. The payment in lieu 
of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made to Bruce Levy’s 401k Savings Plan, a Retirement Plan and a Supplemental
Retirement Plan. He also received a company car allowance and private medical insurance, both of which are included in ‘Other benefits’. Also
included in ‘Other benefits’ is the value of his relocation support. The values shown in the above table have been converted from US dollars to
sterling using the average annual exchange rate of 1.8452.
Annual Report 2006 71
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:48  Page 71 Directors’ remuneration report 72
The following information shows the interests of the Directors as at the end of the financial year in the Company’s Performance Share Plans,
Executive Share Option Plans and the Sharesave Plan. 
Long-term incentive plans
i) 2002 Performance Share Plan
Conditional rights awarded over International Power plc Ordinary Shares under the 2002 Performance Share Plan held by Directors at 1 January
2006 and 31 December 2006 (together with details of awards made and vested during the period) were as follows:
As at Awards made
(1)
Market value as at End of performance period Awards vested
(2)
Market value on As at 
1 January date of Award vesting date 31 December
2006 (pence) (pence) 2006
Philip Cox 759,169 – 62.32 31 December 2005 (759,169) 268.50 –
384,529 – 123.53 31 December 2006 – – 384,529
292,887 – 179.25 31 December 2007 – – 292,887
– 434,163 281.00 31 December 2008 – – 434,163
1,436,585 434,163 (759,169) 1,111,579
Mark Williamson 99,164 – 62.32 31 December 2005 (99,164) 268.50 –
202,384 – 123.53 31 December 2006 – – 202,384
172,942 – 179.25 31 December 2007 – – 172,942
– 192,170 281.00 31 December 2008 – – 192,170
474,490 192,170 (99,164) 567,496
Tony Concannon 67,994 – 62.32 31 December 2005 (67,994) 268.50 –
190,240 – 123.53 31 December 2006 – – 190,240
158,995 – 179.25 31 December 2007 – – 158,995
– 176,156 281.00 31 December 2008 – – 176,156
417,229 176,156 (67,994) 525,391
Bruce Levy 158,995 – 179.25 31 December 2007 – – 158,995
– 184,432 281.00 31 December 2008 – – 184,432
158,995 184,432 – 343,427
Steve Riley 88,505 – 62.32 31 December 2005 (88,505) 268.50 –
190,240 – 123.53 31 December 2006 – – 190,240
158,995 – 179.25 31 December 2007 – – 158,995
– 176,156 281.00 31 December 2008 – – 176,156
437,740 176,156 (88,505) 525,391
The performance conditions that must be satisfied for the vesting of awards are given in the Remuneration section of the Annual Report on page 67.
(1)
Awards made on 8 March 2006. The performance conditions that must be satisfied before these awards may be released are set out in the
Remuneration Report on page 67.
(2)
Awards vested on 8 March 2006. The aggregate of the theoretical gain made by Directors on the vesting of the Performance Share Plan Awards
during the year was £2,724,824 (2005: nil). This is calculated by reference to the closing mid-market price of the shares on the date of vesting,
disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained on exercise, and is stated before tax.
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:48  Page 72 ii) Executive Share Options
Options over International Power plc Ordinary Shares granted under the National Power Legacy Executive Share Option Scheme, the International
Power UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes and the Global Executive Share Option Schemes held by Directors at 
1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 (together with details of options exercised during the period), were as follows:
As at Exercise price Exercised Date of Market value on Exercise Exercise As at 
1 January per share during the year exercise date of exercise period from period to 31 December 
2006 (pence) (pence) 2006
Philip Cox 17,191 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 17,191
149,859 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 149,859
561,616 62.32 (561,616)14.08.2006 319.2510.03.2006 10.03.2013 –
384,529123.53 02.03.2007 02.03.2014384,529
292,887 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 292,887
1,406,082 (561,616) 844,466
Mark Williamson 5,403 277.55 02.10.2003 02.10.2010 5,403
30,624 277.55 02.10.2003 02.10.2010 30,624
7,168 209.22 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 7,168
16,728 209.22 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 16,728
35,415 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 35,415
99,164 62.32 (99,164)14.08.2006 319.2510.03.2006 10.03.2013 –
202,384 123.53 02.03.2007 02.03.2014 202,384
172,942 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 172,942
569,828 (99,164) 470,664
Tony Concannon 7,189 287.76 (7,189) 13.12.2006 388.25 23.12.1999 23.12.2006 –
6,950 343.73 02.12.2000 02.12.2007 6,950
7,873313.92 01.12.2001 01.12.20087,873
3,377277.55 02.10.2003 02.10.20103,377
19,139277.55 02.10.200302.10.201019,139
4,480 209.22 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 4,480
10,455 209.22 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 10,455
6,447174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.20126,447
17,835 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 17,835
67,994 62.32 (67,994)14.08.2006 319.2510.03.2006 10.03.2013 –
190,240123.53 02.03.2007 02.03.2014 190,240
158,995 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 158,995
500,974 (75,183) 425,791
Bruce Levy 158,995 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 158,995
158,995 158,995
Steve Riley 12,302 287.76 (12,302) 14.08.2006 319.25 23.12.1999 23.12.2006 –
12,001 343.73 02.12.2000 02.12.2007 12,001
13,904 313.92 01.12.2001 01.12.2008 13,904
5,674 277.55 (5,674)14.08.2006 319.2502.10.2003 02.10.2010 –
32,155 277.55 (32,155)14.08.2006 319.2502.10.2003 02.10.2010 –
6,810 209.22 (6,810)14.08.2006 319.2522.03.2004 22.03.2011 –
18,282 209.22 (18,282)14.08.2006 319.2522.03.2004 22.03.2011 –
31,608 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 31,608
88,505 62.32 (88,505)14.08.2006 319.2510.03.2006 10.03.2013 –
190,240123.53 02.03.2007 02.03.2014 190,240
158,995 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 158,995
570,476 (163,728) 406,748
No grants of Executive Share Options were made to Directors during the period 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006.
Annual Report 2006 73
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:48  Page 73 Options exercisable prior to October 2003 were granted under the National Power Legacy Executive Share Option Scheme (Tony Concannon and
Steve Riley). Options exercisable after October 2003 were granted under the International Power Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option
Plans (Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon and Steve Riley) and the Global Executive Share Option Plan (Bruce Levy).
Details of performance criteria attaching to options capable of exercise from October 2003 onwards are given in the Remuneration section of the
Annual Report on page 68. Options exercisable from October 2003, March 2004 and March 2006 achieved their performance criteria in full and are
capable of exercise in total. Options exercisable from May 2005 did not meet their performance criteria. No performance conditions applied to
those options exercisable prior to October 2003.
The aggregate of the theoretical gain made by Directors on the exercise of options during the year was £2,154,335 (2005: nil). This is calculated 
by reference to the difference between the closing mid-market price of the shares on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the options,
disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained on exercise, and is stated before tax. 
iii) Sharesave Options
Options over International Power plc Ordinary Shares granted under the International Power Sharesave Plan and Global Sharesave Plan held by
Directors at 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 (together with details of options exercised during the period), were as follows:
As at Granted Exercised Market value
(3) 
Option price Exercise period As at
1 January (pence) (pence) From To 31 December 
2006 2006
Philip Cox
(1)
20,499 – – – 80.1224.12.200724.06.2008 20,499
Mark Williamson
(1)
11,793 – (11,793) 272.00 80.12 24.12.2005 24.06.2006 –
– 8,050 – – 200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Tony Concannon
(1) 
– 8,050 – – 200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Bruce Levy
(2)
– 8,050 – – 200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Steve Riley
(1)
– 4,675 – – 200.00 01.03.2009 31.08.2009 4,675
(1)
Options held under the UK Approved Sharesave Scheme
(2)
Options held under the Global Sharesave Scheme.
(3)
Date of exercise of option 21 March 2006.
Directors’ remuneration report 74
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:48  Page 74 Shares held in trust
As at 31 December 2006, a total of 1,241,452 Ordinary Shares of the Company were held in two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts 
(31 December 2005: 2,081,573). Being potential recipients, the Directors (together with all other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries)
have an interest in these shares. No shares were purchased and placed into trust during the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (2005: Nil).
Directors’ beneficial interests as at 31 December 2006
The beneficial interest of the Directors in office at 31 December 2006 in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are shown in the table below:
Director At 31 December 2006 At 1 January 2006
Sir Neville Simms 178,220 178,220
Philip Cox 528,133 173,360
Mark Williamson 121,000 105,818
Tony Concannon 123,278 71,992
Bruce Levy 90,364 30,000
Steve Riley 112,226 94,932
Adri Baan 38,801 38,801
Tony Isaac 25,501 25,501
John Roberts 25,000 –
Struan Robertson 3,163 3,163
No Director had, at any time during the financial year, any beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking.
The middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share of the Company on 31 December 2006 was 381.75p (2005: 239.50p) and the daily quotations
during the year ranged from 243.00p to 395.25p.
Adri Baan
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Board of Directors of International Power plc
5 March 2007
Annual Report 2006 75
Shuweihat, UAE
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/21/07  11:53  Page 75 Directors’ report
Directors’ report 76
Introduction
The Directors submit their report and the audited financial statements
of International Power plc (the Company) for the year ended 
31 December 2006. The principal activity of the Company is to act 
as the holding company for a group of companies and a number of
associated companies and joint ventures (the Group). The principal
activities of the Group are the generation and sale of electricity, and
closely related activities such as district heating and desalination.
Business review
The Company is required to present a fair review of the business and the
Group during the year ended 31 December 2006 and of the position of
the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group (known as a ‘Business
Review’). The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business
Review can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report:
• Business and financial review; pages 8 to 43
• Current Directors’ biographical details and Directors who served
through the year; pages 44, 45 and 49
• Corporate governance; pages 48 to 55
• Employees; pages 62 and 63
• Directors’ remuneration; pages 64 to 75.
Dividend
The Directors propose to pay a dividend of 7.9p per Ordinary Share in
respect of the year ended 31 December 2006. 
Charitable and political donations
The Group does not make political donations. Details of charitable
donations are set out in the CR section on page 60.
Research and development
Pure research is not a core element of the business of the Company. For
the period under review, the Company did not undertake any expenditure
on research and development. The Company will look to take advantage
of technical advances as they arise and will continue to seek to develop
power stations in the regions in which the Group operates making
effective use of current and new technology as and when available.
Share capital
During the period 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006 the Company
did not purchase any of its Ordinary Shares.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2007 AGM to renew for a further
year the Directors’ general authority to allot shares; to renew for a year
the partial disapplication of shareholders’ statutory pre-emption rights
over Ordinary Shares and, to renew the authority to purchase a
proportion of the Company’s shares.
An explanation of these and other resolutions being proposed at the
2007 AGM will be provided in the Notice of AGM, which will be sent 
to shareholders during April 2007.
Shares held in trust
As at 31 December 2006 1,241,452 Ordinary Shares of the Company
were held in trust for the benefit of employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries. These shares had a nominal value of £620,726 and a
market value of £4,739,243. The employee share plan for which these
shares may be utilised is the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this report, the Company is aware of interests in 3%
or more of the issued share capital of the Company on behalf of the
organisations as shown in the table below.
Substantial shareholdings Number of shares
AXA S.A. 74,899,335 5.02%
Standard Life Investments Limited 58,397,077 3.91%
Fidelity Management & Research Co 57,450,450 3.85%
Legal and General Investment 51,404,644 3.44%
Management Limited
Aviva plc 45,024,267 3.02%
Going concern
The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the ‘going concern’ basis
for the preparation of the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each
Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a
Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of this information.
Auditor
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company
and to authorise the Directors to agree the auditor’s remuneration will
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Prompt payment policy
The Company aims to observe the highest standard of business practice
as both a buyer and seller of products and services. The Company’s
average number of days outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 
31 December 2006 was 38 days.
By order of the Board
Stephen Ramsay
Company Secretary
5 March 2007
6707-01_IPreport2006_AW tp  3/23/07  12:35  Page 76 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
UK Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group. 
The Companies Act 1985 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving 
a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue 
in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent
company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration report and corporate
governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation 
in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 77
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 77 Independent auditor’s report
TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL POWER plc
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) of International Power plc for the year ended 
31 December 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated statement of
changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements. These financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as 
having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors’
remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 77. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ report is
consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the Business and
financial review that is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the Directors’ report. In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.  
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.  
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements. We consider 
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.  
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.  
Opinion  
In our opinion:  
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended;  
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation;  
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state 
of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2006;
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985;  
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.  
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered accountants 8 Salisbury Square
Registered auditor London 
5 March 2007 EC4Y 8BB
International Power Annual Report 2006 78
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 78 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 79
Consolidated income statement
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006
Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Results Exceptional Results for Results Exceptional Results for
excluding items and the year excluding items and the year
exceptional  specific exceptional specific 
items and IAS 39 items and IAS 39
specific IAS 39 mark to specific IAS 39 mark to
mark to market mark to market
market movements market movements
movements movements (Re-presented
(i)
)
(Re-presented
(i)
)
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
2 Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 3,645 138 3,783 2,980 (44) 2,936
15 Less: share of joint ventures’ revenue (373) (6) (379) (306) (3) (309)
15 Less: share of associates’ revenue (820) – (820) (694) – (694)
2 Group revenue 2,452 132 2,584 1,980 (47) 1,933
8 Cost of sales (1,807) (32) (1,839) (1,570) 57 (1,513)
Gross profit 645 100 745 410 10 420
3/8 Other operating income 83 19 102 64 58 122
3/8 Other operating expenses (163) – (163) (129) – (129)
2/15 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 208 6 214 191 7 198
Profit from operations 773 125 898 536 75 611
8 Disposal of investments ––– –1010
4 Finance income 53 – 53 53 – 53
5/8 Finance expenses (301) (26) (327) (255) – (255)
Net finance costs (248) (26) (274) (202) – (202)
Profit before tax 525 99 624 334 85 419
8/9 Income tax expense (122) (25) (147) (68) (21) (89)
3 Profit for the year 403 74 477 266 64 330
Attributable to:
Minority interests 71 (4) 67 52 (7) 45
Equity holders of the parent 332 78 410 214 71 285
11 Earnings per share:
Basic 22.4p 27.6p 14.6p 19.4p
Diluted 21.3p 26.2p 14.0p 18.5p
(i) The Group separately presents certain items as exceptional. These are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately 
by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information. In addition, in order to assist the
reader to understand the underlying business performance, the Group separately discloses within the income statement specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements. The 2005 comparatives are re-presented on the same basis (refer notes 1 and 8).
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 79 Consolidated balance sheet
AT 31 DECEMBER 2006
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Non-current assets
12 Goodwill 226 189
13 Other intangible assets 189 194
14 Property, plant and equipment 4,425 4,207
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,264 1,405
16 Other investments 26 4
17 Finance lease receivables 1,053 448
18 Other long-term receivables 94 67
19 Deferred tax assets 93 78
22 Derivative financial assets 38 –
Total non-current assets 7,408 6,592
Current assets
20 Inventories 141 110
21 Trade and other receivables 399 396
17 Finance lease receivables 33 12
22 Derivative financial assets 243 268
Assets held for trading 42 52
23 Cash and cash equivalents 980 620
1,838 1,458
24 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 128 –
Total current assets 1,966 1,458
Total assets 9,374 8,050
Current liabilities
25 Loans and bonds 241 187
22 Derivative financial liabilities 204 496
26 Trade and other payables 529 511
Current tax liabilities 142 106
Total current liabilities 1,116 1,300
Non-current liabilities
25 Loans and bonds 4,266 3,464
22 Derivative financial liabilities 226 191
27 Other payables 121 95
28 Retirement benefit obligations 25 27
28 Provisions 184 41
19 Deferred tax liabilities 696 557
Total non-current liabilities 5,518 4,375
Total liabilities 6,634 5,675
Net assets 2,740 2,375
Equity
29/30 Share capital 746 737
30 Share premium account 402 394
30 Capital redemption reserve 145 145
30 Capital reserve 422 422
30 Hedging and translation reserves (72) (69)
30 Retained earnings 819 463
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,462 2,092
Minority interests 278 283
Total equity 2,740 2,375
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Cox Mark Williamson
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
International Power Annual Report 2006 80
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 80 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006
Share Share Capital Capital Hedging Translation Retained Attributable Minority Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve earnings to equity interests
account reserve holders of
the parent
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 737 394 145 422 (118) 49 463 2,092 283 2,375
Profit on cash flow hedges – – – – 120 – – 120 4 124
Exchange difference arising on 
translation of foreign operations – – – – 4 (127) – (123) (14) (137)
Net income/(loss) recognised 
directly in equity – – – – 124 (127) – (3) (10) (13)
Profit for the year – – – – – – 410 410 67 477
Total recognised income and 
(expense) for the year – – – – 124 (127) 410 407 57 464
Issue of shares 9 8 – – – – – 17 – 17
Minority interests in
acquisitions and disposals – – – – – – – – (1) (1)
Distributions – – – – – – (67) (67) (54) (121)
Other movements – – – – – – 13 13 (7) 6
At 31 December 2006 746 402 145 422 6 (78) 819 2,462 278 2,740
Share Share Capital Capital Hedging Translation Retained Attributable Minority Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve earnings to equity interests
account reserve holders of
the parent
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 737 392 145 422 (12) (39) 156 1,801 222 2,023
Loss on cash flow hedges – – – – (101) – – (101) 3 (98)
Exchange difference arising on 
translation of foreign operations – – – – (5) 88 – 83 5 88
Net (loss)/income recognised 
directly in equity – – – – (106) 88 – (18) 8 (10)
Profit for the year – – – – – – 285 285 45 330
Total recognised income and 
(expense) for the year – – – – (106) 88 285 267 53 320
Recognition of equity component in
3.75% convertible US dollar bond – – – – – – 50 50 – 50
Issue of shares – 2 – – – – – 2 – 2
Minority interests in
acquisitions and disposals – – – – – – – – 16 16
Equity funding from 
minority interests – – – – – – – – 6 6
Distributions – – – – – – (37) (37) (14) (51)
Other movements – – – – – – 9 9 – 9
At 31 December 2005 737 394 145 422 (118) 49 463 2,092 283 2,375
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 81
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 81 International Power Annual Report 2006 82
Consolidated cash flow statement
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 477 330
Adjustments for:
Income tax expense 147 89
Net finance costs 274 202
Profit on disposal of investments – exceptional – (10)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (214) (198)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets 273 188
Impairment reversal – exceptional (36) (52)
Profit on receipt from TXU administrators – exceptional (14) (58)
Profit on compensation for breach of contract – exceptional (5) –
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (64) 42
Other non-cash movements (44) (36)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (9) 3
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment – 3
Decrease in finance lease receivables 14 10
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 113 92
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – maintenance (128) (72)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 784 533
Increase in inventories (18) (13)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 22 (154)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (19) 146
Cash generated from operations 769 512
Income taxes paid (57) (31)
Interest paid (293) (231)
Interest received 37 35
Free cash flow 456 285
Cash flows relating to exceptional items:
Receipt from TXU administrators – exceptional 14 58
Receipt of compensation for breach of contract – exceptional 5 –
Finance costs – exceptional – (5)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 475 338
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – growth (142) (188)
31 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (650) (494)
31 Acquisitions of joint ventures, associates and investments (64) (50)
Returns from joint ventures and associates (net of investments) 24 48
Proceeds from disposal of a subsidiary – 73
Proceeds from disposal of investments 1 138
Net cash outflow from investing activities (831) (473)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid (67) (37)
Proceeds from share issue 15 2
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 1,340 563
Repayment of long-term borrowings (495) (422)
Funding from minority interests 7 80
Funding repaid to minority interests (4) –
Distributions paid to minority interests (54) (14)
Net cash inflow from financing activities 742 172
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 386 37
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 620 565
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes thereon (26) 18
23 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 980 620
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 82 Notes to the consolidated
financial statements 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006  
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a) General information
International Power plc (the Company) is a public
limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in the United Kingdom. The address of its
registered office is disclosed on the last page 
of this Annual Report. The consolidated financial
statements of the Company for the year ended
31 December 2006 comprise the Company and
its subsidiaries (together referred to as the
Group) and the Group’s interest in joint ventures
and associates. The parent company financial
statements present information about the
Company as a separate entity and not about 
its Group. The principal activities of the Group
are described in note 2.
b) Statement of compliance
European Union (EU) law (IAS Regulation 
EC 1606/2002) requires that the consolidated
financial statements, for the year ended 
31 December 2006, be prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs).
These Group financial statements have been
prepared and approved by the Directors in
accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent
company financial statements in accordance
with UK GAAP . The parent company financial
statements are presented on pages 132 to 138.
c) Adopted IFRSs not yet applied
The following Adopted IFRSs were available for
early application but have not been applied by 
the Group in these financial statements.
IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) is
applicable for years commencing on or after 
1 January 2007. The application of IFRS 7 in
2006 would not have affected the results or net
assets as the standard is concerned only with
disclosure. The Group plans to adopt it in 2007.
IFRS 8 (Operating Segments) is applicable for
years commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The application of IFRS 8 in 2006 would not
have affected the results or net assets as the
standard is concerned only with disclosure.
d) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared on the historical cost basis, except for
derivative financial instruments and financial
instruments held for trading, which are carried
at fair value.
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements
In order to allow a better understanding of the
financial information presented, and specifically
the Group’s underlying business performance,
the Group presents its income statement in
three columns such that it identifies (i) results
excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements, (ii) the effect of
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements and (iii) results for the year.
For the purposes of clarity, in the explanation 
of the basis of preparation applied in these
consolidated financial statements, we describe
these columns as the ‘left hand column’, the
‘middle column’ and the ‘right hand column’
respectively.
Those items that the Group separately present
as exceptional are items which, in the judgement
of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately
by virtue of their size or incidence in order to
obtain a proper understanding of the financial
information. The Group discloses exceptional
items in the middle column.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to
economically hedge certain of its physical and
financial exposures. In relation to commodities
trading, the Group considers economic hedges
to be those which are asset backed, i.e. where
the Group is either forward selling electricity
from its own generation capacity or forward
buying fuel for its own generation capacity. 
In respect of interest rate swaps and other
treasury related derivatives the Group considers
economic hedges to be those which hedge
existing assets, liabilities and firm commitments.
Some of these economic hedges achieve 
the own use exemption under IAS 39 and 
are accounted for on an accruals basis. Some 
are accounted for as cash flow hedges under 
IAS 39 with fair value gains and losses recorded
in the hedging reserve. Where derivative
contracts do not achieve the own use
exemption and the Group could not, or has not
sought to, apply cash flow hedge accounting,
IAS 39 requires the derivative contract to be
measured at fair value (marked to market) with
fair value gains and losses recognised in the
income statement. The Group separately
presents these mark to market movements on
economic hedges, in the middle column, to
assist the reader’s understanding of underlying
business performance and to provide a more
meaningful presentation.
For economic hedges, where fair value gains
and losses are recorded in the income
statement, in the period in which the
economically hedged transaction settles, the
settlement amount of the derivative, being 
the cumulative fair value gains and losses
recognised in the current and prior periods, 
is presented in the left hand column so that 
the transaction is measured at its contracted
price (i.e. the spot price less the fair value gain
or loss on the derivative contract at that date).
As the cumulative mark to market movements
have already been recognised in the middle
column in the current and prior periods, an
equal but opposite amount is presented in the
middle column so that cumulatively the amount
recognised in the middle column in respect of
such economic hedges is zero.
By presenting fair value gains and losses in 
this manner, the left hand column is not
affected by mark to market movements and
therefore reflects the underlying business
performance at contracted prices.
The amortisation of derivatives, which are
acquired with a fair value other than zero, is
always recorded in the left hand column. This 
is achieved by presenting an equal but opposite
amount in the middle column, such that specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements presented
in the middle column are shown net of the
amortisation during the period.
Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges
under IAS 39 can arise from business
combinations, where the fair value of the
derivatives at acquisition is not equal to zero, 
or as a result of the difference between the
contractual profile of the economic hedge 
and the profile of transactions defined as the
hedged item. IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness 
in qualifying cash flow hedges to be recorded 
in the income statement, and therefore the
Group records this ineffectiveness in the middle
column when it relates to an economic hedge.
Mark to market movements of the fair value 
of embedded derivatives in convertible bonds,
which relate to conversion features where the
functional currency of the issuer and other
factors preclude the conversion feature being
treated as equity in the consolidated financial
statements, are treated as specific IAS 39 mark
to market movements and as such are
presented in the middle column. The Directors
consider the fair value gains and losses of these
embedded derivatives should be appropriately
disclosed within specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements, in the middle column, so as to
separately identify a non-cash movement which,
if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by
the issue of equity.
Mark to market movements relating to
proprietary trading activities, the revaluation 
of assets held for trading and amortisation of
derivatives which are acquired with a fair value
other than zero comprise part of the Group’s
underlying business performance and are
appropriately, in the judgement of the Directors,
included within the left hand column.
The right hand column presents the results 
for the year, showing all gains and losses
recorded in the consolidated financial
statements.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 83
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 83 To the extent that exceptional items are
separately identified in the income statement,
they are also separately identified in the cash
flow statement under the respective heading 
to which they relate.
Adjustments have been made to comparative
figures to make them consistent with the
current period in relation to the presentation 
of specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
(refer note 8).
e) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate
the financial statements of the Company 
and entities controlled by the Company (its
subsidiaries) up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has 
the power to govern the financial and operating
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain
benefits from its activities. In assessing control, 
the potential voting rights that are currently
exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair
values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as
goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets
acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to
the income statement in the period of acquisition. 
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the
minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority
interest in excess of the minority interest in the
subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests
of the parent, except when there is a binding
obligation to fund those losses and the minority 
is in a position to do so.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed
of during the year are included in the
consolidated income statement from when
control commences or up to when control
ceases, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the
accounting policies used into line with those
used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
f) Revenue recognition
Certain power plants sell their output in
merchant markets, where electricity is sold
through existing power exchanges, pool
arrangements or through bilateral contracts
with third parties. In these markets, revenue from
energy sales is either recorded at the spot price
obtained through pool or spot mechanisms
when the electrical output is delivered, or as set
out below, when electricity is delivered in
accordance with the terms of any related
hedging or forward contracts.
(i) Because power is a non-financial item,
forward contracts entered into and which
continue to be held for the purpose of
delivery (and sale) of power generated 
by our own power plants (known as ‘own
use’ contracts) can be accounted for under
accruals accounting, i.e. revenue for energy
sales is recognised as output is delivered in
accordance with the forward contract;
(ii) All other forward contracts, which are
considered to be derivatives and do not
qualify for ‘own use’, are recognised at fair
value with changes in fair value recorded 
in the income statement. Where the
Group applies cash flow hedge accounting
changes in fair values are deferred in a
hedging reserve within equity and only
reclassified to earnings when the hedged
transaction affects earnings. In addition, 
to the extent that there is ineffectiveness 
in the cash flow hedge accounting of
forward contracts, changes in fair values 
of the forward contracts are taken to 
the income statement in the period.
Other power plants sell their output under power
purchase agreements (PPAs). Under such
arrangements it is usual for the Group to receive
payment for the provision of electrical capacity
whether or not the offtaker requests the electrical
output (capacity payments) and for the variable
costs of production (energy payments). In such
situations, revenue is recognised in respect of
capacity payments as:
(i) finance income (in accordance with note
1(p)) where the PPA is considered to be 
or to contain a finance lease;
(ii) as operating lease rentals, on a straight-line
basis (in accordance with note 1(p)) where
the PPA is considered to be or to contain 
an operating lease; or
(iii) as energy revenue in accordance with the
contractual terms, to the extent that the
capacity has been made available to the
contracted offtaker during the period. 
Where the PPAs extend over more than 
one accounting period, energy revenue 
is recognised in each accounting period at
the fair value of the Group’s performance
under the contract in each period.
Under lease arrangements, those payments which
are not included within minimum lease payments
are accounted for as energy revenue (outlined in
(iii) above).
Energy payments under PPAs are recognised 
in revenue in all cases as the contracted power 
is delivered.
Liquidated damages (LDs), in respect of late
commissioning, are included in other operating
income.
Proprietary trading income is recognised on the
basis of completed contracts and the mark to
market value of outstanding contracts at the
period end.
g) Foreign currencies
These Group financial statements are presented
in sterling, which is the functional and
presentational currency of the Company. 
The functional currencies of Group entities are
principally determined by the primary economic
environment in which the respective entity
operates. Transactions entered into by Group
entities are translated into the functional
currencies of those entities at the exchange 
rate ruling at the date of transaction. Foreign
exchange gains and losses resulting from the
settlement of such transactions and from the
translation at the exchange rate ruling at the
balance sheet date of monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency non-monetary items measured
in terms of historical cost are translated at the
rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items
are recognised in line with whether the gain 
or loss on the non-monetary item itself is
recognised in the income statement or 
in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain
foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into
forward contracts and options (refer note 1(o),
the accounting policy on derivative financial
instruments for details of the Group’s
accounting policies in respect of such derivative
financial instruments).
The net assets of the Group’s overseas
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the
balance sheet date. Income and expense items
are translated at the average exchange rates for
the period which approximates to actual rates. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on
the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated 
as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. 
Exchange differences arising are recognised 
in the Group’s translation reserve, which is 
a component of equity. Such translation
differences are recognised as income or 
as expenses in the income statement in the
period of disposal of the net investment in
foreign operations.
In respect of foreign operations, any differences
that have arisen before 1 January 2004, the
date of transition to IFRSs, are presented as part
of retained earnings.
h) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents 
the excess of the cost of acquisition over 
the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture or
associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of joint ventures
and associates is included in the carrying
amount of the investment.
International Power Annual Report 2006 84
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 84 Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date 
of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the
previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to
1998 has not been reinstated and is not included
in determining any subsequent profit or loss 
on disposal.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed
for impairment annually and when there are
indications of impairment. Any impairment 
is recognised immediately in the income
statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or
associate, the attributable amount of goodwill 
is included in the determination of the profit 
or loss on disposal.
i) Other intangible assets
Emission allowances An intangible asset is
recognised on receipt of allocated emission
allowances and recorded at the fair value on
allocation. The fair value of the grant is also
recognised on receipt and deducted from the
value of the intangible asset. As a result no net
asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet
at initial recognition.  
Emission allowances are recognised at cost
when purchased. As emission allowances are
utilised they are charged to the income
statement within cost of sales. To the extent
that these allowances were received by way 
of grant there is nil charge to the income
statement for their utilisation.
Forward contracts for sales and purchases of
emission allowances are measured at fair value.
At the balance sheet date the net carrying
amount of emission allowances held is
compared with the fair value to assess 
for impairment.
A provision is made for the estimated shortfall
between emission allowances held and the
anticipated requirement and is charged to the
income statement on a pro-rata basis according 
to current and expected future emissions
throughout the accounting period based 
on the market value of those allowances.
Commodity contracts In the money
commodity contracts, acquired in business
combinations, which qualify as either ‘own use’
contracts or non derivatives in accordance with
IAS 39 are classified as intangible assets and
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation
and impairment losses (refer accounting policy
note 1(n)) where cost represents fair value at
the acquisition date. The intangible asset is then
amortised on a systematic basis in accordance
with the pattern in which the future economic
benefit of the contract is expected to be
consumed by the entity.
j) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at
original cost less accumulated depreciation and
any provision for impairment in value. The
property, plant and equipment of certain of 
the Group’s US operations, which had been
revalued to fair value on 1 January 2004, the
date of transition to IFRSs, are measured on 
the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued
amount at the date of that revaluation. In the
case of assets constructed by the Group, related
works, commissioning and borrowing costs as
defined under IAS 23 (Borrowing costs) (refer
accounting policy note 1(u)) are included in
cost. Assets in the course of construction are
included in property, plant and equipment on
the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance
sheet date.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write-down
the cost of property, plant and equipment to its
residual value evenly over its estimated useful
life. Estimated useful lives, residual values and
depreciation methods are reviewed periodically,
taking into account commercial and
technological obsolescence as well as normal
wear and tear, provision being made where the
carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount. 
The depreciation charge is based on the
following estimates of useful lives:
Years
Civil works 25-80
Power stations and wind farms 20-60
Fixtures, fittings, tools 
and equipment 3-10
Computer equipment 
and software 3-5
Combined cycle gas turbine 
(CCGT) hot gas path parts, 
on average 2-4
Leasehold improvements Life of lease
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Project development costs are principally
incurred in identifying and developing
investment opportunities and typically include
feasibility studies, pre-bid costs, legal,
professional and other related advisory costs.
These costs (including appropriate direct
internal costs) are recognised as expenses as
incurred, except that directly attributable costs
are capitalised when it is virtually certain that 
the project will proceed to completion and
income will be realised. Such capitalised costs 
are amortised over the life of the related
property, plant and equipment or contract. 
k) Investments in joint ventures and
associates
A joint venture is an entity over whose activities
the Group has joint control, established by
contractual agreement.
An associate is an entity over which the Group
is in a position to exercise significant influence,
but not control or joint control, through
participation in the financial and operating
policy decisions of the investee.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures
and associates are incorporated in these financial
statements using the equity method of
accounting except when classified as held for
sale. The results are presented after interest, 
tax and minority interests. Investments in joint
ventures and associates are carried in the
balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share of 
the net assets of the joint venture or associate,
less any impairment in the value of individual
investments. Losses of the joint ventures and
associates in excess of the Group’s interest 
in those joint ventures and associates are not
recognised unless the Group has a legal or
constructive obligation to fund those losses.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over 
the Group’s share of the fair values of the
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities of the joint venture or associate at the
date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below
the Group’s share of the fair values of the
identifiable net assets of the joint venture or
associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount
on acquisition) is credited to the income
statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with a joint
venture or associate of the Group, profits and
losses are eliminated to the extent of the
Group’s interest in the relevant joint venture 
or associate. Losses may provide evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred 
in which case appropriate provision is made 
for impairment.
l) Other investments 
Other investments consist of available for sale
investments in equity instruments which are
measured at market prices where available.
Where quoted market prices in an active
market are not available, and where fair value
cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity
instruments are measured at cost.
m) Impairment of assets excluding
goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews
the carrying amounts of its property, plant 
and equipment, other intangible assets and
those other investments measured at cost, 
to determine whether there is any indication
that those assets have suffered an impairment
loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable
amount of the asset is estimated in order to
determine the extent of the impairment loss, 
if any.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value
less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset 
for which the estimates of future cash flows
have not been adjusted.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 85
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 85 If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-
generating unit) is estimated to be less than 
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of 
the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced 
to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss
is recognised as an expense immediately.
At each balance sheet date, an assessment 
is made to determine whether there is any
indication that an impairment loss recognised
in prior periods may no longer exist or has
decreased. Where such an indication exists, 
an impairment loss is reversed to the extent
that the asset’s carrying value does not exceed
the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation,
if no impairment loss had been recognised.
n) Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are
measured at the lower of the asset’s previous
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged on assets classified
as held for sale.
Non-current assets are classified as held for 
sale if their carrying amount will be recovered
through a sale transaction rather than through
continuing use. This condition is regarded as
met only when the sale is highly probable and
the asset is available for immediate sale in its
present condition. Management must be
committed to the sale, which should be
expected to qualify for recognition as a
completed sale within one year from the 
date of classification.
o) Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s operating activities expose it to
price risks associated with selling its generation
output. The Group is also exposed to price 
risks associated with the purchase of its fuel
requirements and to financial risks of changes 
in foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates. The Group uses a range of derivative
instruments, including energy based futures and
forward contracts, swaps and options to hedge
its risk to changes in power prices, fuel costs,
foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments are only used
for hedging purposes apart from energy based
futures contracts, some of which are used for
proprietary trading purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed 
by the Group’s risk management policies
approved by the Board of Directors, which
provide written principles on the use of financial
derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk
management strategy. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised
initially, and are subsequently also measured, 
at fair value. The gain or loss on subsequent 
fair value measurement is recognised in the
income statement unless the derivative qualifies
for hedge accounting when recognition of any
resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of
the item being hedged (see below). Subsequent
to initial recognition, the fair values of financial
instruments measured at fair value that are
quoted in an active market are based on bid
prices for assets held and offer prices for
liabilities held. If the market for a financial 
instrument is not active, its fair value is
established by using valuation techniques. 
These valuation techniques include comparison
with similar instruments where market
observable prices exist, discounted cash 
flow analysis, option pricing models and 
other valuation techniques commonly used 
by market participants.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial
assets are recognised on the trade date, being
the date that the Group commits to purchase
or sell the assets. Regular way transactions
require delivery of assets within the time 
frame generally established by regulation 
or convention in the market place.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value 
of derivative financial instruments that are
designated and are effective as hedges of future
cash flows are recognised directly in equity and
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled 
to the income statement in the period in which
the hedged item also affects the income
statement. However, if the hedged item results
in the recognition of a non-financial asset or
liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on
the hedging instrument are transferred from
equity and included in the initial measurement
of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, for forecast
transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on 
the hedging instrument recognised in equity 
is retained in equity until the forecasted
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction 
is no longer expected to occur, the net
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity 
is transferred to the income statement. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial
instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised in the income
statement as they arise.
Fair value hedges For an effective hedge 
of an exposure to changes in fair value of a
recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised
firm commitment, the hedged item is adjusted
for changes in fair value attributable to the risk
being hedged with the corresponding entry in
net income. Gains or losses from re-measuring
the derivative, or for non-derivatives, the foreign
currency component of its carrying amount, are
recognised in net income.
Hedge of a net investment in a foreign
operation Hedges of net investments in
foreign operations are accounted for on a
similar basis to cash flow hedges. Effective gains
or losses on the hedging instrument are
recognised in equity, with ineffective gains or
losses recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative gains or losses in equity are taken
to the income statement on disposal of the
foreign operation.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded
in other financial instruments or other non-
financial host contracts are treated as separate
derivatives when their risks and characteristics
are not closely related to those of the host
contract and the host contract is not carried 
at fair value.
Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated
derivatives are reported in the income statement. 
p) Leasing
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby 
the lessor conveys to the lessee, in return for 
a payment or a series of payments, the right 
to use a specific asset for an agreed period of
time. The definition can include arrangements
such as long-term PPAs, where power plants
are specifically designated to fulfil the
requirements of an agreement.
Finance leases – Group as lessor Where the
Group determines a long-term PPA to be or to
contain a lease, and where the offtaker has the
principal risks and rewards of ownership of the
power plant through its contractual arrangements
with the Group, the arrangement is considered a
finance lease. As discussed in note 1(f), capacity
payments are apportioned between capital
repayments relating to the provision of the plant,
finance income and energy sales. The finance
income element of the capacity payment is
recognised as revenue, using a rate of return
specific to the plant to give a constant periodic
rate of return on the net investment in each
period. The energy sales element of the capacity
payment is recognised as revenue as it is earned.
Arrangements that do not convey the right 
to use a specific asset through the term of the
agreement result in the continued recognition
of property, plant and equipment, rather than 
a finance lease receivable, which is depreciated
over its economic life.
The amounts due from lessees under finance
leases are recorded in the balance sheet as
financial assets, classified as finance lease
receivables, at the amount of the net
investment in the lease after making provision
for bad and doubtful debts.
Operating leases – Group as lessor An
operating lease is any lease other than a finance
lease. Thus where the Group determines a
long-term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and
where the Group retains the principal risks and
rewards of ownership of the power plant, the
arrangement is considered an operating lease.
For operating leases, the power plant is
capitalised as property, plant and equipment
and depreciated over its economic life.
Rental income from operating leases is
recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the arrangement.
Operating leases – Group as lessee Rentals
payable under operating leases are charged to
income on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive
to enter into an operating lease are also spread
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
International Power Annual Report 2006 86
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 86 q) Inventories
Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and
consumables are valued at the lower of cost
and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct
materials and, where applicable, direct labour
costs and those overheads that have been
incurred in bringing the inventories to their
present location and condition. Cost is
calculated using the weighted average method.
r) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank
balances and cash held by the Group and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three
months or less. Bank overdrafts that are
repayable on demand and form part of the
Group’s cash management are included as a
component of cash and cash equivalents for 
the purpose of the cash flow statement.
s) Loans and bonds
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised
initially at fair value less attributable transaction
costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost
with any difference between cost and
redemption value being recognised in the
income statement over the period of the
borrowings on an effective interest basis.
t) Convertible bonds
Convertible bonds are regarded as compound
instruments, consisting of a liability component
and either an equity component or an
embedded derivative component. 
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability
component is estimated using the prevailing
market interest rate for similar non-convertible
debt. The difference between the proceeds of
issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value
assigned to the liability component represents
the value of either an equity component or an
embedded derivative component attributable 
to the embedded option to convert the bonds
into equity of the Group. 
IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will
be settled by the entity receiving or delivering 
a fixed number of its own equity instruments in
exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another
financial asset is an equity instrument. It also
states that a contract that will be settled by the
entity delivering or receiving a fixed number of 
its own equity instruments in exchange for a
variable amount of cash or another financial asset
is a financial asset or financial liability. For the
purposes of the consolidated financial statements,
when making the assessment of whether a
convertible bond, when exercised, gives rise to
the exchange of a fixed or variable amount of
cash, or other financial asset, the functional
currency of the issuing company relative to 
the currency denomination of the bonds 
is considered in addition to other features 
within the bond. 
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where
there is a difference between the currency of the
bond and the functional currency of the issuing
company, the embedded option to convert the
bonds is recorded as a derivative liability because
it is not a contract to exchange a fixed number
of shares for a fixed amount of bonds. The
embedded derivative liability component is
separately identified and measured at fair value
through the income statement.
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where
the currency of the bond and the functional
currency of the issuing company are the same,
i.e. where on conversion of the bonds a fixed
number of shares is exchanged for a fixed
amount of bonds, the value of the embedded
option to convert the bonds is recorded within
equity on initial recognition.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability
and embedded option components of the
convertible bonds (recorded as equity or as a
derivative liability) based on their relative carrying
amounts at the date of issue.
The interest expense on the liability component
is calculated by applying the prevailing market
interest rate for similar non-convertible debt 
to the liability component of the instrument. 
This interest expense, recognised in the income
statement, is calculated using the effective
interest method, i.e. the difference between 
the interest expense on the liability component
and the interest paid is added to the carrying
amount of the convertible bond. 
u) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the
acquisition, construction or production of
qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily
take a substantial period of time to be prepared
for their intended use or sale, are added to the
cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
are substantially ready for their intended use or
sale. Investment income earned on the temporary
investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from
the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in net
income in the period in which they are incurred.
v) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has 
a present obligation as a result of a past event,
it is probable that the Group will be required to
settle that obligation and the amount can be
reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at
the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure
required to settle the obligation at the balance
sheet date, and are discounted to present value
where the effect is material.
w) Decommissioning costs
Provision is made for the reliably estimated
decommissioning costs at the end of the useful
economic life of the Group’s power stations 
and generating assets, if and when a legal or
constructive obligation arises, on a discounted
basis. The amount provided represents the
present value of the expected costs. An amount
equivalent to the initial provision is capitalised
within property, plant and equipment and is
depreciated over the useful lives of the related
assets. The unwinding of the discount is
included within finance costs. Where there 
is a subsequent change in estimates of
decommissioning costs, the present value of the
change is recognised in the income statement.
x) Environmental liabilities
Provision for environmental liabilities is made
when expenditure on remedial work is
probable, the Group is obliged, either legally 
or constructively through its environmental
policies, to undertake such work and the
amount can be reliably estimated. Where 
the amount is expected to be incurred over 
the long-term, the amount recognised is 
the present value of the estimated future
expenditure and the unwinding of the 
discount is included within finance costs.
y) Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the
expected tax payable on taxable income for the
year, including adjustments in respect of prior
periods and deferred tax. Taxable profit differs
from accounting profit, as reported in the
income statement, because it excludes items 
of income or expense that are taxable or
deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated
using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable
or recoverable on differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the
financial statements and the corresponding tax
bases used in the computation of taxable profit,
and is accounted for using the balance sheet
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are
generally recognised for all taxable temporary
differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that
taxable profits will be available against which
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if
the temporary difference arises from goodwill,
not deductible for tax purposes, or from the
initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of other assets and liabilities 
in a transaction that affects neither the taxable
profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable
temporary differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Where the Group is able to control the reversal
of the temporary difference and it is probable
that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future, no deferred tax liability
is recognised.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 87
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 87 International Power Annual Report 2006 88
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will 
be available to allow all or part of the asset 
to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that
are expected to apply in the period when 
the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the
income statement, except when it relates to
items charged or credited directly to equity, 
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt
with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
are only offset to the extent that there is a
legally enforceable right to offset current tax
assets and current tax liabilities, they relate 
to taxes levied by the same taxation authority
and the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or 
to realise an asset and settle a liability
simultaneously.
z) Pension schemes
Payments to defined contribution pension
plans are charged as an expense as they fall
due. Payments made to state managed
defined benefit pension plans are dealt with
as payments to defined contribution plans
where the Group’s obligations under the
plans are equivalent to those arising in a
defined contribution pension plan.
For defined benefit pension plans, the cost 
of providing benefits is determined using the
projected unit credit method, with actuarial
valuations being carried out at each balance
sheet date.
The corridor method is applied in recognising
actuarial gains and losses. Gains and losses in
an individual scheme are recognised to the
extent they exceed the greater of 10% of the
gross assets or gross liabilities of the scheme.
The amount recognised in the following year
is the excess amortised over the remaining
average service lives of the employees in the
scheme and is recognised in the income
statement.
The net defined benefit obligation recognised
in the balance sheet represents the present
value of the defined benefit obligations
adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and
losses and unrecognised service costs and as
reduced by the fair value of the plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is
limited to unrecognised actuarial losses and
past service cost plus the present value of
available refunds and reductions in future
contributions to the plan.
aa) Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based
payments to certain employees. Equity-settled
share-based payments are measured at fair
value (excluding the effect of non market-
based vesting conditions) at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of grant
of the equity-settled share-based payments 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate
of the shares that will eventually vest and
where applicable, adjusted for the effect 
of non market-based vesting conditions
including service conditions.
For the Group’s Executive Share Option Plans
the fair values are measured using the Black-
Scholes pricing model. The expected lives
used in these models have been adjusted,
based on management’s best estimate, for
the effects of non-transferability, any exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For conditional awards made under the 2002
Performance Share Plan without a market-
related performance condition, the fair values
have been calculated as the face value of the
award, discounted for the non-entitlement 
to dividends during the vested period.
Where conditional awards, made under the
2002 Performance Share Plan, contain a
market-related performance condition, the
fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo
simulation method.
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 88 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 89
2 SEGMENT REPORTING
The Group is a global energy business that operates solely in one business segment, that of electricity generation. The international operations are managed
on a geographical basis, reflecting the different characteristics within each geographical market. The Group reports its primary segment information by
geographic segment as this reflects how results are reported for management purposes in the day-to-day management of the business. In presenting
information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenues and segment assets are based in the geographical location of both customers and
assets. There is no inter-segmental revenue.
Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total
ventures and ventures and
associates associates
£m £m £m £m £m £m
a) Revenue (excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 732 183 915 527 171 698
Europe 1,266 411 1,677 1,014 397 1,411
Middle East 51 99 150 24 43 67
Australia 378 107 485 388 48 436
Asia 25 393 418 27 341 368
2,452 1,193 3,645 1,980 1,000 2,980
Revenue (including exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 761 183 944 523 171 694
Europe 1,426 411 1,837 990 397 1,387
Middle East 51 99 150 24 43 67
Australia 321 113 434 369 51 420
Asia 25 393 418 27 341 368
2,584 1,199 3,783 1,933 1,003 2,936
b) Profit from operations (excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 73 28 101 21 27 48
Europe 381 69 450 229 54 283
Middle East 32 20 52 12 12 24
Australia 121 3 124 136 4 140
Asia 38891 6 94 100
610 208 818 404 191 595
Corporate costs (45) – (45) (59) – (59)
565 208 773 345 191 536
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 
included within profit from operations 125 75
Profit from operations (including exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements) 898 611
Profit from operations (including exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 83 28 111 20 29 49
Europe 547 68 615 315 55 370
Middle East 32 20 52 12 12 24
Australia 64 10 74 119 6 125
Asia 38891 6 96 102
729 214 943 472 198 670
Corporate costs (45) – (45) (59) – (59)
Profit from operations (including exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements) 684 214 898 413 198 611
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 89 International Power Annual Report 2006 90
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit from operations (including exceptional items and
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) 898 611
Disposal of investments – exceptional – 10
Net finance costs – excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (248) (202)
Net finance costs – exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (26) –
Profit before tax 624 419
Income tax expense – excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (122) (68)
Income tax expense – exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (25) (21)
Profit for the year 477 330
An analysis of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is included in note 8.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
c) Depreciation and amortisation expenses (excluding exceptional items)
North America 52 35
Europe 150 84
Middle East 3 3
Australia 63 62
Asia 2 2
270 186
Corporate costs 3 2
273 188
Depreciation and amortisation expenses are included within profit from operations. An impairment reversal of £36 million, relating to Deeside power 
plant, has been recorded in the income statement in 2006 (refer note 8). In 2005 an impairment reversal of £52 million relating to Rugeley power plant
was recorded in the income statement. These impairment reversals are not included within the Europe totals in the above table. 
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
d) Additions to property, plant and equipment
North America 62 26
Europe 83 24
Middle East 47 159
Australia 34 53
Asia 9 4
235 266
Corporate 1 1
236 267
Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Goodwill Commodity Emission Goodwill Commodity Emission
contracts allowances contracts allowances
£m £m £m £m £m £m
e) Expenditure on goodwill and other intangible assets
North America 40 37 64 –––
Europe –2 39 2 234 25
The table above includes both purchased goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition 
to expenditure incurred on other intangible assets.
2 SEGMENT REPORTING continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 90 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 91
At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2005
Segment Investments Total Segment Investments Total
assets in joint assets in joint 
ventures and ventures and
associates associates
£m £m £m £m £m £m
f) Segment assets
North America 1,502 184 1,686 773 199 972
Europe 3,475 363 3,838 2,972 341 3,313
Middle East 366 92 458 383 71 454
Australia 1,972 43 2,015 2,196 39 2,235
Asia 194 582 776 63 755 818
7,509 1,264 8,773 6,387 1,405 7,792
Corporate 601 – 601 258 – 258
Total assets 8,110 1,264 9,374 6,645 1,405 8,050
The Asia region segment assets includes assets held for sale amounting to £128 million. In 2005 these assets were included in investments in joint 
ventures and associates (refer note 24).
Segment Investments Total Segment Investments Total
liabilities in joint liabilities in joint 
ventures and ventures and
associates associates
£m £m £m £m £m £m
g) Segment liabilities
North America 1,149 – 1,149 588 – 588
Europe 2,565 – 2,565 2,102 – 2,102
Middle East 340 – 340 335 – 335
Australia 1,504 – 1,504 1,676 – 1,676
Asia 95 – 95 95 – 95
5,653 – 5,653 4,796 – 4,796
Corporate 981 – 981 879 – 879
Total liabilities 6,634 – 6,634 5,675 – 5,675
The analysis of total assets and liabilities includes all attributable goodwill and excludes intercompany balances, which have been eliminated on
consolidation. Corporate assets and liabilities include cash held at the corporate level, included in cash and cash equivalents; corporate borrowings,
included in loans and bonds; and provisions and deferred tax liabilities included in non-current liabilities. 
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 91 International Power Annual Report 2006 92
3 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Other operating income includes compensation for the late commissioning of plants, billings in respect of operations and maintenance services and
profit on sale of development sites. Other operating expenses comprise corporate costs, Group-wide general administrative overheads and project
development expenses.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
Amortisation of other intangible assets 105 40
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 168 148
Development costs, net of recoveries and amounts capitalised 3 3
Operating exceptional items before tax (note 8) (55) (110)
Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment 6 –
Property lease rentals payable (net of recoveries) 3 3
Auditors’ remuneration
Audit of these financial statements 0.8 0.7
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.7 1.1
Other services pursuant to such legislation 1.4 0.4
Other services relating to taxation 0.1 0.1
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or the Group 0.2 0.4
4.2 2.7
‘Other services pursuant to such legislation’ in 2006 and 2005 relates principally to reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), 
interim reviews and additional audit work relating to the Group’s compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002
(which relate to internal controls over financial reporting). 
‘Services relating to corporate finance transactions’ incorporate due diligence assistance on potential and completed acquisitions during the year and reviews 
of financial models for funding purposes.
The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity and independence
could be compromised. These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services. This
policy incorporates the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and subsequent SEC rules.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the 
Group for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the Audit
Committee. Examples of pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of taxation and regulatory advice, reporting to 
the SEC and the completion of certain financial due diligence work. All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit. Any work performed 
in excess of this limit must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 92 4 FINANCE INCOME
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Group finance income
Interest income 51 50
Net gain on re-measurement of assets held for trading 2 3
Total Group finance income 53 53
Interest income comprises interest earned from bank deposits and other financial assets. Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates 
is interest income of £21 million (2005: £16 million).
5 FINANCE EXPENSES
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Group finance expenses
Interest on:
Bank loans and overdrafts 226 211
Other loans and bonds 83 57
309 268
Unwinding discount on provisions 1 1
Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets (9) (14)
Group finance costs excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 301 255
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on derivative financial instruments 26 –
Total Group finance expenses 327 255
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest expense of £121 million (2005: £106 million). Specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements included within interest expense of joint ventures and associates amount to an expense of £1 million (2005: an income of £7 million).
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 93
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 93 6 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS AND EMPLOYEE NUMBERS
Employee benefit costs, including Directors’ remuneration, were as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 129 121
Share-based payments 9 6
Social security costs 11 10
Contributions to defined contribution plans 4 3
Charge for defined benefit plans (note 7) 10 7
Sub-total 163 147
Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment (4) (2)
Total employee benefit costs 159 145
Details of Directors’ remuneration along with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part 
of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 64 to 75. There are no personnel, other than the Directors, who as key management have authority
and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities, directly or indirectly, of International Power plc.
The average number of employees during the financial year, analysed by geographic segment was:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
Number Number
North America 276 220
Europe 1,196 1,195
Middle East 625 615
Australia 769 742
Asia 628 633
Corporate and development 177 174
Average number of employees 3,671 3,579
International Power Annual Report 2006 94
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 94 7 PENSION SCHEMES
Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees. Benefits granted have been developed 
to reflect local practice and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK and Australia:
UK: The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS), which 
is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds. The ESPS is divided into sections, and the International Power
Group of the ESPS was opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees’ past service rights were transferred into the Group later that year.
The majority of employees taken on in First Hydro, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, are members of another section of the ESPS, 
the First Hydro Group.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2004. The results
of these valuations have been updated to 31 December 2006 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
AUSTRALIA: Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper. This plan provides
benefits primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State Electricity
Commission of Victoria. Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 December 2006.
The liabilities and costs for IAS 19 were determined using the projected unit credit method. The Group has decided to recognise gains and losses
through the income statement over the expected working lifetime of active employees to the extent that gains or losses are in excess of the ‘corridor’
(10% of the greater of the defined benefit obligation and the plan assets).
The charge for 2006 in respect of defined contribution plans was £4 million (2005: £3 million).
The Group used the following assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19:
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
Financial assumptions UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia
%% %%%%
Discount rate 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.6 5.3 4.5
Rate of increase in salaries 4.6 4.3 4.4 4.0 4.4 4.0
Inflation rate 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 3.0
Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 3.1 n/a 2.9 n/a 3.0 n/a
Increases to pensions payments 3.1 n/a 2.9 n/a 2.9 n/a
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 95
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 95 The amounts charged to profit from operations, recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plans for the year ended
31 December 2006 were as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Current service cost 11 9
Expected return on schemes’ assets (13) (11)
Interest on schemes’ liabilities 10 9
Curtailment cost 2 –
Total operating charge 10 7
The assets in the schemes and expected rates of return (weighted averages) were: 
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia
Long-term rate of return expected: %% %% %%
Equities 7.5 7.8 7.1 7.5 7.5 7.3
Bonds 4.7 4.6 4.4 5.0 4.9 4.8
Other 6.2 5.9 6.0 5.9 6.0 5.5
Total long-term rate of return expected 7.1 6.7 6.6 6.7 7.0 6.5
The expected rates of return reflect the Group’s best estimate of the investment returns that will be earned on each asset class. These returns are based on
advice provided by independent qualified actuaries.
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total
Assets in schemes: £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 108 55 163 84 52 136 66 44 110
Bonds 17 15 32 14 17 31 11 16 27
Other 10 21 31 16 15 31 12 10 22
Total market value of assets 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159
Other assets principally comprise property and cash.
The reconciliation of the schemes’ (deficits)/surpluses to the balance sheet amount is:
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total market value of assets 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159
Present value of scheme liabilities (158) (83) (241) (151) (79) (230) (114) (70) (184)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme (23) 8 (15) (37) 5 (32) (25) – (25)
Unrecognised actuarial (gains)/losses – (10) (10) 12 (7) 5 – (4) (4)
Unrecognised asset due to limit in IAS 19 para 58(b)––– ––––––
Pension liability before deferred tax (23) (2) (25) (25) (2) (27) (25) (4) (29)
International Power Annual Report 2006 96
7 PENSION SCHEMES continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 96 Movements in fair value of assets:
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 January 198 159
Expected return on assets 13 11
Actuarial gains 9 16
Employer contributions 12 9
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 3
Benefits paid (3) (2)
Expenses, taxes and premiums paid (1) (1)
Exchange differences (5) 3
At 31 December 226 198
Movements in defined benefit obligations:
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 January 230 184
Service cost 11 9
Interest cost 10 9
Actuarial (gains)/losses (6) 25
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 3
Benefits paid (3) (2)
Expenses, taxes and premiums paid (1) (1)
Settlements and curtailments 2 –
Exchange differences (5) 3
At 31 December 241 230
History of asset experience gains and losses
The transition date for conversion to IFRS for International Power was 1 January 2004 and therefore the following historical data has been presented
from that date. This will be built up into a rolling five-year record over the next two years.
Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December
2006 2005 2004
Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes’ assets:
Amount (£m) 9 16 9
Percentage of schemes’ assets 4% 8% 6%
Experience (losses)/gains on schemes’ liabilities*:
Amount (£m) (2) 11 7
Percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities 1% 5% 4%
*Does not include the effect of changes in assumptions.
Contributions in 2007
The Group expects to make contributions of approximately £8 million to its defined benefit pension arrangements in 2007.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 97
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 97 8 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND SPECIFIC IAS 39 MARK TO MARKET MOVEMENTS
In accordance with the basis of preparation outlined in note 1, the Group separately discloses exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Group’s underlying business performance.
Those items that the Group separately presents as exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately 
by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures. Where these contracts do not achieve
the own use exemption, hedge accounting or wholly effective hedge effectiveness under IAS 39, the Group separately presents the mark to market
movements on these contracts, recorded within the income statement to allow an understanding of underlying business performance.
Mark to market movements on convertible bonds, where the conversion option, if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity are
also separately presented to allow an understanding of the underlying business performance.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Mark to market movements 132 (47)
Amounts recognised in revenue 132 (47)
Impairment reversal of Deeside plant 36 –
Impairment reversal of Rugeley plant – 52
Mark to market movements (68) 5
Amounts recognised in cost of sales (32) 57
Compensation in respect of the tolling agreement with TXU 14 58
Compensation in respect of breach of contract 5 –
Amounts recognised in other operating income 19 58
Mark to market movements 6 7
Amounts recognised in share of results of joint ventures and associates 6 7
Profit on disposal of Tri Energy – 4
Profit on disposal of shares in Interconnector UK – 3
Profit on disposal of land in Thailand – 3
Amounts recognised in disposal of investments – 10
Mark to market movements (26) –
Amounts recognised in finance expenses (26) –
Taxation on Deeside plant impairment reversal (11) –
Taxation on Rugeley plant impairment reversal – (16)
Taxation on compensation in respect of the tolling agreement with TXU (4) (17)
Taxation on disposal of shares in Interconnector UK and on disposal of land in Thailand – (1)
Taxation on mark to market movements (10) 13
Taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (25) (21)
Total exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements after attributable taxation 74 64
In the year ended 31 December 2006, Rugeley Power received further payments from the TXU Administrators amounting to £16 million. 
An exceptional gain of £14 million has been recorded, net of payments to creditors.
In June 2006 the Company received a settlement of £10 million following the conclusion of an international arbitration action under ICC rules for breach
of a contract entered into in 2000 to transfer operating rights over three power plants in Turkey. An exceptional gain of £5 million has been recorded,
net of cost recoveries.
At the end of 2006 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Deeside power plant based on its estimated value in use. This led 
to the full impairment reversal of the remaining £36 million impairment charge previously booked against this asset (refer note 14).
In order to separately identify specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, these adjustments are separately identified within the table, described as 
‘mark to market movements’. For the year ended 31 December 2006 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is a profit of £44 million 
and on tax expense a charge of £10 million. For the year ended 31 December 2005 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is an expense
of £35 million and on tax expense a credit of £13 million.
International Power Annual Report 2006 98
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 98 The mark to market movement recognised within finance expenses includes a charge of £28 million (2005: £nil) in respect of the fair value gains 
and losses on the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013. The conversion feature of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 is recognised in equity
(refer note 25).
9 TAX
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
a) Income tax expense for the year
Current tax charge
UK corporation tax charge 52 25
Foreign tax 40 27
Adjustments in respect of prior years 6 2
Total current tax charge for the year 98 54
Deferred tax charge
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 64 43
Benefits of tax losses recognised (15) (8)
Total deferred tax charge for the year 49 35
Income tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 122 68
Income tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 25 21
Total income tax expense for the year 147 89
Included in the income tax expense are the following amounts relating to exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, included in:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Revenue (deferred tax) 33 (14)
Cost of sales (deferred tax) (4) 18
Other operating income (current tax) 4 17
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (deferred tax) – (1)
Disposal of investments (current tax) – 1
Finance expenses (deferred tax) (8) –
Income tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 25 21
The deferred tax charge is derived as follows: £46 million from UK operations (2005: £11 million) and £3 million from foreign operations 
(2005: £24 million).
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Income tax charged to:
Income statement 147 89
Equity (43) (46)
104 43
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 99
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 99 Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Results excluding Results including Results excluding Results including
exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items
and specific and specific and specific and specific
IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark
to market to market to market to market
movements movements movements movements
£m £m £m £m
b) Reconciliation of income tax expense to accounting profit
Profit before tax (before exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements) 525 525 334 334
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements –99 –85
Profit before tax 525 624 334 419
Tax at domestic income tax rate of 30% (2005: 30%) 158 187 100 126
Tax effect of:
Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 14 14 23 23
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (38) (38) (37) (39)
Tax holidays (10) (10) (12) (12)
(Income not taxable)/expenses not deductible in determining taxable profit (4) (6) 16 13
Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised (4) (6) (24) (24)
Adjustment to prior year provisions 66 22
Income tax expense for the year 122 147 68 89
Included in profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of £55 million (2005: 
£53 million) relating to the Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates. The £38 million shown above (2005: £37 million) represents 
70% (2005: 70%) of this tax charge. The remaining 30% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic income tax rate.
Included in profit before tax including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of £54 million (2005: 
£56 million) relating to the Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates. The £38 million shown (2005: £39 million) above represents 
70% of this tax charge (2005: 70%). The remaining 30% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic income tax rate.
10 DIVIDENDS
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 17 May 2006, shareholders approved the payment of a final dividend of 4.5p 
(2005: 2.5p) per Ordinary Share to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 26 May 2006. This dividend amounted to £67 million 
(2005: £37 million) and was paid on 23 June 2006. In respect of the current year, the Directors propose a dividend of 7.9p per Ordinary Share, 
to be paid on 26 June 2007. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Group’s AGM and has not been included as a liability 
at 31 December 2006. There are no income tax consequences to the Company from the estimated total dividend to be paid of £118 million.
International Power Annual Report 2006 100
9 TAX continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 100 11 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
Earnings per share is presented both before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and after exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements in order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Group’s
underlying business performance. Further details of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements can be found in note 8 
to these consolidated financial statements.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2006 2005
pence pence
a) Earnings per share (basic)
Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 22.4 14.6
After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 27.6 19.4
b) Earnings per share (diluted)
Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 21.3 14.0
After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 26.2 18.5
c) Basis of calculation (basic) – earnings £m £m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 332 214
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (net of tax and minority interests) 78 71
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 410 285
d) Basis of calculation (diluted) – earnings £m £m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 332 214
After tax dilutive effect of interest on convertible bonds 7 7
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 339 221
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (net of tax and minority interests) 78 71
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 417 292
e) Basis of calculation (basic) – number of Ordinary Shares Million Million
Weighted average number of issued Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS 1,486.2 1,473.5
Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plans (ESOPs) (1.4) (2.8)
Weighted average number of shares 1,484.8 1,470.7
f) Basis of calculation (diluted) – number of Ordinary Shares Million Million
Weighted average number of shares – basic 1,484.8 1,470.7
Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares:
Employee share schemes 14.0 19.8
Convertible bond 91.1 89.1
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,589.9 1,579.6
In July 2006 the Group issued 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013, which in 2006 were anti-dilutive and have therefore been excluded from the
diluted earnings per share calculation. In future periods this financial instrument could potentially dilute basic earnings per share.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 101
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 101 12 GOODWILL
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Cost
At 1 January 189 197
Acquired through business combinations 40 2
Eliminated on partial disposal of a subsidiary – (9)
Exchange differences (3) (1)
At 31 December 226 189
The addition of £40 million in 2006 relates to the acquisition of Coleto Creek (refer note 31(a)).
Given the geographical diversity of the Group’s power plants and the nature of their operations, for impairment testing purposes the Directors 
consider that each power plant owning subsidiary is a separate cash generating unit. The following cash generating units have significant carrying
amounts of goodwill:
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
First Hydro (UK) 153 153
Coleto Creek (US) 38 –
Turbogás (Portugal) 26 27
IPO (Czech Republic) 8 7
Others 1 2
226 189
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or when there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired. The cash generating units’ recoverable
amounts are determined from value in use calculations. These are based on projected cash flows, which may extend forward as much as 40 years, 
from individual project whole life asset models. These cash flows have been discounted using rates in the range 6% to 13% on a pre-tax basis. Key
assumptions include the discount rates and market prices for electricity and fuel costs over the lives of the assets. These market prices are considered 
in the light of forward price curves (which represent the Group’s view as to prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or
settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates) and forecast demand and supply growth over the lives of the assets. The projected
cash flows extend over the whole of the assets’ expected lives as this best reflects the long-term nature of the returns generated by the long-life assets.
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates take into account current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the respective cash
generating unit.
International Power Annual Report 2006 102
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 102 13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Intangible assets
Commodity contracts 131 194
Emission allowances 58 –
Carrying amount at 31 December 189 194
The above intangible assets balance can be analysed as follows:
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Intangible assets – commodity contracts
Cost
At 1 January 234 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries 39 234
Exchange differences (1) –
At 31 December 272 234
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 40 –
Charge for the year 101 40
At 31 December 141 40
Carrying amount
At 1 January 194 –
At 31 December 131 194
Intangible assets – emission allowances
Carrying amount
At 1 January – –
Additions 39 25
Acquisition of subsidiaries 64 –
Charge for the year (4) –
Disposals (39) (25)
Exchange differences (2) –
At 31 December 58 –
Commodity contracts are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise. The addition in 2006 relates to commodity contracts
acquired as part of the acquisitions of Coleto Creek and Indian Queens.
The Group has recognised any allocated emission allowances net of the fair value of the grant. As a result, no net asset or liability is shown on the
balance sheet at initial recognition. The amortisation of any emission allowances purchased or acquired through business combinations is charged 
to cost of sales in the income statement over the period in which benefits are expected to arise. Emission allowances acquired as part of the 
acquisition of Coleto Creek amount to £64 million.
As part of the European Union (EU) Emissions Trading Scheme (EUETS), designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the EU over the medium
term, the Group was granted emission allowances amounting to £49 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 (2005: £55 million).
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 103
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 103 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and Plant, machinery Assets in course Total
buildings and equipment of construction
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2005 174 3,865 161 4,200
Additions 5 78 184 267
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 365 – 365
Disposals (2) (9) – (11)
Disposal of subsidiaries – (54) – (54)
Reclassifications and transfers – 54 (54) –
Exchange differences 3 241 25 269
At 31 December 2005 180 4,540 316 5,036
Additions 3 169 64 236
Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 653 54 712
Disposals – (13) – (13)
Reclassifications and transfers (20) (19) (314) (353)
Exchange differences (4) (254) (36) (294)
At 31 December 2006 164 5,076 84 5,324
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2005 25 633 – 658
Depreciation charge for the year 11 137 – 148
Disposals (2)(9)–(11)
Disposal of subsidiaries – (3) – (3)
Impairment reversal – (52) – (52)
Exchange differences – 89 – 89
At 31 December 2005 34 795 – 829
Depreciation charge for the year 10 158 – 168
Disposals – (8) – (8)
Impairment reversal – (36) – (36)
Reclassifications and transfers (7) 7 – –
Exchange differences (1) (53) – (54)
At 31 December 2006 36 863 – 899
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2005 149 3,232 161 3,542
At 31 December 2005 146 3,745 316 4,207
At 31 December 2006 128 4,213 84 4,425
At the end of the year the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its UK power plants. This led to the recognition of an impairment
reversal of £36 million for Deeside, based on the estimated value in use of this asset. The post-tax risk adjusted discount rate used in measuring value 
in use was 8%. The post-tax risk adjusted discount rate which was used at the time of the initial impairment in 2002 was 8%. The impairment reversal
has been included in cost of sales.
Interest capitalised in the year was £9 million (2005: £14 million). On a cumulative basis, after taking into account exchange differences and
depreciation, the carrying amount of interest capitalised is £80 million (2005: £80 million).
The total value of land, included within land and buildings, that is not depreciated is £46 million (2005: £49 million).
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of £4,163 million (2005: £3,924 million) is subject to fixed and floating charges from banks
providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
Reclassifications and transfers consist of amounts moved from assets in course of construction to finance lease receivables and inventories.
International Power Annual Report 2006 104
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 104 15 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s joint ventures and associates is set out below:
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
a) Joint ventures’ net assets (including goodwill)
Non-current assets 1,220 1,362
Current assets 316 280
Total assets 1,536 1,642
Current liabilities (204) (188)
Non-current liabilities (588) (743)
Total liabilities (792) (931)
Net assets 744 711
Group’s share of joint ventures’ net assets 365 349
b) Associates’ net assets (including goodwill)
Non-current assets 5,630 7,690
Current assets 1,247 1,755
Total assets 6,877 9,445
Current liabilities (695) (840)
Non-current liabilities (3,788) (5,401)
Total liabilities (4,483) (6,241)
Net assets 2,394 3,204
Group’s share of associates’ net assets 899 1,056
c) Results of joint ventures
Revenue 771 631
Profit for the year 124 104
Group’s share of results of joint ventures
Share of revenue 379 309
Share of profit for the year 59 50
d) Results of associates
Revenue 2,501 2,024
Profit for the year 460 449
Group’s share of results of associates
Share of revenue 820 694
Share of profit for the year 155 148
At 31 December 2006 the Group’s investments that are listed on a recognised stock market are those in The Hub Power Company Limited (HUBCO), 
Kot Addu Power Company Limited (KAPCO) and Malakoff Berhad. HUBCO and KAPCO are considered associates and International Power continues
to equity account for HUBCO despite its shareholding being less than 20% (refer note 40). The Group’s share of HUBCO and KAPCO was valued 
at £46 million (2005: £45 million) and £108 million (2005: £149 million), respectively, on the major Pakistan stock markets and the Group’s share 
in Malakoff Berhad was valued at £236 million (2005: £203 million) on the Kuala Lumpur stock market. Market values for Group shareholdings 
in these investments were in excess of the respective carrying amounts at the year end.
A subsidiary, Al Kamil, is listed on the Muscat Securities Market and was valued at £14 million on 31 December 2006 (2005: £15 million). The Group
owns 65% of Al Kamil.
The reporting period of Malakoff Berhad does not coincide with International Power’s financial year. Consequently, the results of Malakoff Berhad 
for the period 1 December to 30 November have historically been equity accounted by the Group each year as adjusted for any significant events in
December. This treatment prevents Malakoff’s results being made publicly available before its own shareholders have received the information through
dissemination by Malakoff Berhad. The Group’s shareholding in Malakoff is now recognised as an asset held for sale (refer note 24).
Included within the Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is net debt of £1,524 million (2005: £1,625 million). These obligations
are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other
Group company.
A full list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 40.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 105
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 105 16 OTHER INVESTMENTS
31 December 31 December 
2006 2005
£m £m
Investments available for sale 26 4
The Group owns debt instruments and minority shareholdings in a number of businesses related to power generation and fuel supply activities in
Europe and Asia. The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows. The equity instruments are not
quoted but are shares in privately owned companies. Therefore the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be measured reliably and the carrying
amount has been determined by using the cost of acquiring the shares in these companies.
17 FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES
Present value of
minimum lease payments
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Minimum lease payments:
Within one year 110 48 33 12
Later than one year and not later than five years 428 192 144 57
After five years 1,398 649 834 391
1,936 889 1,011 460
Add: unguaranteed residual value (after five years) 75 –
Gross investment in the lease 2,011 889
Less: unearned finance income (925) (429)
Total finance lease receivables 1,086 460
Analysed as:
Non-current finance lease receivables (recoverable after 12 months) 1,053 448
Current finance lease receivables (recoverable within 12 months) 33 12
Total finance lease receivables 1,086 460
Analysed as:
Present value of minimum lease payments 1,011 460
Add: unguaranteed residual value 75 –
Total finance lease receivables 1,086 460
Rentals receivable under finance leases by the Group during the year amounted to £63 million (2005: £48 million). Excluding assets which are
constructed by the Group, the cost of assets acquired by the Group during the year for onward finance leasing was £281 million (2005: £nil).
International Power’s business is the generation of electricity. Sometimes the Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure
contracted revenues for a long period of time. Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain finance leases. The average term 
of the finance leases entered into is usually a substantial portion of the asset’s useful economic life.
Unguaranteed residual values of assets leased under finance leases at the balance sheet date are estimated at £75 million (2005: £nil).
The interest rate inherent in the lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average effective interest rate contracted 
is approximately 8% per annum.
The fair value of the Group’s finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2006 is estimated at £1,114 million (2005: £460 million) based 
on discounting estimated cash flows at the market rate.
18 OTHER LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Total other long-term receivables 94 67
International Power Annual Report 2006 106
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/26/07  12:28  Page 106 19 DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax accounted for in the consolidated balance sheet and the potential amounts of deferred tax are:
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities:
Property, plant and equipment accelerated capital allowances (569) (552)
Other temporary differences (271) (238)
Dividends of overseas subsidiaries (57) (40)
Total deferred tax liabilities (897) (830)
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax assets:
Provisions 43 42
Tax losses 161 161
Other temporary differences 245 299
Total gross deferred tax assets 449 502
Less: deferred tax assets not recognised (155) (151)
Total deferred tax assets 294 351
Net deferred tax liabilities (603) (479)
Deferred tax assets will be offset against suitable taxable profits when they arise.
Of the £161 million (2005: £161 million) deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses, £106 million (2005: £102 million) can be carried forward for 
a period of between 10 and 19 years. The balance can be carried forward indefinitely. No deferred tax asset in relation to the £106 million of losses 
has been recognised (2005: £nil).
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures was £888 million (2005: £634 million). At 31 December 2006 a deferred tax provision of £57 million (2005: £40 million) has been
recognised in respect of temporary differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable to control the reversal 
of the timing difference.
Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability for the total aggregate undistributed earnings has not been undertaken as the Group is in a position 
to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits 
in respect of tax paid locally.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance sheet purposes.
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities (696) (557)
Deferred tax assets 93 78
Net deferred tax liabilities (603) (479)
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 107
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 107 Movement in temporary differences during the year:
Other
1 January Recognised balance sheet Recognised Acquisition of 31 December
2006 in income movements in equity subsidiaries 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 306 (17) – – 35 324
Other temporary differences 133 49 (3) 43 – 222
Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 40 17––– 57
479 49 (3) 43 35 603
Other Acquisition/
1 January Recognised balance sheet Recognised disposal of 31 December
2005 in income movements in equity subsidiaries 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 316 (10) – – – 306
Other temporary differences 100 21 7 (46) 51 133
Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 16 24––– 40
432 35 7 (46) 51 479
20 INVENTORIES
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Plant spares 26 22
Fuel inventories 55 37
Consumables 60 51
Total inventories 141 110
Inventories with a carrying amount of £116 million (2005: £50 million) are subject to fixed and floating charges of project finance facilities at various
power plant subsidiaries. These project finance facilities are non-recourse to International Power plc. 
21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 139 163
Other receivables 157 108
Prepayments and accrued income 103 125
Total amounts falling due within one year 399 396
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. Trade and other receivables are stated
net of allowance for irrecoverable amounts.
International Power Annual Report 2006 108
19 DEFERRED TAX continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 108 22 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Energy derivatives 236 362 267 661
Interest rate swaps 15 9 126
Options over equity 30 59 ––
281 430 268 687
Current 243 204 268 496
Non-current 38 226 – 191
281 430 268 687
The Group utilises interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate exposures by swapping an element of its borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
As at 31 December 2006, the total notional value of interest rate swaps was £2,007 million (2005: £1,416 million). 
The Group utilises foreign currency exchange contracts to manage its foreign exchange rate exposures. As at 31 December 2006, the total notional
value of these contracts was £45 million (2005: £6 million) and the mark to market was £nil (2005: £nil).
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses. The Group already has an equity interest in some of 
these businesses. The Group has convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc. The conversion feature in the
3.25% convertible euro bond is accounted for as an embedded derivative (refer note 25).
23 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months
or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 980 620
The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes £211 million (2005: £71 million) of cash which is considered to be ‘restricted’ as it is primarily 
to secure amounts required for debt repayments and letters of credit.
24 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
On 22 December 2006, the shareholders of Malakoff Berhad approved the sale of their wholesale power generating business to MMC, another Malaysian
corporate, for 10.35 Malaysian ringgits per share. The sale process is expected to be completed in the first half of 2007. The estimated proceeds, from 
the sale of International Power’s shareholding in Malakoff Berhad, are significantly more than the 31 December 2006 carrying amount of £128 million. 
As at 22 December 2006, the carrying amount was reclassified from investments in joint ventures and associates to non-current assets classified as held 
for sale. The asset held for sale is included within the Asia region segmental assets shown in note 2. International Power’s share of Malakoff’s earnings are
included within the Asia region segmental results.
25 LOANS AND BONDS
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
a) Interest-bearing loans and bonds (current)
Current portion of secured bank loans 231 187
Secured bonds 10 –
241 187
b) Interest-bearing loans and bonds (non-current)
Secured bank loans 3,209 2,721
Secured bonds 668 445
Preferred equity facility 152 173
3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023 113 125
3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013 124 –
4,266 3,464
Total interest-bearing loans and bonds 4,507 3,651
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 109
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 109 Secured bank loans and secured bonds
The bank loans and bonds with a carrying amount of £4,118 million are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
Substantially all of the Group’s power stations, generating assets and other operating assets are financed under facilities which are non-recourse to International
Power plc and secured solely on the assets of the subsidiary concerned.
Preferred equity facility
The preferred equity facility comprises US$300 million in preference shares which were issued by Impala Magpie Limited to Mitsui Power Ventures
Limited for the purposes of financing the acquisition of the EME portfolio which was completed in December 2004.
Impala Magpie Limited is a 70% owned subsidiary of International Power plc and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Mitsui & Co of Japan. Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is International Power’s partner in IPM Eagle LLP , which is the owner of the assets formerly owned
by Edison Mission Energy, and Saltend.
The preference shares entitle the holder to a preferred dividend coupon of US dollar LIBOR plus 2%. The preference shares are redeemable from 
16 December 2008 and may also be redeemed if funds become available following the sale of certain assets.
International Power (Impala), a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Power plc, has granted Mitsui Power Ventures Limited a put option 
to sell 70% of the preference shares it holds on the date of exercise. The put option is exercisable in certain circumstances, including where Impala
Magpie Limited fails to redeem the preference shares on maturity.
International Power plc has agreed to guarantee International Power (Impala)’s obligations to Mitsui & Co of Japan and Mitsui Power 
Ventures Limited.
3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023
On 22 August 2003, International Power (Jersey) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 
3.75% convertible notes due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power (Jersey) Limited at the holder’s option, immediately
exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 173p at any time up to 12 August 2023. Each
US$1,000 principal amount of notes will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power (Jersey)
Limited. The notes may be redeemed at the holder’s option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013, 2018
and 2023.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured notes will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price equivalent to
their principal amount.
Following the extinguishment of a cash settlement option on 17 January 2005, the remaining conversion feature, being an equity call option held by
the bondholders was recognised in equity. The remaining debt element of the convertible bond accretes to par value over the life of the bond at a
constant periodic rate based on its carrying amount.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 3.65% to the liability component for the period since the
convertible US dollar bond was issued. This is in addition to the coupon interest rate of 3.75% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the convertible US dollar bonds at 31 December 2006 to be approximately 
£114 million (31 December 2005: £125 million). This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2006.
3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013
On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued €230 million 3.25%
convertible notes due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited at the holder’s option, immediately
exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 391p at any time up to 20 July 2013. Each €50,000
principal amount of notes will entitle the holder to convert into a €50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance (Jersey) II
Limited. The notes may be redeemed at the holder’s option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured notes will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent to their
principal amount.
31 December
2006
£m
Net proceeds of convertible euro bonds issued 152
Embedded derivative component (30)
Liability component at date of issue 122
Interest charged 2
Liability component at 31 December 124
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond have been split between the debt element and an embedded derivative component.
This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 3.39% to the liability component for the period since the
convertible euro bond was issued. This is in addition to the coupon interest rate of 3.25% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the convertible euro bonds at 31 December 2006 to be approximately £133 million.
This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2006.
International Power Annual Report 2006 110
25 LOANS AND BONDS continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 110 26 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (CURRENT)
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade payables 85 118
Other payables 226 153
Accruals 218 240
Total trade and other payables 529 511
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
27 OTHER PAYABLES (NON-CURRENT)
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Other payables 40 14
Loans from minority interests 81 81
Total other payables 121 95
28 PROVISIONS
Retirement Commodity Other Total
benefit contracts
obligations
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 27 –4168
Acquisitions – 156 3 159
Provisions made during the year 10 – 14 24
Provisions used during the year (12) (16) (5) (33)
Exchange differences – (7) (2) (9)
At 31 December 2006 25 133 51 209
Commodity contracts added in 2006 relate to ‘out of the money’ power sales contracts acquired as part of the acquisition of Coleto Creek. 
The provisions utilised are credited to revenue in the income statement and are expected to be fully utilised by 2014.
The majority of the ‘other’ provisions relate to liabilities in respect of onerous property leases, employee-related compensation, amounts provided for
long service and annual leave liabilities, and for mine site restoration. These liabilities are not expected to arise in the short-term. The Directors are
uncertain as to the timing of when these provisions will be utilised.
29 SHARE CAPITAL
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,474,736,637 737
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 13,073,207 6
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 1,196,959 1
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan – – 3,046,107 2
At 31 December 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2005 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,473,269,066 737
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 858,892 –
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 608,679 –
At 31 December 2005 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,474,736,637 737
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of
the Company.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 111
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 111 Deferred shares
The Group has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 pence each in issue. These shares were issued to ensure the demerger was effected as efficiently as possible.
The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting. 
Unclassified share
Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Group’s authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of £1.
Employee share schemes 
a) Number of shares and exercise prices under Share Option Plans
The Group operates the following employee share plans for which shares may be issued by the Group out of authorised but unissued share capital
upon exercise of options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plans and the Global Sharesave Plans; the UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option
Plans, and the Global Executive Share Option Plans; and the 2002 Performance Share Plan. The total number of options outstanding at the end of the
year was as follows:
Number of Ordinary Shares
Option Date Year ended Year ended
price range exercisable 31 December 31 December
2006 2005
Sharesave Plans 70.33p-200.00p 2006-2011 5,889,678 4,783,486
Executive Share Option Plans 62.32p-343.73p 2000-2016 21,294,173 32,687,124
2002 Performance Share Plan 74.79p 2003 onwards 1,230,108 4,276,215
Total options outstanding 28,413,959 41,746,825
Details of each Plan are set out on the following pages:
i) Sharesave Plans
The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other jurisdictions
to invest up to a maximum of £250 (or foreign currency equivalent) per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group. The option prices are
fixed at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Group’s Ordinary Shares as at the date of grant of the option. Options are exercisable at the prices
set out below. The option exercise period commences either three or five years after the option has been granted (determined at the time that the
employee enters into the savings agreement) and if the options remain unexercised after a period of six months following the beginning of the option
exercise period, the options expire. Except for certain specific circumstances (e.g. redundancy) options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the
option exercise period commences. Details of the share options outstanding at the end of the year are as follows:
Number of Ordinary Shares
Option Date Year ended Year ended
price exercisable 31 December 31 December
2006 2005
167.37p 2006 – 10,082
178.06p 2006-2007 6,631 6,631
80.12p 2005-2006 – 253,314
80.12p 2007-2008 2,578,756 2,673,050
97.93p 2006-2007 79,672 104,158
97.93p 2008-2009 69,582 69,582
70.33p 2006 – 800,205
70.33p 2008 568,855 654,658
97.93p 2007 94,277 107,329
97.93p 2009 99,331 104,477
200.00p 2009 1,311,675 –
200.00p 2011 1,080,899 –
5,889,678 4,783,486
International Power Annual Report 2006 112
29 SHARE CAPITAL continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/27/07  07:40  Page 112 The number and weighted average exercise prices of Sharesave Plan share options are as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Number of Weighted Number of Weighted 
Ordinary average Ordinary average
Shares exercise price Shares exercise price
pence pence
Options outstanding at beginning of the year 4,783,486 78.90 5,963,482 79.18
Granted during the year 2,481,799 200.00 ––
Exercised during the year (1,196,959) 74.24 (858,892) 80.67
Expired during the year (178,648) 140.10 (321,104) 79.45
Options outstanding at end of the year 5,889,678 129.02 4,783,486 78.90
Options exercisable at end of the year 86,303 253,314
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Sharesave Plan share options exercised during the year was 287.15 pence (2005: 
240.43 pence). The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 70.33 pence to 200.00 pence as outlined 
in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 2.36 years (2005: 2.12 years).
ii) Executive Share Option Plans
The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plans are discretionary employee share option
plans. Options are granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company. The exercise price
of the options is fixed at the market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares as at the date that the options are granted. The option exercise period 
is between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised before the expiry of the tenth
anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse. Except for certain specific circumstances (e.g. redundancy) options lapse if the employee leaves
the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee resigns from the Company. Details of the share options outstanding at 
the end of the year are as follows:
Number of Ordinary Shares
Option Date Year ended Year ended
price exercisable 31 December 31 December
2006 2005
287.76p 1999-2006 – 416,298
343.73p 2000-2007 440,687 499,572
313.92p 2001-2008 586,630 712,903
277.55p 2003-2010 1,527,844 2,574,081
209.22p 2004-2011 631,668 1,612,812
193.19p 2004-2011 49,959 136,076
174.50p 2005-2012 3,329,619 3,673,817
62.32p 2006-2013 622,483 10,626,586
123.53p 2007-2014 6,228,318 6,845,144
179.25p 2008-2015 5,215,424 5,589,835
281.00p 2009-2016 2,661,541 –
21,294,173 32,687,124
The number and weighted average exercise prices of Executive Share Options are as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Number of Weighted Number of Weighted 
Ordinary average Ordinary average
Shares exercise price Shares exercise price
pence pence
Options outstanding at beginning of the year 32,687,124 145.14 29,770,835 141.65
Granted during the year 2,671,718 281.00 5,589,835 179.25
Exercised during the year (13,073,207) 104.51 (608,679) 142.02
Expired during the year (991,462) 156.52 (2,064,867) 187.83
Options outstanding at end of the year 21,294,173 186.60 32,687,124 145.14
Options exercisable at end of the year 7,188,890 9,625,559
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 113
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 113 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Executive Share Options exercised during the year was 293.26 pence (2005: 232.62 pence). 
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 62.32 pence to 343.73 pence.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.8 years (2005: 7.1 years).
iii) 2002 Performance Share Plan
Under this Plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group are awarded conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Group. These
conditional awards may vest three years after the awards have been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition
(determined at the time that the conditional awards are made). In 2003 the Group granted to the Trustee of the International Power Employee Share
Ownership Trust an option to acquire 3,807,057 Ordinary Shares in the Group at an option price of 84 pence per share. Following the Rights Issue 
in 2004, the number of shares under option was increased to 4,276,215 and the option exercise price was adjusted to 74.79 pence per share. This
option can only be exercised to the extent required to satisfy conditional awards made under the Performance Share Plan. These conditional awards 
can only vest after the end of the relevant performance period and only to the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied.
During 2006 the Trustee exercised this option to the extent of 3,046,107 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in March 2006.
At 31 December 2006 there remained 1,230,108 options outstanding and exercisable at an exercise price of 74.79 pence per share.
The life of this option is open-ended. It is anticipated that this share option will be utilised to satisfy the release of awards made under the 2002
Performance Share Plan from 2007 onwards. Assuming full vesting of the awards made as at 31 December 2006, it is estimated that this option 
will have been fully exercised by the end of 2008.
b) Fair value of options under Share Option Plans
i) Sharesave plans
The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 82 pence per share (2005: None granted). 
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
2006 2005
Weighted average share price 250p n/a
Weighted average exercise price 200p n/a
Expected volatility 30% n/a
Expected life 4 years n/a
Risk free rate 4.16% n/a
Expected dividend yield 2.36% n/a
ii) Executive Share Options Plans
The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 61 pence per share (2005: 47 pence per share).
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
2006 2005
Weighted average share price 269p 179p
Weighted average exercise price 281p 179p
Expected volatility 30% 30%
Expected life 4 years 4 years
Risk free rate 4.39% 4.84%
Expected dividend yield 2.36% 1.94%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous six years. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
iii) 2002 Performance Share Plan
No performance share plan options were granted during the current or prior year.
c) Managers’ share bonus arrangements
During 2004, 571,710 Ordinary Shares in International Power plc were acquired in respect of a project incentive arrangement for staff for a
consideration of £887,497. These shares have been placed in an Employee Share Ownership Trust. No additional purchases were made during 2006 
in respect of this plan (2005: nil).
d) Employee Share Ownership Trust
A number of International Power plc Ordinary Shares are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs). These shares are held by the ESOTs 
to meet awards made under the Group’s 2002 Performance Share Plan. At 31 December 2006, the ESOTs held a total of 1,241,452 International
Power plc Ordinary Shares (2005: 2,081,573). At 31 December 2006 the market value of these shares was £4,739,243 (2005: £4,985,367). The
maximum number of Ordinary Shares required to meet all outstanding awards (assuming full vesting of those awards) as at 31 December 2006 
was 6,444,745 (2005: 7,522,005).
International Power Annual Report 2006 114
29 SHARE CAPITAL continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 114 30 SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share Share Capital Capital Hedging Translation Retained Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
account reserve
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 737 394 145 422 (118) 49 463 2,092
Profit for the year – – – – – – 410 410
Other recognised income and expenses 
relating to the year (net) – – – – 124 (127) – (3)
Issue of shares 9 8 – –––– 17
Distributions – – – – – – (67) (67)
Other movements – – – – – – 13 13
At 31 December 2006 746 402 145 422 6 (78) 819 2,462
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share Share Capital Capital Hedging Translation Retained Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
account reserve
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 737 392 145 422 (12) (39) 156 1,801
Profit for the year – – – – – – 285 285
Other recognised income and expenses
relating to the year (net) – – – – (106) 88 – (18)
Recognition of equity component in
3.75% convertible US dollar bond – – – – – – 50 50
Issue of shares – 2 – –––– 2
Distributions – – – – – – (37) (37)
Other movements – – – – – – 9 9
At 31 December 2005 737 394 145 422 (118) 49 463 2,092
The share capital represents the authorised Ordinary Shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution of dividends
or capital of the Company.
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.  
The capital redemption reserve was created in March 1995 when the Company purchased and then cancelled approximately 98 million of its Ordinary
Shares in conjunction with HM Treasury’s sale of its remaining 40% shareholding in the Company. The reserve was subsequently increased in the years
ended 31 March 1996, 31 March 2000 and 31 December 2003 when further share purchases were made and these shares were cancelled. The capital
redemption reserve is not distributable.
The capital reserve was vested in the Company at 31 March 1990 under the Transfer Scheme whereby the net assets of the Central Electricity Generating
Board (CEGB) were divided among the CEGB successor companies. It is not distributable.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related 
to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that 
are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in foreign
operations.
On 17 January 2005, the Group waived its option to cash settle the conversion option of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023. This election
transferred the fair value of the embedded derivative to reserves, recognising the mark to market carrying amount as an equity component of the bond. 
£527 million (2005: £124 million) of the Group’s retained earnings is not distributable as it arose from unrealised gains on intra-group transfers.
Set off against retained earnings at 31 December 2006 are treasury shares of £1 million (2005: £1 million).
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 115
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 115 31 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
a) Coleto Creek
On 7 July 2006 American National Power Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Power, acquired the 632 MW coal fired Coleto Creek power
generation facility in Texas from Topaz Power Group, a joint venture between Carlyle/Riverstone and Sempra Generation, for cash consideration,
including acquisition costs, of £621 million (US$1.14 billion). The result of Coleto Creek has been consolidated as a subsidiary from this date using 
the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below:
Acquiree’s Fair value Fair value
carrying adjustments to the 
amount Group
£m £m £m
Goodwill –4040
Other intangible assets 20 81 101
Property, plant and equipment 199 424 623
Inventories 91 10
Trade and other receivables 12 – 12
Trade and other payables (9) – (9)
Provisions – (156) (156)
Total assets acquired 231 390 621
Components of cost of acquisition
Cash 617
Directly attributable acquisition costs 4
Consideration (including acquisition costs) and cash outflow to the Group 621
In the period from 7 July 2006 to 31 December 2006, Coleto Creek contributed £74 million of revenue and £26 million to the Group’s profit from
operations (both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements). Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements, it contributed £77 million of revenue and £29 million to the Group’s profit from operations. It also contributed £34 million to the
Group’s net operating cash flows and paid £22 million in respect of net interest and £nil in respect of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of the net assets acquired and principally represent the recognition of the fair value of
sulphur dioxide allowances, included as intangible assets; the recognition of the plant at fair value, included as property, plant and equipment; and the
fair value of out of the money power purchase agreements (agreements to sell power), included as provisions. Goodwill arises on the acquisition of
Coleto Creek as a result of the fair value of property, plant and equipment being restricted to the lower of depreciated replacement cost and value in
use. As the depreciated replacement cost of the Coleto Creek power plant is lower than its value in use and all other assets and liabilities and
contingent liabilities have been identified, then goodwill arises.
It is impracticable to state what the impact would have been on Group revenue and profit for the year had the acquisition been completed on 
1 January 2006 due to the difficulty in ascertaining the valuation of commodity contracts, at that time, reflected in the fair value balance sheet acquired
as intangible assets and provisions, and their respective corresponding amortisation charge and credit to the income statement during that period.
International Power Annual Report 2006 116
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 116 b) Levanto
On 1 November 2006, International Power plc, through its wholly-owned subsidiary International Power Levanto Holdings BV, completed the purchase
of the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms, predominantly located in France and Germany, from Christofferson Robb & Company (CRC) for 
£129 million, including acquisition costs. This comprises the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Levanto Structured Energy (Lux) S.a.r.l.
and Levanto GSEF (Lux) S.a.r.l. Levanto GSEF (Lux) S.a.r.l. owns bonds issued by the lender of finance to one of the wind farm owning entities. At the
date of acquisition the Levanto wind farms comprised 286 MW of capacity in operation, 126 MW under construction, which is due to commence
operation in 2007, and 24 MW of fully permitted capacity, which is planned to commence operation in 2008. As required, the results of the Levanto
group of businesses have been consolidated as subsidiaries from this date using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and provisional fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below:
Acquiree’s Fair value Fair value
carrying adjustments to the 
amount Group
£m £m £m
Assets in course of construction 54 – 54
Finance lease receivables – non-current 184 94 278
Finance lease receivables – current 3– 3
Trade and other receivables 14 – 14
Cash and cash equivalents 104 – 104
Loans and bonds – current (34) – (34)
Trade and other payables (16) – (16)
Loans and bonds – non-current (243) – (243)
Deferred tax liabilities – (28) (28)
Provisions (3) – (3)
Total assets acquired 63 66 129
Components of cost of acquisition
Cash 67
Vendor subordinated loan 60
Directly attributable acquisition costs 2
Consideration (including acquisition costs) 129
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration paid (including acquisition costs) 69
Amount owed to vendor as a subordinated loan 60
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (104)
Net cash outflow to the Group 25
In the period from 1 November 2006 to 31 December 2006, Levanto contributed immaterial amounts of revenue, profit from operations and net
operating cash flows to the Group results. 
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of the net assets acquired and principally represent the recognition of the fair value of the
finance lease receivables and associated deferred tax on the temporary timing difference created by the fair value adjustment. Due to the proximity of
the date of acquisition to the year end and the complexity of the business acquired the fair values attributed to the acquired assets and liabilities are
provisional and may be revised.
Similarly, for the same reasons, it is impracticable to state what the impact would have been on Group revenue and profit for the year had the
acquisition been completed on 1 January 2006 due to the difficulty in ascertaining the valuation of assets and liabilities at that time.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 117
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 117 31 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS continued
c) Indian Queens
On 18 September 2006 International Power plc, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, completed the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Indian
Queens Power Limited and Indian Queens Operations Limited, the owner and operating companies respectively of the Indian Queens oil fired OCGT
peaking plant in Cornwall, England from AES for £32 million. The results of both Indian Queens businesses have been consolidated as subsidiaries from 
this date using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below:
Acquiree’s Fair value Fair value
carrying adjustments to the 
amount Group
£m £m £m
Intangible assets –22
Property, plant and equipment 24 11 35
Inventories 1– 1
Trade receivables 2– 2
Cash and cash equivalents 24 – 24
Finance lease payable – current (2) – (2)
Trade payables (2) – (2)
Finance lease payable – non-current (26) 5 (21)
Deferred tax liabilities (1) (6) (7)
Total assets acquired 20 12 32
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration paid (including acquisition costs) 32
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (24)
Net cash outflow to the Group 8
In the period 18 September 2006 to 31 December 2006, Indian Queens contributed £3 million of revenue and £1 million to the Group’s profit 
from operations. It also contributed £2 million to the Group’s net operating cash flows and paid £2 million in respect of net interest and nil in respect
of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of the net assets acquired and principally represent the recognition of the fair value of 
the property, plant and equipment, the fair value of the finance lease payable and the associated deferred tax adjustments on the temporary timing
differences created.
If the acquisition of Indian Queens had taken place on 1 January 2006, Indian Queens would have contributed £13 million of revenue (and Group
revenue would have been £2,594 million) for the year ended 31 December 2006 and the profit from operations contributed by Indian Queens would
have been £3 million (and Group profit from operations would have been £900 million).
d) Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents acquired
In addition to the net cash outflow to the Group of £621 million on the acquisition of Coleto Creek, the cash outflows of £25 million relating to 
the acquisition of Levanto and £8 million relating to Indian Queens, a £1 million cash outflow arose on acquisition of the remaining 1% shareholding 
in International Power Opatovice, in the Czech Republic, and a £5 million cash inflow arose from amounts received from Calpine relating to the
acquisition of Saltend in 2005.
e) Acquisition of investments in associates
The following acquisitions took place in 2006:
Hidd
On 22 January 2006 Hidd Power Company BSC(c), a company owned 40% by International Power, 30% by Suez-Tractebel SA and 30% by 
Sumitomo Corporation, signed an agreement to acquire the Hidd independent power and water project in Bahrain, and signed a 20-year power 
and water purchase agreement with the Ministry of Electricity and Water for its output. Hidd Power Company took over operation of the plant 
on 23 January 2006, which was the effective date of acquisition, and the transaction was completed on 11 July 2006.
Opus
On 10 May 2006 International Power Retail UK Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed the purchase of 30% of the
share capital of Oxford Power Holdings Limited for £7 million. Its principal subsidiary is Opus Energy Limited, an independent supplier of electricity in
the UK that focuses on the small business sector.
International Power Annual Report 2006 118
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 118 32 NET DEBT
Analysis of changes in net debt
1 January Exchange On acquisition Other Cash flow 31 December
2006 differences of subsidiaries non-cash 2006
(excluding cash) movements
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 620 (26) – – 386 980
Assets held for trading 52 (3) – 2 (9) 42
Total funds 672 (29) – 2 377 1,022
Loans due within one year (187) 5 (26) (96) 73 (231)
Loans due after more than one year (2,721) 224 (40) 84 (756) (3,209)
Secured bonds (445) (2) (234) 3 – (678)
Preferred equity facility (173) 21––– (152)
Convertible bonds (125) 16 – 24 (152) (237)
Total debt (3,651) 264 (300) 15 (835) (4,507)
Net debt (2,979) 235 (300) 17 (458) (3,485)
1 January Exchange On acquisition Other Cash flow 31 December
2005 differences of subsidiaries non-cash 2005
(excluding cash) movements
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 565 18 – – 37 620
Assets held for trading 47 2 – 3 – 52
Total funds 612 20 – 3 37 672
Loans due within one year (71) – – (73) (43) (187)
Loans due after more than one year (2,503) (145) – 63 (136) (2,721)
Secured bonds (449) – – 4 – (445)
Preferred equity facility (154) (18) – (1) – (173)
Convertible bonds (136) (17) – (3) 31 (125)
Total debt (3,313) (180) – (10) (148) (3,651)
Net debt (2,701) (160) – (7) (111) (2,979)
33 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
a) Energy trading risk, energy market risk and hedge accounting
The Group hedges exposures that arise from the ownership and operation of power plants and related sales of electricity and purchases of fuel and
utilises derivatives to optimise the return achieved from these assets. The Group enters into derivative commodity financial instruments to convert
floating or indexed electricity and fuel prices to fixed prices in order to lessen its vulnerability to reductions in electricity prices for the electricity it
generates and to increases in fuel prices for the fuel it consumes in its power plants. Commodity derivative financial instruments also provide a way 
to meet customers’ pricing requirements while achieving a price structure consistent with the Group’s overall pricing strategy.
The Group accounts for certain energy sales and fuel purchases as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is highly probable and the hedge 
is assessed as effective.
b) Treasury policy
Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the development of the Group’s business whilst managing 
its currency, interest rate and counterparty credit risks. The Group’s treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions. Group treasury 
acts within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board. 
c) Risk identification and management
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group. Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk
Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and
assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent 
with the Group’s strategy and objectives. Assessments are conducted for all material entities.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 119
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/26/07  12:30  Page 119 d) Interest rate risk and hedge accounting
The Group’s policy is to fix interest rates for a significant portion of its debt. This equates to 71%, as at 31 December 2006, using forward rate or
interest rate swap agreements. Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require the specific approval of the Board. The
weighted average interest rate of fixed rate debt was 7%. Where project finance is utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the
contractual terms of the customer offtake agreement. The Group accounts for certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges where the forecast
transaction is highly probable and the hedge is assessed as effective.
Effective interest rates and maturity analysis
The following is a table illustrating the effective interest rates of interest earning financial assets and interest bearing financial liabilities and the periods 
in which they mature:
31 December 2006
Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity
Effective Carrying less than 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 more than
interest amount12 months years years years years 5 years
rate £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Finance lease receivable:
Euro 7.5% 798 26 27 28 29 30 658
US dollars 10.0% 288 7 7 8 8 7 251
Assets held for trading:
Australian dollars 6.1% 42 42 – –––– 
Cash and cash equivalents:
Australian dollars 6.1% 80 80 – ––––
Czech koruna 2.4% 15 15 – ––––
Euro 3.6% 149 149 – ––––
Sterling 5.1% 549 549 – ––––
US dollars 5.2% 179 179 – ––––
Other currencies 4.5% 8 8 – –––– 
Total financial assets 2,108 1,055 34 36 37 37 909
Financial liabilities
Secured bank loans:
Australian dollars 7.5% 987 27 39 54 38 45 784
Effect of interest rate swap 0.2% (796) (43) (111) (20) (250) (358) (14)
Czech koruna 3.3% 49 49 – ––––
Effect of interest rate swap 0.1% (7) (7) –––––
Euro 5.9% 456 64 32 27 45 36 252
Effect of interest rate swap 0.1% (35) (5) (20) (10) – – –
Sterling 7.1% 511 54 43 36 37 33 308
Effect of interest rate swap (0.2)% (300) 19 14 (125) (141) (67) –
US dollars 8.1% 1,404 35 29 33 490 40 777
Effect of interest rate swap (0.2)% (869) (20) (21) (175) (271) (195) (187)
Other currencies 7.3% 33 2 3 3 3 3 19
Sub-total of secured bank loans 7.4% 3,440 231 146 153 613 157 2,140
Sub-total of effect of interest rate swaps 0.1% (2,007) (56) (138) (330) (662) (620) (201)
Secured bonds:
Euro 5.4% 236 10 11 12 12 12 179
Sterling 8.1% 442 – – – – – 442
Preferred equity facility:
US dollars 7.4% 152 – 152––––
Convertible bonds
(1)
:
Euro 6.6% 124 – – – – – 124
US dollars 7.4% 113 – – – 113 – –
Sub-total of loans and bonds included in net debt 4,507 241 309 165 738 169 2,885
Loans from minority interests:
US dollars 8.0% 25 16 3 4 2 – –
Sterling 5.7%56–––––56
Total financial liabilities 4,588 257 312 169 740 169 2,941
International Power Annual Report 2006 120
33 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 120 31 December 2005
Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity
Effective Carrying less than 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 more than
interest amount 12 months years years years years 5 years
rate £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Finance lease receivable:
Euro 7.9% 460 12 12 14 15 16 391 
Assets held for trading:
Australian dollars 5.5% 52 52 – – – – – 
Cash and cash equivalents:
Australian dollars 5.4% 109 109 – – – – –  
Czech koruna 1.9% 4 4 – – – – –  
Euro 2.4% 55 55 – – – –   –
Sterling 4.5% 331 331 – – – – –  
US dollars 4.3% 109 109 – – – – –  
Other currencies 3.2% 12 12 – – – – –  
Total financial assets 1,132 684 12 14 15 16 391 
Financial liabilities
Secured bank loans:
Australian dollars 6.7% 1,108 40 41 80 71 46  830 
Effect of interest rate swap 0.7% (701) (17) (160) (169) (71) (266) (18)
Czech koruna 2.8% 55 8 47 – – – – 
Effect of interest rate swap 0.8% (40) – (40) – – – – 
Euro 4.8% 371 21 22 24 23 27 254 
Effect of interest rate swap 0.4% (43) (5) (5) (8) (21) (4) –
Sterling 6.8% 335 85 17 15 22 17  179 
Effect of interest rate swap (0.3)% (192) (19) (12) (10) (15) (136) –
US dollars 7.2% 1,013 31 33 37 31 540 341 
Effect of interest rate swap 0.2% (440) 56 (23) (24) (200) (17) (232)
Other currencies 7.7% 26 2 2 2 3 3 14 
Sub-total of secured bank loans 6.6% 2,908 187 162 158 150 633 1,618
Sub-total of effect of interest rate swaps 0.4% (1,416) 15 (240) (211) (307) (423) (250)
Secured bonds:
Sterling 8.3% 445 – – – – –  445 
Preferred equity:
US dollars 7.2% 173 – – 173 – – – 
Convertible bond
(1)
:
US dollars 7.4% 125 – – – – 125 – 
Sub-total of loans and bonds included in net debt 3,651 187 162 331 150 758 2,063 
Loans from minority interests:
US dollars 8.0% 81 – 21 – – 60 – 
Total financial liabilities 3,732 187 183 331 150 818 2,063 
(1) The effective interest rates for the convertible bonds represent the coupon on the par value of the bond and the accretion of the liability element which
excludes the equity or embedded derivative components (refer note 25).
The effect of interest rate swaps refers to the amortisation profile in the notional amount of the interest rate swap, and are included in the above table
to identify to which financial liability they relate. They are not included within total financial liabilities shown above as they are recognised as derivative
financial instruments in the balance sheet.
The effect of the Group interest rate swaps effectively replaced £796 million (2005: £701 million) of floating rate Australian dollar borrowings, 
£869 million (2005: £440 million) of floating rate US dollar borrowings, £300 million (2005: £192 million) of floating rate sterling borrowings, 
£7 million (2005: £40 million) of floating rate Czech koruna borrowings and £35 million (2005: £43 million) of floating rate euro borrowings with
fixed rate borrowings. 
Management estimates that a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have the effect of decreasing the Group’s profit before tax 
by approximately £3 million (2005: £8 million). 
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance for various time periods up to 12 months 
by reference to LIBOR for that time period. 
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 121
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 121 e) Currency exposures
Currency translation exposure 
The results of the Group’s foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned. The balance sheets 
of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates. In order to hedge the net assets of foreign operations, borrowings are
generally in the same currency as the underlying investment. The Group aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way. 
It is our policy not to hedge currency translation through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Currency transaction exposure 
This arises where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency. Transaction exposure also arises on the
remittance from overseas of dividends or surplus funds. The Group’s policy is to match transaction exposure where possible, and hedge remaining
transactions as soon as they are committed, by using foreign currency contracts and similar instruments. 
Currency exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating 
unit involved, other than certain non-sterling borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations. 
Management estimates that a one percentage point strengthening of sterling against all currencies would reduce the Group’s profit before 
tax by approximately £3 million. 
f) Borrowing facilities
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2006 in respect of which 
all conditions precedent have been met at that date amount to £667 million (2005: £441 million).
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available
£m £m £m £m £m £m
US dollar Corporate revolving credit facility (October 2009)
(1)
327 322 322 373 142 142
US dollar ANP Funding 1 revolving credit facility (May 2010)
(2)
56 40 40 64 34 34
US dollar Tihama term facility (December 2021) 249–– 284 72 72
Australian dollar Canunda facility (December 2014) 37–– 39 12 12
Sterling Rugeley FGD construction facility (July 2014) 145 129 129 –––
Sterling Rugeley working capital and credit facility (July 2014) 195 100 100 –––
Czech koruna IPO revolving credit facility (May 2007) 24 24 24 24 20 20
Sterling Corporate working capital facility (January 2006)
(3)
––– 60 60 60
Sterling Corporate letter of credit facilities
(4)
324 11 11 94 1 1
Subsidiary facilities in various currencies 110 41 41 153 100 100
Total 1,467 667 667 1,091 441 441
(1) The drawn element of the US dollar Corporate revolving credit facility relates to letters of credit issued of £5 million.
(2) The ANP Funding 1 revolving credit facility includes a US$50 million supported and US$60 million unsupported working capital credit facility with
capacity to issue letters of credit. At 31 December 2006, £4 million (2005: £8 million) and £12 million (2005: £22 million) of letters of credit 
had been drawn from each of these facilities respectively.
(3) The Corporate working capital facility could have been utilised to draw cash and issue letters of credit in relation to merchant trading support. 
It was not renewed when it expired in January 2006.
(4) The Corporate letter of credit facilities can be utilised to issue letters of credit. At 31 December 2006, £347 million of letters of credit had been
drawn from these facilities (2005: £93 million) and £212 million of cash and cash equivalents was used as collateral in relation to these facilities 
(2005: £28 million).
Uncommitted facilities available at 31 December 2006 were: 
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
Total Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Facility
Bank borrowing and overdraft facilities 35 – 35 36 18 18
Subsidiary facilities in various currencies 422 11 2 9
39 2 37 47 20 27
Bank borrowing facilities are normally reaffirmed by the banks annually although they can theoretically be withdrawn at any time.  
International Power Annual Report 2006 122
33 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/26/07  15:34  Page 122 g) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 
31 December 2006:
31 December 2006 31 December 2005
Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Other investments 26 26 4 4 
Finance lease receivables 1,086 1,114 460 460 
Other long-term receivables 29 29 – – 
Trade receivables (current) 139 139 163 163 
Other receivables (current) 157 157 108 108
Derivative financial assets 281 281 268 268 
Assets held for trading 42 42 52 52 
Cash and cash equivalents 980 980 620 620 
Total financial assets 2,740 2,768 1,675 1,675
Financial liabilities
Trade payables (current) 303 303 358 358
Other payables (current) 226 226 153 153
Other payables (non-current) 40 40 14 14 
Derivative financial liabilities 430 430 687 687
Secured bank loans 3,440 3,439 2,908 2,928
Preferred equity facility 152 152 173 173
Convertible bonds 237 247 125 125
Secured bonds 678 727 445 480
Loans from minority interests 81 81 81 81
Provisions 43 43 33 33 
Total financial liabilities 5,630 5,688 4,977 5,032
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
(i) Other investments comprise equity held in privately owned, unquoted companies as well as debt instruments in which there is no active market
available to value them. Therefore fair value cannot be reliably measured. The fair value has thus been based on the cost amount.
(ii) The fair value of finance lease receivables and other long-term receivables have been estimated by discounting estimated cash flows.
(iii) Trade and other receivables (current) and trade and other payables (current) are stated at fair value, set equal to book value, because 
of their short maturity.
(iv) The fair value of energy derivatives is measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification
techniques (refer note 41).
(v) The fair value of the Group’s forward exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and foreign currency options have been calculated using market
rates in effect at the balance sheet dates.
(vi) Assets held for trading have been estimated using quoted market prices and discounted cash flows.
(vii) All loans and bonds have been calculated using market prices where available or the present value of future cash flows arising.
h) Hedges
As explained on pages 15 to 17 of the business and financial review, the Group’s policy is to hedge the following exposures:
(i) Energy price fluctuations – using physical hedges through the operation of energy supply and trading activities together with financial products.
(ii) Interest rate risk – using interest rate swaps, options and forward rate agreements.
(iii) Structural and transactional currency exposures – using currency borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
(iv) Currency exposures on future expected sales – using currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
The hedging of structural currency exposures associated with foreign currency net investments is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 123
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 123 i) Cash flow hedging reserve movements 
The cash flow hedging reserve balance at 31 December 2006 and the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur are as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Energy Interest Total Energy Interest Total
derivatives rate swaps derivatives rate swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains/(losses) at 31 December 2006 336 (103) (15) (118)
Cash flows expected in:
Less than 12 months 22 (1) 21 (67) (2) (69)
1-2 years (12) – (12) (27) (1) (28)
2-3 years (4) (1) (5) (10) (1) (11)
3-4 years (3) (1) (4) 1 (1) –
4-5 years ––– – (4) (4)
More than 5 years –66 – (6) (6)
336 (103) (15) (118)
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve during the year were as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005
Energy Interest Total Energy Interest Total
derivatives rate swaps derivatives rate swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gains and (losses) recognised in the hedging reserve during the year 39 16 55 (104) 7 (97)
Gains and (losses) arising in previous years that were recognised 
during the year 67 2 69 (7) (2) (9)
Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within the 
income statement during the year due to settlement of contracts (4) – (4) (33) 3 (30)
Cash settlement of derivatives during the year 415 33 (8) 25
Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within a 
non-financial item during the year – (1) (1) –55
106 18 124 (111) 5 (106)
j) Hedge of a net investment
An economic foreign currency exposure arises from net investments in Group entities whose functional currency differs from the parent’s. An accounting
exposure arises from differences between the functional currency of the net investments and the Group’s presentation currency. Changes in exchange
rates between the functional currency of the net investment and that of its parent will cause the amount of the net investment to vary.
In the absence of hedge accounting the foreign exchange gains and losses on retranslating the net assets of the foreign operation would be taken to
reserves, whilst those on the loan would be recognised in the income statement. This creates a mismatch in foreign currency translation. When net
investment hedging is applied, this mismatch is eliminated.
The Group, as part of its hedging strategy, has therefore chosen to borrow some debt denominated in foreign currencies in order to hedge the net
investments in certain assets within its portfolio. As the hedging instrument is foreign currency borrowings rather than a derivative, no fair value for 
this instrument is included within the fair value of derivatives disclosed on the balance sheet. 
International Power Annual Report 2006 124
33 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 124 k) Counterparty credit risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits. Energy trading activities are strictly
monitored and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit
exposures in each of our key regions. Counterparty exposure via customer offtake agreements is monitored and managed by the local asset team with
assistance from Group treasury where appropriate. In addition, Group treasury manages the Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated
basis for financial counterparties, with the active and close involvement of the global risk manager. Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to
relationship banks and commercial paper with strong investment grade credit ratings. 
We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event that counterparties to traded contracts and financial instruments do not perform according to the
terms of the contract or instrument. This is mitigated by the fact that for the majority of the Group’s commodity trading arrangements there is a legally
enforceable right of set-off that reduces the credit exposure of the Group in the event of counterparty default.
Where possible the Group will also enter into master netting agreements that further serve to mitigate its credit exposure.
With regard to financial instruments subject to credit risk, we select counterparties with appropriate ratings for the size, type and duration of the
instrument involved. A small proportion of counterparties trading energy are below investment grade. For those energy market transactions with
counterparties below investment grade, and which are not supported by appropriate collateral, reserves are carried against the trading risk. Exposures
within this band are restricted and closely monitored within narrow limits. We do not expect any significant credit loss to result from non-performance
of instruments or traded contracts.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive fair value by counterparty
at 31 December 2006. At 31 December 2006, the exposures for interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward exchange contracts were not
considered to be material. Contracts for differences also involve a degree of credit risk. This risk is controlled by appropriate authorisation and
monitoring procedures.
34 COMMITMENTS
Lease and capital commitments
31 December 31 December 
2006 2005
£m £m
Capital commitments: contracted but not provided 174 82
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 7 6
Between one and five years 23 21
After five years 24 27
54 54
Offset by future minimum receipts under non-cancellable operating subleases (5) (8)
Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for office properties and wind turbine equipment.
Fuel purchase and transportation commitments
At 31 December 2006, the Group’s subsidiaries had contractual commitments to purchase and/or transport coal and fuel oil. Based on contract
provisions, which consist of fixed prices, subject to adjustment clauses in some cases, these minimum commitments are currently estimated to
aggregate to £385 million (2005: £301 million) expiring within one year, £1,373 million (2005: £978 million) expiring between one and five years 
and £880 million (2005: £915 million) expiring after more than five years.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 125
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 125 35 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
a) Legal proceedings against the Company
The Company is aware of the following matters, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group:
(i) Claims and potential claims by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating
Board (CEGB), and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may
incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
(ii) In 1994 separate complaints were made by the National Association of Licensed Opencast Operators (NALOO) and the South Wales Small
Miners Association (SWSMA) to the European Commission against the Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and HM Government.
The complaint alleges violations of EU competition law arising out of the coal purchasing arrangements entered into by the CEGB prior to 
1 April 1990 and requests the Commission to find that the CEGB’s practices violated EU law. NALOO and SWSMA allege that such a finding
would be grounds for a claim for damages in the English courts by their respective members. The Commission ruled on the complaint in 1998
and did not make any findings against the Company. Appeals against the Commission’s findings were brought by NALOO and SWSMA. The
SWSMA appeal was initially ruled out of time, but on appeal a faction was allowed to proceed. Progress with this claim will be influenced by the
outcome of the NALOO appeal. At first instance, the European Court ruled that the Commission is under an obligation to investigate the
complaint by NALOO. The Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and the Commission appealed against the ruling to the European
Court of Justice which delivered a judgment on 2 October 2003 for the main part dismissing the appeal. In its judgment, the court decided that
the Commission has the power to investigate and the matter is now with the Commission for consideration. It is not practicable to estimate legal
costs or possible damages, at this stage. RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of
any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received, the Group’s insurance arrangements and provisions carried in the balance
sheet, that it is remote that the matters referred to above will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Group’s financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.
b) Taxation
The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group
has operations, including its joint ventures and associates. The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice received, that
adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c) Bonds and guarantees
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling £442 million. 
Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling £487 million.
d) Joint ventures and associates
(i) Bonds and guarantees
The Group’s joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and
guarantees. The Group’s share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to £70 million. These obligations are normally secured by 
the assets of the respective joint venture or associate. Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group subsidiary are included
within bonds and guarantees disclosed in note 35(c). 
(ii) Legal proceedings
A number of the Group’s joint ventures and associates, particularly in the Middle East, are involved in major construction projects. The Company is
aware of a number of issues which may be the subject of disputes with the EPC contractors responsible for the construction projects. The Directors are
of the opinion, having regard to professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any liabilities that may arise
out of these disputes.
International Power Annual Report 2006 126
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 126 36 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. The compensation
of key management personnel can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 64 to 75 of the Annual Report.
(i) Operations and maintenance contracts
In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arm’s length basis to provide power station operation and maintenance services 
to joint ventures and associates. During the year the Group derived income of £50 million (2005: £69 million) from these arrangements. Included in trade
receivables is £8 million (2005: £6 million) in relation to these contracts.
(ii) Retail supply contracts
In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arm’s length basis to provide power and gas to its retail joint ventures. During the
year the Group derived income of £34 million (2005: £8 million) from these arrangements. Included in trade receivables is £3 million (2005: £1 million)
in relation to these contracts.
(iii) Transportation contracts
In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracts in place, in relation to fuel transportation, with one of its joint ventures. During the year,
the Group incurred costs of £8 million (2005: £8 million) in relation to these contracts. There was no trade payable or receivable in relation to these
contracts at 31 December 2006 (2005: £nil).
37 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
There are no events after the balance sheet date to report.
38 EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE DATE OF THE AUDITOR’S REPORT
There are no events to report subsequent to the date of the auditor’s report.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 127
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 127 39 SUBSIDIARIES
The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries.
Country of Group
incorporation and effective
Name and nature of business registration Type of share shareholding
Canunda Power Pty Limited* (power generation) Australia Ordinary Shares 100%
Gippsland Power Pty Limited* (power generation) Australia Ordinary Shares 70%
Hazelwood Power Partnership* (power generation) Australia Partners’ Capital 92%
Latrobe Power Partnership* (power generation) Australia Partners’ Capital 70%
Perth Power Partnership* (power generation) Australia Partners’ Capital 49%
Synergen Power Pty Limited* (power generation) Australia Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power Opatovice A.S.* (power generation) Czech Republic Ordinary Shares 100%
Deeside Power Development Company Limited (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
First Hydro Company* (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 70%
First Hydro Finance plc* (financing company) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 70%
Indian Queens Power Limited* (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
IPM Eagle LLP* (investment holding company) England and Wales Partners’ Capital 70%
Normanglade 4 LLP* (financing company) England and Wales Partners’ Capital 70%
Pelican Point Power Limited* (power generation) England and Wales
(1)
Ordinary Shares 100%
Rugeley Power Limited (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited* (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 70%
International Power Levanto Holdings BV (investment holding company) Netherlands
(2)
Ordinary Shares 100%
IPR Insurance Company Limited* (insurance captive) Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power (Jersey) Limited (financing company) Jersey
(3)
Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited (financing company) Jersey
(3)
Ordinary Shares 100%
Al Kamil Power Company SAOG* (power generation) Oman Ordinary Shares 65%
Turbogás – Produtora Enérgetica S.A* (power generation) Portugal Ordinary Shares 60%
Tihama Power Generation Company Limited* (power generation) Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60%
Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL* (power generation) Spain Ordinary Shares 64%
Ibérica de Enérgías SL* (power generation) Spain Ordinary Shares 70%
Thai National Power Company Limited* (power generation) Thailand Ordinary Shares 100%
ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC* (power generation) US Ordinary Shares 100%
ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC* (power generation) US Ordinary Shares 100%
ANP Funding I, LLC* (financing company) US Ordinary Shares 100%
Coleto Creek Power LLC* (power generation) US Ordinary Shares 100%
Hays Energy Limited Partnership* (power generation) US Partners’ Capital 100%
Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership* (power generation) US Partners’ Capital 100%
Milford Power Limited Partnership* (power generation) US Partners’ Capital 100%
All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below. All subsidiaries have a 31 December year end. The Group also has a
number of overseas branch offices. 
* Held by an intermediate subsidiary
(1) Operates in Australia
(2) International Power Levanto Holdings BV owns indirectly, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, equity and bonds relating to the Levanto wind farm
portfolio. As required, we consolidate100% of the results of the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
(3) Operates in the UK
International Power Annual Report 2006 128
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 128 40 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates.
Country of 
incorporation, Group
registration and Accounting effective
Name and nature of business operation period end Type of share shareholding
Joint ventures
EA – IPR Retail Partnership* (retail supplier) Australia 31 December Partners’ Capital 50%
South East Australia Gas Pty Limited* (gas pipeline) Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33%
EcoEléctrica LP* (power generation) Bermuda** 31 December Partners’ Capital 35%
Prazská Teplárenská A.S.* (power generation) Czech Republic 31 December Ordinary Shares 49%
Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership* (power generation) US 31 December Partners’ Capital 50%
Oyster Creek Limited Partnership* (power generation) US 31 December Partners’ Capital 50%
Associates
Hidd Power Company BSC(c)* (power generation) Bahrain 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
Derwent Cogeneration Limited* (power generation) England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23%
Opus Energy Limited (retail supplier) England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 30%
PT Paiton Energy Company* (power generation) Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 31%
ISAB Energy Srl* (power generation) Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34%
Kot Addu Power Company Limited* (power generation) Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36%
Uch Power Limited* (power generation) Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
The Hub Power Company Limited* (power generation) Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17%
Carbopego – Abastecimento de Combustiveis, S.A.* (fuel supplies) Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Pegop – Energia Electrica, S.A.* (power station operations) Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Tejo Energia – Producao e Distribuicao de Energia Electrica, S.A.* 
(power generation) Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Q Power QSC* (power generation) Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A.S.* (power generation) Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33%
Arabian Power Company PJSC* (power generation) UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC* (power generation) UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
International Power continues to equity account for HUBCO, despite its shareholdings being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power
to exert significant influence over the entity. At HUBCO, International Power continues to have significant board representation.
* Held by an intermediate subsidiary
** Operates in Puerto Rico
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 129
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/26/07  12:32  Page 129 41 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
The Group’s accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these financial statements. Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the
application of these policies. Areas which management believe require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows (apart from those policies
involving estimation which are outlined in (b) below). 
a) Critical accounting judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Cash flow hedge accounting
The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the
purchase of fuel for its own power plants. In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and
accordingly have to be marked to market. Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedge is effective, the changes
in value of the derivatives to be deferred in equity. In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an 
on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective. This requires both subjective and objective
measures of determination. 
Income recognition from long-term PPAs
When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment (known as a ‘capacity
payment’) for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output. In these situations, where there is a long-term
contract to purchase electricity output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine
whether they constitute a form of lease or a service contract. 
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance or
operating lease. This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside. For finance leases it is necessary
to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision.
For operating leases it is necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between rental payments and fees for service provision. 
Evaluation of levels of control and influence
The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be
critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements. We achieve control or influence through Board
representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions. We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the
equity as investments available for sale. These investments available for sale are carried at market value where market prices are available. Where quoted
market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured 
at cost. 
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entity’s
operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as a joint venture or an associate. Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest (but less than
20%) in an entity and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we treat it as a joint venture or an associate. This treatment is
applied to our interest in The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17% (refer note 40). Where the Group has the power to control the
operations of an entity, and it has less than 50% of the equity, we treat the entity as a subsidiary when required. 
Exceptional items
The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately 
if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity. The Directors label these items collectively
as ‘exceptional items’. 
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter. However, circumstances that the Directors
believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: 
(i) disposals of investments;
(ii) discontinued operations;
(iii) impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate. In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure 
is made of all items in one column on the face of the income statement. 
Taxation
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is dependent on subjective judgement as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax
authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates. It is necessary to consider the extent to which
deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable. 
International Power Annual Report 2006 130
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/26/07  12:54  Page 130 b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment
The original cost of greenfield developed power plant and other assets includes relevant borrowings and development costs:
(i) Interest on borrowings relating to major capital projects with long periods of development is capitalised during construction and then amortised 
over the useful life of the asset; 
(ii) Project development costs (including appropriate direct internal costs) are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the contract will proceed 
to completion and income will be realised. 
Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective estimated
useful lives. The Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives and residual values of the assets so that depreciation is charged on a
systematic and proportionate basis to the current carrying amount. It is Group policy to depreciate gas plant over 30 years to a 10% residual value,
unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value. Coal plants, hydro plants and
wind farms are considered on an individual basis. 
Fair values of energy derivatives
The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure”
and IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts on its balance
sheet at fair value (unless they qualify for the ‘own use’ exemption). Changes in the value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in
earnings unless strict hedge accounting criteria are met which allow the movement in fair value to be recorded within equity. The Group estimates the
fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price curves. A forward price curve represents the Group’s view as to the prices at
which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates. Generally the forward price
curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over the more
distant horizon period. The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of the forward price curve.
The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity. 
Fair values on acquisition
The Group is required to bring acquired assets and liabilities on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value. Power plant and equipment usually have
long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs. Hence determination of the fair values of these long-life
assets and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement. 
Impairment analysis
Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to the carrying amounts of its power plants and other long life assets.
This includes a review of market conditions in both the short-term and long-term. Impairment reviews are generally based on pre-tax risk adjusted
discounted cash flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets. We benchmark
the results of this testing against post-tax risk adjusted cash flows, discounted on a post-tax basis. At each balance sheet date, consideration is also given
as to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods has reversed. During the year the Group reversed the
impairment of its Deeside plant in the UK (refer note 14). 
Provisions
Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions. The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions about 
such items as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs. For example, the pensions
liability is based on assumptions relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries and future changes in prices affecting other costs. A change 
in estimates could have a material impact on the carrying amount of these provisions. 
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 131
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 131 Company balance sheet
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2006 
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
5 Tangible assets 2 2
6 Investments:
Subsidiary undertakings 3,979 3,065
Other investments 1 1
Total fixed asset investments 3,980 3,066
Total fixed assets 3,982 3,068
Current assets
7 Debtors 181 343
Cash at bank and in hand 329 53
Total current assets 510 396
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (1,559) (1,415)
Net current liabilities (1,049) (1,019)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,933 2,049
4/9 Retirement benefit obligations (12) (18)
9 Provisions for liabilities and charges (31) (33)
Net assets 2,890 1,998
Capital and reserves
10/11 Called up share capital 746 737
11 Share premium account 402 394
11 Capital redemption reserve 145 145
11 Capital reserve 415 415
11 Profit and loss account 1,182 307
Shareholders’ funds – equity 2,890 1,998
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Cox Mark Williamson
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
International Power Annual Report 2006 132
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 132 Notes to the Company
financial statements 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006  
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a) Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with applicable accounting
standards, and under the historical cost
accounting rules. 
The following accounting policies have been
applied consistently in dealing with items
which are considered material in relation to
the financial statements, except as noted
below.
Under section 230(4) of the Companies Act
1985 the Company is exempt from the
requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account. 
As the results of the Company are being
presented together with its consolidated
financial statements (refer pages 79 to 131),
the Company has taken advantage of the
exemption contained in FRS 8 and has
therefore not disclosed transactions or
balances with entities which form part of 
the Group (or investees of the Group
qualifying as related parties). 
The following accounting standard was
available for early application but has not
been applied by the Company in these
financial statements. The Group has not
adopted the amendments to FRS 17
(Retirement Benefits) requiring additional
disclosure of the scheme’s assets and
liabilities. This amendment applies to
accounting periods beginning on or after 
6 April 2007. 
b) Income recognition
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings
is recognised in the profit and loss account on
receipt of the cash. 
c) Pension schemes
The Company operates a pension scheme 
(by participating in the International Power
section of the Electricity Supply Pension
Scheme) providing benefits based on final
pensionable pay. The assets of the scheme
are held separately from those of the
Company. 
Pension scheme assets are measured using
market values. Pension scheme liabilities are
measured using a projected unit credit
method and discounted at the current rate 
of return on a high quality corporate bond of
equivalent term and currency to the liability. 
The pension scheme surplus (to the extent
that it is recoverable) or deficit is recognised 
in full. The movement in the scheme
surplus/deficit is split between operating
charges, finance items and, in the statement 
of total recognised gains and losses, actuarial
gains and losses.
For defined contribution arrangements,
contributions are charged to the profit and 
loss account as they fall due.
d) Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at original 
cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any provision for impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write-
down the cost of tangible fixed assets to their
residual value evenly over their estimated
useful lives. 
The depreciation charge is based on the
following estimates of useful lives:
Years
Fixtures, fittings, 
tools and equipment 3-10
Computer equipment 
and software 3-5
Leasehold improvements Life of lease
e) Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are
stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
f) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided on timing
differences, arising from the different
treatment for accounts and taxation purposes
of transactions and events recognised in the
financial statements of the current year and
previous years. Deferred taxation is calculated
at the rates at which it is estimated that tax
will arise. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
not discounted. 
g) Loans and bonds
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised
initially at fair value less attributable
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are
stated at amortised cost with any difference
between cost and redemption value being
recognised in the income statement over the
period of the borrowings on an effective
interest basis. 
h) Financial guarantees
Where the Company enters into financial
guarantee contracts to guarantee the
indebtedness of other companies within its
group, the Company considers these to be
insurance arrangements, and accounts for
them as such. In this respect, the Company
treats the guarantee contract as a contingent
liability until such time as it becomes probable
that the Company will be required to make 
a payment under the guarantee. 
i) Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-
based payments to certain employees. 
Equity-settled share-based payments are
measured at fair value (excluding the effect 
of non-market-based vesting conditions) at
the date of grant. The fair value determined
at the date of grant of the equity-settled
share-based payments is expensed on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period,
based on the Company’s estimate of the
shares that will eventually vest and where
applicable, adjusted for the effect of non
market-based vesting conditions.
For the Group’s Executive Share Option Plans
the fair values are measured using the Black-
Scholes pricing model. The expected lives
used in these models have been adjusted,
based on management’s best estimate, for
the effects of non-transferability, any exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For conditional awards made under the 2002
Performance Share Plan without a market-
related performance condition, the fair values
have been calculated as the face value of the
award discounted for the non-entitlement to
dividends during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards made under the
2002 Performance Share Plan contain a
market-related performance condition, the 
fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo
simulation method. 
j) Foreign currencies
Foreign currency monetary assets and
liabilities are translated at the rate of
exchange at the balance sheet date. Foreign
currency non-monetary items measured in
terms of historical cost are translated at the
rate of exchange at the date of the
transaction. Exchange differences on
monetary items are dealt with in the profit
and loss account. Exchange differences on
non-monetary items are recognised in line
with whether the gain or loss on the non-
monetary item itself is recognised in the profit
and loss account or in equity. 
Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 133
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/26/07  12:34  Page 133 2 PROFIT OF THE PARENT COMPANY
The profit of the parent company for the financial year amounted to £932 million (2005: £21 million). By virtue of Section 230(4) of the Companies
Act 1985, the Company is exempt from presenting a separate profit and loss account.
3 EMPLOYEES
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
Number Number
Based in UK 179 162
Based overseas 33 34
212 196
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 21 21
Share-based payments 9 6
Social security costs 5 6
Other pension costs 8 4
43 37
For details of the Company’s share-based payments, refer to note 29 of the Group accounts.
4 PENSION ARRANGEMENTS
The valuation used for the FRS 17 disclosure at 31 December 2006 has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the International Power
section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme at 31 March 2004 updated to 31 December 2006 by independent qualified actuaries.
The major assumptions used by the actuary were:
Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December
2006 2005 2004
% %%
Inflation assumption 3.1 2.9 2.9
Rate of increase in salaries 4.6 4.4 4.4
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.1 2.9 3.0
Rate of increase of deferred pensions 3.1 2.9 3.0
Rate used to discount plan liabilities 5.1 4.7 5.3
The assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return were:
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
Long-term Value Long-term Value Long-term Value
rate of return rate of return rate of return 
%£m %£m %£m
Equities 7.5 71 7.1 60 7.5 44
Bonds 5.0 8 4.6 7 5.0 5
Other 6.4 9 6.0 7 6.2 6
Total market value of assets 88 74 55
Present value of scheme liabilities (100) (92) (67)
Deficit in scheme (12) (18) (12)
Related deferred tax asset 4 54
Net pension liability (8) (13) (8)
International Power Annual Report 2006 134
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 134 Analysis of amounts charged to operating profit:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Current service cost 6 4
Settlement/curtailment cost 2 –
Total operating cost 8 4
Analysis of amounts credited to other finance income:
2006 2005
£m £m
Expected return on pension plan assets 5 4
Interest on pension plan liabilities (4) (4)
Net return 1 –
Analysis of amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
2006 2005
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 2 9
Experience losses arising on the scheme liabilities – (6)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 5 (9)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 7 (6)
Analysis of movement in deficit during the year:
2006 2005
£m £m
Deficit in scheme at 1 January (18) (12)
Current service cost (6) (4)
Settlement/curtailment cost (2) –
Contributions 6 4
Other finance income 1 –
Actuarial gain/(loss) 7 (6)
Deficit in scheme at 31 December (12) (18)
History of experience gains and losses:
2006 2005 2004 2003
Difference between the actual and expected return on pension scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 2 934
Percentage of scheme assets 2% 12% 5% 9%
Experience (losses)/gains arising on the scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) – (6) 4 –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities – 7% 6% –
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£m) 7 (6) – 4
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 7% 7% – 7%
Reconciliation to balance sheet:
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Total market value of assets 88 74
Scheme liabilities (100) (92)
Deficit in scheme (12) (18)
Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 135
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 135 5 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
Freehold Plant, Total
land and machinery and 
buildings equipment
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2006 279
Additions –11
At 31 December 2006 28 10
Depreciation
At 1 January 2006 167
Provided during the year –11
At 31 December 2006 178
Net book value
At 31 December 2006 112
At 31 December 2005 112
6 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
Subsidiary undertakings
Investment Loans to Other Total
investments
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 2,637 577 2 3,216
Additions 173 175 – 348
Capitalisation of loan due from subsidiary undertakings 69 (69) – –
Distribution and loan repayments (392) (187) – (579)
Disposals – – (1) (1)
Impairment loss reversed 40 15 – 55
Exchange differences 42 (15) – 27
At 31 December 2005 2,569 496 1 3,066
Additions 514 1,426 – 1,940
Capitalisation of loan due from subsidiary undertakings 52 (52) – –
Distribution and loan repayments – (323) – (323)
Disposals (974) – – (974)
Impairment loss charged (70) – – (70)
Impairment loss reversed 311 45 – 356
Exchange differences – (15) – (15)
At 31 December 2006 2,402 1,577 1 3,980
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are provided in notes 39 and 40 of the Group accounts.
7 DEBTORS
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Due from subsidiary undertakings 135 275
Other debtors 11 25
Corporation tax 30 38
Prepayments and accrued income 5 5
Total amounts falling due within one year 181 343
International Power Annual Report 2006 136
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 136 8 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade creditors 1 2
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 1,491 1,286
Other creditors 19 15
Other taxation and social security 1 1
Bank loans – 64
Accruals and deferred income 47 47
Total creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,559 1,415
9 PROVISIONS
Retirement benefit Deferred Other Total
obligations tax
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 12 24 7 43
Charged to profit and loss 4– 6 10
Credited to profit and loss (4) – (2) (6)
Charged/(credited) to reserves 6 (2) – 4
At 31 December 2005 18 22 11 51
Charged to profit and loss 7–– 7
Credited to profit and loss (6) (3) (1) (10)
(Credited)/charged to reserves (7) 2 – (5)
At 31 December 2006 12 21 10 43
10 SHARE CAPITAL
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,474,736,637 737
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 13,073,207 6
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 1,196,959 1
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan – – 3,046,107 2
At 31 December 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2005 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,473,269,066 737
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 858,892 –
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 608,679 –
At 31 December 2005 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,474,736,637 737
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up 
of the Company. 
Deferred shares
The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 pence each in issue. These shares were issued to ensure the demerger was effected as efficiently 
as possible. The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting. 
Unclassified share
Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Company’s authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of £1.
Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 137
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 137 11 SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Called up Share Capital Capital Profit Total
share premium redemption reserve and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve account funds – 
equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 737 394 145 415 307 1,998
Profit for the year –––– 932 932
Issue of shares 9 8 – – – 17
Dividends –––– (67) (67)
Other movements –––– 10 10
At 31 December 2006 746 402 145 415 1,182 2,890
Attributable to equity holders to the parent
Called up Share Capital Capital Profit Total
share premium redemption reserve and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve account funds –
equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 737 392 145 415 321 2,010
Profit for the year –––– 21 21
Issue of shares – 2 – – – 2
Dividends –––– (37) (37)
Other movements –––– 2 2
At 31 December 2005 737 394 145 415 307 1,998
The share premium account, capital redemption reserve and capital reserve are not distributable.
A number of International Power plc Ordinary Shares are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs). These shares are held by the ESOTs to
meet awards made under the Company’s 2002 Performance Share Plan. At 31 December 2006, the ESOTs held a total of 1,241,452 International
Power plc Ordinary Shares (2005: 2,081,573). At 31 December 2006 the market value of these shares was £4,739,243 (2005: £4,985,367). The
maximum number of shares required to meet all outstanding awards (assuming full vesting of those awards) at 31 December 2006 was 6,444,745
(2005: 7,522,005).
£527 million (2005: £124 million) of the Company’s profit and loss reserve is not distributable as it arose from unrealised gains on intra-group transfers.
12 COMMITMENTS
Lease commitments
31 December 31 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Property leases (annual commitment):
Expiring within one year ––
Expiring between one and five years ––
Expiring after five years 5 5
13 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
a) Legal proceedings against the Company
Details of legal proceedings against the Company are shown in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. 
b) Taxation
Details of contingent liabilities relating to tax issues are shown in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
c) Bonds and guarantees
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Company totalling £292 million. 
Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Company totalling £418 million.
14 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which
form part of the Group.
International Power Annual Report 2006 138
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 138 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 139
Five-year financial summary
The following tables are the consolidated income statements, the consolidated income statements excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements and the summary balance sheets for the five years ended 31 December 2006. For the years ended 31 December 2003
and 31 December 2002 the results have been prepared under UK GAAP . They have been re-presented under an IFRS format, in the table below, 
to aid comparability.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
(IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (UK GAAP) (UK GAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 3,783 2,936 1,267 1,273 1,129
Less: share of joint ventures’ and associates’ revenue (1,199) (1,003) (499) (421) (412)
Group revenue 2,584 1,933 768 852 717
Cost of sales (1,839) (1,513) (637) (1,133) (661)
Gross profit/(loss) 745 420 131 (281) 56
Other operating income 102 122 56 66 134
Other operating expenses (163) (129) (67) (64) (85)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 214 198 113 195 222
Profit/(loss) from operations 898 611 233 (84) 327
Disposal of investments – 10 4 27 –
Finance income 53 53 30 42 24
Finance expenses (327) (255) (138) (169) (156)
Profit/(loss) before tax 624 419 129 (184) 195
Income tax expense (147) (89) (25) (28) (76)
Profit/(loss) for the year 477 330 104 (212) 119
Attributable to:
Minority interests 67 45676
Equity holders of the parent 410 285 98 (219) 113
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 27.6p 19.4p 7.5p (17.6)p 9.0p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 26.2p 18.5p 7.4p (17.6)p 9.0p
The share of results from joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2003, presented under UK GAAP , 
in the above table, is shown before interest, taxation and minority interests.
With effect from 1 January 2004, we reverted to equity accounting for our 36% stake in KAPCO and now account for it as an associate. KAPCO had
previously been accounted for as a trade investment with dividend receipts recorded in income from investments. To aid comparability the dividends
received in 2003 and 2002 have been included in the share of results of joint ventures and associates in the above table.
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:40  Page 139 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY continued
International Power Annual Report 2006 140
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS EXCLUDING EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND SPECIFIC IAS 39 
MARK TO MARKET MOVEMENTS
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
(IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (UK GAAP) (UK GAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 3,645 2,980 1,267 1,273 1,129
Less: share of joint ventures’ and associates’ revenue (1,193) (1,000) (499) (421) (412)
Group revenue 2,452 1,980 768 852 717
Cost of sales (1,807) (1,570) (637) (729) (558)
Gross profit 645 410 131 123 159
Other operating income 83 64 56 66 134
Other operating expenses (163) (129) (78) (64) (85)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 208 191 113 160 180
Profit from operations 773 536 222 285 388
Finance income 53 53 30 42 24
Finance expenses (301) (255) (107) (153) (156)
Profit before tax 525 334 145 174 256
Income tax expense (122) (68) (25) (54) (77)
Profit for the year 403 266 120 120 179
Attributable to:
Minority interests 71 52876
Equity holders of the parent 332 214 112 113 173
Basic earnings per share 22.4p 14.6p 8.6p 9.1p 13.8p
The comments set out below the table on the preceding page also apply to the results presented above.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
As at As at As at As at As at
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
(IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (UK GAAP) (UK GAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 7,408 6,592 5,667 2,585 2,981
Inventories 141 110 91 65 55
Other current asset receivables and derivatives 803 676 238 160 134
Cash and cash equivalents and assets held for trading 1,022 672 612 743 842
Current assets 1,966 1,458 941 968 1,031
Current liabilities (1,116) (1,300) (545) (846) (1,405)
Non-current liabilities (5,518) (4,375) (4,005) (1,147) (838)
Net assets 2,740 2,375 2,058 1,560 1,769
Net debt 3,485 2,979 2,745 692 812
Gearing 127% 125% 133% 44% 46%
Debt capitalisation 56% 56% 57% 31% 31%
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions) 1,080 847 1,549 130 183
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:41  Page 140 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 141
Shareholder profile
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2006 
CATEGORY OF HOLDINGS
Number Percentage Ordinary Percentage 
of shareholders of total Shares of issued 
shareholders share capital
Private individual 412,557 99.03 182,216,192 12.21
Nominee companies 3,718 0.89 1,280,011,573 85.79
Limited and public limited companies 201 0.05 10,714,134 0.72
Other corporate bodies 100 0.03 10,825,480 0.73
Pension funds, insurance companies and banks 18 0.00 8,285,531 0.55
Total 416,594 100.00 1,492,052,910 100.00
RANGE OF HOLDINGS
Number Percentage Ordinary Percentage 
of shareholders of total Shares of issued 
shareholders share capital
1 – 199 100,072 24.02 15,307,659 1.03
200 – 499 225,737 54.19 65,079,560 4.36
500 – 999 61,531 14.77 41,973,630 2.81
1,000 – 4,999 25,961 6.23 45,323,020 3.04
5,000 – 9,999 1,856 0.45 12,292,855 0.82
10,000 – 49,999 684 0.16 13,239,011 0.89
50,000 – 99,999 166 0.04 11,912,183 0.80
100,000 – 499,999 297 0.07 70,659,575 4.74
500,000 – 999,999 105 0.03 77,313,137 5.18
1,000,000 – highest 185 0.04 1,138,952,280 76.33
Total 416,594 100.00 1,492,052,910 100.00
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:41  Page 141 International Power Annual Report 2006 142
Shareholder services 
and information
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The 2007 AGM will be held on Tuesday
15 May 2007. Further details will be set out
in the Notice of the AGM to be sent out in
April 2007.
Electronic Voting
For the AGM you can register your vote
electronically by logging on to the following
website: www.sharevote.co.uk. You will
need your voting reference numbers (the three
8-digit numbers shown on your Proxy Form).
Alternatively, if you have already registered for 
a shareview portfolio with Lloyds TSB Registrars,
then log on to your portfolio at
www.shareview.co.uk and click on 
company meetings.
Receive your Annual Report
over the Internet
If you have access to the Internet, in 
future you can receive your copy of 
the Annual Report by registering with
www.shareview.co.uk. This is a service
offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars that also
enables you to check your holdings in many 
UK companies and helps you to organise your
investments electronically. Once you have
registered for a portfolio, you can also use this
service to change your address details online 
as well as register your vote for a company’s
General Meeting safely, securely and privately.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend
you can choose to reinvest your money in 
the Company’s shares by using a Dividend
Reinvestment Plan. The DRIP works by
reinvesting your dividend money by way of
buying shares in the open market. If you would
like to receive further information and an
application form for the International Power
DRIP , please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on
0870 241 3018.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
Information on the International Power
corporate ISA, which offers a tax-efficient way
of holding shares, can be obtained from the
provider, Lloyds TSB Registrars, on 
0870 24 24 244.
Shareholder enquiries
If you have any queries on the following:
• transfer of shares;
• change of name or address;
• lost share certificates;
• lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and
payment of dividends directly into a bank 
or building society account;
• death of the registered holder of shares;
• receiving duplicate copies of this report;
• receiving the Annual Report in addition 
to the Summary Annual Report;
please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 
0870 600 3978 or write to them at 
The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex 
BN99 6DA, quoting International Power and
including your shareholder reference number
(on your share certificate).
Additional information can be found 
on the Lloyds TSB website at 
www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk.
Share dealing services
Lloyds TSB Registrars have in place a low-cost
share dealing service for both the purchase and
sale of shares. This is a postal service only. For
information on the low-cost dealing service, or
to obtain a dealing form, please contact Lloyds
TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3978.
Share price
Our latest share price information 
is available on
www.ipplc.com/ipr/investors/shareinfo/
This link will provide you with International
Power’s latest share price, historical closing
prices and volumes and an interactive share
price graph.
In addition, you can now access the 
latest share price on your Blackberry, 
PDA or mobile phone at
http://mobile.ipplc.com.
General enquiries
Please contact:
Stephen Ramsay
Company Secretary
International Power plc
Senator House
85 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4DP .
Tel: 020 7320 8706
Corporate investor & media enquiries
Please contact:
Aarti Singhal
Head of Communications
International Power plc
Senator House
85 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4DP .
Tel: 020 7320 8681
Website
The recently re-launched website –
www.ipplc.com contains the 2006 Annual
Report and Summary Annual Report, 
along with a wide range of other information
on the Group.
The website also hosts an Alert Service
www.ipplc.com/ipr/siteservices/alerts/,
where you can sign up for e-mail alerts 
of news releases, reports, results and
presentations, and events.
Corporate social responsibility
Our annual corporate responsibility report 
is available on our website
www.ipplc.com/ipr/environment/
corpresp/.
Financial calendar
Announcement of Q1 results 10 May 2007
Annual General Meeting 15 May 2007
Ex dividend date 23 May 2007
Dividend payment date 26 June 2007
Announcement of interim results for the period ended 30 June 2007 9 August 2007
Announcement of Q3 results 8 November 2007
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/26/07  12:57  Page 142 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 143
GLOSSARY/INDEX
ABI Association of British Insurers, a body which, inter alia, sets standards of corporate governance on behalf of 
insurance companies.
AGM Annual General Meeting.
ANP American National Power (now International Power America).
Availability A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually available to be generated during the period,
after taking account of both planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the maximum potential
electrical energy generation.
Bond Security that obligates the issuing company to make specified payments to the bondholders (financial institutions).
Brownfield Building a plant on a previously operational site.
CCGT Combined cycle gas turbine – the combination of a gas turbine (GT) and steam turbine (ST) in a configuration that
enables electricity to be generated directly from a generator driven by the GT and, by using exhaust gases from the
GT to produce steam, a ST coupled to the same generator or another generator.
CO Carbon monoxide.
CO
2
Carbon dioxide.
Cogeneration The simultaneous generation of electricity and heat in the form of steam, typically where the need for both arises 
for industrial or commercial purposes and where the steam is generated by utilising the waste heat from 
electricity generation.
Combined code The code which sets out the expected corporate governance standards for companies listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
Corridor approach Under this approach to recognising surpluses and deficits in defined benefit pension plans, actuarial gains and losses
are not recognised immediately. Only when the cumulative gains or losses fall outside the corridor is a specified
portion recognised in the income statement from the following year onwards. The corridor is 10% of the present
value of the pension rights accrued or of the fund assets at market value, if greater.
CR Corporate responsibility.
Debt capitalisation Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and total equity.
Desalination plant The specific plant located within a power and water producing complex that has the purposes of utilising waste heat
from electricity generation to produce potable water from seawater via a steam distillation process.
Emission allowances Under various environmental schemes, emission allowances are required to cover the amount of relevant emissions
made by an asset. Cap and trade schemes are a common type of scheme. Under a cap and trade scheme, operators
are required to purchase sufficient emission allowances to cover their actual emissions, and the operator may or may
not be granted an initial volume of allowances. Examples of such schemes include the EU Emissions Trading Scheme
(EUETS) which covers emissions of CO2, based on a cap and trade system. Other examples include the Clean Air Act
in the US which covers emissions of NOx and SOx.
EPS Earnings per share, calculated by dividing the profit after interest, tax and minority interests by the weighted average
number of shares in issue.
FGD Flue gas desulphurisation.
Functional currency The currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
Generator nameplate The maximum output of a generator, under specific conditions designated by the manufacturer. Installed 
capacity (installed) generator capacity (megawatts) is usually indicated on a nameplate physically attached to the generator.
Greenfield Building a power plant on a new site.
Hedge contracts A contract that gives protection against risks of future commodity price movements.
HSE Health, safety and environment.
HUBCO The Hub Power Company.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards.
ISO 14001 The international standard of environment management systems.
KAPCO The Kot Addu Power Company.
KPI Key performance indicator
LNG Liquefied natural gas
Load factor The proportion of electricity actually sold, compared with the maximum possible sales of electricity at maximum 
net capacity.
LTIP Long-term incentive plan.
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/23/07  15:41  Page 143 International Power Annual Report 2006 144
Merchant market A merchant market is a deregulated market.
Merchant plant Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets selling power into the traded market without long-term power
purchase agreements (PPAs).
Mitsui Mitsui & Co. of Japan. Our partners in IPM Eagle LLP .
MIGD Millions of imperial gallons per day.
MW Megawatt; one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts.
MWth One megawatt of thermal power.
National Allocation Plan The Plan issued under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme that sets out how greenhouse gas emission allowances will
be allocated to affected industry sectors and the assets within the relevant sector.
NO
x
Oxides of nitrogen.
Non–recourse debt Debt secured on an asset, and where the lender has no recourse to the shareholder.
O&M Operations and maintenance, usually used in the context of operating and maintaining a power station.
OCGT Open cycle gas turbine – turbines, typically fuelled by gas or diesel oil, are used to drive the generators to 
produce electricity.
Offtake agreement Power purchase agreement between a company owning a power station and its customer (the offtaker) whereby the
customer takes the electricity generated by a power station.
OFR Operational and financial review.
OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18001. A management system specification, developed by British
Standards Institute, for health and safety which is compatible with ISO 9001:1994 (Quality) and ISO 14001:1996
(Environmental) management.
Peak load The maximum demand for electricity during a specified high demand period. This may require use of plant (for
example pumped storage) that is kept in reserve for peak periods.
PPA Power Purchase Agreement (see also Offtake agreement).
Proprietary trading The trading of commodities for the purposes of making a profit, when the commodity, such as electricity, is not
generated by our own power stations or purchased for use by our own power stations, e.g. fuel or carbon allowances.
Put To sell a security back to the issuer at a pre-determined price.
Recourse debt Debt where the lender has recourse to parties other than the borrower, usually a parent company or shareholder.
Reserve margin The amount of available plant reserve capacity above the system’s peak electricity requirements.
Rights Issue The offer of new shares to shareholders pro-rata to their current holding, usually at a discounted price.
RPI Retail Price Index.
RREV Research Recommendations Electronic Voting. A body which acts on behalf of institutional investors monitoring the
corporate governance performance of quoted companies, and which issues recommendations for voting on
resolutions at those companies’ general meetings.
SO
2
Sulphur dioxide.
Spread The difference between the fuel costs to generate electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
Turnbull Guidance The Turnbull Guidance expands upon the Combined Code requirements for the Directors’ review of the effectiveness
of the Group’s system of internal controls.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in reaction to the highly publicised bankruptcies of Enron and
WorldCom and is concerned with strictly enforcing corporate governance and financial disclosure.
6707-01 IPR_accounts_AW tp  3/27/07  13:51  Page 144 Designed and produced by Natural
www.naturalassociates.com
Board and senior management photography by Orla Deevy
It is important to us that our Annual Report is produced in an environmentally responsible manner, including the sourcing of
materials. This Annual Report is printed, by Royle Corporate Print who are accredited with the ISO 14001 Environmental
Management System (BS-EN-ISO 14001:2004), using vegetable-based inks on paper that is totally chlorine free and produced
at a mill with ISO 14001 & EMAS (Eco Management & Audit Scheme) accreditation. On average, 70% of all waste associated
with its production is recycled.
When you have finished with this Annual Report, please dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
International Power has recently revamped its corporate website –
www.ipplc.com
Key features include:
Global reach, information on our 
asset portfolio
Shareholder information section, to 
help you manage your shareholding
Investor data section, for summarised
financial information
Online 2006 Annual Report
P
P
P
P Registered Office, International Power plc, Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4DP
Registered in England and Wales No: 2366963
Published by International Power plc
www.ipplc.com
