 Annual Report 2007 Disclaimer
This document includes certain forward-looking statements. These
statements are based on current expectations and projections of the Group
about future events. However, by their nature forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on
circumstances that will or may occur in the future. Actual results may differ
from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors
including, but not limited to, the economic and business circumstances
occurring from time to time in the countries in which the Group operates,
changes in trends in the general, global or regional economies, changes in
trends in the global energy sector, changes in regulation and natural
disasters or other calamities.
CONTENTS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
6 Our portfolio
8 Business and financial review
8 Strategy and Group overview 
16 Our approach to risk and risk management
24 Key performance indicators and financial highlights 
32 Regional reviews 
54 Financial position and resources 
62 Board of Directors 
64 Senior management team
GOVERNANCE
67 Corporate governance
72 Corporate responsibility
80 Employees
83 Directors’ remuneration report
96 Our core values
97 Directors’ report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
100 Independent auditor’s report
101 Consolidated income statement
102 Consolidated balance sheet
103 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
104 Consolidated cash flow statement
105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
165 Company balance sheet
166 Notes to the Company financial statements
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
175 Five-year financial summary
177 Shareholder profile
178 Shareholder services and information
178 Financial calendar
179 Glossary
CASE STUDIES
23 Producing fresh water through desalination
61 Reducing sulphur emissions
66 Controlling dust emissions
79 Wind generation
The Business and financial review is based on the
guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews
published by the Accounting Standards Board. To
assist shareholders with their understanding of our
business we look at issues affecting the Group as a
whole on pages 8 to 31 followed by reviews of 
our five regions on pages 32 to 53. We cover our
financial position and resources on pages 54 to 60. International Power Annual Report 2007 1
HIGHLIGHTS
PROFIT FROM
OPERATIONS
INCREASED TO
£904 MILLION 
EARNINGS PER
SHARE UP21%
FREE CASH FLOW
UP 43%
PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS 
 
£904m 2007  
£773m 2006  
Note: All references above to profit from operations and earnings per share
are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC) 
 
27.1p 2007 
22.4p 2006 
FREE CASH FLOW 
 
£653m 2007 
£456m 2006  Chairman’s statement 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
Your Company has once again delivered a good
performance. In 2007 profit from operations*
was up 17% to £904 million, earnings per
share* (EPS) increased by 21% from 22.4p 
to 27.1p, and free cash flow also improved
strongly by 43% to £653 million.
This overall increase in profit from operations 
was principally driven by improved results from our
European and North American regions. Our European
business delivered a particularly strong performance
with a £124 million increase in profit from 
operations to £574 million in 2007. The key driver 
in this region was the UK where profit from
operations benefited from the forward contracting
strategy that we put in place during 2006. In North
America, a first full year contribution from Coleto
Creek in Texas, together with enhanced capacity
payments in New England were key in driving profit
from operations up by £35 million to £136 million 
in 2007. Although we had a challenging year in
Australia, mainly due to the very severe drought, 
we expect to achieve improved margins in 2008, 
as power prices recover. Our long-term contracted
plants in Asia and the Middle East continue to
perform well with growth in profit from operations
through good operational performance and a
contribution from new assets.
GROWTHISA
KEY STRATEGIC
FOCUS FOR THE
BUSINESS International Power Annual Report 2007 3
We grew our generation portfolio during 2007 both
through acquisitions and greenfield development. The
most significant expansion was in wind generation
where we acquired 660 MW of operational capacity
and 55 MW under construction, located in Italy,
Germany and the Netherlands. Together with existing
wind power assets our total wind portfolio now
comprises 1,199 MW in operation. 
Profitable growth remains a key strategic focus for
International Power. Tightening power supply driven
by the need to replace old capacity and a growing
demand for power in many of our markets presents
us with multiple greenfield and acquisition
opportunities in both our existing and new markets. 
I am pleased to report that our experience, proven
track record and healthy balance sheet place us in a
good position to deliver further growth in the future.
In October 2007, the Board introduced the payment 
of an interim dividend of 2.77 pence per Ordinary
Share. Interim dividends will be calculated as a fixed
percentage (35%) of the previous year’s full year
dividend. The Board is proposing a final dividend of
7.39 pence per share for the year which, including the
interim dividend, will take the total for 2007 to 10.16
pence per share. This represents an EPS pay-out ratio
of 37.5%, up from 35% last year. Our dividend policy
remains to progressively grow the dividend to an EPS
pay-out ratio of 40%.
I would like to thank Adri Baan who, having served
on the Board for five years, retired on 31 December
2007. During this time he chaired the Remuneration
Committee and made a valuable contribution to 
the growth of the business. John Roberts now 
takes over from Adri as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. 
In June 2007 Alan Murray joined the Company as 
a Non-Executive Director. Alan, who has a finance
background, was latterly CEO of Hanson plc and 
is now on the Managing Board of Heidelberg 
Cement AG. He has taken over as Chairman of the
Audit Committee following the completion of the
2007 accounts. 
During 2007 we reviewed our US listing. The US
corporate governance regulatory requirements,
following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, involved the
introduction of an unreasonably burdensome and
expensive administrative environment across the
Group. As less than 1% of the traded volume of 
our shares occurred in New York, we decided in 
June 2007 to deregister and delist from the SEC 
and NYSE respectively. Prior to deregistering, we
received an unqualified opinion from KPMG that 
we had achieved compliance with the requirements 
of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in relation 
to our US reporting for the 2006 financial year. 
The Board remains confident that a proper control
framework is in place across the Group.
Measures to control climate change and the
protection of the environment continue to affect 
our industry and we expect them to do so for the
foreseeable future. Throughout this report you will
read about our approach towards these issues. They
range from investing in renewables businesses to
improving the carbon efficiency of existing assets and
investing human resources and capital into upcoming
renewable technologies, all with the aim of protecting
and increasing shareholder value.
The Board has also established a new Health, Safety
and Environment (HS&E) Committee. The Committee
is chaired by Struan Robertson and comprises one
other Non-Executive Director and the CEO. The
Committee, which started to operate from January
2008, will review the Group’s HS&E policies,
objectives and performance.
Last year, I visited a number of sites including our
Coleto Creek coal fired plant in Texas, the Levanto
wind business in Germany and, with the whole Board,
the Shuweihat CCGT and desalination plant in the
UAE. Once again, as with our other plants around the
world, I was highly impressed by the commitment of
the staff at our sites. It is only through the efforts of 
all our employees that we are able to develop the
Company and enhance its performance. Therefore, 
on behalf of both the Board and shareholders, I am
pleased to acknowledge their contribution and to
thank them here for all their hard work as we
continue to find ways to grow your business.
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
* All references to profit from operations and earnings per share in the
Chairman’s statement are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements. Chief Executive Officer’s statement 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
2007 was a year of further growth, with
significant improvement in earnings, free cash
flow and, very importantly, our share price. 
The key drivers were increased earnings in 
our European and North American markets.
Although this improvement was partially offset
by the impact of a very severe drought in
Australia, the strength of our global portfolio
ensured that we made good overall progress. 
Our position in five key international regions
continues to provide both a very solid earnings
and cash flow profile for the Group, and
exceptional access to growth opportunities.
Let me give you a few of these regional
highlights for 2007.
Portfolio performance 
In Europe, we benefited from much improved margins
at our UK plants, principally due to the well-timed
contracting of our 2007 output, and through high
levels of operational performance. We also standardised
our shareholdings with Mitsui in our major UK plants,
(75% International Power, 25% Mitsui) and this
provides an efficient structure for the future. Our
continental European portfolio also had a good year
with consistently high availability at our long-term
contracted plants. Our Levanto wind farm, acquired 
in November 2006, was successfully integrated and
delivered a full year contribution in 2007.
In the US, our markets in Texas and New England
maintain their underlying recovery as the balance
between installed capacity and peak demand continues
to tighten. However, because it was a relatively cool
summer in 2007 and air conditioning demand was
lower, underlying margins showed only a modest
improvement over last year. New England benefited
from a full year of capacity income, and 2007 also saw
a full year contribution from our coal fired Coleto
Creek plant, where we successfully installed a major
upgrade to its dust extraction equipment. All our long-
term contracted plants continued to perform well.
Both the Middle East and Asia are markets where
output is totally covered by long-term offtake
contracts, and where our financial return is primarily
dependent on high levels of plant availability. Our
track record is consistently strong here, and we had
another very good year. Earnings grew in the Middle
East principally through a first full year contribution
from the Tihama project in Saudi Arabia, and we were
pleased to announce in August 2007 the award of
our latest project in the Middle East, Fujairah F2, a
new-build 2,000 MW and 130 MIGD installation in
the UAE. We continue to be very active in targeting
growth opportunities in this fast expanding region.
Performance at all our Asian plants was good, and 
we successfully divested our 18% stake in Malakoff 
in Malaysia in 2007, crystallising a significant 
£115 million profit. We also acquired a further 9%
economic interest in Paiton (Indonesia) from Mitsui.
The Australian business faced a challenging year,
principally due to the very severe drought. The lack 
of water had the effect of reducing hydro output, and
restricting some thermal power generation where fresh
water was needed for cooling. This, in turn, made
pricing exceptionally volatile and adversely impacted us
when we needed to cover contractual positions if our
plants were not available for operational reasons or
when the transmission networks could not cope with
demand. On the positive side, this volatility has resulted
in a significant improvement in forward prices, so the
outlook for the Australian business is much improved.
Industry trends
The key trends in our industry continue to be security
of supply, the drive for lower carbon dioxide (CO
2
)
emissions and environmental upgrades, and the
provision of affordable power in the face of rising
prices for both new power generation equipment and
for fuel. These are major issues in all the markets in
which we operate, and span the energy, economic and
political agendas. Power generation is by its nature a
large-scale and long-term industry, so the decisions we
make today have an impact many years into the future.
We believe that security of supply is best protected 
by having a diversified and balanced power
generation fleet – in terms of both technology and
fuel type. This ensures no undue reliance on any one
fuel or technology provider, and our global portfolio
encompassing natural gas, coal, wind, pumped
storage, hydro and oil addresses this point directly.
We have excellent, in-depth skills across this wide
range of technologies. Security of supply also means
that the regulatory structure in each market needs 
to be transparent and consistent over the long-term
– without this, it is extremely difficult to make long-
term investment decisions, and we are therefore very
strong supporters of free and open markets with 
a minimum of government intervention.
IMPROVED EARNINGS, FREE CASH FLOW 
AND SHARE PRICE
SIGNIFICANT EXPANSION OF OUR 
RENEWABLES BUSINESS
EXCEPTIONAL ACCESS TO GROWTH
OPPORTUNITIES IN TARGETED MARKETS  International Power Annual Report 2007 5
The environmental debate in the power sector is 
often centred on CO
2
reductions, but in reality is much
wider and includes the reduction of sulphur and other
emissions. We are addressing all of these issues. On
CO
2
, some 57% of our portfolio is modern, efficient 
gas fired generation, and we are implementing efficiency
improvements at our coal fired plants in the UK and
Australia to reduce their CO
2
intensity. In Australia 
we are also working with both the state and federal
governments to see how brown coal can be dried 
prior to burning, which could provide a very significant
reduction in CO
2
output, and we are working on a pilot
plant for CO
2
capture. These are early but important
steps, and we want to ensure we are at the forefront of
these initiatives. In the UK and Portugal, we are installing
flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) equipment in 2008 to
reduce sulphur emissions at our coal fired plants. In the
US we installed an improved dust extraction system that
also allows improved mercury capture. 
2007 was also a very significant year for the expansion
of our renewables business. We acquired 660 MW of
operating wind farms, including the Maestrale wind
farm portfolio, based principally in Italy. The Maestrale
portfolio is now run alongside the Levanto wind farm
portfolio, which we acquired towards the end of 2006
and is based principally in Germany. Our strategy is to
work with wind farm developers to source further
growth opportunities where we can add value, and we
now have some 1,199 MW of operational wind farms
with a further 6 MW under construction. 
Outlook for growth
Growth in demand for power in all our markets –
both the developed and the developing world – is
clearly good for the outlook of our business, but, 
of course, new power generation has to be affordable
for the local market. This is a major challenge as the
global market is now experiencing very significant 
cost escalation in both power generation equipment
and in fuel costs, all driven by high worldwide demand. 
We are very experienced power developers with 
a good track record and strong relationships 
with the major equipment manufacturers, 
and therefore we can continue to 
deliver good value as demonstrated 
by our latest project award in the 
Middle East for a large power 
and desalination plant.
Our strategy remains to deliver growth in shareholder
value through operating our existing portfolio to the
highest standards, and by growing in our targeted
markets. We are well positioned financially, with strong
free cash flow and liquidity, and good access to the
non-recourse project finance market, which remains
relatively resilient through the recent tightening of 
the global credit markets. We have an excellent highly
skilled team and I would like to thank all our employees
worldwide for their enthusiasm, commitment and
professionalism. Our business is in good shape, we
have a strong platform for the future, and a range of
growth opportunities across the portfolio. We will keep
our financial discipline to ensure we employ our capital
wisely, and we will remain agile to capture
opportunities in our target markets.
Philip Cox
Chief Executive Officer The tables below set out details in relation to our operating plants, assets under construction and other significant business
interests as at 5 March 2008.
Our portfolio 6
OUR PORTFOLIO
Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
power % power heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
MW MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
steam steam
(million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
North America 
Hartwell Georgia Gas (OCGT) 318 50 159
Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 100 667
Hays Texas Gas (CCGT) 913 100 913
Midlothian Texas Gas (CCGT) 1,423 100 1,423
Oyster Creek Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 440 50 220 100 MWth 50 MWth
Bellingham Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 539 100 539
Blackstone Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 488 100 488
Milford Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 100 160
EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 548 35 192
North America total in operation 5,496 4,761
Europe 
International Power Opatovice
(1)
Czech Republic Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 100 585 2,040 MWth 2,040 MWth
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy, Wind 1,153 100 1,153
France, Netherlands
ISAB Italy Gas (IGCC) 562 34 193
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal Coal 628 50 314
Turbogás Portugal Gas (CCGT) 1,008 60 605
Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro 86 67 57
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey Gas (CCGT) 488 33 162
Deeside UK Gas (CCGT) 500 75 375
Derwent UK Gas (CCGT) 214 23 49
First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566
Indian Queens UK Oil (OCGT) 140 75 105
Rugeley UK Coal (50 MW of OCGT) 1,050 75 788
Saltend UK Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 75 900 0.30m lbs/hr 0.23m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation 9,702 6,852
Middle East 
Hidd Bahrain Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,006 40 402 42 MIGD 17 MIGD
Al Kamil Oman Gas (OCGT) 276 65 180
Tihama Saudi Arabia Gas (Cogen) 1,076 60 646 4.5m lbs/hr 2.7m lbs/hr
Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 920 40 368 30 MIGD 12 MIGD
Shuweihat S1 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,572 20 314 100 MIGD 20 MIGD
Umm Al Nar UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,450 20 490 143 MIGD 29 MIGD
Middle East total in operation 7,300 2,400
Australia
Canunda South Australia Wind 46 100 46
Pelican Point South Australia Gas (CCGT) 487 100 487
Synergen South Australia Gas/distillate 371 100 371
Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 92 1,541
Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 70 718
Kwinana Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 49 58
Australia total in operation 3,723 3,221 International Power Annual Report 2007 7
Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
power % power heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
MW MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
steam steam
(million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
Asia 
Paiton
(2)
Indonesia Coal 1,365 31 423
HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219
KAPCO Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 36 576
Uch Pakistan Gas (CCGT) 572 40 229
TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 100 143 7.7 MWth
(3)
7.7 MWth
(3)
Asia total in operation 4,970 1,590
Total in operation around the world 31,191 18,824
Assets under construction
Elecgas Portugal Gas (CCGT) 830 50 415
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy, Wind 6 100 6
France, Netherlands
Hidd Bahrain Desalination – 40 – 48 MIGD 19 MIGD
Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 135 40 54 30 MIGD 12 MIGD
Fujairah F2 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,000 20 400 130 MIGD 26 MIGD
Total under construction around the world 2,971 875
Other businesses
Asset Region Description IPR
ownership 
%
Simply Energy Victoria and South Australia Electricity and gas retailer 100
Opus Energy UK Independent supplier of electricity to 
small and medium-size businesses 30
SEA Gas pipeline Victoria and South Australia 687 km gas pipeline from
Victoria to South Australia 33
(1) Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
(2) In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distribution.
(3) District cooling system capacity.
Note: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. International Power plc is a leading
independent power generation company 
with interests in 31,191 MW (gross) 
of power generating capacity, located in 
20 countries across five core regions – 
North America, Europe, Middle East,
Australia and Asia.
Strategy and Group overview 8
STRATEGY AND GROUP OVERVIEW
OUR STRATEGY IS TO DELIVER GROWTH 
IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE THROUGH POWER
GENERATION, ENSURING A BALANCED
INTERNATIONAL PORTFOLIO IN TERMS 
OF MARKETS, FUEL, CONTRACT TYPE AND
TECHNOLOGY. WE CREATE VALUE BY THE
EFFICIENT OPERATION, FINANCING, AND
TRADING OF OUTPUT FROM OUR POWER
GENERATION FLEET, WHILST MAINTAINING
THE HIGHEST LEVELS OF SAFETY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE. WE
EXERCISE RIGOROUS FINANCIAL CONTROL
IN ALL OUR INVESTMENT DECISIONS, 
AND INVEST IN THE DEVELOPMENT
OF OUR PEOPLE FOR THE LONG-TERM. International Power Annual Report 2007 9
Europe 36%
Middle East 13%
North America 25%
Australia 17%
Asia 9%
IPR PORTFOLIO BY GEOGRAPHY
Gas 57%
Wind 6.5%
Coal 25%
Pumped storage 8%
Oil 3%
Hydro 0.5%
IPR PORTFOLIO BY FUEL TYPE
A portfolio approach
We manage risk through a portfolio management
approach, which involves maintaining a balance in 
the portfolio in terms of geographical spread, fuel
diversity, technology and contract type. This approach
gives us access to multiple opportunities to create
value whilst mitigating the risks associated with over
exposure to any particular market, fuel, technology 
or contract type.
Our geographic spread gives us access to growth
opportunities whilst reducing the potential impact,
on the overall business, of a downturn or adverse
performance in any particular market. For example,
in 2007 a strong performance in Europe more than
offset the impact of challenging market conditions
in Australia.
The portfolio approach also extends through to our
operational capabilities. We are able to operate a
range of power plant technologies, including thermal,
hydro, pumped storage and wind. These technologies
produce electricity using different fuel types that
include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such 
as wind and water. This multi-technology expertise
allows us to capture opportunities that are best 
suited to the market in question. 
As electricity is a critical service for any economy,
governments carefully decide whether or not they
wish to liberalise this key sector. Several governments
have retained full control of the sector while others
have fully liberalised both the production and supply
of electricity. The skills required for operating in
liberalised (merchant) or non-liberalised (contracted)
markets are very different – and we have both.
The government-controlled markets typically offer
opportunities to sell power to government bodies via
long-term contracts that offer stable returns. Assets in
the liberalised or merchant markets are subject to the
forces of supply and demand, and these markets are
generally more volatile. Both these markets offer
attractive risk/reward environments for investments. 
International Power maintains a balanced presence
in both types of markets, providing the business 
with a stable platform of contracted earnings 
and cash flow, overlaid by merchant generation
which offers greater potential when markets are
favourable. We also ensure that lessons learnt 
in any particular market – for example, experience 
of the environmental legislation in Europe relating 
to CO
2
emissions trading – are shared across 
the business.
Short-term contracted 40%
Pumped storage 8%
Long-term contracted 35.5%
Uncontracted 10%
Wind 6.5%
* One year forward hedge position 
   as at 5 March 2008
IPR PORTFOLIO BY CONTRACT TYPE*
Note:
All charts presented based on net MW excluding
assets under construction, as at 5 March 2008. Strategy and Group overview 10
DELIVERING
VALUE WITH 
A BALANCED
INTERNATIONAL
PORTFOLIO
Maximising the value of our 
existing portfolio
Our specific strategies for value enhancement in each
country and for each individual plant are tailored to
local requirements, but generally we seek to achieve
the following:
■ Optimise the operations of our power
plants We optimise the operation of our power
plants through several means, including managing
all of our assets to high standards of safety and
operating performance; managing our assets 
on a portfolio basis; closely co-ordinating plant
operation with trading activity to maximise the
value of our output; standardising management
reporting for all investments; and investing in
improved plant efficiency.
■ Maximise the return from our existing
assets We optimise operations as described above
and we leverage our investments, particularly by
using non-recourse project finance at the asset
level; we sell assets if that generates a higher rate
of return.
Rugeley, 
UK The Group has grown significantly in the last five
years, increasing its net operational capacity by 
8,300 MW through both successful acquisitions 
and greenfield developments. International Power
now has an operational interest in 31,191 MW 
of gross capacity and owns net operating capacity 
of 18,824 MW.
Growth is an important part of International Power’s
strategic objectives, and we have clear investment
criteria to ensure that our acquisitions and greenfield
projects deliver value for our shareholders.
Our geographic footprint and in-depth market
knowledge present us with multiple growth
opportunities, both new-build and acquisition.
Wherever possible we seek to source opportunities
through our regional knowledge, our extensive
industry contacts and existing relationships. 
Non-recourse project debt, as a fundamental building
block, together with a well balanced capital structure
provides us with the flexibility to carry out growth
initiatives without overstretching our financial
resources. We have access to multiple sources of
finance – including strong free cash flow generation
from our portfolio, our borrowing facilities and
capacity, and through partnering – to execute selected
opportunities which meet our investment criteria. 
International Power Annual Report 2007 11
PORTFOLIO GROWTH – NET GW YEAR-ON-YEAR KEY ASSET ADDITIONS
2000
2001 
2002 
2003 
2004 
2005 
2006 
2007* 18.8
18.5
15.9
15.3
10.6
10.5
8.9
8.3
0 5 10 15 20 
2004
Tihama
Canunda
Turbogás
EME Portfolio
2005
Uch
Ras Laffan B
Saltend
2006
Hidd
Coleto Creek
Levanto
Indian Queens
2007
Maestrale
Fujairah F2
International Power’s net GW
North America Europe Middle East Australia Asia
* In 2007, International Power sold its interest in Malakoff and signed an agreement with Mitsui to align its percentage holdings in its UK
subsidiary power stations. This resulted in the net sale of 935 MW (net) during the year.
Our growth
EcoEléctrica, 
Puerto Rico Strategy and Group overview 12
Of the numerous opportunities evaluated by regional
and corporate business development teams each year,
the best projects are submitted to the Investment
Committee (ICOM) for initial review and to ensure
they are consistent with the Group’s strategic plan.
The capital allocation process is centred on a detailed
review by the ICOM which comprises the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO),
all regional directors and all corporate function heads.
If projects pass this review they are allocated a budget
for detailed due diligence. The project then undergoes
further analysis during the due diligence process, at
the end of which a detailed review is carried out by
the ICOM. Only then is the decision taken as to
whether to proceed with the opportunity, subject to
Board approval. This process ensures that we fully
evaluate the risks and returns of a project prior to
making a commitment and that we proceed with
only the most value-enhancing deals.
The ICOM review process determines resource
allocation and evaluates the costs of due diligence at
an early stage so as to avoid potential expenditure on
projects that are less likely to succeed. In addition, the
process encourages healthy internal competition for
capital across regions and functions.
The cross-regional and cross-functional membership
of the ICOM ensures that only the most attractive
investments are presented to the Board. 
The due diligence teams, which are made up of
employees from our functional and regional teams,
use their varied experiences and skill sets to assess 
thoroughly all potential projects before they are
presented to the ICOM. We ensure that the regional
team(s) that will have responsibility for managing 
the asset after acquisition are fully involved in the 
due diligence process. We subject new investment
opportunities to rigorous evaluation criteria, with 
a focus on the elements shown opposite.
Local knowledge/ 
relationships 
Investment  
committee 
initial review 
Detailed due  
diligence 
Investment  
committee 
review/approval 
Board  
review/approval 
Completion/ 
integration 
Continuous  
performance  
appraisal/post  
investment review 
IPR Corporate M&A team 
Regional business 
development teams 
Government/private
invitations
Other e.g. investment 
advisers/banks
Cross-regional and 
cross-functional 
representation
Follow-on opportunities
Continuous knowledge sharing across portfolio 
OPPORTUNITY SOURCES 
Investment process We ensure that all acquisitions and greenfield projects
are quickly and efficiently integrated into our regional
business structures. The forecast returns from
investments are built into regional business
performance targets and we measure delivery against
these targets at a regional and Group level through
our financial KPIs, profit from operations (PFO), EPS
and free cash flow.
The ICOM conducts post investment reviews, for both
successful new projects and unsuccessful projects, to
ensure we maximise our learning from all experiences.
Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market
structure in which we operate, is that our investments
create value for our shareholders over the long-term
within our strategic framework.
International Power Annual Report 2007 13
Area Considerations include
Financial ■ returns in excess of our investment thresholds
■ financial key performance indicators (KPIs) – profit from operations, 
EPS contribution, free cash flow generation
■ quality and sustainability of earnings
■ availability of project finance and an appropriate degree of leverage
■ payback period
■ efficient financial structuring
Operational ■ health and safety performance
■ age, plant type and operational history of the plant
■ environmental performance
■ maintenance record and likely capital expenditure requirements
■ ability to have a major/controlling stake in Operations & Maintenance
■ synergy potential
Market ■ market fundamentals – demand/supply balance 
■ forward market prices and history 
■ new entrant economics – and impact on long-term forecast prices 
■ market track record of respecting foreign direct investment
■ opportunity for future investment and growth
■ analysis of incumbent players and market dynamics
Commercial ■ contractual position
■ offtake arrangements/security of offtake
■ security of fuel supply
■ correlation between power and fuel price
■ portfolio benefits of merchant assets
■ environmental obligations and pricing
People ■ historical staff/management relationships
■ staffing requirements for acquisition and integration
Ownership ■ degree of control – focus on investments where we are able to contribute
directly to the realisation of projected returns
■ plant operations structure and management – ability to have a
major/controlling stake in Operations & Maintenance
Legal/Regulatory ■ market and environmental regulation
■ potential regulatory changes
■ any outstanding/historical legal or contractual issues
Property ■ opportunities for future expansion or development
Investment evaluation criteria
Al Kamil, 
Oman Strategy and Group overview 14
Core capabilities
Our core capabilities for implementing our strategy can
be categorised into the following seven areas:
International Power’s high quality asset portfolio,
together with the capabilities of our teams around the
world, forms a strong combination for performance
optimisation, effective risk management and future
growth in earnings and cash flow.
International Power has in-depth experience in plant
operations and engineering. This not only helps to
ensure smooth plant operations, but also that we
understand all operational and technical issues relating
to the potential acquisition and upgrade of existing
assets or development of new power plants. The Group
has skills to execute power projects from inception right
through to the delivery of power in the most advanced
and complex traded markets of the world. 
Greenfield development and construction
management We have excellent experience of
developing large capital intensive infrastructure
projects – from selecting the appropriate site, securing
multiple government/stakeholder approvals, project
managing the entire construction programme right
through to successful commercial operation. Our
significant growth in the Middle East is the most
graphic example of our greenfield development
expertise where we now have interests in six
operational projects with 7,300 MW (gross). In 2007,
1,436 MW of additional capacity was brought online
in the region, and International Power was successful
in its bid for the 2,000 MW, 130 MIGD Fujairah F2
plant, in the UAE – construction of which is now under
way and it is expected to be operational by 2010.
Acquisitions We have demonstrated our ability 
to execute acquisitions at the right time and at the
right value, together with the capability to integrate
newly acquired assets quickly and seamlessly into 
the portfolio. Historically, International Power has
executed a number of successful acquisitions which
have met or exceeded financial and operational
performance targets. In 2006 we acquired Coleto
Creek and the Levanto wind portfolio, and in 2007
we significantly expanded our wind portfolio, with 
the acquisitions of Maestrale (Italy and Germany) 
and a number of other small wind projects.
Asset management All our investments have to
deliver specific performance targets. Through regular
and robust technical, commercial and financial reviews,
the regional offices and corporate headquarters
together monitor the performance of each asset in 
the portfolio. We work to ensure that we maximise
fleet efficiencies where we operate plants with similar
technologies, for example through global spare parts
supply agreements or by bringing certain engineering
services in-house. In addition, we have a HS&E
Committee which co-ordinates the Group’s activities
and enables best practices to be adopted at all plants.
This co-ordinated approach helps us manage
operational risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
Our strategy to ensure we continue to attract, train 
and develop employees to manage our growing
portfolio is set out in detail in the Employees section 
on pages 80 to 82.
Financing Given the very capital intensive nature 
of our business, the ability to fund projects is very
important. International Power has consistently 
proven its financing capabilities through the execution
of numerous greenfield and acquisition financings,
together with refinancings of existing assets. We
remain well placed to implement our growth strategy
through our ability to access financial markets and
through our strong free cash flow generation. 
We have completed financings and refinancings 
in different parts of the world, under different
circumstances and through the combined use of 
local and international capital. As examples, in
December 2007 we successfully completed the
financing of the Fujairah F2 project despite the
tightening of the global credit markets and in June 
we also re-financed the debt facility at Tihama.
Greenfield development  
and construction  
management 
Acquisitions 
Financing 
Plant operations
Long-term power 
contracts expertise
Trading 
Asset
management Non-recourse project finance is at the core of
International Power’s financing strategy and capital
structure – this provides the most appropriate level 
of debt for each asset and excellent risk mitigation 
for the Group. This source of finance remains
available despite the tightening credit conditions.
Plant operations We have comprehensive power
station operational experience and skills. Through-life
engineering and maintenance plans, meticulously
implemented, ensure maximum availability and
efficiency in the operation of our plant and are key for
delivering value in both our merchant and long-term
contracted markets. Effective plant operations are
enhanced by ensuring information is shared across
the portfolio and key operational staff are rotated to
different assets on a regular basis. Safe behaviour and
environmental best practice are cornerstones of
International Power’s operations, and we share best
practices across the portfolio to ensure all of our
assets operate to the highest possible safety and
environmental standards.
Trading We operate in a number of merchant
markets. We have the skills necessary to maximise
our returns in these markets, with a practical focus on
closely co-ordinating trading and plant operations to
optimise value. For us, trading predominately means
selling the physical output generated by our plants,
which we call asset-backed trading. Our traders
operate within strict guidelines and risk policies to
ensure our traded position is carefully monitored and
managed. This includes matching fuel purchases with
power sales and carrying out only a very limited
amount of non-asset backed trading. Where possible
we will forward sell output if we consider the return is
favourable, which secures earnings and cash flow. For
example, a large proportion of Rugeley’s 2007 output
was forward sold during the high prices of 2006,
ensuring good financial returns during 2007, despite
market dark spreads falling during the year. 
Long-term power contracts expertise We have
strong commercial skills to structure and negotiate
long-term power and water contracts in regulated
markets such as Asia and the Middle East. Under
these contracts, key cost risks such as fuel and
turbine maintenance are mitigated through long-
term hedging and supply arrangements. Availability
bonuses incentivise us to keep the plant well
maintained in order to minimise the risk of forced
outages. Overall, the contracts provide visibility and
stability of earnings and cash generation over the
long-term. 
International Power Annual Report 2007 15
Kwinana,
Western Australia International Power’s principal activities 
are the development, acquisition and
operation of power generation plants
together with closely related activities, 
such as desalination and district heating.
These principal activities are supported 
by a number of local, regional and
corporate offices which carry out activities
such as trading and treasury operations. 
All of these activities have inherent risks.
Our general approach to risk management and
governance is set out below, followed by a description
of the principal risks faced by the business. 
Risk management framework
International Power owns, or has equity stakes in,
over 40 plants and some closely linked businesses
located in 20 countries. Our portfolio contains all
major technologies and fuel types with the exception
of nuclear power. In terms of age, our plants range
from those which entered service in the 1950s
through to those still under construction. Overall, 
the majority of the portfolio entered service less than
15 years ago. Geographically and economically the
portfolio is similarly diverse, having a presence in
developed and developing countries with a variety 
of cultural, political and legal systems. Our risk
management philosophy is designed to deal with 
the diverse set of risks faced by our business.
To reflect the profile of our business we have
developed a system that contains both bottom-up
and top-down elements to identify and manage risks.
Corporate level 
Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set at the
corporate level, with the Board of Directors taking 
ultimate responsibility. Acceptable business practices 
and engineering and operational standards are 
set centrally. 
Regional businesses 
Market and trading risk are managed regionally 
within the framework set at the corporate level. 
Political risks are also managed regionally with
support from the corporate centre.
Business units 
Risk assessments and action plans are mainly business
unit based. Health, safety and environmental 
compliance activities are also managed locally, albeit
within a central policy framework. Business managers 
are accountable for managing the risks within their 
areas of responsibility. This principle also applies to
the managers of our corporate functions. 
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, 
which is chaired by the CFO and comprises Executive
Directors, other regional directors and senior managers. 
The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf of 
the Board, for ensuring:
■ the adequacy of systems for identifying and
assessing significant risks;
■ that appropriate control systems and other
mitigating processes are in place;
■ that residual exposures are consistent with the
Group’s strategy and objectives.
During the business planning process, each business
unit and functional group identifies and assesses the
key risks associated with the achievement of its
principal objectives and their potential impact. These
assessments are conducted by all material entities.
During the year, significant changes in the risk profile
are highlighted through the business performance
reporting process.
The centrepiece of our risk management activities 
is an annual, Group-wide, risk review. This is based
on the outcome of the business planning exercise,
updated as necessary to take account of ‘post
business plan’ events. The assessments are synthesised
into a Risk Report, that identifies all the principal risks,
which is reviewed by the Risk Committee. Where risks
are considered to exceed the Group’s risk appetite,
the Risk Committee directs which actions are to be
taken. The Risk Report is reviewed by the full Board
and the Audit Committee. Schematically the annual
Risk Report system functions as follows:
In order to compare risks across the Group on a
systematic basis, we segment our activities as shown
below. In reality, certain exposures interact and other
exposures apply to more than one ‘risk area’ (for
example, regulatory risk applies to all of our activities).
Such cross-segment risks are assessed in each of the
areas in which they occur.
Our approach to risk and risk management 16
OUR APPROACH TO RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Review by full Board and 
Audit Committee
Review by Risk Committee
Actions
Synthesis by Risk Report 
working group
Risk assessments by business 
units and functions
Financial risks
Market and trading risks
Fuel supply risks
Country and political risks
Construction and operational risks
Health, safety and environmental risks
Staffing and HR risks Financial risks
Our business can be subject to financial volatility. 
This can originate from a number of sources, including
project company, counterparty related events and
general market conditions. One example was the
insolvency of TXU Europe in 2002 which resulted 
in the termination of the Rugeley Tolling Agreement
(a long-term agreement to purchase coal and sell
power), which caused a shortfall in revenues. Our
capital structure is designed to address these risks.
At the corporate level we have a number of loan
facilities which provide us with a prudent level of
financial headroom (cash plus outstanding credit lines,
less known obligations) which can be applied to any
aspect of our business should the need arise. These
facilities will meet the short to medium-term funding
requirements envisaged by the business. Longer-term
funding requirements or funding for a particularly large
transaction may be sourced from a combination of
these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, 
such as bonds, or by raising additional equity. 
International Power Annual Report 2007 17
These risks are discussed in greater detail below, along with other factors that could potentially have a material
impact on our business.
Risk Impact(s) Mitigating factor(s)
Adverse conditions in our electricity
sales or fuel purchase markets and/or
counterparty default risk
– financial volatility 
– reduction in profitability and
balance sheet assets
– application of Group policies and
procedures set limits on trading
counterparty exposures
– maintenance of financial
headroom at corporate level
– structuring of project companies
as stand-alone businesses and use
of non-recourse project finance
limits Group impacts
Price volatility or changes in market
conditions result in exceptional
trading credit support requirements
– reduction in financial resources
available for growth
– reduced ability to hedge output
– maintenance of financial
headroom at corporate level
– trading via investment grade
financial institutions
– for specific projects additional
support is provided, for example
Mitsui provides a credit support
facility for International Power
Mitsui (IPM) assets in the UK
Spreads outturn below expectation – reduced profitability
– potential impact on loan covenants
– rolling hedge programme that
typically aims to lock in margins 
– 42% of our projects have long-
term contractual arrangements or
long-term regulated renewable
tariffs shielding our overall
profitability from market forces 
– Group financial resources provide
us with the ability to renegotiate
loan agreements if so desired
Challenging engineering,
procurement and construction (EPC)
market conditions
– delays and increases in the price of
greenfield development impacts
growth rate
– long-standing relationships with all
major EPC contractors
– new entrant pricing should reflect
the cost of building new plant
Changes in environmental regulatory
regime limit our ability to operate
our fossil fuel plants
– reduced profitability – new environmental legislation in
our developed markets introduced
with long-lead times
– we have established processes for
securing the carbon requirements
of our European business, which
can be applied to other markets
(US and Australia) as required
– 6.5% of net operating capacity is
now made up of wind generation
Principal risks and exposures The actual choice of funding instrument(s) will
depend on market conditions at that time.
In merchant markets we are sometimes required to
provide credit support for our trading operations. Fuel
and electricity markets periodically experience sharp
price movements and when these occur this has an
immediate knock-on effect on our trading credit
support requirements, which can be volatile as a
consequence. The maintenance of financial headroom
offers protection against escalating margin calls
(which are payments we are required to make when
power prices increase above the contract price).
Project development can, on occasions, also require
credit support. This support can take the form of
parent company guarantees or credit support
instruments issued by banks. In the unlikely event 
that credit support facilities are unavailable to support
the growth developments that we are planning, this
could require us to reduce our development activities.
We consider it highly unlikely that we will have to
forgo opportunities as a result of this constraint due
to the prudent level of financial headroom that we
maintain and the availability of additional bilateral
facilities with banks.
At the individual business level we finance our projects
with non-recourse debt. We use non-recourse finance
as this insulates the Group from adverse events
occurring at the project level, limiting our balance
sheet exposure on a given project to the loss of the
equity in that project. Liquidity in the financial markets
has reduced due to the ‘fallout’ from the US sub-
prime market and, although this may increase the
cost of non-recourse finance and/or reduce its
availability to some extent, we do not believe this will
limit our ability to refinance existing projects or
develop new opportunities. Other financial exposures
and their mitigating factors are set out in this section.
Counterparty risk
We manage our credit exposure to trading and
financial counterparties by establishing clearly defined
limits, policies and procedures. Energy trading
activities are strictly monitored and controlled through
delegated authorities and procedures, which include
specific criteria for the management of credit
exposures in each of our key regions. With respect to
our treasury activities, the financial counterparty credit
exposure is limited to arrangements with relationship
banks and to commercial paper that has an
investment grade credit rating. 
Counterparty exposures arising from sale and purchase
agreements with our customers are monitored and
managed locally with assistance from Group treasury. 
In addition, Group treasury manages the consolidated
counterparty credit positions, with the active
involvement of the global risk manager. Further
information on credit risk is included in the financial
statements on page 155.
Currency and interest rate exposures
Project company borrowings are normally made in
the project company’s functional currency. Hence
exchange rate fluctuations do not affect the financial
stability of our assets. In countries with historically
weak currencies we aim to have power purchase
agreement (PPA) tariffs denominated in, or indexed
to, a major international currency such as the US
dollar. This protects future returns against large and
rapid devaluations.
Variability in interest payments can introduce further
volatility into project returns. We mainly mitigate this
risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally by using
interest rate swaps. A limited number of our PPAs
also have interest rate pass-through mechanisms.
Overall, 67% of our borrowings were protected 
from interest rate fluctuations in these ways at the
end of 2007.
In order to hedge the net assets of non-UK
operations, borrowings are generally in the same
currency as the underlying investment. The Group
aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-
sterling assets in this way. It is not our policy, however,
to hedge currency translation exposures through
foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps. This
exposes our sterling profits and our balance sheet
assets and liabilities to fluctuations that are not related
to underlying business performance.
Our approach to risk and risk management 18
Loy Yang B,
Victoria For 2007 and 2006, average and year end rates of
exchange to sterling, for major currencies which are
significant to the Group, were:
Average At 31 December
2007 2006 2007 2006
US dollar 2.00 1.85 1.99 1.96
Australian dollar 2.39 2.44 2.27 2.48
Euro 1.46 1.47 1.36 1.48
Czech koruna 40.43 41.51 36.20 40.85
When one of our projects makes sales and purchases
in a currency other than its functional currency this
gives rise to a currency transaction exposure.
Transaction exposures also arise when dividends 
or other funds are remitted from our overseas
companies. We match transaction exposures in
advance where possible, and hedge any unmatched
transactions as soon as they are committed. We may
use foreign currency contracts and similar instruments
for this purpose.
Further information on market risk, interest rate risk
and foreign currency risk is included in note 32 to the
financial statements on pages 153 to 154.
Investment structures and contingent liabilities
Going forward, the complexity of the Group and its
investment structures, together with the rapidly
growing body of tax legislation, will make tax planning
and forecasting an increasingly complex and uncertain
process. We closely monitor actual and potential
changes in tax legislation in order to assess the
continued effectiveness of our corporate structures
and financial planning assumptions. We are supported
by external tax experts in making these assessments. 
International Power has a number of actual and
potential liabilities, arising from certain tax planning
assumptions that have not yet been confirmed by the
relevant fiscal authorities and from ongoing legal
actions, one of which dates back more than a decade.
We have appropriately provided for those sums that
we believe will ultimately be paid. 
Funding of pensions obligations
The Group operates a range of pension plans
internationally, with the most significant defined
benefit arrangements in the UK and Australia. These
schemes guarantee their members that they will
receive retirement benefits related to their final
salary at retirement, which gives rise to a risk that
our pension funds will not be sufficient to meet
these obligations. 
This type of risk increases from time to time, 
for example, when share prices fall or in light of the
increasingly more onerous assumptions required 
by actuarial advisers to independent scheme trustees.
The UK defined benefit pension schemes, which have
approximately 700 active members, carried out their
latest triennial actuarial valuations in 2007, which
resulted in valuing the schemes at a combined deficit
of £12 million as at 31 March 2007. Deficit repair
arrangements have been agreed with the two sets 
of trustees and as part of this, up-front payments 
into the funds of approximately £3.8 million were
made at the end of 2007. Future service contribution
rates have also been increased in line with actuarial
advice received.
In 2007, a strategic review of our UK pension
arrangements was initiated and we continue to
consult with employees and their representatives to
ensure the right solution is achieved for the Group
and our UK employees. No changes are being
considered which affect existing employees. The
review has been initiated largely to seek to reduce the
Group’s exposure to risk over the longer-term.
Financial processes
We consider that we have an appropriate and robust
internal control system. During the past few years we
have reviewed our systems of financial control to
ensure they were able to meet the requirements of
section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the
year ended 31 December 2006. Although, since
deregistration from the SEC in 2007, we are no
longer subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have
continued to maintain the same quality of controls,
which continue to provide a comprehensive coverage
of our business.
In order to measure our performance, the delivery 
of our strategy and to provide an early warning 
of variances to our forecasts we monitor a number 
of performance indicators. The principal financial 
KPIs are PFO, EPS and free cash flow, details 
of which are set out on pages 24 to 26.
Insurance risk management
Our risk management processes assist us in the
identification of events that can be partly or entirely
mitigated through use of insurance, or which we can
self-insure. Risks that we insure include, inter alia,
business interruption, Directors’ and officers’ liability
and property damage. Where we are legally required
to effect third party liability insurances these are also
in place. Insurance providers recognise the robust
nature of our processes and this is reflected in the
cost of our policies.
International Power Annual Report 2007 19
Paiton,
Indonesia Market and trading risks
A significant number of the projects in which we have
an interest operate without PPAs and are, therefore,
vulnerable to market forces, which determine the price
and amounts of power sold and fuel and CO
2
allowances purchased. In particular, the majority of our
plants in the UK, North America and Australia operate
on a merchant basis. In order to limit our exposure to
market movements, we hedge a proportion of our
anticipated output by forward selling power and buying
forward related commodities including fuel, transmission
rights, capacity and emission credits. The key risks facing
our market and trading activities and their mitigating
factors are set out below.
Hedging activities
Unhedged output is subject to price and volume
volatility. To reduce this uncertainty, we operate a
‘rolling hedge’ programme under which we increase
the proportion of output that is sold forward as the
production date approaches. Whilst we generally aim
to hedge a relatively high proportion of our output for
the following year, this strategy is dependent on market
conditions. Due to market liquidity considerations the
majority of our hedging activity is for a maximum
period of two years ahead.
It is not always possible to exactly match the expected
output of a plant with power sales and fuel and other
commodity purchases. Mismatched positions have the
potential to result in substantial losses. This potential
exposure is addressed in our trading policies, which
limit the potential size of mismatched positions.
In addition to asset-backed trading we carry out some
proprietary trading (trading not linked to the expected
output of our power plants). Our non-asset backed
trading activities are limited in scope and any
exposures are correspondingly small.
Framework for trading activities
Our trading activities operate within a robust
framework of policies and oversight functions. Trading
and forward contracting strategies are continually
reviewed by regional and corporate trading and risk
management professionals, to ensure they are best
suited to both local market conditions and corporate
risk guidelines. A Group-wide oversight of our trading
operations is provided by a Global Commodities Risk
Committee (GCRC) which includes the CFO, the
head of finance, head of trading and the global
trading and risk managers. The GCRC acts under 
the authority of the Board, and delegates limits and
authorities to local risk committees, which have been
established in each of our trading operations to
oversee the management of market, operational and
credit risks arising from our marketing and trading
activities. The local risk committees include the
trading manager, global and local risk managers,
regional directors and senior managers.
Energy market risks and counterparty exposures on
our asset and proprietary portfolios are measured 
and managed using various statistical techniques.
Fuel supply risks
Fuel supply security is fundamental to our business.
Most of our markets have robust supply infrastructures,
and other factors further enhance our position. These
include: mines local to the power plant, fuel storage,
dual-fuel capability and sourcing from a number of
reputable suppliers. Consequently, we have experienced
very few supply interruptions that have had an impact
on operations.
We procure fuel under a variety of contractual
arrangements ranging from long-term fuel supply
agreements (FSAs) to on-the-day merchant gas
purchases. The principal determinant of our fuel
supply activity is the need to match purchases to
power sales, both in terms of volume and price.
Hence, we operate long-term FSAs at power plants
where we have long-term PPAs and predominantly
merchant supply arrangements in our merchant
power markets. This strategy helps mitigate against
fuel price impacts, particularly in the current climate 
of high fuel prices, and the spread is locked in on 
the basis of operational profitability.
It is not always possible to achieve an exact balance
between fuel purchases and power production. This 
is particularly an issue for our projects with PPAs,
where the associated FSAs often have minimum fuel
purchase obligations. By structuring the purchases
flexibly and incorporating appropriate force majeure
protection, we are able to mitigate this risk by
ensuring, as far as possible, that the price and volume
obligations in the PPA and FSA mirror one another
and, to date, we have never experienced a significant
financial impact due to mismatches between our 
FSAs and PPAs.
Country and political risks
Most of our projects with PPAs are in countries 
with a significant degree of country risk. In the past,
some PPA tariffs have been reopened by our offtakers 
and renegotiated. We do not currently foresee the
prospect of further renegotiations but this remains 
a general possibility.
We address country risk exposures in several ways.
Country risk assessment is an important element of
our due diligence, prior to participating in a project,
and we favour projects where international arbitration
is available for resolving disputes. Once projects are
operational, International Power always strives to be 
a ‘good neighbour’, supporting the local, regional and
national communities wherever possible. We also
attempt to maintain good relationships with political
institutions and our customers.
Our approach to risk and risk management 20
Saltend,
UK The size of our portfolio dilutes the effect of a
dispute, at any given project company, on the Group
as a whole. Furthermore, non-recourse debt
arrangements limit our financial exposure to the loss
of our equity investment and future cash flows from
the project. Thus, whilst the loss or impairment of
assets in a project company might affect the financial
performance of the Group, other operating
companies would remain unaffected.
Construction and operational risks 
Our policy with regard to new-build is, wherever
possible, to award major projects on an EPC basis to
suitably qualified contractors. EPC contracts transfer
the majority of the design and construction risks to
the contractor, and provide substantial protection
through liquidated damages, in the event of failure
on the part of the contractor to meet contractual
completion or plant performance targets. Where
there is a project specific need to adopt a risk sharing
approach within the contract, this is done on the
basis of deliverable technical and performance
assumptions and with due regard to the ability to
manage these risks. We supplement this contractual
protection with insurances.
The rapid growth in demand for new power capacity
globally and rising raw materials prices have
contributed to significant price increases and longer
lead times for the delivery of power plant equipment.
If this trend continues, there is a risk that greenfield
project development timescales will be extended
further and, in addition, the ability to secure extensive
commercial protection from the original equipment
manufacturers will become more difficult. This risk is
generally greater for coal fired plant because of longer
construction lead times. We continue to work with
the main suppliers, such as Alstom, General Electric,
Mitsubishi and Siemens, with whom we have long-
term relationships, with emphasis on our growth
plans and long-term opportunities.
Power plants are characterised by extremely high
temperatures, pressures, voltages and rotational
velocities. Providing a safe environment for people 
on our sites and in surrounding areas is a major
priority. We achieve a safe environment by using 
a combination of engineering and operational
procedures and standards, provision of training,
performance monitoring and by employing
experienced staff. In addition, we are currently
developing a new engineering risk assessment
approach to assist in the identification and
management of the key engineering risks across 
the plant portfolio. This will be rolled out in 2008 to
further enhance our approach to risk management. 
We are a minority participant in a number of projects
and do not set operational standards in such cases. 
In such circumstances we provide support, where
appropriate, and attempt to use our influence to
achieve standards that are equivalent to our own.
However, our ability to influence partners varies.
During the build period we closely monitor the
progress of four major factors: construction
programme, cost, quality and safety. Once a plant 
is in operation we monitor performance by reference
to a number of performance indicators including, 
for example, the technical availability, net maximum
capacity, thermal efficiency and forced outage rate.
Health, safety and environmental risks
Excellent HS&E performance is critically important 
for our business. Risks range from enforced plant
closures and substantial fines to damage to the 
well-being of our staff and to our reputation in the
wider community.
HS&E compliance activities
At plant level, HS&E requirements are set by
corporate, local and national standards and
regulations, and individual plants operate within site
specific environmental licensing limits. We have an
ongoing HS&E audit programme to provide assurance
in this area and we closely monitor the accident
frequency rate (AFR) and breaches of environmental
permits. AFR and reportable environmental incidents
are amongst our KPIs.
International Power Annual Report 2007 21
Deeside, 
UK Plant operating and monitoring procedures are
effective in ensuring that we comply with the
conditions of our environmental licences and
consents. Whilst we have experienced occasional
breaches of our environmental operating limits, there
have been no recent incidents that have posed a
significant threat to the environment or to our ability
to run our plants.
Sites are required to adhere to a set of corporate
health and safety standards and to local regulations.
Health and safety performance is the responsibility of
our plant managers, who are supported by local
health and safety specialists. Our global health and
safety manager is responsible for ensuring that our
corporate standards remain current and are
understood by all of our sites.
Environmental regulation
Environmental legislation is one of the key drivers of
the long-term development of the electricity industry.
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are
expected to impose increasing commercial constraints
on our ability to emit CO
2
, and hence our ability to
use fossil fuels to generate power without the use of
carbon capture and storage. The impact 
of carbon reduction measures is currently most
apparent at our European plants, where we are
required to ensure that we have sufficient carbon
credits to support our expected levels of generation.
Certain of our projects have change of law protection,
which enables us to pass on any carbon costs to the
offtaker. In such cases the economic impact of carbon
risk is removed.
In January 2008 the EU issued proposals for carbon
allowances post 2012. If accepted, operators of
European power plants will receive zero carbon
allowances. The EU further mandated substantial
renewables targets. Both of these factors will
inevitably impact on our portfolio in the medium 
to long-term.
At the end of 2007 there was a change of
government in Australia and one of the first acts of
the new administration was to sign up to the Kyoto
Protocol on climate change. Australia is now
committed to introducing a cap and trade-based
carbon market similar to the European Union
Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme (EUETS)
by 2010. Australia is not expected to have difficulty 
in meeting its Kyoto targets and the impact on our
business is not expected to be great in the period 
up to 2012.
In the US discussions have continued at state level
that could lead to CO
2
limitations being introduced
some time in the future. The absence of single,
centrally sponsored, proposals decreases the
predictability of final outcomes. 
At the global level there is uncertainty over what, if
anything, will replace the Kyoto Protocol on climate
change when it expires at the end of 2012. Most
governments in developed countries have introduced
legislation to incentivise renewable generation to the
point where growth in renewable generation may
have a material impact on our fossil fuelled plants. 
In response, we made major investments in 
renewable energy during 2006 and 2007. 
We have also dedicated resources to reviewing
technology trends in order to ensure that we 
are well positioned to participate in the drive 
towards a lower carbon environment. 
Staffing and HR risks
The power industry has a history of long-term
employment at plant and corporate level and staffing 
is not generally a day-to-day risk issue.
Our industry is highly competitive and we have to
balance resources against the need to contain costs.
We utilise our extensive experience to make these
judgements and have the ability to mobilise people 
at short notice to mitigate the risk of loss of key staff. 
To date we have not experienced any disruption of
note as a result of unexpected staff unavailability.
We anticipate that terrorism may be a threat to our
staff and assets in the foreseeable future. In order to
reduce this threat we liaise with local law
enforcement organisations on security issues and our
corporate security specialist assists vulnerable sites to
assess and reduce their exposures. We also utilise the
services of a global security consultancy to ensure that
our risk assessments and physical security measures
fully reflect local conditions. The consultancy
additionally has the capacity to provide personal
security services if required.
Certain of our sites have high union representation.
We have not been affected by industrial action for
several years but this remains a risk. We maintain
active dialogues with staff unions to ensure that we
are aware of any potential issues in good time to
mitigate our risks.
Our approach to risk and risk management 22
Hartwell, 
Georgia International Power Annual Report 2007 23
CASE STUDY PRODUCING FRESH WATER THROUGH DESALINATION
Only 6% of the water on earth is fresh
water and a large proportion of this fresh
water is frozen in polar ice caps, mountain
snow and glaciers or remains underground.
Any water with dissolved solid content of
up to 600mg/litre is considered to be
drinkable. Water becomes significantly less
palatable when total dissolved solids exceed
1,000mg/litre, so historically, this has led 
to the development of population centres
around sources of fresh water such as 
rivers and springs.
Over the last 50 years, advances in desalination
technology have made it possible to convert
large quantities of saline water, from seas and
oceans, into fresh water suitable for drinking and
agriculture. Desalination of seawater has played
a significant part in the growth and development
of arid regions such as the Middle East and has
offered security of water supply to its residents.
Water desalination technologies can be broadly
divided into two processes, thermal and
membrane. Thermal processes such as multi
stage flash distillation (MSF) and multi effect
distillation (MED) involve adding heat to
seawater until part of it evaporates into water
vapour. This, in turn, is condensed into high
quality fresh water called distillate. The process 
is carried out over several stages and, by
adjusting the pressure to keep the water
boiling and vaporising in each cycle, the
performance and efficiency of the process is
improved. The distillate produced is so pure
that to make it suitable for drinking it has to 
be re-mineralised by adding certain chemicals
such as calcium carbonate.
Power stations usually have waste heat. Hence,
combining power plants with desalination plants
is a logical and economically attractive solution
and this has been successfully applied, especially
in the Middle East, thereby maximising the
efficient use of fuel. The majority of our
desalination plants use a thermal process 
to produce fresh water.
Reverse osmosis is the most common
membrane process used for desalination. The
technique involves pumping seawater at pressure
through a semi-permeable membrane. The
membrane allows the water to pass through
whilst restricting any dissolved salts, which get
left behind in the remainder of the seawater.
Energy is required in the form of electricity for
driving the pumps, but no heat is used as there
is no evaporation process. The efficiency of the
process is improved by employing energy
recovery devices to draw energy from the
pressurised return water stream.
International Power is actively engaged in
seawater desalination across a number of plants
in the Middle East such as Shuweihat S1 and
Umm Al Nar in Abu Dhabi, Hidd power station
in Bahrain and Ras Laffan B in Qatar. Currently
International Power has interests in a total
capacity to produce over 500 MIGD of fresh
water, enough to fill approximately 550
Olympic-sized swimming pools per day.
We operate some of the largest desalination
facilities around the world e.g. Umm Al Nar
(143 MIGD) and Shuweihat S1 (100 MIGD). 
At Shuweihat the desalination units each have a
capacity of 16.7 MIGD, making them the largest
MSF units in commercial operation worldwide.
Umm Al Nar, UAE
Shuweihat S1, UAE
Hidd, Bahrain Key performance indicators (KPIs)
We use a range of performance indicators, both
financial and non-financial, to measure the delivery 
of the Company’s strategic objective – growth in
shareholder value through the efficient operation,
financing, and trading of output from our power
generation fleet, whilst maintaining the highest levels
of safety and environmental performance – and to
manage the business.
The most important of these measures are
considered KPIs and their targets are determined
annually during the business planning process. 
The KPIs are used by management to compare
actual performance during the year, and the latest
monthly forecasts, against the annual budgeted
targets. Our KPIs, both financial and non-financial,
are set out below.
Key performance indicators and financial highlights 24
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs
Our financial key performance indicators address two key
aspects of the business, its profitability and its cash
generation:
Our non-financial key performance indicators address
other aspects of the business: safety, environmental and
operational performance:
Profit from operations (PFO)* Accident frequency rate (AFR)
Earnings per share (EPS)* Reportable environmental incidents
Free cash flow Technical availability
* Financial KPIs are presented excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Uni-Mar (Marmara),
Turkey
We consider PFO and EPS excluding exceptional
items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
to be an appropriate indicator of performance, as
these measures:
■ exclude significant items which, by virtue of their
size or incidence, could potentially distort year-on-
year comparisons;
■ allow a better understanding of the financial
information presented, and specifically the Group’s
underlying business performance, by excluding fair
value movements on economic hedges;
■ assist shareholders and analysts who have expressed
a preference for the reporting of results without the
inclusion of the effects of exceptional items and
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Presenting the Group’s segment and total PFO and
the Group’s EPS excluding exceptional items and
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is
consistent with the way management measures the
Group’s performance in its budgets, forecasts and
management accounts on a day-to-day basis. 
The explanations of our KPIs follow. Profit from operations 
PFO is a measure of the operating profitability of the
Group. It excludes the impact of all non-operating
costs from subsidiaries, financing costs and income
tax expense, and therefore provides a comprehensive
measure of operational performance.
PFO excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements has grown at an average
compound growth rate of 60% over the last three
years reflecting strong financial performance over the
period. The results for the current and prior year are
also presented in the consolidated income statement
on page 101.
This KPI is also used as one of the measures to
evaluate Regional Directors’ performance when
quantifying their annual bonuses (more information
can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report
on pages 83 to 95).
Earnings per share 
EPS is a measure of the overall profitability of the
Group and shareholder returns. It is defined as the
profit in pence attributable to each Ordinary Share 
in the Company, based on the consolidated profit for
the year, after deducting tax and minority interests.
Growth in EPS over time is indicative of the ability 
of the Group to add value.
EPS excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements has grown at an average
compound growth rate of 47% over the last three
years. The calculation of this year’s result is presented
in note 11 to the financial statements on page 125.
This KPI is also used as one of the measures to
evaluate Directors’ performance when quantifying
their annual bonuses and as a performance condition
in their long-term incentive plans (more information
can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report
on pages 83 to 95). 
This KPI is also used as a performance condition in
the Company’s share-based payment schemes (more
information can be found in note 29 of the financial
statements on pages 139 to 143).
Financial KPIs
Year ended 31 December
2004 2005 2006 2007
PFO £222m £536m £773m £904m
EPS 8.6p 14.6p 22.4p 27.1p
Free cash flow £104m £285m £456m £653m
International Power Annual Report 2007 25
PFO  
  
 
£222m 2004  
£536m 2005  
£773m 2006  
£904m 2007  
EPS  
  
 
8.6p 2004  
14.6p 2005  
22.4p 2006  
27.1p 2007   Key performance indicators and financial highlights 26
Free cash flow 
Power generation is a capital intensive business and
hence it requires the assets within the Group to
generate sufficient cash to repay the initial investment
in the assets, to provide returns for shareholders 
and to provide funds for future investment
opportunities. We define free cash flow as net cash
flow from operating activities after all operating costs,
maintenance capital expenditure, interest and tax. 
We consider this measure of cash flow to be a key
indicator of business performance as it measures the
cash generated from the underlying business
performance of continuing operating activities.
This is consistent with the way management measures
the Group’s performance in its budgets, forecasts and
management accounts on a day-to-day basis. This KPI is
also used as one of the measures to evaluate Directors’
performance when quantifying their annual bonuses
(more information can be found in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 83 to 95).
Free cash flow has grown at an average compound
growth rate of 84% over the last three years
reflecting both an increase in the size of the Group
and strong operational and financial performance over
the period. The results for the current and prior year
are also presented in the consolidated cash flow
statement on page 104.
Non-financial KPIs
Accident frequency rate
Health and safety is of vital importance in our
business. It is important to provide employees with 
a safe place to work and any accident is disruptive 
to the running of the business. AFR is our reporting
standard and is defined as the number of lost time
accidents (LTAs) divided by the number of hours
worked, multiplied by 100,000. A LTA is an accident
where an individual is away from work for more than
one day and is an auditable indicator across a number
of industries.  
In 2007 the AFR for employees and contractors
combined was 0.12. This can be compared with 
0.16 for 2006. International Power intends to
maintain this improvement by establishing a target 
of 0.10 for 2008. This does not mean we tolerate
unsafe behaviour; we seek to have zero LTAs but
targets need to be realistic and challenging. 
The data underlying these calculations is submitted 
by individual plants directly into the corporate
reporting system.
FREE CASH FLOW  
  
 
£104m 2004  
£285m 2005  
£456m 2006  
£653m 2007  
AFR  
  
 
0.23 2005  
0.16 2006  
0.12 2007  
Milford, 
Massachusetts Reportable environmental incidents
The environment and how we care for it is central 
to the business of International Power. We have
always had a policy of complying with all applicable
environmental regulations. Our power plants are
issued with environmental licences by the relevant
statutory authorities. Environmental licences require
that any environmental incident is reported. We
measure our ability to comply with environmental
regulations by recording the number of reportable
environmental incidents.
In 2006 there were 16 reportable environmental
incidents. In 2007 this declined to 13, a significant
improvement on the prior year. International Power
intends to consolidate this by establishing a target of
12 for 2008. This does not mean we tolerate
environmental incidents but targets need to be
realistic and challenging. 
The underlying data is submitted by individual plants
directly into the corporate reporting system.
Technical availability
Technical availability measures when a plant is
available for dispatch. Each of our plants will generally
be unavailable during some periods in the year due to
a combination of planned outages for maintenance
and unplanned outages due to operational problems.
Technical availability is calculated by first determining
the potential maximum amounts of electricity that
could be generated in the year, if all the plants were
operated at full output for the entire year. We then
deduct from this maximum amount the electricity
that could not be produced due to planned and
unplanned outages at the plants throughout the 
year. This number is then expressed as a percentage
of the potential maximum electricity that could be
generated, where all these quantities are calculated in
terms of electrical energy (GWh). An important part
of our business is ensuring that our merchant power
trading and power purchase agreements are closely
aligned to our operational activities and availability
planning is a key factor in this regard. The year-to-
year variance in the profile of planned outages
influences both the achieved and targeted availability.
In 2007 we achieved technical availability of 90%, an
increase above the 89.6% achieved in 2006. Taking
account of the outage plans for 2008 it is appropriate
to set a target of 90% for the plant portfolio.
This calculation is carried out using data submitted 
by the individual plants directly into the corporate
reporting system.
International Power Annual Report 2007 27
REPORTABLE ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS  
  
 
16 2005  
16 2006  
13 2007  
TECHNICAL AVAILABILITY  
  
 
90.1% 2005  
89.6% 2006  
90.0% 2007  
Year ended 31 December Objectives
2005 2006 2007 2008
Accident frequency rate (AFR) 0.23 0.16* 0.12 0.10
Reportable environmental incidents 16 16 13 12
Technical availability 90.1% 89.6% 90.0% 90.0%
Note:
* The AFR for 2006 has been revised from 0.12 to 0.16 following the classification of an incident, which happened in December 2006, as a lost time accident (LTA) 
in September 2007. Financial highlights
The financial information included in the consolidated financial statements has been prepared on the basis 
of all applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU. A discussion of the policies we believe to be most critical in
considering the impact of estimates and judgements on the Group’s financial position and results of operations
are set out on pages 58 to 60.
In order to allow a full understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial
statements, and specifically the Group’s underlying business performance, the Group presents its income
statement such that it separately identifies: 
■ the results excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements;
■ the effect of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements;
■ the total result.
The basis of preparation is outlined more fully in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 106.
However, in summary, those items that the Group separately presents as exceptional are items which, in the
judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to
enable a proper understanding of the financial information. Those items that the Group separately present as
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are those mark to market movements recorded in the income
statement which relate to: derivative contracts into which the Group has entered in order to economically
hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures; and fair value gains and losses on equity conversion
features embedded within convertible bonds, so as to separately identify a non-cash movement which, if the
conversion option is exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity.
Key performance indicators and financial highlights 28
A summary of the Group’s financial performance during the year is as follows:
Income statement
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements:
Revenue (including joint ventures and associates) 3,872 3,645
Profit from operations
– from subsidiaries 718 565
– from joint ventures and associates 186 208
Profit from operations 904 773
Interest (308) (248)
Profit before tax 596 525
Tax (113) (122)
Profit for the year 483 403
Minority interests 77 71
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 406 332
Earnings per share (basic) 27.1p 22.4p
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements:
Profit from operations 518 898
Profit for the year 529 477
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 503 410
Earnings per share (basic) 33.6p 27.6p Cash flow
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit for the year 529 477
Depreciation, amortisation and other movements
(1)
515 322
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 145 113
Capital expenditure – maintenance (71) (128)
Purchase of intangible assets (48) –
Movements in working capital (4) (15)
Tax and net interest paid (413) (313)
Free cash flow 653 456
(1)
Depreciation, amortisation and other movements include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and the
share of profit of joint ventures and associates. In addition in 2007 they include the exceptional profit on the disposal of 25% of UK subsidiaries and the exceptional
profit on disposal of Malakoff. In the year ended 31 December 2006 they also included the exceptional profit on the TXU settlement and the exceptional profit on
compensation for breach of contract.
Balance sheet
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Net assets 3,007 2,740
Net debt
(2)
(4,662) (3,575)
Gearing 155% 130%
Debt capitalisation 61% 57%
(2)
For 2007 the net debt includes loans from minority interests. For 2006 the net debt has been re-presented on the same basis.
Profit from operations (PFO)
2007 PFO (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) at £904 million is
17% ahead of 2006. This principally reflects strong performance in Europe, in particular at our UK assets and
from first full year contributions from Levanto and Indian Queens, and in North America.
PFO (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) is discussed in more detail in
the Regional review sections which follow.
Reconciliation from PFO to PFO excluding exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
PFO 518 898
Losses/(gains) on exceptional items 56 (55)
Losses/(gains) on specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 330 (70)
PFO excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 904 773
International Power Annual Report 2007 29 Segmental results – excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Subsidiaries Share of Total Subsidiaries Share of Total
joint ventures joint ventures
and associates and associates
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit from operations (excluding exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 108 28 136 73 28 101
Europe 521 53 574 381 69 450
Middle East 44 24 68 32 20 52
Australia 83 (1) 82 121 3 124
Asia 14 82 96 38891
770 186 956 610 208 818
Corporate costs (52) – (52) (45) – (45)
718 186 904 565 208 773
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (398) 12 (386) 119 6 125
Profit from operations 320 198 518 684 214 898
The regional performance is discussed in more detail on pages 32 to 53. Corporate costs are discussed on page 54.
Earnings per share (EPS)
2007 EPS (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) at 27.1p is 21% ahead of 2006. This increase principally
reflects those items discussed under the heading ‘profit from operations’ and also reflects an increase in interest expense offset by a reduction in tax
expense (both of which are discussed on page 54).
Reconciliation from EPS to EPS excluding exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
EPS 33.6p 27.6p
Deduct after tax and minority interest gains on exceptional items (20.3)p (2.7)p
Add/(deduct) after tax and minority interest losses/(gains) on specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 13.8p (2.5)p
EPS excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 27.1p 22.4p
Key performance indicators and financial highlights 30 Free cash flow
Free cash flow in 2007 at £653 million is 43% ahead of 2006. This increase was driven by full year
contributions from Coleto Creek, Levanto, Tihama and Indian Queens, together with strong profitability of 
the UK assets. In addition, dividends from associates and joint ventures increased year-on-year by £32 million.
Maintenance capital expenditure was also £57 million lower than in 2006. This was partially offset by an
increase in net interest and tax payments of £100 million, mainly as a result of acquisitions. Free cash flow 
was also enhanced by working capital reductions, including reduced margining and investment deposits with
counterparties.
Reconciliation from net cash inflow from operating activities to free cash flow
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 653 475
Less exceptional receipt from TXU Administrators – (14)
Less exceptional receipt of compensation for breach of contract – (5)
Free cash flow 653 456
A review of liquidity is included on pages 56 to 57.
Dividend
During the year, the Board introduced the payment of an interim dividend. The interim dividend of 2.77 pence
per Ordinary Share, was paid to shareholders on 30 October 2007. This interim dividend was calculated on a
fixed percentage (35%) of the previous year’s full year dividend. 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.39 pence per share, bringing the full year dividend to 10.16 pence
per share (2006: 7.9p), an increase of 29% year-on-year and representing a pay-out ratio of 37.5% of EPS 
(pre-exceptional and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements). This increase is in line with the Group’s policy
of progressively moving towards a dividend pay-out ratio of 40%.
Payment of this final dividend to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 23 May 2008 is due
to be made on 26 June 2008, following approval at the 2008 AGM, which will be held on 13 May 2008.
Outlook
We believe 2008 will be another year of growth after taking into account reduced output at Rugeley due to the
fitting of FGD equipment, lower UK coal spreads, and in the US subdued summer spark spreads following the
cool summer in 2007. We remain well positioned to finance and deliver on organic and acquisition growth
opportunities across our international portfolio.
International Power Annual Report 2007 31
Indian Queens, 
UK PROFIT FROM
OPERATIONS IN
NORTH AMERICA
INCREASED 35%
OVER 2006 Profit from operations in North America was
up at £136 million compared to £101 million
last year, reflecting the introduction of the
Forward Capacity Market (FCM) in New
England and a full year of ownership of
Coleto Creek, which was acquired in July
2006. New dust emission control equipment
was installed at Coleto Creek during the year
which, together with planned maintenance
work, meant the plant contributed for ten
months of the year. Our contracted assets,
namely EcoEléctrica, Hartwell and Oyster
Creek all performed well delivering a good
financial performance.
A mild summer in Texas led to a decrease in
demand compared to 2006, resulting in a flat 
spark spread at Midlothian of $14/MWh at a
reduced load factor of 55%. The spark spread at
Hays fell from $14/MWh in 2006 to $10/MWh 
and the load factor also decreased from 55% to
45%, following outages to repair defective welds on
high pressure steam pipes. All four units at Hays are
now fully operational, following the conclusion of
remedial work which was completed in the first
quarter of 2008.
In New England, spark spreads increased from
$12/MWh in 2006 to $16/MWh, at a constant load
factor of 60%, and our assets in the region benefited
from the introduction of the FCM. In February 2008,
the New England Independent System Operator
conducted the first auction for additional capacity for
the period June 2010-May 2011. The auction
attracted a significant response from both generation
and demand side management projects, resulting in a
capacity income of $4.25 per kW-month for our New
England plants for this period.
For 2008 we have forward contracted 70% of our
expected merchant CCGT output in Texas, 90% in
New England and 95% of our expected output at
Coleto Creek.
In January 2008, International Power in partnership
with South Texas Electric Cooperative (STEC)
(International Power 51%, STEC 49%) commenced
the process to permit a 650 MW second coal fired
unit at Coleto Creek. The new unit, to be operated 
by International Power, will provide additional capacity
and increased fuel diversity in the region when it
enters service, which is expected in the 2013-2014
timeframe. In line with the ownership structure STEC
will take 49% of this new capacity.
Market environment and growth prospects
In North America, the markets in Texas and New
England have been experiencing steady growth in
power demand and will be in need of new generation
capacity in the near future.
In Texas subject to new capacity coming online as
planned, the reserve margin is currently forecast to 
fall below minimum levels needed for reliability from
2010/2011. Even including likely new capacity, the
reserve margin is currently forecast to remain below 
the minimum desirable level and could fall to as low 
as 6% by 2013. This presents us with opportunities for
organic growth in Texas such as the potential expansion
of our Coleto Creek coal fired power plant in Texas.
International Power Annual Report 2007 33
REGIONAL REVIEW – NORTH AMERICA
Bellingham,
Massachusetts
Results – North America
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit from operations 115 111
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market 
movements – losses/(profits) 21 (10)
PFO (excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements) 136 101
TEXAS (ERCOT) RESERVE MARGIN
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Peak reserve margin %
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Q1 2008
projection
Q4 2007
projection
Target reserve
margin Regional review – North America 34
Gas CCGT 36%
Nuclear 7%
Gas ST 28%
Coal 22%
Gas peaking 6%
Other 1%
TEXAS MARKET CAPACITY 
BY FUEL TYPE (MW)
Gas CCGT 36%
Coal 9%
Oil/gas ST 20%
Nuclear 15%
Other renewable 9%
Oil/gas peaking 6%
Pumped storage 5%
NEW ENGLAND MARKET CAPACITY 
BY FUEL TYPE (MW)
Snapshot – regional markets
North America
25% of International Power’s portfolio is located in North America
Key markets for International Power: Texas and New England
Texas (ERCOT)
■ Total installed capacity: 72 GW
■ Market type: liberalised – merchant market
■ Forecast demand growth: 2.1% 
■ Peak reserve margin: 13.9% in 2007
■ Peak demand season: summer
■ International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 3,223 MW (net)
– 2,556 MW gas CCGT, 667 MW coal
New England (NEPOOL)
■ Total installed capacity: 31 GW
■ Market type: liberalised – merchant market
■ Forecast demand growth: 1.7% 
■ Peak reserve margin: 13.8% in 2007
■ Peak demand season: summer
■ International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 1,187 MW (net)
– 1,187 MW gas CCGT
In addition to assets in Texas and New England, International Power has interests in two long-term contracted plants, 
Hartwell (Georgia) and EcoEléctrica (Puerto Rico)
Similarly, demand in New England (NEPOOL) has
been growing just under 2% per annum and is
expected to continue to grow at close to that pace.
Given current demand levels, if no major new-build
occurred, New England could fall below the target
reserve level in the short-term. However, the system
operator in New England has introduced the FCM to
ensure that sufficient reserve margin is maintained in
the system.
The FCM incentivises existing generators to achieve
high levels of availability and encourages demand-side
management and the construction of required new
power plants in supply deficient areas. Overall, the
FCM provides a market environment that encourages
and rewards the right amount of new capacity that
will be required to meet future demand, and provides
earnings security for our existing, efficient plant
together with creating further expansion
opportunities for us in New England. 
In addition to organic growth, there are multiple
opportunities for further growth via acquisitions in 
the region in both existing and selected new markets.
NEW ENGLAND (NEPOOL) RESERVE MARGIN
20
0
Peak reserve margin %
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
With new 
demand side
resources
Without new
demand side
resources
Target reserve
margin International Power Annual Report 2007 35
1
2
4
5
7
9
8
6
3
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Midlothian Texas
Hays Texas
Coleto Creek Texas
Oyster Creek Texas
Hartwell Georgia
Milford Massachusetts
Bellingham Massachusetts
Blackstone Massachusetts
EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico
Location Fuel/type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity capacity capacity capacity
power power heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
MW MW
Assets in operation
Hartwell Georgia Gas (OCGT) 318 159
Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 667
Hays Texas Gas (CCGT) 913 913
Midlothian Texas Gas (CCGT) 1,423 1,423
Oyster Creek Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 440 220 100 MWth 50 MWth
Bellingham Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 539 539
Blackstone Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 488 488
Milford Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 160
EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 548 192
North America total in operation 5,496 4,761
Note: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
As at 5 March 2008. A SIGNIFICANT
INCREASE IN
CONTRIBUTIONS
FROM OUR UK
POWER PLANTS Profit from operations in Europe increased
significantly to £574 million from 
£450 million last year. This was principally
due to strong contributions from our UK
assets and first full year contributions from
Levanto and Indian Queens, together with 
a first-time contribution from Maestrale 
for the four months from September to
December 2007. Our contracted assets 
in Iberia, Italy and Turkey continue to 
deliver consistent operational and 
financial performance.
In 2007 the UK power market saw dark spreads
falling and spark spreads increasing. Rugeley benefited
from our decision to forward contract its output for
2007, when power prices were higher in 2006, whilst
Deeside was able to take advantage of its largely
uncontracted position as its achieved spark spread
increased from £22/MWh to £23/MWh
(1)
. Saltend’s
earnings were flat compared to 2006, due to the
lower amortisation charge on the gas supply contract
being offset by the impact of higher gas costs.
For 2008 we have forward contracted 85% of our
expected merchant output at Rugeley, 95% at
Saltend, and 60% at Deeside.
First Hydro’s earnings were up compared to 2006 
as the asset captured higher prices during periods of
increased power price volatility. The storage capacity
of one of First Hydro’s upper reservoirs was expanded
in October 2007, to give an extra 8% capacity.
Earnings at ISAB, in Italy, were down year-on-year
following a planned outage and a revised fuel
indexation methodology.
The Czech Republic experienced very mild weather
during the first half of the year, and as a consequence
heat sales were lower compared to 2006, but this
was partially offset by higher power sales at an
improved margin. In August, International Power
Opatovice signed a new three-year contract with the
existing offtaker to sell 65% of its expected output
until the end of 2010.
During the year, International Power more than
doubled the size of its European wind portfolio,
acquiring 100% ownership of 660 MW of
operational wind generation. Details of these
acquisitions are shown below:
International Power Annual Report 2007 37
REGIONAL REVIEW – EUROPE
First Hydro, 
UK
Name of wind farm Location Acquisition/ MW (net) MW (net)
completion date in operation* under construction*
Delfzijl-Zuid Netherlands July 2007 16 –
Maestrale Italy and Germany August 2007 581 55
Schkortleben Germany September 2007 28 –
Delfzijl-Zuid 2 Netherlands December 2007 15 –
Karstaedt 2 Germany December 2007 20 –
Total 660 55
* As at date of acquisition.
Results – Europe
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit from operations 383 615
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market 
movements – losses/(profits) 191 (165)
PFO (excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements) 574 450 At Levanto, which was acquired in November 2006, 
a further 69 MW of wind farms that were under
construction at acquisition started commercial
operation in 2007, with the final 6 MW due to
commence operation in 2008. Construction of the 
8 MW Horn wind farm, located in Germany, has 
been completed. In addition, 55 MW of capacity
which was under construction at the time of the
Maestrale acquisition has now reached commercial
operation. As at 5 March 2008, our European wind
portfolio comprises 1,153 MW in operation and 
6 MW under construction.
In June, International Power created a common
ownership platform for its UK
(2)
assets (75%
International Power and 25% Mitsui). As part of the
agreement, International Power sold a 25% equity
interest in Rugeley, Deeside and Indian Queens to
Mitsui and acquired an additional 5% equity interest
in First Hydro and Saltend. In addition Mitsui provided
a £200 million credit facility to support trading
activities of the UK assets, and International Power
also acquired the right to additional returns from
Paiton (Indonesia) equivalent to 9.2% of Paiton's
earnings and cash distributions
(3)
, equalising the
returns for International Power and Mitsui from this
important asset. The sale and purchase of the
interests in the UK assets and Paiton resulted in a net
cash payment of £106 million to International Power
and an exceptional profit on disposal of £174 million.
The installation of FGD equipment, required to
significantly reduce sulphur emissions at Rugeley, 
is underway with final commissioning scheduled in
the third quarter of 2008. A major planned outage
and the FGD tie-in installation will together take
approximately four months. Rugeley is currently
burning ultra low sulphur coal in order to comply 
with the emissions requirements of the Large
Combustion Plant Directive (LCPD). The resulting 
load factor is expected to be 55% in 2008, down
from 65% in 2007.
Construction of FGD and Selective Catalytic
Reduction (SCR) equipment at Tejo Energia (Pego)
in Portugal is also progressing well, and is expected
to be completed in the second half of 2008. On
completion of this project Pego’s emissions of SO
2
and NOx will be significantly lower than the limits
imposed by the LCPD.
The new Elecgas 830 MW CCGT project, in Portugal,
reached financial close in March 2008 together with
finalisation of the tolling agreement and EPC
contracts. The entire output of the new plant will be
sold to Endesa Generacion S.A., a subsidiary of
Endesa, under a 25-year tolling contract. The CCGT
plant will be constructed by Siemens and will be
located adjacent to the existing 628 MW Pego coal
fired plant. The total project cost is estimated at 
€580 million (£443 million), which will be funded 
by a mix of debt and equity in an 85:15 ratio. For its 
50% share, International Power’s equity investment
will be €44 million (£34 million).
Notes:
(1) Adjusted to reflect the fuel optimisation that was achieved by trading 
our coal and gas power station assets as a portfolio.
(2) Ownership in Derwent Cogeneration Limited, 33% held jointly by
International Power and Mitsui, is unchanged as a result of this transaction.
(3) Via the acquisition of an economic interest from Mitsui, this transaction
equalised the returns for International Power and Mitsui from Paiton 
(at 40% each) but did not entail any transfer of shares or change of
management structure.
Regional review – Europe 38
Tejo Energia (Pego), 
Portugal International Power Annual Report 2007 39
Market environment and growth prospects
Demand growth for power, rising fuel costs, planned
plant retirements and tightening environmental
legislation (for both carbon and sulphur emissions) are
key factors affecting the power industry in Europe. We
see these factors in each of the nine European markets
in which we operate, and we work continuously to
ensure our portfolio is optimally positioned. 
For example, we have significantly increased our
renewables portfolio in Europe by expanding in
markets that offer a secure and attractive
environment for wind generation, and we are
investing in economically viable major environmental
upgrades, such as the installation of FGD equipment
in both the UK and Portugal, to ensure these coal
fired plants are best positioned for the long-term. 
We are working to deliver new projects to meet
power demand growth such as the Elecgas project
and an 840 MW greenfield CCGT plant in the port of
Rotterdam, in partnership with Eneco.
A significant proportion of our European installed
generation is located in the UK, where electricity
demand is growing at just over 1% per annum. A key
factor affecting the supply/demand balance in the UK
is the quantum of capacity that will be retired by
2015. The LCPD requires plant to achieve stringent
sulphur emission levels. If plant operators decide not
to invest in sulphur emission abatement (termed as
‘opting out’ of the LCPD), then the power plants in
question have to close by 2015 and can only operate
for a defined and restricted amount (20,000 hours in
total) until that date. In the UK, some 11,200 MW of
coal and oil fired plant has ‘opted out’, and, as shown
in the reserve margin chart, if operators begin to use
up most of their allotted 20,000 hours over the next
3-4 years then ‘opted-out’ plant could begin to retire
much earlier, by 2011/2012. This would accelerate
the requirement for new-build. 
We see expansion opportunities from both greenfield
development projects and acquisitions – both for
thermal assets and renewables. Our strong presence
in regional markets and our flexible, efficient
generation ensures we are well positioned.
DURING 2007 
WE DOUBLED 
THE SIZE OF OUR
EUROPEAN WIND
PORTFOLIO
IPR European wind portfolio,
Germany, Italy, France 
and the Netherlands
UNITED KINGDOM RESERVE MARGIN
30
0
Peak reserve margin %
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
25
20
15
10
5
Reserve margin
without early
LCPD retirements
Reserve margin
with early
LCPD retirements
Target reserve Regional review – Europe 40
Coal 38%
Oil 5%
Gas 33%
Nuclear 14%
Peak hydro 4%
Renewables 3%
Other 3%
UK MARKET CAPACITY 
BY FUEL TYPE (MW)
Lignite 49%
Pump storage 7%
Nuclear 22%
Hard coal 9%
Gas/mixed 5%
Run of river hydro 6%
Other 2%
CZECH MARKET CAPACITY 
BY FUEL TYPE (MW)
Snapshot – regional markets
Europe
36% of International Power’s portfolio is located in Europe
Key merchant markets for International Power: UK and Czech Republic
UK 
■ Total installed capacity: 76 GW
■ Market type: fully liberalised – merchant market
■ Demand growth: 1.1%
■ Peak reserve margin: 19% in 2007
■ Peak demand season: winter
■ CO 2 Emission Reduction Target:
– Signed up to the Kyoto Protocol
– 12.5% reduction by 2012 from 1990 levels
■ International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 3,783 MW (net)
– 1,324 MW gas, 788 MW coal, 1,566 MW pumped storage, 105 MW oil
Czech Republic
■ Total installed capacity: 16 GW
■ Market type: fully liberalised – merchant market
■ Demand growth: 0.5%
■ Peak reserve margin: 21-46%
(1)
■ Peak demand season: winter
■ CO 2 emission reduction target:
– Signed up to the Kyoto Protocol
– 8% reduction by 2012 from 1990 levels
■ International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 585 MW (net)
– 585 MW coal/gas
International Power actively trades in the Czech bilateral market, but also has a three-year offtake contract with a local offtaker.
Rest of Europe
Total collective installed capacity in International Power’s existing markets is 410 GW
Existing markets: Germany, Italy, France, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Turkey
■ Market type: fully regulated markets – with long-term offtake contracts
■ Fuel mix: various
■ Regulated tariffs for wind assets in Germany, Italy, France and the Netherlands
■ Peak demand season: winter for northern countries and summer for southern countries
■ CO 2 emission reduction targets:  
– Germany, Italy, France, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Turkey signed up to the Kyoto Protocol
– Reduction targets under EU Burden Sharing agreement are Germany (-21%), Italy (-6.5%), France (0%), 
the Netherlands (-6%), Portugal (+27%) and Spain (+15%), from 1990 levels by 2012
■ International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 2,484 MW (net)
– 960 MW gas, 314 MW coal, 1,153 MW wind, 57 MW hydro
(1) Dependent on level of interconnector capacity assumed. International Power Annual Report 2007 41
2 
1 
4 
5 
3 
6 
7 
8 
8
8
8
10
11
12
13
14
9
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9
10
11
12
13
14
First Hydro UK
Deeside UK
Rugeley UK
Saltend UK
Derwent UK
Opus Energy UK
Indian Queens UK
IPR European Wind Portfolio
Germany, Italy, France, the Netherlands
International Power Opatovice Czech Republic
Turbogás Portugal
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal
Spanish Hydro Spain
ISAB Italy
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey
Location Fuel/type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity capacity capacity capacity
power power heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
MW MW steam steam
(million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
International Power Opatovice
(1)
Czech Republic Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 585 2,040 MWth 2,040 MWth
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy, France, Netherlands Wind 1,153 1,153
ISAB Italy Gas (IGCC) 562 193
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal Coal 628 314
Turbogás Portugal Gas (CCGT) 1,008 605
Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro 86 57
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey Gas (CCGT) 488 162
Deeside UK Gas (CCGT) 500 375
Derwent UK Gas (CCGT) 214 49
First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 1,566
Indian Queens UK Oil (OCGT) 140 105
Rugeley UK Coal (50 MW of OCGT) 1,050 788
Saltend UK Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 900 0.30m lbs/hr 0.23m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation 9,702 6,852
Assets under construction and other businesses
Elecgas Portugal Gas (CCGT) 830 415
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy, France, Netherlands Wind 6 6
Europe total under construction 836 421
Asset Region Description
Opus Energy UK Independent supplier of electricity to small and medium-size businesses
(1) Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
Note: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
As at 5 March 2008. MIDDLE EAST
PROFIT FROM
OPERATIONS
BOOSTED BY
AN INCREASE 
IN CAPACITY In the Middle East, profit from operations
increased to £68 million (2006: £52 million),
principally reflecting a full year contribution
from Tihama in Saudi Arabia and the
completion of the Umm Al Nar extension in
Abu Dhabi, and additional capacity coming 
on stream at Ras Laffan B in Qatar. Profit 
in 2007 included a development fee from 
the Fujairah F2 project, similar to the
development fee received in 2006 relating 
to the Hidd acquisition in Bahrain.
At Umm Al Nar, the final stage of construction was
completed in 2007. The plant, which now has an
overall capacity of 2,450 MW and 143 MIGD, is
operating under the first year of its 20-year Power
and Water Purchase Agreement (PWPA). 795 MW
and 48 MIGD of the original plant will be
decommissioned in 2010. This decommissioning date
was extended, at the request of the Abu Dhabi Water
and Electricity Company (ADWEC), by an additional
two and a half years due to the good operational
performance of the existing assets. After 2010, the
plant will have a capacity of 1,655 MW and 95 MIGD
until the end of the PWPA in 2027.
At Ras Laffan B, in Qatar, the second phase of
construction was completed in June, with an additional
two steam turbines entering commercial operation
providing 307 MW of capacity, and in January 2008 
15 MIGD became operational. As at 5 March 2008,
the plant has a capacity of 920 MW and 30 MIGD,
and completion of the third and final phase of 135 MW
and 30 MIGD is expected in the first half of 2008.
In Bahrain, the first phase (12 MIGD) of the
desalination extension at Hidd achieved commercial
operation in December 2007. The construction of 
the remaining 48 MIGD extension continues to make
progress and we expect this additional capacity to
reach commercial operation in the first half of 2008. 
In June, the non-recourse debt facility at Tihama was
successfully refinanced for a total of US$550 million,
achieving improved debt amortisation terms, lower
margins and providing an increased distribution of
US$45 million to International Power plc.
International Power (in a 50:50 partnership with
Marubeni of Japan) was successful in its bid for a 
40% interest in the 2,000 MW and 130 MIGD
greenfield Fujairah F2 independent water and power
project in the United Arab Emirates. The remaining
60% will be held by the Abu Dhabi Water and
Electricity Authority. A long-term PWPA was signed
with ADWEC for the sale of power and water, and
the project reached financial close in December. The
financing structure comprised two non-recourse
loans, a US$1,284 million 23-year term loan from
JBIC and a US$856 million 23-year term commercial
bank loan, together with a US$565 million equity
bridge facility. This latter facility will be repaid through
an injection of equity of US$565 million (£280
million) in July 2010. For its 20% share, International
Power’s equity investment will be US$113 million
(£56 million). The project is now under construction
and is expected to be fully operational in 2010.
In Botswana, the development of the Mmamabula
power station (Phase One – up to 2,500 MW) with
CIC Energy Corp. is proceeding. We continue to
progress the negotiation of the power purchase
agreements with Eskom Holdings Limited (for the
majority of Mmamabula’s output) and Botswana
Power Corporation (BPC), alongside the negotiation
of the EPC arrangements.
International Power Annual Report 2007 43
REGIONAL REVIEW – MIDDLE EAST
Umm Al Nar,
UAE
Results – Middle East
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit from operations 68 52
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market 
movements – (profits)/losses – –
PFO (excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements) 68 52 Market environment and growth prospects
In the Middle East the demand for power and water
continues to grow strongly, driven by economic
growth and expansion. The markets in which we
operate (essentially the Gulf States of the UAE, 
Qatar, Oman, Bahrain plus Saudi Arabia) require 
some 50,000 MW of additional power capacity – 
and very significant additional desalinated water
market capacity – by the year 2015. Major new
industrial, commercial and residential projects are
being planned, which will further increase demand
growth in the region. This growth presents us with 
an excellent opportunity to expand our operations
and supply power and water for these developments
in the region.
To illustrate this rate of growth, we expect to bid 
for the development and commissioning of several
new power and water projects in some of our key
markets in this region, as summarised in the
following table: 
Capacity Project Country
1,600 MW, 100 MIGD Shuweihat S2 UAE
400 MW, 15 MIGD Salalah Oman
1,200 MW, 50 MIGD Ad Dur 1 Bahrain
400 MW Al Qatrana Jordan
1,200 MW Rabigh Saudi Arabia
Our strong reputation and track record of delivery in
the region places us in a good position to continue 
to deliver further growth.
We are also exploring/developing projects in selected
Northern and Southern African countries. In particular,
we are developing a major project (Mmamabula)
principally for South Africa, which is experiencing power
shortages and strong demand growth for electricity.
This project involves the build of a major new power
station in Botswana, using indigenous coal supplies,
supplying to South Africa and Botswana under long-
term power purchase agreements with Eskom 
(of South Africa) and BPC.
Regional review – Middle East 44
Ras Laffan B,
Qatar
Snapshot – regional market
Middle East
13% of International Power’s portfolio is located in the Middle East
Total collective installed capacity and desalination capacity in International Power’s existing markets in the Middle East: 
56 GW and 3,000 MIGD
■ Majority of plants in the market are integrated to supply both power and desalinated water
■ Market type: regulated market – all long-term contracted assets
■ Fuel mix: mainly gas fired generation
■ Peak demand season: summer
■ Revenue is primarily linked to plant availability
■ Typically fuel and other major costs passed through to offtaker
■ International Power’s current installed operational capacity in the market 2,400 MW and 78 MIGD (net)
– 2,400 MW gas, 78 MIGD water International Power Annual Report 2007 45
4 
3 2 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
1 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
Ras Tanura Tihama Saudi Arabia
Ju’aymah Tihama Saudi Arabia
Hidd Bahrain
Ras Laffan B Qatar
Shedgum Tihama Saudi Arabia
Uthmaniyah Tihama Saudi Arabia
Shuweihat S1 UAE
Umm Al Nar UAE
Al Kamil Oman
Location Fuel/type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity capacity capacity capacity
power power desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
MW MW steam steam
(million lbs/hr) (million lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
Hidd Bahrain Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,006 402 42 MIGD 17 MIGD
Al Kamil Oman Gas (OCGT) 276 180
Tihama Saudi Arabia Gas (Cogen) 1,076 646 4.5m lbs/hr 2.7m lbs/hr
Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 920 368 30 MIGD 12 MIGD
Shuweihat S1 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,572 314 100 MIGD 20 MIGD
Umm Al Nar UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,450 490 143 MIGD 29 MIGD
Middle East total in operation 7,300 2,400
Assets under construction
Hidd Bahrain Desalination – – 48 MIGD 19 MIGD
Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 135 54 30 MIGD 12 MIGD
Fujairah F2 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,000 400 130 MIGD 26 MIGD
Total under construction 2,135 454
Note: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
As at 5 March 2008. SEVERE
DROUGHT
IMPACTS ON
PERFORMANCE
IN AUSTRALIA Profit from operations decreased from 
£124 million in 2006 to £82 million. The
severe drought in 2007 had a significant
impact on the Australian results by increasing
inter-regional pricing differentials and the
cost of power purchased to cover both
unplanned outages and transmission
constraints. Inter-regional pricing differentials
were the most significant factor and arose
where we forward hedged our power outside
of the state in which we have our generation. 
This resulted in contracts for the sale of power being
settled by purchases in the spot market at times of
high prices and was compounded by a lack of liquidity
in the market preventing us from closing out these
positions. This policy had historically worked well
during periods of low market liquidity in Victoria and
South Australia. There are no such inter-regional
positions in 2008.
Given current reserves of cooling water, we remain
confident that Hazelwood and Loy Yang B have
sufficient water supply to generate at full load
throughout 2008 and into 2009. In 2008 we have
forward contracted 80% of our expected merchant
output and still expect to achieve an average price 
of A$45 per MWh at Hazelwood.
The acquisition of the remaining 50% stake in 
the Australian retail partnership was completed 
in August with a payment of A$142 million 
(£56 million) to EnergyAustralia. The company 
was renamed ‘Simply Energy’.
Hazelwood has signed the financing documents 
with the federal and Victorian governments for an
A$80 million grant, and reached agreement with its
supplier (Alstom) for an innovative retro-fit solution to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% on one of
its 200 MW brown coal fired units. The pilot project
comprises a fluidised bed coal drying plant, boiler
efficiency improvements, fitting a new highly efficient
turbine, and a pilot carbon dioxide capture facility.
Work on the project has begun and we expect the
pilot carbon capture facility to be commissioned in
late 2008, with the coal drying plant commencing
operation in 2010.
At Pelican Point, the non-recourse debt facility 
was refinanced in February 2008 for a total of 
A$190 million. The funds will be used to repay
existing debt and fund the maintenance reserve 
for the plant. In addition an increased distribution 
has been paid to International Power plc.
International Power Annual Report 2007 47
REGIONAL REVIEW – AUSTRALIA
Pelican Point,
South Australia
Results – Australia
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
(Loss)/profit from operations (91) 74
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market 
movements – losses 173 50
PFO (excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements) 82 124 Regional review – Australia 48
Brown coal 58%
Gas CCGT 5%
Conventional gas 14%
Gas OCGT 14%
Wind 5%
Hydro 3%
Oil/Diesel 1%
VICTORIA AND SOUTH
AUSTRALIA MARKET
CAPACITY  BY FUEL TYPE (MW)
Market environment and growth prospects
In Australia, the South Australian and Victorian power
markets continue to grow at just under 2% per
annum. At this growth rate, and with no new capacity,
the reserve margin is currently forecast to fall below
15% from 2010/2011. Even with the addition of
expected new capacity, the reserve margin is currently
forecast to remain below minimum desirable levels
and could fall below 15% by 2014.
Australia has large scale indigenous low cost fuel
resources, principally brown and black coal, and gas.
To date there has not been any significant link with
international energy prices (fuel or electricity) but high
international coal prices, an Australian emissions
trading scheme from mid 2010, and the longer-term
potential to export gas from the eastern states, may
change this trend in the future.
The introduction of this emissions trading scheme in
2010 is the subject of a very detailed review. Details
of the proposed scheme should be announced by
the end of 2008, and we are very closely involved 
in the debate. This is clearly an important initiative
in Australia, and we will continue to work hard to
ensure our portfolio is well positioned, including
projects already underway to improve the efficiency
and CO 2 output of our brown coal fired generation.
Our balanced asset portfolio in the region, with
experience and capabilities in producing electricity
using coal, gas and renewable technologies and then
selling the output in both the wholesale and retail
markets, offers us a solid platform for further growth
in the region. We are actively pursuing growth
opportunities such as the 350 MW peaker in 
New South Wales and a number of renewables
opportunities.
In December 2007, the New South Wales state
government announced its intent to privatise its energy
sector, which includes 12,500 MW of generation assets
and three million retail customers. We will be reviewing
opportunities arising from this privatisation. 
VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA RESERVE MARGIN
25
0
Peak reserve margin %
07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17
20
15
10
5
Reserve margin 
(with newbuild)
Target reserve
Snapshot – regional market
Australia
17% of International Power’s portfolio is located in Australia
Key markets for International Power: South Australia and Victoria 
■ Total installed capacity: 13 GW in South Australia and Victoria
■ Market type: merchant market
■ Peak demand growth: 2.0%
■ Peak reserve margin: 22% in 2007/8
■ Peak demand season: summer
■ Australian CO 2 Emission Reduction Target:  
– Signed up to the Kyoto Protocol in December 2007
– 60% reduction from 2000 levels by 2050
■ International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 3,163 MW (net)
– 858 MW gas, 2,259 MW coal, 46 MW wind
In addition to Victoria and South Australia, International Power has a presence in Western Australia with interests in the
118 MW (gross) Kwinana gas fired plant International Power Annual Report 2007 49
1 
2 
3 
4
6 
7 
8 
5 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
Kwinana Western Australia
Synergen South Australia
Pelican Point South Australia
SEA Gas pipeline Victoria and South Australia
Canunda South Australia
Simply Energy Victoria and South Australia
Hazelwood Victoria
Loy Yang B Victoria
Location Fuel/type Gross Net
capacity capacity
power power 
MW MW
Assets in operation
Canunda South Australia Wind 46 46
Pelican Point South Australia Gas (CCGT) 487 487
Synergen South Australia Gas/distillate 371 371
Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 1,541
Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 718
Kwinana Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 58
Australia total in operation 3,723 3,221
Other businesses
Asset Region Description
Simply Energy Victoria and South Australia Electricity and gas retailer
SEA Gas pipeline Victoria and South Australia 687 km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia
Note: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
As at 5 March 2008. STRONG
OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE 
CONTRIBUTES TO
RESULTS IN ASIA Profit from operations in Asia was up to 
£96 million compared to £91 million in 2006.
Performance in this region benefited from
higher load factors as a result of continued
demand growth, and strong operational
performances at all our assets in Asia,
although the expiry of the tax holiday at
KAPCO did result in lower post-tax earnings
at this asset. Our investment in Malakoff was
sold in May 2007 to MMC Corporation for
£249 million, generating an exceptional profit
on disposal of £115 million.
In December 2007, International Power agreed 
to acquire an additional 31% shareholding in Uch
(572 MW plant located in Pakistan) for a total cash
consideration of US$85.5 million (£44 million). The
acquisition from affiliates of Tenaska Holdings (L)
Corp, will take International Power’s total holding 
in Uch to 71%. The entire output of the plant is 
sold to WAPDA under a long-term PPA until 2023.
The acquisition will be funded from current liquid
resources, and is expected to complete in the first 
half of 2008.
We continue to actively pursue the 800 MW Paiton 3
expansion, and the 1,320 MW West Java (renamed
from Tanjung Jati A) coal fired greenfield opportunities
in Indonesia. Tariff and PPA negotiations with the
offtaker are continuing in parallel with discussions on
the EPC contracts for both projects.
International Power Annual Report 2007 51
REGIONAL REVIEW – ASIA
Uch, 
Pakistan
Results – Asia
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit from operations 95 91
Exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market 
movements – losses 1 –
PFO (excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements) 96 91 Regional review – Asia 52
Snapshot – regional market
Asia
9% of International Power’s portfolio is located in Asia
Total collective installed capacity in International Power’s existing markets in Asia: 70 GW
■ Market type: regulated markets – all long-term contracted assets
■ Fuel mix: various
■ Peak demand season: summer
■ Revenue primarily linked to plant availability
■ Typically fuel and other major costs passed through to offtaker
■ International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 1,590 MW (net) 
– 948 MW gas, 423 MW coal and 219 MW oil
HUBCO, 
Pakistan
Market environment and growth prospects
Demand for power in Asia is forecast to grow
significantly, typically at rates between 5% and 10%
per annum, in line with the strong economic (GDP)
growth in the region. Through our successful
operation over the past several years, we have
developed a good reputation and strong long-term
relationships with key state owned customers and key
stakeholders in the region. Given the strength of our
presence, we are well placed to expand our portfolio
in the region both organically and via acquisition.
We are actively pursuing growth projects in
Indonesia, Pakistan, Thailand, and selected new
markets. We have organic growth opportunities 
in Indonesia, namely, Paiton 3 (800 MW), and the
West Java project (1,320 MW), and in Thailand
where we are working on a 100 MW expansion. 
All three of our Pakistan projects, namely HUBCO,
KAPCO and Uch are working on expansion projects
totalling 1,075 MW. We are also considering
projects in new markets, such as Vietnam where 
the power demand is estimated to grow strongly 
at average rates in excess of 17%. Overall, the
growth opportunity for International Power in Asia 
is considerable, and we have an experienced and
focused business development team to review
opportunities in both our existing and new 
selected markets. International Power Annual Report 2007 53
3 
2 
1 
4 
5
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
KAPCO Pakistan
Uch Pakistan
HUBCO Pakistan
TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand
Paiton Indonesia
Location Fuel/type Gross Net Gross Net
capacity capacity capacity capacity
power power heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
MW MW
Assets in operation
Paiton
(1)
Indonesia Coal 1,365 423
HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 219
KAPCO Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 576
Uch Pakistan Gas (CCGT) 572 229
TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 143 7.7 MWth
(2)
7.7 MWth
(2)
Asia total in operation 4,970 1,590
(1) In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distributions.
(2) District cooling system capacity.
Note: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
As at 5 March 2008. Corporate costs
Corporate costs at £52 million are £7 million higher than 2006. This is mainly due to a provision made for 
the expected period of vacancy in the Group head office sublease following notification from the existing sub
tenants that they are terminating their lease.
Interest
Net interest expense at £308 million is £60 million higher than 2006. This is mainly due to the impact of
additional debt relating to Maestrale and a full year impact of Levanto which was acquired in November 2006. 
Foreign exchange
The impact of the strengthening of sterling on the results of our overseas operations, compared to 2006, is a
reduction in EPS of 0.5 pence. The majority of this impact relates to the translation of the profits of US dollar
denominated operations.
Tax
The Group tax charge has reduced by £9 million to £113 million (2006: £122 million). As announced in our
interim results, this includes the impact of reduced UK deferred tax balances following the lowering of the
standard rate of UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. Minority interests in our
UK assets also benefited from this change in tax rate. The Group also benefited from reductions in tax rates in
the Czech Republic, Germany and Italy during 2007 and this has contributed to lowering the effective tax rate
for the Group to 26%. The effective tax rate excluding these impacts is 31% (2006: 30%).
The reduction in the tax rate in Italy also resulted in a tax credit of £49 million relating to Maestrale. We have
treated this tax credit as an exceptional item due to its magnitude and the proximity of the enactment of the
change of rate to the date of the acquisition. 
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Exceptional items before tax amount to £233 million (2006: £55 million). This comprises the following items:
■ profit on the sale of Malakoff of £115 million;
■ profit on the partial disposal of certain UK subsidiaries to Mitsui of £174 million;
■ provision against the investment in BioX of £9 million;
■ Saltend Gas Supply Agreement (GSA) impairment of £47 million.
As a result of a fall in market gas prices during 2007, the remaining book value of the Saltend GSA was fully
written off at the year end, resulting in a £47 million impairment charge. The Saltend GSA has already delivered
more value than was assumed at acquisition due to the high market gas prices experienced in 2005 and 2006. 
The specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in the period amount to a charge before tax of 
£346 million (2006: gain of £44 million), £173 million of which relates to significant increases in forward prices
in Australia and £135 million relates to increases in forward prices in the UK.
Tax on mark to market movements during the year was a credit of £96 million (2006: expense of £10 million).
Tax on the Saltend GSA impairment was a credit of £14 million. No other tax arose on the exceptional items in
the period (2006: charge of £15 million).
Financial position and resources 54
FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESOURCES Cash flow
A summary of the Group’s cash flow is set out below:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit for the year 529 477
Depreciation, amortisation and other movements
(1)
515 322
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 145 113
Capital expenditure – maintenance (71) (128)
Purchase of intangible assets (48) –
Movement in working capital (4) (15)
Tax and net interest paid (413) (313)
Free cash flow 653 456
Receipt from TXU administrators – exceptional – 14
Receipt of compensation for breach of contract – exceptional – 5
Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt (2) (14)
Capital expenditure – growth (160) (142)
Government grant received 1 –
Investments in (net of returns from) joint ventures, associates and investments (1) 24
Acquisitions (841) (842)
Disposals 418 1
Dividends paid (160) (67)
Proceeds from share issue 13 15
Dividends paid to minority interests (35) (54)
Foreign exchange and other (262) 270
Increase in net debt (376) (334)
Opening net debt (3,575) (3,060)
Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries (711) (181)
Closing net debt (4,662) (3,575)
(1) Depreciation, amortisation and other movements include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and
the share of profit of joint ventures and associates. In addition in 2007 they include the exceptional profit on the disposal of 25% of UK subsidiaries and the
exceptional profit on disposal of Malakoff. In the year ended 31 December 2006 they also included the exceptional profit on the TXU settlement and the exceptional
profit on compensation for breach of contract.
International Power Annual Report 2007 55
KAPCO,
Pakistan Liquidity
Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2007 was £653 million, an increase of 43% compared to 
the previous year (2006: £456 million). This increase was driven by full year contributions from Coleto Creek,
Levanto, Tihama and Indian Queens, together with the strong profitability of the UK assets. In addition,
dividends from associates and joint ventures increased year-on-year by £32 million. Maintenance capital
expenditure was also £57 million lower than in 2006. This was partially offset by an increase in net interest 
and tax payments of £100 million, mainly as a result of acquisitions.
Acquisitions of £841 million in 2007 include the Maestrale wind farm portfolio and the purchase from Mitsui 
of 5% of First Hydro and Saltend and the economic interest of 9.2% of Paiton.
Disposals include the proceeds of £249 million from the sale of Malakoff and the £168 million from the
disposal of 25% of Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens to Mitsui.
Dividends paid in 2007 include a £42 million interim dividend in October 2007. An interim dividend was not
paid in 2006.
Foreign exchange movements include the effect of retranslating opening debt balances denominated in foreign
currency into sterling at the year end exchange rate. The majority of this impact relates to retranslation of euro
and Australian dollar denominated debt.
Summary balance sheet
A summarised, reclassified Group balance sheet is set out below:
As at As at 
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Goodwill and intangibles 901 425
Property, plant and equipment 5,721 4,435
Investments 1,292 1,290
Long-term receivables and others 1,530 1,270
9,444 7,420
Net current (liabilities)/assets (excluding net debt items) (355) 14
Non-current liabilities (excluding net debt items) (1,420) (1,119)
Net debt (4,662) (3,575)
Net assets 3,007 2,740
Gearing 155% 130%
Debt capitalisation 61% 57%
Net debt – joint ventures/associates (1,297) (1,524)
Goodwill and intangibles have increased by £476 million mainly due to the acquisitions of the Maestrale wind
farms and the remaining 50% of Simply Energy.
The acquisition of Maestrale also increased property, plant and equipment in August by £1,018 million, with 
the remaining increase due to growth capital expenditure on projects, including the FGD at Rugeley, and the
impact of currency retranslation. 
Net debt has increased by £1,087 million in the year, and includes net debt in acquired subsidiaries of 
£711 million and a £206 million impact of currency retranslation. As a result, debt capitalisation has increased
to 61% at the end of the year (2006: 57%).
Financial position and resources 56 Net debt and capital structure 
Group net debt
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 980
Assets held for trading – 42
Convertible bonds (255) (237)
Other bonds (694) (687)
Bank loans and preferred equity (4,874) (3,673)
Net debt (4,662) (3,575)
The above net debt of £4,662 million excludes the Group’s share of joint ventures’ and associates’ net debt of
£1,297 million (2006: £1,524 million). These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective
joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group
company. In view of the significance of this amount, it has been disclosed separately.
The Group has sufficient credit facilities in place to fund and support adequately its existing operations and 
to finance the purchase of new assets. These facilities comprise a revolving credit facility and two convertible
bonds. During 2007 the revolving credit facility was increased by US$210 million to a total of US$850 million
(£427 million) and the maturity extended to October 2010. The first convertible bond of US$252.5 million 
(£127 million) matures in August 2023 but with bond holders having the right to ‘put’ the bond back to the
Group in August 2010, 2013, 2018 and 2023. The second convertible bond of €230 million (£169 million)
matures in July 2013. The bondholders having the right to convert both bonds into our shares at anytime. 
In addition, the Group has uncommitted bilateral credit lines from various banks at its disposal at the corporate
level. Further information on liquidity is included in the financial statements on pages 156 to 158.
Secured non-recourse finance
The Group’s financial strategy is to finance its assets by means of limited or non-recourse project financings 
at the project company or intermediate holding company level, wherever that is practical. As part of this
strategy, International Power Opatovice refinanced its existing term loan and replaced it with a new 
CZK 4 billion (£110 million) loan with a July 2012 maturity and Tihama was refinanced, increasing the level of
non-recourse project finance to US$550 million (£276 million) and extending the tenor to 2025. In addition
the Group raised non-recourse facilities of €302 million (£222 million) to support the acquisition of Maestrale. 
Corporate and Group debt
On 31 December 2007 we had aggregated debt financing of £5,823 million denominated principally in 
US dollars, Australian dollars, sterling, euro, Czech koruna and Thai baht. Of this amount only £255 million 
has recourse at corporate level and £5,302 million is secured by fixed or floating charges over the assets of
certain subsidiaries. 
Aggregated debt financing of £539 million is due for repayment in 2008, with the majority of the remaining
debt balance due after 2012. 
During 2007 Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s reviewed the credit rating at corporate level. Standard &
Poor’s maintained the rating of BB but changed the outlook to stable (from positive). Fitch maintained its rating
of BB with stable outlook and Moody’s maintained its rating of B2 with stable outlook.
Short-term deposits
Surplus funds are placed for short periods in investments that carry low credit risk and are readily realisable 
in major currencies. 
Interest rate policy
The Group’s policy is to fix interest rates for a significant portion of the debt (62% as at 31 December 2007)
using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements. Turbogás’ interest costs are a pass through in the PPA tariff
and therefore not an exposure to the Group. Adjusting for this item would increase fixed rate debt to 67%. 
The level of fixed interest rate debt will increase in 2008 as the hedging strategy for the Maestrale acquisition 
is implemented. The Group is broadly neutral to changes in interest rates as variable rate debt is similar in size
to variable rate cash and cash equivalents. Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments
require specific approval of the Board. The weighted average interest rate of aggregated debt financing was 7% 
in 2007. Where project finance is utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual
terms of the customer offtake agreement.
International Power Annual Report 2007 57
Shuweihat S1,
UAE Accounting policies
A discussion follows on the policies we believe to 
be the most critical in considering the impact of
estimates and judgements on the Group’s financial
position and results of operations. 
Critical accounting policies and estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in
compliance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. As such, we
are required to make certain estimates, judgements
and assumptions that we believe are reasonable based
upon the information available. These estimates and
assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements,
the reported amounts of revenue and expenses
during the periods presented and the related
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates
using historical experience, consultation with experts
and other methods considered reasonable in the
particular circumstances to ensure full compliance
with IFRSs and best practice. Actual results may differ
significantly from our estimates, the effect of which is
recognised in the period in which the facts that give
rise to the revision become known.
Our Group accounting policies are detailed in note 1
to the consolidated financial statements (on pages
105 to 111). The table on page 60 identifies some
of the areas where significant judgements are
required, normally due to the uncertainties involved 
in the application of certain accounting policies.
Income recognition
Most of our income is derived from owning and
operating power plants worldwide. In merchant
markets the Group enters into various types of
hedging or forward contracts for the buying and
selling of commodities related to this activity:
principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel
for our own power plants. These contracts typically
fall within the definition of derivative financial
instruments and as such are required to be fair valued.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges
allows, to the extent the hedge is effective, the
changes in value of the derivatives to be deferred in a
hedging reserve within equity. In order to achieve cash
flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group
to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a
forecast transaction is both highly probable and
whether the hedge is effective. This requires both
subjective and objective measures of determination
(see also Fair values of energy derivatives).
When our power plants sell their output under long-
term power purchase agreements it is usual for the
power plant owning company to receive payment
(known as a ‘capacity payment’) for the provision of
electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker
requests electrical output. In these situations, where
there is a long-term contract to sell electricity output
and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to
evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine
whether they constitute a form of lease or a service
contract. Where the arrangements are determined to
be or to contain a form of lease, an evaluation is then
required of where the substantial risks and rewards of
ownership reside, in order to determine the form of
lease it represents. For those arrangements
determined to be finance leases, it is necessary to
calculate the proportion of total capacity payments
which should be treated as finance income, capital
repayment and as a fee for service provision. For
operating leases it is necessary to calculate the split
between minimum lease payments and fees for
service provision.
The Group receives amounts from contractors in
respect of late commissioning and under performance
of new power plants. Receipts which relate to
compensation for lost revenue are treated as income
when the compensation is due and payable by the
contractor. Those receipts that relate to compensation
for plants not achieving long-term performance levels
specified in the original contracts are recorded as a
reduction in the cost of the assets.
Fair values of energy derivatives
The Group has prepared its financial statements 
in accordance with the presentation requirements 
of IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Presentation and
Disclosure), the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7
(Financial Instruments: Disclosures) and the
accounting requirements of IAS 39 (Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement). In
accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its
derivative contracts on balance sheet at fair value
(unless they qualify for the ‘own use’ treatment).
Changes in the value of derivative contracts in each
period are recorded in earnings unless strict hedge
accounting criteria are met which allow the
movement in fair value to be recorded within equity. 
The Group estimates the fair value of its energy
derivative contracts by reference to forward price
curves. A forward price curve represents the Group’s
view as to the prices at which customers would
currently contract for delivery or settlement of
commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates.
Generally the forward price curve is derived from
published price quotations in an active market, over
the short-term horizon period, and from valuation
techniques over the more distant horizon period.
Assumptions which underpin the long-term price
curve relate to the prices of commodities such as oil,
the cost of constructing and financing the building 
of new power plants, and the prices at which it would
be economic for companies to enter the market and
build additional capacity (‘new entrant pricing’). The
assumptions used during the application of valuation
techniques will directly impact the shape of the
forward price curve. The forward price curves are only
estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent
uncertainty and subjectivity.
Financial position and resources 58 Recoverable amount of long-life assets
The original cost of greenfield developed power
plants and other assets includes relevant borrowings
and development costs:
■ Interest on borrowings relating to major capital
projects with long periods of development is
capitalised during construction and then amortised
over the useful life of the asset.
■ Project development costs (including appropriate
direct internal costs) are capitalised when it is
virtually certain that the project will proceed to
completion and income will be realised. 
Depreciation of plant is charged so as to write down
the value of the asset to its residual value over its
estimated useful life:
■ Gas plant is depreciated over 30 years to a 10%
residual value, unless the circumstances of the
project or life of specific components indicate a
shorter period or a lower residual value.
■ Wind farms, coal and hydro plants are considered
on an individual basis.
Management regularly considers whether there are
any indications of impairment to carrying values of
the Group’s long-life assets, including goodwill,
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
(e.g. the impact of current adverse market conditions).
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the
current carrying amount of the asset with the present
value of the expected future cash flows of the
respective cash-generating unit and its fair value less
costs to sell. The calculations are generally based on
risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that
require estimates of discount rates and future market
prices over the remaining lives of the assets.
Fair values on acquisition
The Group is required to bring assets and liabilities
acquired in business combinations on to the Group
balance sheet at their fair value. Power plant and
equipment usually have long operating lives, and are
often bought with associated long-term contracts
such as PPAs. Hence determination of the fair values
of these long-life assets and contracts can require a
significant amount of judgement.
Consolidation policy – amount of influence
The determination of the level of influence the Group
has over a business is often a mix of contractually
defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the
appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the
consolidated financial statements. At entities which are
not subsidiaries we achieve influence through Board
representation and by obtaining rights of veto over
significant actions. We generally treat investments where
the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as
investments available for sale. These investments
available for sale are carried at market value where
market prices are available. Where quoted market prices
in an active market are not available, and where fair
value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity
instruments are measured at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of
the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise
significant influence over the entity’s operating and
financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest
(but less than 20%) in an entity and has the power to
exert significant influence over its operations, we also
treat that entity as an associate.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby
two or more parties undertake an economic activity
that is subject to joint control. Where we recognise our
interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity
we use the equity method of accounting. Sometimes
we may apply the equity method to a joint venture
where we do not possess an equal shareholding to the
other venturers, because the venturers are bound by a
contractual arrangement and the contractual
arrangement establishes joint control.
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to
market movements
As discussed on page 106, in order to allow a full
understanding of the financial information presented
within the consolidated financial statements, and
specifically the Group’s underlying business
performance, the Group presents its income
statement such that it separately identifies the 
effect of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements.
The Directors consider that items of income or
expense which are material by virtue of their nature
and amount should be disclosed separately if the
financial statements are to fairly present the financial
position and financial performance of the Group. 
The Directors label these items collectively as
‘exceptional items’. 
Determining which transactions are to be considered
exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe
would give rise to exceptional items for separate
disclosure would include:
■ disposals of interests in businesses;
■ discontinued operations;
■ impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate
income statement line to which they relate. In
addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made 
of all such items in one column on the face of the
income statement.
Those items that the Group separately present as
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in the
income statement principally relate to derivative
contracts into which the Group has entered in order
to economically hedge certain of its physical and
financial exposures. 
International Power Annual Report 2007 59 Taxation
The income tax expense recorded in the income
statement is dependent on the profit for the year
and the tax rates at the balance sheet date, either 
in place or which have been substantively enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised 
is also dependent on subjective judgements as to 
the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax
authorities in the various tax jurisdictions in which
International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider the extent to which
deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an
assessment of the extent to which they are regarded
as recoverable.
Provisions
Within the Group there are a number of long-term
provisions. The carrying amount of these provisions is
estimated based on assumptions about items such as
the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates
used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs.
For example, the pensions liability is based on
assumptions relating to discount rates used, future
changes in salaries, expected mortality, and future
increases in pension payments. We regularly review the
assumptions underlying provision calculations, and
pensions assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis.
However, a change in estimates could have a material
impact on the carrying amount of these provisions.
Financial position and resources 60
Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty
derive from the determination of:
Income recognition – correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual arrangements in
place and the allocation of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant
– appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors
Fair values of energy derivatives – forward price curve for commodities where there is no observable market
Recoverable amount of long-life
assets
– indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using
projected cash flows, together with risk adjusted discount rates, or other
more appropriate methods of valuation
Fair values on acquisition – useful economic life and residual value of certain assets
– fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and hence how much of the
purchase price is attributed to goodwill arising on acquisition of a business
Consolidation policy – amount 
of influence
– extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the
operations, strategic direction and financial policies of entities in which it
holds an equity stake
Items of income and expense which
require separate disclosure –
‘exceptional items’
– items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature
and amount which require separate disclosure. The Directors consider
these items most appropriately disclosed as ‘exceptional’
Taxation – appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated decisions
of the tax authorities
– assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings
Provisions – appropriateness of assumptions to calculate reliable estimates
Oyster Creek, 
Texas International Power Annual Report 2007 61
CASE STUDY REDUCING SULPHUR EMISSIONS
Coal contains sulphur in varying amounts,
depending on the type, and region from
which it is sourced. When burnt in the
boilers of the power plant, the sulphur
reacts with oxygen to form sulphur dioxide
(SO
2
) and sulphur trioxide (SO
3
). Together
these are generally known by the term 
SO
x
which, when emitted by industry 
and transport, is a significant contributor 
to the production of acid rain.
Introduced across Europe on 1 January 2008,
the LCPD aims at reducing SO
x
emissions by
giving coal fired plants two options. They can
either agree to a very limited running regime
with eventual closure by 2015, or install the
equipment needed to remove SO
x
from plant
emissions. This equipment, known as FGD, is
already installed at our Paiton plant in Indonesia
and at International Power Opatovice in the
Czech Republic. FGD equipment is currently
being installed at our coal fired power plants 
at Pego in Portugal and Rugeley in the UK. 
Both FGD plants will become fully operational
during 2008.
There are a number of competing FGD
processes which can be used on power plants 
to remove the SO
x
. The most common process
is to pass flue gases through a slurry of
limestone which reacts with SO
x
to produce
gypsum, a naturally occurring substance most
commonly used in manufacturing plasterboard.
Raw limestone is crushed and mixed with water
to produce the limestone slurry. This is then
pumped into a large vessel, the absorber,
installed between the boiler and the chimney.
Within the absorber the slurry is sprayed over
the exhaust gases in such a manner as to ensure
over 90% of the SO
x
reacts with the limestone
to produce calcium sulphite. At the bottom of
the absorber air is blown through the slurry to
oxidize the calcium sulphite to form gypsum.
The gypsum slurry is separated out from the
limestone and stored ready for removal from 
the power plant. The remaining limestone slurry
is recycled through the absorber to produce
more gypsum. 
International Power Opatovice,
Czech Republic
Rugeley, 
UK
Paiton, 
Indonesia CHAIRMAN
Sir Neville Simms FREng (63)
Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of
National Power in August 1998 and was appointed
Chairman of International Power in October 2000.
He has been a member of the President’s Committee
of the CBI since 1998, is Deputy Chairman of
Ashridge Management College and Chairman of the
BRE Trust. Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director 
of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002 and
Chairman of the government’s Sustainable
Procurement Task Force from 2005 to 2007.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Philip Cox (56) Chief Executive Officer
Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 from
Invensys plc as Chief Financial Officer. Philip was
appointed Chief Executive Officer of International Power
in December 2003. He is responsible for the overall
management of the Company, and leading the
executive and operational teams in implementing the
strategies approved by the Board. He is a Non-Executive
Director of Wincanton plc.
Mark Williamson (50) Chief Financial Officer
Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer of
International Power in December 2003. His
responsibilities include financial control and reporting,
tax and risk management. Mark joined the Company 
in September 2000 from Simon Group plc as the
Group Financial Controller with responsibility for the
Group’s financial reporting. He is a Non-Executive
Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and Chairman of its
Audit Committee.
Bruce Levy (52) Executive Director, 
North America
Bruce manages International Power America. He joined
the Company on 1 December 2004 having previously
worked for US power company GPU, where he was
senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Bruce
was appointed to the Board in June 2005.
Steve Riley (46) Executive Director, Europe
Steve joined the business in 1985. In August 2003 
he took up his current position as Executive Director,
Europe. Steve was appointed to the Board in January
2004. He is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks 
Group plc.
Tony Concannon (44) Executive Director,
Australia
Tony joined the industry in 1982 and has worked in 
a number of business areas including; power station
operations, trading and international business
development (based in Asia until 1999). He left his role
managing two power plants in the UK to manage
International Power’s Australia business in August 2003
and was appointed to the Board in January 2004.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Anthony (Tony) Isaac (66) 
Tony became a Non-Executive Director of the
Company in October 2000. He is the Senior
Independent Director and was Chairman of the Audit
Committee until 1 April 2008. He was previously the
Chief Executive of The BOC Group plc and is a Non-
Executive Director of Schlumberger Limited and Hogg
Robinson Group plc.
Alan Murray (54) 
Alan became a Non-Executive Director of the
Company on 1 July 2007 and Chairman of the Audit
Committee on 1 April 2008. He is currently a member
of the Managing Board of Heidelberg Cement AG and
was previously the Chief Executive of Hanson PLC,
from April 2002 to 1 October 2007. He joined
Hanson in 1988 and held various positions prior to 
his appointment as Chief Executive, including Finance
Director of Hanson PLC and Chief Executive of Hanson
Building Materials America. 
Struan Robertson (58) 
Struan became a Non-Executive Director of the
Company on 1 October 2004. He is Chairman of the
Health, Safety and Environment Committee. He was
Group Chief Executive of Wates Group Ltd until January
2004. Before that he was Executive Chairman of BP
Asia Pacific. He is currently a Non-Executive Director at
Forth Ports plc, Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust
plc and Tomkins plc and is the Senior Independent
Director of Salamander Energy plc. Previously he was
the Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
John Roberts (62) 
John became a Non-Executive Director of the Company
on 18 May 2006. He is Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee. He was previously Chief Executive of United
Utilities, a position he held for over six years. Before
that, he was Chief Executive of Hyder Utilities and of
Manweb. He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of
Engineering, the Institution of Engineering and
Technology and the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants. He is a Non-Executive Director of Royal
Bank of Canada (Europe) Limited, Merrill Lynch New
Energy Technology Trust and Remote Energy
Monitoring Holdings Limited.
DIRECTORS WHO SERVED DURING 2007
Adri Baan (65) Non-Executive Director
Adri became a Non-Executive Director of the Company
in June 2002 and retired on 31 December 2007. He
was the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
He was previously CEO of Philips Consumer Electronics,
and Member of the Board of Management of Royal
Philips Electronics. During the year, he served on the
Boards of ICI plc and OCÉ. He is Chairman of
Hagemeyer, Wolters Kluwer and Volkerwessels (KVWS).
Board of Directors 62
BOARD OF DIRECTORS International Power Annual Report 2007 63
2
5 6
1 Sir Neville Simms Chairman
2 Philip Cox Chief Executive Officer
3 Mark Williamson Chief Financial Officer
4 Bruce Levy Executive Director, North America
5 Steve Riley Executive Director, Europe
6 Tony Concannon Executive Director, Australia
7 Tony Isaac Non-Executive Director
8 Alan Murray Non-Executive Director
9 Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director
10 John Roberts Non-Executive Director
7
4
3
10 9
1
8 Senior management team 64
SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
Peter Barlow
Peter is the head of corporate finance for International
Power and is responsible for funding and bank
relationships. Peter joined us in 1998 and has been
involved in corporate finance, project finance and
treasury activities since that time.
Penny Chalmers
Penny is head of global resources. She is responsible 
for Group human resources, information technology
and corporate communications. Penny has 20 years’
experience in the energy sector and has been with 
us since 1997.
Gareth Griffiths
Gareth manages global trading, with responsibility 
for our trading operations in the UK, US and Australia. 
He has 15 years’ experience in the industry and was
previously Vice President, Marketing and Trading for 
our North American business.
Vince Harris OBE
Vince is the head of our Asia region and was previously
head of one of the UK’s first cogeneration businesses
prior to becoming CEO of HUBCO in Pakistan. He has
nearly 40 years’ experience in the power generation
industry. Vince was awarded his OBE in 2007 for
services to British industry in Pakistan.
Edward Metcalfe
Edward manages operations and engineering and 
has 34 years’ experience in the industry. Prior to his
appointment in July 2006, he was executive managing
director of Arabian Power Company and was previously
responsible for our operations in South Australia,
specifically Pelican Point, Synergen and SEA Gas.
Sean Neely
Sean heads up mergers and acquisitions. He is a
chartered accountant with 16 years’ experience in the
power sector. He joined us in October 1998, and has a
background in project finance and investment banking.
Stephen Ramsay
Stephen is our Company Secretary and General
Counsel. He joined the Company in 1996, after 
10 years as a solicitor in private practice, first working 
at National Wind Power and then in the international
legal group before becoming Company Secretary in
October 2000.
Ranald Spiers
Ranald is head of our Middle East and Africa region. 
He has been with us for 15 years, having previously
worked for the BP Group for 12 years across a wide
spectrum of industries, including petrochemicals,
detergents, oil refining, downstream gas, advanced
materials and aerospace. International Power Annual Report 2007 65
2
4
5
1 Peter Barlow
2 Penny Chalmers
3 Gareth Griffiths
4 Vince Harris OBE
5 Edward Metcalfe
6 Sean Neely
7 Stephen Ramsay
8 Ranald Spiers
3
1
6
7 8 Corporate governance 66
CASE STUDY CONTROLLING DUST EMISSIONS
The combustion of coal produces small
particulates which have to be captured 
prior to their emission from a power 
station to prevent environmental damage.
Historically, the equipment used for this
consisted of electrostatic precipitators 
which use electric charges to attract 
and hold the particles. These devices 
work very well when a plant is at full 
load, however are less effective during
start-ups and shut-downs.
Fabric filters, commonly called ‘baghouses’,
provide significant advantages over electrostatic
precipitators for the capture of dust and also
mercury particles. These work very much like 
a domestic vacuum cleaner. The expelled flue
gas is drawn across bags which trap the 
particles before the flue gas escapes. The
captured matter is collected and sold as an
ingredient for concrete.
Coleto Creek’s environmental performance has
attracted recognition from the US Environmental
Protection Agency who presented the plant with
an Environmental Excellence Award in 1993. In
2006 Coleto Creek decided to further improve
environmental performance by upgrading its
technology to state-of-the-art particulate control,
installing a baghouse, to further reduce dust
emissions and prepare for future mercury
emissions-related regulations.
The challenge for Coleto Creek, in constructing
the new baghouse, was how to complete the
installation without disrupting the operation of
the plant. In addition, the existing precipitators
treated flue gas upstream and the baghouse was
designed to take the flue gas downstream of the
air preheater. This meant all of the ductwork
from the boiler had to be modified. 
The solution was to construct the baghouse to
the side, while the boiler was operating, then
connect the new ductwork routing flue gas to
the baghouse during a planned outage. The
project commenced in June 2006, and was
successfully completed during a scheduled
outage in 2007. The baghouse has now passed
all necessary regulatory performance tests and 
is currently meeting all of our performance
expectations.
Coleto Creek, 
Texas
Coleto Creek, 
Texas We are committed to high standards of
corporate governance and in this section set
out how we comply with the principles in the
Combined Code, and explain our reasons for
any areas of non-compliance.
The Board
In 2007 the effectiveness of the Board was
underpinned by a balance between Executive and
Non-Executive Directors. The Board believes that it
has the skills and experience necessary to provide
effective leadership and control of the Company. 
Adri Baan retired from the Board on 31 December
2007 and, on 1 July 2007, Alan Murray was
appointed a Non-Executive Director. There were no
other changes during the year. At the end of the year
the Board comprised of the Chairman (Sir Neville
Simms), Executive Directors (Philip Cox, Mark
Williamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley and Bruce
Levy) and four Non-Executive Directors (Tony Isaac,
Alan Murray, John Roberts and Struan Robertson). 
Sir Neville Simms was considered independent on 
his appointment as Chairman and the four Non-
Executive Directors are considered to be independent.
Tony Isaac is the Senior Independent Director.
The structure of the Board, following Adri Baan’s
retirement, is not in strict compliance with the
Combined Code in that the number of Non-Executive
Directors is less than the number of Executive
Directors. However, the Directors consider that the
Board currently works effectively to carry out its
duties and that the Non-Executive Directors have a
sufficiently strong independent presence at Board
meetings to provide an effective counter balance to
the Executive Directors. The size and structure of the
Board is kept under review.
The full Board met seven times during 2007.
Attendance by Directors at these and the Board
committee meetings held during the year are detailed
in the table below.
In addition to the Board and committee meetings, 
a meeting of the Chairman and the Non-Executive
Directors was held without the Executive Directors
being present. The Non-Executive Directors also met
without the Chairman being present. This meeting
was chaired by Tony Isaac, the Senior Independent
Director, and included a review of the Chairman’s
performance.
Board membership
In accordance with the Combined Code and the
Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors
submit themselves for re-election every three years
and newly appointed Directors are subject to re-
election by shareholders at the first AGM after their
appointment. In addition, the Board seeks to maintain
a balance between continuity and new blood amongst
the Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with this policy, Adri Baan stepped
down as a Non-Executive Director at the end 
of 2007 and, following a search carried out by 
an external agency, Alan Murray was appointed 
to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 
1 July 2007 and will submit himself for re-election 
at the 2008 AGM.
In addition Philip Cox, Bruce Levy and Struan
Robertson will submit themselves for re-election 
at the 2008 AGM in accordance with the three-year
re-election policy.
International Power Annual Report 2007 67
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board Audit Remuneration Appointments
(seven Committee Committee Committee
meetings) (six meetings
(1)
) (four meetings) (one meeting)
Sir Neville Simms 7 n/a 4 1
Philip Cox 7 n/a n/a n/a
Adri Baan 7 5 3 1
Tony Concannon 7 n/a n/a n/a
Tony Isaac
(2)
66 41
Bruce Levy 7 n/a n/a n/a
Alan Murray
(3)
33 1 –
Steve Riley 7 n/a n/a n/a
John Roberts 7 5 4 1
Struan Robertson 7 5 4 1
Mark Williamson 7 n/a n/a n/a
(1) In 2007 the Audit Committee held three main meetings relating to the preliminary statement, the interim statement and audit planning. All members of the
Committee attended these meetings. The remainder of the meetings related to quarterly reports and US reporting issues.
(2) Tony Isaac missed one Board meeting during 2007 due to a pre-existing business commitment. He passed comments on each of the relevant papers to the
Chairman, prior to the meeting.
(3) Alan Murray joined the Board on 1 July 2007. He has attended all Board and committee meetings since that date except one Board meeting and one meeting
of the Remuneration Committee which was due to a pre-existing commitment at the time of his appointment. For both the meetings he missed, he passed his
comments on the relevant papers to each of the meeting’s chairmen, prior to the meetings.
Al Kamil,
Oman Board training
Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly
appointed Directors receive a comprehensive briefing
on the Company, and training is provided for Directors
on their roles and their legal obligations to ensure that
they are fully conversant with their responsibilities as
Directors. In accordance with this policy Alan Murray
met all the members of the executive management
team individually, over a period of two days. In
addition he has received guided visits to power
stations in the UK and the US, so that he has a good
understanding of the business of the Company. A
programme of continuous training is also provided for
the Directors. Periodically, the Board meets at the site
of one of the Group’s power stations and briefings are
also given at Board meetings on particular parts of the
business, including regional and functional reviews. In
January 2007 the Board visited the Group’s business
in the Middle East where it met the regional
management team and received a briefing about the
local business operations. Directors are also kept
informed of changes to the regulatory regime such 
as the new Companies Act. All of the Directors have
access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary and also to external independent advice
should they so wish.
Insurance
The Company has in place appropriate insurance
cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Operation of the Board
The Board has responsibility for defining strategy,
ensuring the successful implementation of approved
projects/proposals and for the financial policies of the
Group. It also reviews the risk policies and profile of
the Group. It maintains a schedule of all matters
requiring specific Board approval. Throughout 2007
this included all strategy decisions and significant
capital investment proposals and acquisitions. The
Board receives information on capital expenditure
projects and investment proposals in advance of Board
meetings, as well as management reports on the
operational and financial performance of the business.
Financial performance is monitored on a monthly basis
and the overall performance of the Group is reviewed
against approved budgets. At least once a year, the
CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to the Board
for review and approval. Each investment decision is
made in the context of this plan.
The Board has established business values and
standards for the Group, which provide a framework
for the Group to balance the interests of all its
stakeholders in the conduct of its business. The
business values (FIRST) are set out on page 96 of 
this Annual Report. The Company’s Code of Business
Conduct has been formally adopted by the Board 
and is set out on the Company’s website. This code
includes a whistle-blowing procedure.
In respect of Board performance for 2007, the 
Board, following an internal assessment of its
performance in 2006, appointed an external facilitator 
(Professor Rob Goffee of the London Business
School) to carry out a performance assessment. 
The results of the review demonstrated that the
Board members were satisfied with the operation 
of the Board. The contribution by individual Directors
to Board and committee meetings was considered 
to be high.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head
of the Company between the roles of the Chairman
and the CEO. The Chairman is responsible for the
leadership and effective operation of the Board, in
terms of its agenda, decision making and the
utilisation of the skills and experience of the Directors.
He monitors, with the assistance of the Company
Secretary, the information provided to the Board to
ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that
there is effective engagement and communication
with shareholders. The CEO is responsible for the
overall management of the Company, and leading the
executive and operational teams in implementing the
strategies approved by the Board. 
Non-Executive Directors and their function
Through membership of the Board committees, the
Non-Executive Directors have responsibilities for:
overseeing that systems of internal control and risk
management are appropriate and effective; managing
the relationship with the external auditor; evaluating
the performance of management in meeting targets
and objectives; setting the remuneration of Executive
Directors; appointing Executive Directors; and
planning senior management succession. 
Executive Directors holding 
non-executive directorships
The Company has a policy of encouraging its
Executive Directors to hold a non-executive
directorship in another company. This broadens their
experience and helps improve their contributions to
the Group. Philip Cox is a Non-Executive Director 
of Wincanton plc. His remuneration from this role 
is retained by him and for the year ended 31 March
2007 was £48,000. Similarly, Steve Riley and Mark
Williamson are respectively Non-Executive Directors
of Shanks Group plc and Imperial Tobacco Group plc.
They are each entitled to retain their remuneration for
their roles, which was in 2007 £28,750 for Steve Riley
and £30,000 for Mark Williamson.
Board committees
The Company has established the following
committees: the Audit Committee; the Remuneration
Committee; and the Appointments Committee. In
addition, the Company has established a Health,
Safety and Environment Committee with effect from
1 January 2008. No person other than a committee
member is entitled to attend the meetings of these
committees, except at the invitation of the Committee.
The full terms of reference for each Committee are
available on the Company’s website.
Corporate governance 68
KAPCO, 
Pakistan Audit Committee
The Committee manages the relationship with the
external auditor, including fixing the level of the auditor’s
remuneration and the scope and adequacy of the 
audit. The Committee also puts in place policies and
procedures to ensure that the external auditor remains
independent. The Committee reviews all financial
reports (which for the 2006 year end consisted of the
preliminary statement, Annual Report, Form 20-F, and
for 2007, the interim statement and quarterly reports)
including consideration of the Group’s accounting
policies and major judgemental areas. The Committee
reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of
internal control, and reviews the scope (and the annual
plan) of the internal audit function and satisfies itself of
its adequacy, particularly in terms of resources and its
performance against its annual plan. In addition it
reviews the report prepared by the Risk Committee to
ensure all relevant risks are addressed in these external
and internal audit processes. 
The Committee reviewed the Group’s Sarbanes-Oxley
compliance programme for 2006 during 2007 to
ensure that the Group’s internal control system and
safeguards were such that they complied with the
requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
Following the introduction of the Transparency
Directive, the Audit Committee approved the Company
replacing its quarterly financial reports with Interim
Management Statements (IMS). The first period which
will be reported through an IMS will be the three
months ending 31 March 2008.
During 2007 the Audit Committee comprised all 
the independent Non-Executive Directors of the
Company. The Audit Committee Chairman was 
Tony Isaac, who is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute
of Management Accountants and, before becoming
Chief Executive of The BOC Group plc, was its Group
Finance Director. The Company Secretary acts as
secretary to the Committee. Following the finalisation
of the 2007 accounts, Tony Isaac has stepped down 
and Alan Murray has taken over as Chairman of the
Audit Committee.
Time was set aside for the Committee to meet 
the external auditor and the head of internal audit
without executive management present. In addition 
to the members of the Committee, regular attendees at
the Audit Committee meetings included representatives
of the external auditor, the Chairman, the CEO, the
CFO, other Executive Directors, the Group controller
and the head of internal audit.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for
ensuring that the remuneration package of Executive
Directors is maintained on a sensible and comparable
basis and enables the Company to compete effectively
for good calibre executives. It monitors the performance
of Executive Directors against targets, it sets the
performance conditions for long-term incentive plan
awards and reviews the remuneration levels and other
conditions of service of senior managers, immediately
below Board level.
The Committee comprises the independent Non-
Executive Directors of the Company and the Chairman.
The Chairman of the Committee up to 30 September
2007, was Adri Baan, and from 1 October 2007 it was
John Roberts. The Company Secretary acts as secretary
to the Committee and the director of global resources
acts as adviser to the Committee. In 2007, following 
a formal review, Towers Perrin was re-appointed as
external adviser to the Committee.
Appointments Committee
The Appointments Committee is responsible for
matters of management succession and the
identification and appointment of Directors. It also
reviews the Board structure, size and composition, and
makes recommendations to the Board with regard to
changes that are deemed desirable. The Committee
comprises the Chairman and all of the independent
Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The
Chairman of the Committee is Sir Neville Simms. The
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Health, Safety and Environment Committee
The HS&E Committee has been established with effect
from 1 January 2008. It is responsible for reviewing the
Group’s HS&E policies, objectives and performance. 
The Committee is chaired by Struan Robertson and
also comprises one other Non-Executive Director and
the CEO. In addition the director of operations and
engineering will attend meetings of the Committee. The
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the
performance and activities of the Group. International
Power ensures that its AGM provides shareholders
with an opportunity to receive comprehensive
information on all aspects of the Group’s business
activities and to question senior management about
business issues and prospects. 
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes
lodged for each resolution is reported at the AGM and
on the Company’s website. In line with best practice,
the Company aims to ensure that the notice of AGM
and the Annual Report are sent to shareholders at least
20 working days before the AGM.
International Power Annual Report 2007 69
Blackstone, 
Massachusetts International Power also runs, within the terms of the
regulatory framework, frequent contact programmes
with industry analysts and institutional investors to
discuss matters of strategy and financial performance.
Contact is made principally by the CEO and the CFO.
On issues of major importance the Chairman
communicates with major shareholders. The Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director (Tony Isaac) is
also available as an alternative point of contact if
shareholders have concerns over the Chairman’s
performance or where contact with the Chairman or
the use of other communication channels would be
inappropriate. At each Board meeting, an update is
given on movements in major shareholdings and on
contact programmes between the Executive Directors
and institutional shareholders. Reports issued by
financial analysts on the Company are circulated to
Board members. These reports enable the Directors to
gain an understanding of the views and opinions of
those with an interest in the Company. All results
presentations and Stock Exchange announcements are
available to shareholders on the Company’s website. 
During 2007 the Company implemented the
provisions approved by shareholders at the 2007
AGM that allow for all shareholder documents to be
provided electronically (unless otherwise requested by
the shareholder). To ensure all shareholders are kept
informed of the Company’s performance for 2007, all
the shareholders who did not elect to receive a hard
copy of the Annual Report will receive a highlights
report. This balances the Company’s desire to reduce
its costs and impact on the environment and, on the
other hand, keeps shareholders informed of the
Group’s progress. In addition, during 2007, the
Company’s CEO and CFO met with representatives
of the United Kingdom Shareholders’ Association.
Accountability and audit
The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present 
a balanced and understandable assessment of
International Power’s financial position and prospects,
both to investors and regulatory authorities. 
The Annual Report, preliminary and interim results
announcements, and IMS are the principal means 
of achieving this objective.
An explanation of the respective responsibilities of
the Directors and external auditor in connection with
the financial statements is set out in the Statement of
Directors’ responsibilities. The Directors confirm in
the Directors’ report their view that the Group is a
going concern. 
The Audit Committee has a process in place to
approve all non-audit services provided by the
external auditor to ensure that the objectivity and
independence of the external auditor is not
compromised. Our procedures specify the services
from which the external auditor is excluded and the
approval process for all other services. 
Internal control
The Board has responsibility for the Group’s system
of internal control and for monitoring and reviewing
its effectiveness.
Systems are in place to meet the requirements of the
Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance. Following the
Company deregistering from its registration with the
SEC in the US it is no longer required to comply with
the terms of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, it has
implemented procedures and systems deriving from
that compliance programme to ensure key controls 
are embedded into the internal control framework.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives. The system can only provide
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against
material financial misstatement or loss. The Board
reviewed the effectiveness of internal control
procedures during 2007. The principal features 
of the Group’s systems of internal control are:
Control environment
The Board encourages a culture of integrity and
openness. The Group has an organisational structure
with clear lines of accountability and authority across
its worldwide operations, supported by appropriate
reporting procedures. Each of the regional businesses
is accountable to the CEO and is managed within the
strategic guidelines and delegated authorities adopted
by the Board. An executive management team,
chaired by the CEO and comprising the Executive
Directors, regional directors and functional heads,
meets regularly to discuss issues facing the Group.
Control procedures
Control procedures have been established in each 
of the Group’s operations to safeguard the Group’s
assets from loss or misuse and to ensure appropriate
authorisation and recording of financial transactions.
All acquisition and investment decisions are subject 
to disciplined investment appraisal processes. Risk
management procedures are in place for the Group’s
operations, including its energy marketing and trading
activities, which are overseen by the Global
Commodities Risk Committee, which comprises
Executive Directors and senior management, and 
is chaired by the global risk manager. The Group
treasury function operates under defined policies 
and the oversight of the Treasury Committee, chaired
by the CFO.
Performance reporting and information
Corporate plan Executive management submits an
annual corporate plan to the Board for approval. The
plan for each business unit is the quantified assessment
of its planned operating and financial performance for
the next financial year, together with strategic reviews
for the following four years. Group management
reviews the plans with each operational team. The
individual plans are based on key economic and financial
assumptions and incorporate an assessment of the risk
and sensitivities underlying the projections.
Corporate governance 70 Performance monitoring Monthly performance and
financial reports are produced for each business unit,
with comparisons to budget. Reports are consolidated
for overall review by executive management, together
with forecasts for the income statement and cash
flow. Detailed reports are presented to the Board 
on a regular basis.
Performance review Each business unit is subject to
regular performance reviews with Group management
during the year. Actual results and forecasts for the year
are compared to budget. Key operational and financial
results are reviewed together with the risk profile and
business environment of the reporting unit.
Investment projects These are subject to formal
review and authorisation procedures with designated
levels of authority, including a review by an Investment
Committee chaired by the CEO and comprising the
Executive Directors and senior managers. Major
projects are subject to Board review and approval. 
Further information on our investment process 
is available in our Group overview on pages 12 
and 13.
Corporate reporting The Company has a Disclosure
Committee which is chaired by the Company
Secretary and is comprised of members from the
internal audit, corporate communications, global
resources, operations and engineering, company
secretariat and financial reporting departments. It
reviews the Annual Report and the Summary Annual
Report, and in 2007 reviewed the 2006 Form 20-F.
Risk identification and management
As outlined in the section ‘Our approach to risk and
risk management’ there is a continuous process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks
faced by the Group. Activities are co-ordinated by the
Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, and
has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for
ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and
assessing significant risks, that appropriate control
systems and other mitigating actions are in place, 
and that residual exposures are consistent with the
Group strategy and objectives.
Monitoring
The Board reviews the effectiveness of established
internal controls through the Audit Committee which
receives reports from management, the Risk
Committee, the Group’s internal audit function and
the external auditor on the systems of internal control
and risk management arrangements.
The internal audit department reviews the
effectiveness of internal controls and risk
management through a work programme which is
based on the Group’s objectives and risk profile and is
agreed with the Audit Committee. Findings are
reported to operational and executive management
and the Audit Committee. 
Business unit managers provide annual self-certification
statements of compliance with procedures. These
statements give assurance that controls are in operation
and confirm that programmes are in place to address
any weaknesses in internal control. The certification
process embraces all areas of material risk. The internal
audit department reviews the statements on behalf of
the Disclosure Committee and reports any significant 
issues to the Audit Committee. 
Compliance with the Combined Code
There were two areas where the Board was not fully
compliant with the requirements of the revised
Combined Code throughout 2007. Up to the
appointment of Alan Murray as a Non-Executive
Director on 1 July 2007, there were more Executive
Directors than Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
This is again the case following the retirement of Adri
Baan as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December
2007. The Board has reviewed the structure of the
Board and has concluded there is no need at this time
to appoint another Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director does not have a
contact programme to communicate with institutional
investors, primarily to avoid potential confusion over
channels of communication. During 2007 no institutional
shareholder has requested such communication. 
In all other respects, the Company has complied with
the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the
period of the review.
US corporate governance compliance
During 2006 the Group was required to comply with
the rules relating to its system of internal controls over
financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act 2002. These arrangements were audited by KPMG
who provided an audit opinion that the Group had met
the required standards in respect of the Form 20-F for
the year ended 31 December 2006. On 28 June 2007,
the Board decided to delist from the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) as the ADR facility listed on the NYSE
only accounted for around 1% of the annual share
trading volume of shares in the Company. It decided to
deregister from the SEC due to the extra costs required
to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Board 
is satisfied that the Group’s financial reporting controls
continue to operate effectively.
Guiding philosophy
Our business culture is underpinned by our core
values which form the guiding philosophy for
everyone within International Power. Our corporate
values were set, reviewed and refreshed by
representatives from our businesses and regional
offices around the world. They are: 
■ Financial discipline
■ Integrity of communication
■ Respect for the individual
■ Safe behaviour
■ Team first culture.
More details are set out on page 96.
International Power Annual Report 2007 71
Tihama,
Saudi Arabia Business impact
Our aim is to ensure that International Power is
known throughout the world as a responsible,
efficient and successful company. Our stakeholders –
our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers,
regulators and host communities – expect nothing
less of us.
Electricity is a unique product that has the power to
enhance the quality of life for people throughout the
world. Companies involved in the provision of this
commodity must also demonstrate responsible and
ethical working practices. For a global wholesale
generating company like International Power, this
equates to following fair and ethical principles to
govern the way we manage and conduct our
business. It means working in a smart and integrated
way – by ensuring our key competencies, technical
expertise and best practices are properly
implemented over a widely dispersed and diverse
range of assets to produce power, water and process
heat safely and cleanly. It also means that corporate
responsibility (CR) forms an integral part of our
business decision process and contributes to our
global competitiveness and reputation.
Our CR performance includes our management 
of the impact of emissions to air and water, other
environmental impacts, health and safety, employment
and human rights, and community development. 
A reputation for good CR performance is essential 
to our business since it influences our relations with
governments and regulators, our ability to recruit the
best people, and our standing with other stakeholders,
including customers and local communities.
The measures necessary to combat global climate
change represent one of the biggest potential risks 
to our business. Government action to meet the Kyoto
Protocol and subsequent CO
2
reduction targets will,
over time, increase the cost of emitting carbon. These
measures will alter the economic balance between
different fuels, favouring low carbon and renewable
technologies. New business opportunities may be
created to exploit renewable energy technologies 
and potentially also carbon capture and storage
technologies. Our aim is to generate energy in 
an efficient way, to develop low-carbon technology
and expand our renewables portfolio. 
Corporate responsibility 72
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
A SUCCESSFUL
BUSINESS 
NEEDS TO BE 
A RESPONSIBLE
BUSINESS
First Hydro, 
UK To track our performance in implementing this strategy
we measure the carbon intensity of each unit of
electricity generated, across our portfolio. The average
carbon intensity of International Power’s global portfolio
has fallen consistently over the last three years, in 2007
the average carbon intensity was 0.694 kg/kWh down
from 0.715 kg/kWh in 2006 and 0.736 kg/kWh in
2005. We use net reporting for CO
2
, which reflects our
ownership interest in a power plant. Whilst we measure
the carbon intensity of our output, and seek to reduce
it, we do not have a specific target for reducing total
CO
2
emissions. There are two principal reasons for this.
Firstly, we are a growing company and any fossil fuel
stations we add to our fleet will add to our aggregate
CO
2
emission level. Secondly, we are a demand-led
industry. We are obligated to generate electricity to
meet the market demand and we are committed to
‘keeping the lights on’. For our carbon footprint to
reduce, we require less electricity consumption by our
customers. We are, however, committed to running our
assets in a responsible manner, complying with all
relevant legislation and taking into account our
obligations to our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
EU member states are committed to meeting existing
EU-wide legislation designed to tackle climate change.
Under the Kyoto Protocol, the EU is planning an 
8% reduction (from 1990 levels) in greenhouse gas
emissions by 2012, and is seeking to achieve this
through a number of measures. Firstly, the EUETS is a
market trading mechanism designed to promote the
reduction of CO
2
emissions across European industry.
In addition, the EU Renewables Directive sets individual
national targets for the amount of energy to be
obtained through renewable sources. During 2007, EU
member states agreed to new, longer-term binding
targets – a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions
by 2020 and 20% of renewable energy by 2020.
These targets will be apportioned between member
states and implemented through new directives.
In December 2007, under a new federal government,
Australia ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and is planning to
introduce an emissions trading scheme across a range
of industrial sectors, including the power industry, by
mid 2010. International Power Australia participated in
a comprehensive study of such a scheme in the first
half of 2007 – drawing on its experience in Europe –
and is currently engaged with the new federal
government on its design and implementation.
The power generation industry in the US is facing
some uncertainty as the government begins to
address carbon emissions reduction. As a result there
are several state and federal programmes being
considered which would establish incentives for low
carbon emissions. We expect the federal government
to design and implement a more definitive CO
2
emissions policy and trading mechanism over the
medium-term.
Significant CR issues
Our senior management team regularly reviews 
the significant CR issues relevant to our business.
These are:
■ management of health and safety of our
employees and contractors;
■ the consequences of climate change leading to
national and international regulation of CO
2
emissions;
■ measures to control our environmental impacts,
especially emissions to air such as SO
x
, NO
x
and
particulates;
■ maintaining high standards of business ethics;
■ local community programmes.
Corporate responsibility governance
Management of CR issues
Corporate responsibility matters relating to
International Power’s activities are governed by the
senior management team, and in particular the CEO,
who has overall responsibility, assisted by the Company
Secretary, head of operations and engineering, and the
health and safety manager. The CEO gives CR briefings
to the Board at every Board meeting, and the Board
also receives a summary of Group-wide CR issues in
the annual Risk Report. 
Day-to-day management of CR is performed by our
regional directors, plant managers and employees.
Their work is overseen by the HS&E management
committee and the human resources group, the latter
being responsible for employee matters and
compliance with human rights legislation. All
employees are expected to play a role in maintaining
International Power’s status as a responsible business.
International Power Annual Report 2007 73
IPR European wind portfolio, 
Germany, Italy, France 
and the Netherlands HS&E management committee
The HS&E management committee includes
representation from each region and plant. The
committee meets quarterly to discuss HS&E issues,
and shares best practice across the portfolio to ensure
all plants operate to the highest possible safety and
environmental standards. 
In 2008, we strengthened our CR governance by
establishing a new Board-level HS&E Committee to
oversee HS&E policy and the performance of the
HS&E management committee. It will review HS&E
reports as well as any major incidents and issues of
public concern. It will meet at least once a year at 
a power station, where the committee will discuss
HS&E issues with the plant manager and relevant 
on-site staff.
Auditing CR
Our internal audit team reviews all International
Power plants and this includes an audit of key
corporate responsibility performance. We also work
with joint venture partners to try to ensure that joint
ventures receive an equally rigorous audit regime. The
Audit Committee and CEO receive all audit reports.
All power stations receive a full internal audit every
three years, with an interim audit mid-way through 
the cycle. The internal audit department includes an
HS&E specialist, and technical support is externally
sourced where necessary.
Third party auditors assess our plants against
ISO14001 (environmental) and OHSAS18001 (safety)
certification criteria. In 2007, DuPont Safety Resources
(DuPont) completed an external review of our health
and safety procedures. Details are provided in
‘Progress in 2007’ on page 75.
Standards
All International Power plants, where we have
operational control, have ISO14001 and
OHSAS18001 certification, except Tihama where
construction was completed in 2007. We expect
Tihama to reach these standards in 2008. At plants 
in which International Power is not the majority
shareholder, we seek to agree with venture partners
that we will jointly obtain these standards.
Our performance in the Business in the Community
(BITC) CR Index improved between 2004 and 2005.
In 2006, BITC changed its methodology from a
numerical ranking to a bronze, silver, gold or platinum
award. For 2006 we were awarded a gold overall,
with a platinum in the Environment Index and a silver
in the Community Index. 
In addition to our BITC ratings, we are a member of
the FTSE4GOOD index, which identifies companies
that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility
standards. The selection criteria for this index include
environmental sustainability, stakeholder relationships
and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
Human rights and Code of Business Conduct
We endorse the United Nations Declaration on
Human Rights. This is supported by our own Code of
Business Conduct and human resources policies. We
apply human rights principles rigorously for our own
employees, and we seek to influence our partners,
contractors and suppliers to apply the same standards. 
Our Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all
International Power employees, includes clauses on
complying with our ethical, environment and health
and safety policies. It also covers competitive practices,
conduct in the community and charitable donations.
We distribute copies of the Code to all employees,
and make it publicly available on our website. All 
plant managers are responsible for overseeing
implementation of the Code. 
Corporate responsibility 74
Ras Laffan B,
Qatar CR communication and training
Effective internal communication is essential to ensure
internal stakeholders receive accurate information on
International Power’s strategic agenda, major
initiatives, corporate developments and position on
industrial issues. 
Being well informed ensures employees feel
respected, valued, and become engaged in any Group
initiatives. For example our staff, through our regional
businesses, are encouraged to submit ideas for our
annual Flagship Awards, which are donations for
projects of special note in the communities in which
we operate, in addition to participating in local
community work. More details on our Flagship
Awards can be found on page 77.
To communicate key issues effectively, a variety of
communication channels have been developed.
Management briefings and functional forums are
good examples of these.
We produce an internal International Power magazine
that is distributed globally as hard copy to all
International Power sites and offices. The publication
contains details on major Group news, industry
developments that directly affect the Group, updates
on regional progress and features on CR.
In 2008, International Power will also be relaunching its
intranet to provide employees with access to a range of
material, including information on the Group’s CR aims
and achievements. 
Information on International Power’s CR is also made
available via the Company website.
All Executive Directors of International Power and our
subsidiaries receive training in corporate governance
and CR. We give all new employees basic HS&E
inductions and comprehensive safety training relevant
to their work area.
Progress in 2007
Environment and climate change
As a global power company, we recognise the
importance of developing and implementing a 
low carbon strategy over both the medium and 
long-term.
It is incumbent on us to operate our business in a
manner which is sustainable. This means we need to
retain our competitiveness today, but ensure we are
taking steps now, so that our business is fit for
purpose in the future. In this regard the control and
limitation of CO
2
emissions is a critical issue and one
which has a high priority within our business.
In January 2007, the Board endorsed several initiatives
to reduce our environmental impact and enable
International Power to take advantage of commercial
opportunities for reducing CO
2
emissions. 
Generate electricity efficiently
We use state-of-the-art, proven environmental
technology at our newly built plants and, where
possible, are upgrading the older ones. For example,
at Fujairah F2 in Abu Dhabi (a new build 2,000 MW,
130 MIGD plant, which we have just started
constructing), we are using Alstom GT26B
technology which, when taking into account the
power it produces and the heat generated for the
desalination process, has an efficiency of over 60%.
We have dedicated resources within our operations
and engineering teams to review technology trends
and advances to ensure we are best positioned to
participate in the drive towards a lower carbon
environment internationally.
We are actively reviewing the thermal efficiency at 
our power stations and implementing improvement
programmes. These range from steam turbine
upgrades, to reducing works power, to improving
combustion conditions. For example, high efficiency
steam turbines are being retro-fitted to Units 1 and 2
at Hazelwood power station in Australia.
Investing in low carbon fossil fuel generation
In 2007, we commenced investing in the
development of low carbon initiatives, including
carbon capture and storage. 
Hazelwood, in Australia, burns brown coal which is
low in NO
x
and SO
x
emissions, but produces higher
CO
2
emissions due to its high moisture content. We
have secured A$80 million of funding from both the
Victorian and federal government to develop a way of
drying the brown coal before burning it. The fluidised
bed coal drying plant will reduce the moisture content
from 60% to 12%, using waste heat from the power
plant. As part of this project we are also developing a
pilot carbon capture plant that will remove up to 25
tonnes of CO
2
from Hazelwood’s flue gas every day.
The project also involves fitting a new highly efficient
turbine. The financing documents for this project were
signed with the federal and Victorian governments
during 2007 and we have now reached agreement
with a supplier (Alstom) for the technology required.
We are also researching the potential of tidal power,
using turbines to generate electricity from tidal flow.
In 2007, we entered into a collaboration to develop
tidal turbine technology.
International Power Annual Report 2007 75 Expanding renewables
Our expansion strategy at present focuses on
countries where wind energy operates within
favourable regulatory regimes, many of which are in
Europe. In 2007 we acquired a further 660 MW of
operational wind generation, and 132 MW of
capacity which was under construction became
operational during the year. Our wind portfolio now
has an aggregate capacity of 1,199 MW. We are
seeking to further expand our renewables portfolio
organically, through working with developers where
we bring construction, financing, operational and
commercial skills, and by acquisition.
Reducing sulphur dioxide emissions
We are investing significant capital in FGD, a process
that is retrofitted to coal fired power stations to
remove sulphur from emissions. FGD is already fitted
at our coal plant in the Czech Republic and at the
Paiton plant in Indonesia, and we are installing it at
Pego in Portugal, and Rugeley in the UK. Installation of
FGD at Rugeley and Pego will enable them to comply
with the revised EU LCPD’s restrictions on sulphur
dioxide emissions. We have chosen the
limestone/gypsum FGD process for Rugeley, in line
with all other existing or planned FGD power stations
in England. More information about the FGD process
can be found in the case study ‘Reducing sulphur
emissions’ on page 61.
Health and safety 
We are committed to the best possible health and
safety performance. 2007 was the third successive
year in which our KPI accident frequency rate was
reduced. Very few of the reported accidents were
caused by plant equipment or management systems
failures. The majority of the accidents involved falling,
tripping or incorrect lifting of heavy equipment.
International Power deeply regrets the death of one 
of our contractors at Paiton in Indonesia. In November
2007, a contract employee drowned after falling from 
a jetty at night while unloading coal. He was not
wearing a life jacket, a mandatory requirement. 
We carried out a full investigation, and immediately
introduced a revised set of recommendations for
avoiding similar incidents.
DuPont carried out a review of safety management
across International Power in the fourth quarter of
2006 and first quarter of 2007. The assessment was
carried out at our London headquarters, Rugeley
(UK), Ras Laffan B (Qatar), Pego (Portugal), Paiton
(Indonesia) and Hays (Texas). Having reviewed our
safety policy, observed practices in the field and
conducted employee interviews, DuPont declared
that, ‘International Power has a good safety
performance, and employees at stations exhibit high
safety awareness’. DuPont further acknowledged that
within joint ventures and associates, International
Power frequently provides operational and safety
guidance. DuPont provided feedback to site
managers, produced a report of findings and 
made recommendations for improvement. All
recommendations have now been acted upon.
We developed a behavioural safety programme for 
all employees to reduce the number of incidents,
including unsafe behaviours and accidents, resulting 
in lost time. We encourage staff to identify at-risk
behaviour and complacency, and take corrective
action before an incident occurs. The programme 
was operational across the majority of International
Power’s plants by the end of 2007.
Social investment
Electricity, fresh water and heating are requirements
of modern life – this gives us considerable reach and
global impact on people’s lives. We, in turn, accept a
reciprocal responsibility to conduct our business with
a genuine concern for the world around us, and in
particular where our business has a direct effect.
We support the communities in which we operate 
by acting as a responsible neighbour and employer,
and contributing towards the improvement of local
amenities such as health and education services. For
example, at HUBCO we co-sponsor eye camps where
simple eye surgery is provided for individuals who
cannot afford treatment and without it would have
been blind.
Corporate responsibility 76
Hays,
Texas This is just one aspect of the health care programme
in the Hub area. The mobile medical services and
community health centres serve 25 villages in the
vicinity of the power station on a daily basis, treating
over 47,000 patients during 2007.
Our commitment to education is evident with all
regions supporting local schools through sporting
equipment, computer hardware, sponsorship of
events and prizes. Staff also give their time freely
within their communities offering support for 
many activities.
We encourage our staff to participate wherever
possible and support them fully in their endeavours.
Each year our regional businesses propose projects 
of special note for corporate Flagship status, of up 
to £100,000 in value.
In 2007 we went further by selecting two major
projects, each requiring funds in the region of
£100,000.
■ The Grace Berglund Centre in Victoria, Australia, 
is using the award to fund the creation of a new
‘child friendly’ reception area. Originally built as a
combined school and adult training centre for
people with cerebral palsy or with physical and
multiple disabilities, the Centre now provides
therapy support, clinics, equipment fittings and
assessments. The Award also covers the purchase
of specialised transport.
■ The Hope Centre, based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, 
is a multilingual, multicultural centre for children
with special needs, and is unique within the
Kingdom, in that it caters for both physical and
mental disabilities. This is the first Flagship Award 
in the Middle East and is being used to fund
additional teachers in the essential and specialised
skills required for this important work. The Award
also covers the purchase of transport and necessary
equipment for the Centre.
In addition to our Flagship Awards, in recent years 
our charitable policy has been refined to support four
major charities from our corporate centre. These are
Crisis, The Queen Elizabeth Foundation, Sight Savers
and Wellchild. Each is supported on a three-year
rolling programme with an annual sum of £20,000,
allowing us to build a longer-term relationship and 
at the same time giving the charity the security of
funding for a defined timeframe. Further information
on our relationship with these charities is available on
our website.
The Company also operates a ‘Give As You Earn’
scheme to facilitate personal charity donations by our
staff. We also match monies that our employees raise
for charity.
In 2007 International Power and its subsidiaries
contributed £1,195,985 to charitable causes and
other community projects. Companies in which we
have a minority shareholding (associates and joint
ventures) contributed a further £251,028.
International Power Annual Report 2007 77
Hazelwood,
Victoria Corporate responsibility 78
CR performance indicators
Our CR performance indicators can be found in the following table.
2007 2006 2005
Total electricity output (kWh) 89,628 80,653 67,581
Environment
CO
2
emissions 
Total (’000 tonnes) 65,695 61,206 52,294
Per kWh (kg) equivalent 0.694 0.715 0.736
SO
2
emissions 
Total (tonnes) 93,000 87,000 77,000
Per kWh (kg) equivalent 0.00098 0.00101 0.00109
NO
x
emissions 
Total (tonnes) 73,000 75,000 74,000
Per kWh (kg) equivalent 0.00077 0.00088 0.00104
Particulate emissions 
Total (tonnes) 7,000 7,000 6,000
Per kWh (kg) equivalent 0.00007 0.00008 0.00009
Number of reportable environmental incidents (KPI) 13 16 16
Number of environmental prosecutions 1 00
Health and safety
Accident rate for employees and contractors (KPI) 0.12 0.16 0.23
Fatalities 1 10
Social investment
Community investment from International Power and its subsidiaries 1,195,985 1,050,000 1,173,707
Community investment from companies in which we have a 
minority shareholding 251,028 346,000 662,132
Note: As an energy company we provide electricity, heat, steam and water to our customers. In order to
consider all process outputs and provide a more accurate representation of our total outputs, in 2005 we
developed a methodology which has allowed us to calculate our data normalised by kWh equivalent. This
methodology is available by request.  International Power Annual Report 2007 79
CASE STUDY WIND GENERATION
Wind turbines are being used increasingly 
to harness the naturally produced energy
generated by wind. The turbines use a
three-bladed rotor with slender, tapered
aerofoil sections that can be adjusted to
optimise performance, according to wind
speeds or to stop the machine by stalling 
or turning out of the wind. The rotor is
fixed on the end of a horizontal shaft,
attached to the support tower, which drives
a gearbox. This in turn drives a smaller
shaft at higher speeds inside a generator.
The rotor is upwind of the tower to avoid
the shock waves to the rotor that would
otherwise occur as each blade passes the
lee of the tower.
The voltage from a wind turbine is only 690
volts – a small multiple of household voltage –
so it is increased via transformers to make it
suitable for transmission to the local grid. 
The rotor, shaft, gearbox and generator, and
sometimes the first transformer, are located 
in a housing, called a nacelle, on the top of the
tower. The nacelle is turned on a platform at 
the top of the tower so as to face the wind. 
The tower is usually made of tubular steel
sections but occasionally a lattice (like a
transmission pylon) or hollow concrete tower 
is used. The whole system is controlled by
computers within each tower, which continually
adjust the blade pitch and monitor for faults,
operating hours and power output. The
computers are also linked to a control centre,
where all machines can be monitored and
controlled remotely.
All of International Power’s wind turbines are 
of the types described above, made by leading
manufacturers. Mostly they have been acquired
after construction, and the operations and
maintenance is generally contracted out to a
combination of the original developers and
manufacturers. International Power does, however,
still take an active role in the management of its
wind farm portfolio and is one of the world’s
leading owners of wind turbines.
IPR European wind portfolio,
Germany, Italy, France 
and the Netherlands
IPR European wind portfolio, 
Germany, Italy, France and the Netherlands
Canunda, 
South Australia International Power operates in a highly
complex business environment and an
increasingly competitive international 
market for key skills and talent. We
recognise that the capability and endeavour
of our employees makes us competitive,
most critically in the areas of greenfield
development and construction management,
acquisitions, managing existing assets,
project finance, plant operations, trading the
output from our assets and relationship
management with key industry stakeholders.
Consequently, we place the highest priority on the
selection and retention, engagement, training and
development of staff at all levels, whether employed
by us directly or, as is often the case, by our
subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
In light of our strategy to balance risk through
operating a broad portfolio of technologies in a range
of markets, our asset ownership structures often lead
to the sharing of influence over people issues. Our
senior management team establishes the important
principles, guidelines and standards of good
governance by which employees at our assets are
employed. This ensures an appropriate measure of
consistency, whilst affording the flexibility to plant
managers to respect national cultures and comply
with local employment regimes.
Employees 80
EMPLOYEES
A WORLD CLASS
BUSINESS NEEDS
SKILLED AND
TALENTED STAFF International Power and its subsidiaries employs
approximately 3,700 people in 20 countries.
Our global expatriate and regional senior
management teams are responsible for managing 
our power plants to ensure we embed our values,
operate effectively, monitor investments and drive
growth in the business. It is for this reason that we
continue to invest heavily in the development of this
group and have in place a balanced, yet highly
leveraged, incentive structure focused on performance
at plant, regional and Group level.
We continue to operate a number of share-based
long-term incentive plans and see these as an integral
part of our strategy to align the interests of managers
and many employees with the Group’s performance.
As a consequence of rapid growth through
acquisition, in recent years we have acquired new
groups of skilled people, from whom we can learn
and with whom we can share best practice.
We value our reputation as a caring employer, rooted
in the communities in which we operate. We seek 
to attract and retain high calibre employees locally,
where possible, including those with often scarce
qualifications, skills and experience. 
In line with our FIRST core values, which are set out
on page 96, we endeavour also to ensure that all 
of our staff conduct themselves in a manner of the
highest integrity at all times. A Code of Conduct is
used by employees and their managers to provide
guidance on the standards of conduct that the Group
requires from its staff.
Communications
Clear communication links are critical to enhance
business and commercial awareness throughout 
our business.
Corporate publications, the International Power
website, employee awareness briefings from executive
management and team briefings are all used to
promote communications and an understanding 
of the development and application of policies 
and strategy.
We continue to invest in the latest technology to aid
rapid communication with all staff around the world. 
Learning and development
We continue to focus on the development of our
employees to ensure the business continues to be
well placed for the future. 2007 saw an increasing
focus on developing high performing and high
potential international managers. 
Global leadership programmes for high potential
managers, which began in 2006, continued as 
a partnership between International Power and
Ashridge Business School, with two additional groups
successfully completing programmes in May and
October 2007. The participants were drawn from
every region and represented the diverse skill sets
present within the Group, providing an excellent
opportunity for knowledge sharing.
Given our rapid growth over recent years, in 2007 
we also reviewed the behavioural competencies that
will be critical to the Group in future. These will
increasingly provide a platform for monitoring and
guiding leadership behaviours across our key
international and corporate management population. 
By way of illustration of some of the training activities
at our plants, we continue to operate a behaviour-
based safety initiative as a way to improve power
station health and safety management. This
programme, ‘Fresh Eyes’, focuses on people rather
than plant or procedures. It involves a colleague
observing their peers and giving feedback on safe
behaviour and unsafe behaviour. This has helped us
maintain the highest levels of health, safety and
environmental standards.
Recruitment activity from within the Group has
continued to grow successfully in 2007, with an
increase in global and domestic relocations.
Systematic advertising and the broad internal
communication of vacancies have allowed employees
to seek out opportunities within the Group. Labour
turnover remains low. The launch of our 2008
graduate development programme should support
the further strengthening of our people development
from within the Group.
International Power Annual Report 2007 81 Equal opportunities and diversity 
in the workplace
In line with our core cultural values and in recognition
of the very wide diversity of our employees and
business partners across the globe, International
Power remains fully committed to the provision 
of equal opportunities and the elimination of
discrimination of any type in our Group. This
approach extends itself to the fair treatment of 
people with disabilities in relation to recruitment,
training and development.
Further, we believe wholeheartedly that it makes
sound business sense to benefit from the wide
ranging knowledge and experience of individuals in all
sectors of the societies in which we have a presence.
In recognition of this, cultural awareness and diversity
training is provided to our employees prior to
undertaking international assignments. 
A number of our plants are active participants in
diversity organisations. For example, in the UK,
Rugeley power station is accredited with the ‘Positive
about Disability’ standard. All businesses are
encouraged to seek ‘Investors in People’ status.
International Power uses a variety of techniques for
assessing job applications as part of its selection
process. Where external selection techniques are
implemented, management work hard to ensure that
the providers are able to demonstrate that their
methodologies are free of bias. Internal selection
processes revolve around objective assessment 
of the candidates.
Rewarding employees
In summary, our approach to rewarding employees 
is to provide:
■ an interesting and challenging job which suits the
skills of the employee;
■ appropriate learning and development
opportunities;
■ opportunities for personal progression;
■ competitive pay and benefits;
■ an emphasis on long-term incentive and 
short-term bonus plans, as well as a broad
commitment to employees owning shares 
in International Power plc;
■ an emphasis on the communication of total
rewards, which seeks to place a positive value 
on many of the intangibles of the employment
relationship.
The Group operates a range of pension plans
internationally, with defined benefit arrangements 
in the UK and Australia. In 2007, a strategic review 
of our UK pension arrangements was initiated and 
we continue to consult with employees and their
representatives to ensure the most appropriate
solution is achieved for the Group and our employees.
No changes are being considered which effect
existing employees.
International Power has in place a number of share-
based incentive plans under which employees of the
Company and its subsidiary companies may acquire
shares in International Power plc. These plans form 
an integral part of the Group’s strategy to provide
appropriate reward and retention strategies for
employees and to align employee and shareholder
interests through incentive targets based on clear
financial criteria.
Executive Share Options are granted to employees 
in 13 countries. The Global Sharesave Plan is in
operation in five countries, whereby employees save
for three or five-year periods to purchase International
Power shares at a discounted price. We are restricted
from offering these plans more widely because of
legislation relating to securities.
Employees 82 International Power Annual Report 2007 83
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
This report to shareholders by the Remuneration Committee
contains all relevant information required to be disclosed by
the Company regarding the remuneration of Directors.
Specifically, the following subject areas are covered: 
■ the role of the Remuneration Committee;
■ advice to the Remuneration Committee and some of the key topics
discussed during 2007;
■ the principles of the Executive Director remuneration policy, followed
by detailed information on the various components of Executive
Director reward;
■ information on Directors’ service contracts;
■ Non-Executive Director terms and shareholding requirements;
■ audited information relating to the Directors’ aggregate remuneration
and compensation and Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares.
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee is responsible for:
■ the establishment of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors;
■ the determination of the compensation and terms of employment
(including any termination arrangements) of Executive Directors and
other senior executives of the Company;
■ approving all Company share plan and pension plan arrangements
including the establishment and measurement of all performance
conditions;
■ monitoring the total compensation of Executive Directors in light 
of Group and individual performance.
In undertaking its responsibilities, the Remuneration Committee is
guided by the strategic priorities of the Group and the measures used
to monitor financial performance. The Committee also takes account 
of the changing nature of the business and its markets both in the 
UK and internationally.
The Committee has reviewed compliance with the Combined Code 
on reward-related matters and confirms that the Company has
complied with all aspects. 
The following independent Non-Executive Directors are members 
of the Remuneration Committee: Sir Neville Simms, John Roberts, 
Tony Isaac, Alan Murray and Struan Robertson. John Roberts replaced
Adri Baan as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in October
2007. The Committee met four times during the year.
Advice to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has access to external independent
remuneration advice. The Committee undertook a review of advisers in
2007 and Towers Perrin were re-appointed to provide specialist advice
on Executive Director and senior management remuneration. Towers
Perrin did not undertake any other services on behalf of the Company
during the year ended 31 December 2007.
In addition, the Committee received advice from the director of 
global resources on all aspects of remuneration. The CEO attended
Committee meetings to report on Executive Directors’ performance
(other than his own). 
During 2007, Committee meetings covered a number 
of areas including the following topics:
January ■ Establishment of 2007 annual bonus 
performance targets
March ■ Approval of 2006 performance bonus
■ Performance Share Plans and Share Options new awards
■ Performance Share Plans and Share Options – vesting of
2004 awards
■ Review of selection process to review Remuneration
Committee advisers
■ Directors’ remuneration report
October ■ Review of Executive Director total compensation
■ Update on Executive Director pay trends in UK and US
■ Review of comparator groups to be used for remuneration
benchmarking
December ■ Executive Director annual salary review
■ Executive Director annual bonus structure
The principles of the remuneration policy 
for Executive Directors
The Committee has based its Executive Director remuneration policy 
on the following principles to ensure that it remains relevant to 
business needs:
Competitive
Total remuneration levels in comparison to our chosen comparator
group are reviewed on an annual basis in order to ensure they are
competitive and thereby to ensure that International Power can retain
and motivate top calibre executives.
In determining the salaries and benefits of the Executive Directors, 
the Committee has regard to the treatment of staff and management 
generally within the Group, to ensure that an appropriate balance 
is maintained.
Balanced and performance related
The remuneration of the Executive Directors incorporates both fixed 
and variable elements.
Fixed elements – including salary, pension and benefits – are provided 
as part of a competitive employment package.
Variable elements are based upon the achievement of specific and 
measurable shared and individual performance objectives over both 
the short- and long-term, that align the Executives’ rewards with 
the creation of value for shareholders.
Shareholder aligned
Remuneration packages include significant opportunities to acquire, 
and obligations to retain, International Power shares, consistent with 
our strategy of building a strong share ownership culture.
The Committee intends to maintain these principles for 2008 in that
the Committee believes they are delivering fair and proportionate
rewards to the Executive Directors based on the Group’s performance,
and it will continue to monitor and consider changes in light of
developing market practice. 84 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Total remuneration summary for Executive Directors
Element Purpose Fixed/variable Criteria for award Performance conditions
Base salary To recognise skills, experience and
responsibility.
Fixed Increases to base salary are
considered upon changes to
responsibilities and reflect inflation
and market movements.
The Committee reserves the right
to award nil annual increases in
light of Group and personal
performance.
Pension and other
contractual benefits
Pension and other contractual
benefits (e.g. car allowance and
healthcare) are provided as part 
of a competitive overall package.
Fixed Pension and other contractual
benefits provision are reviewed
periodically in light of market
changes.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus Annual bonus is provided to
reward success against the
Group’s annual performance
targets.
Variable A mix of Group and regional
financial measures apply, along
with personal objectives
appropriate to each Director.
Threshold, target and maximum
levels of performance exist for
financial measures which include
our financial KPIs, EPS, free cash
flow and PFO, and appropriate
personal objectives are established
for each Director.
Performance 
Share Plan
Shares are awarded conditionally
on an annual basis and held in
trust for three years to reward
Group performance over this
period.
Variable The extent to which shares
awarded conditionally are released
is dependent upon Group
performance in respect of
absolute EPS and relative TSR
targets (weighted on a 50:50
basis).
In respect of EPS, vesting of 25%
of this element is permitted if the
threshold EPS target is achieved,
with full vesting if the EPS stretch
target is achieved.
In respect of TSR, vesting of 25%
of this element is permitted for
median TSR performance against
the Company’s selected
Comparator Group. Full vesting 
is permitted for upper quartile
performance.
Comparator group
Until October 2007 our pay policy for the Executive Directors was 
to be competitive around the median of the FTSE 51-100 group 
of companies excluding Financial Services companies.
In October 2007, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the 
appropriateness of the peer group and decided that this should be 
changed to the FTSE 41-80 group of companies excluding Financial 
Services companies in order to reflect more accurately the Company’s 
increasing market capitalisation over recent years.
The components of remuneration packages
The table below sets out the various components of the remuneration
package for the Executive Directors, which reflect a mix of fixed
elements and variable, performance-related elements relating to
financial and personal targets over the short and medium-term.
The package comprises a market competitive base salary, performance
related annual cash bonus, a long-term share-related incentive, pension
benefits and other benefits including a healthcare programme and a
company car allowance. 
Note:
Earnings per share and regional profit from operations both exclude exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements. International Power Annual Report 2007 85
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN FIXED AND VARIABLE ELEMENTS 
Minimum 
Threshold 
Target 
Maximum 
0% 50% 100% 150% 200% 250% 300% 350% 400% 
Base salary Benefits Bonus PSP 
The relationship between fixed and variable elements
The following chart demonstrates the approximate value of both the fixed
and variable elements of the overall package over a range of performance
outcomes for a typical International Power Executive Director.
As can be seen in the diagram, Executive Director remuneration packages
are structured to provide significant rewards for superior performance.
Base salary
At the time of the 2007 salary review the Committee determined 
that, unless there were changes of role, salary increases would be 
made on the basis of inflation and market movements. This approach
was followed in setting salaries for the Executive Directors from 
1 January 2008, as set out below, where 2007 salaries are also 
shown for comparison.
Name Salary at Salary at 2008
1 January 2007 1 January 2008 Increase
Philip Cox £650,000 £700,000 7.7%
Mark Williamson £382,000 £405,000 6.0%
Tony Concannon £350,000 £370,000 5.7%
Steve Riley £350,000 £370,000 5.7%
Bruce Levy US$750,000 US$795,000 6.0%
Annual bonus
International Power’s Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an
annual performance bonus plan, which is awarded for the achievement
of stretching individual and collective, financial and non-financial targets
over the financial year.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors was
100% of base salary in 2007. The target level of payout for each of the
financial measures was set at 67% of the maximum and this became
payable upon achieving budgeted levels of performance. No bonus was
payable under any of the financial measures unless at least 90% of the
budgeted performance was achieved in 2007. Maximum awards under
each area became payable when year-end performance levels exceeded
budget by at least 10%.
The table below sets out for each Executive Director the performance
measures, which reflect the extent to which the Remuneration
Committee believes they are both relevant to the Executive Director’s
role and open to influence by the individual. The Committee undertakes
an annual review into whether the most appropriate measures are used
for the Executive Directors’ bonus arrangements. Earnings per share,
free cash flow and profit from operations are the KPIs used to monitor
the performance of the business on a daily basis. In addition, all
Executive Directors have a common personal, non-financial objective
relating to health and safety.
Maximum 2007 and 2008 bonus achievable (% of salary)
Performance measures
Group Group Region Region Personal Total
earnings free cash profit free cash objectives
per share flow from flow
Executive Director operations
Philip Cox 60% 30% n/a n/a 10% 100%
Mark Williamson 60% 30% n/a n/a 10% 100%
Tony Concannon 30% 15% 30% 15% 10% 100%
Steve Riley 30% 15% 30% 15% 10% 100%
Bruce Levy 30% 15% 30% 15% 10% 100%
All awards under the bonus plan are non-pensionable.
The details of these payments are set out in the Directors’ aggregate
remuneration table. 86 Directors’ Remuneration Report
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR)  
  
 
600 
550 
500 
450 
400 
350 
300 
250 
200 
150 
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 
100 
50 
International Power net total return index
Source: Datastream
FTSE 100 net total return index
The graph above shows the TSR performance of International Power’s
shares relative to the FTSE 100 index between 2003 and 2007.
Share Plans for Executive Directors
Performance Share Plan
Eligibility for conditional awards
Under the International Power 2002 Performance Share Plan 
Executive Directors are eligible annually for the following conditional
award of shares:
■ the equivalent of 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive;
■ the equivalent of 150% of base salary for the other Executive
Directors.
Performance conditions
Awards made conditionally under this Plan are held in trust and vest
subject to a performance assessment at the end of a three-year
performance period against the targets put in place at the
commencement of each cycle.
Awards made conditionally between 2002 and 2005 inclusive
incorporated a performance condition that reflected growth in EPS
before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements only. 
For awards made from 2006, the performance conditions reflect both
an absolute target for growth in EPS before exceptional items and
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and a relative total
shareholder return (TSR) performance measure. This ensures that
vesting is in alignment with a key underlying performance measure 
as presented in the Group’s financial statements, and the inclusion 
of a significant TSR element recognises shareholders’ wishes to include 
a relative, market-based measure when assessing performance. 
For the conditional awards made in 2006 and 2007, 50% of the awards
have been subject to a TSR performance condition measured against
companies in the FTSE 51-100, whilst 50% of the award is subject to
the achievement of a specific EPS, before exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements, growth target.
For the purposes of assessing performance, TSR and EPS measures are
treated separately, so that if one element of performance does not
achieve the required level, the other element may still count towards
vesting provided that it has achieved the required level of performance.
Given that the principal performance measures for the Company’s share
plans are based on growth in EPS before exceptional items and specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements and TSR, the Committee will also
take into account, and adjust appropriately for, the enhancement effects
of any purchase and subsequent cancellation of shares, or placing of
shares into treasury, by the Company.
Before releasing any award in respect of the TSR element, the
Remuneration Committee will also seek to satisfy itself that the Group’s
TSR performance is a genuine reflection of the true underlying
performance of the Group.
For 2008, the performance requirements in respect of the TSR element
remain as for 2006 and 2007, with the exception that the comparator
group now comprises FTSE 41-80 companies.
Benefits on vesting
The method of calculating an Executive Director’s entitlement to shares
upon vesting is as set out below:
■ In respect of the TSR element, 25% of the maximum vests for
median TSR performance and the maximum vests for upper quartile
performance.
■ In respect of the EPS element, 25% of the maximum vests for
performance at the threshold target established by the Remuneration
Committee and the maximum vests when the stretch target is
achieved.
■ Straight line pro-rating will apply for performance between the
threshold and maximum data points for both the TSR and EPS
growth elements. International Power Annual Report 2007 87
Date of award Performance period Threshold performance
condition
Maximum performance
condition
Vesting rate
2 March 2004 1 January 2004 to 
31 December 2006
30% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2006 is
not less than 8.2p.
100% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2006 is
equal to or greater than 11.5p.
Vesting will be pro-rated for
EPS performance between
these two points.
2006 EPS 22.4p: Performance condition exceeded. 100% of the award vested on 12 March 2007.
11 March 2005 1 January 2005 to 
31 December 2007
30% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2007 is
not less than 13.7p.
100% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ended 31 December 2007 is
equal to or greater than 15.0p.
Vesting will be pro-rated for
EPS performance between
these two points.
2007 EPS 27.1p: Performance condition exceeded. 100% of the award vested on 11 March 2008.
8 March 2006 1 January 2006 to 
31 December 2008
12.5% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ending 31 December 2008 is
not less than 21.0p.
50% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ending 31 December 2008 is
equal to or greater than 24.0p.
Vesting will be pro-rated for
EPS performance between
these two points.
12.5% of the award will vest at
the median of FTSE 51-100
companies’ TSR performance
for the three years ending 
31 December 2008.
50% of the award will vest 
at the upper quartile of 
FTSE 51-100 companies’ TSR
performance for the three years
ending 31 December 2008.
Vesting will be pro-rated for
TSR performance between
these two points.
12 March 2007 1 January 2007 to 
31 December 2009
12.5% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ending 31 December 2009 is
not less than 27.0p.
50% of the award will vest if
EPS performance for the year
ending 31 December 2009 is
equal to or greater than 34.0p.
Vesting will be pro-rated for
EPS performance between
these two points.
12.5% of the award will vest at
the median of FTSE 51-100
companies’ TSR performance
for the three years ending 
31 December 2009.
50% of the award will vest 
at the upper quartile of 
FTSE 51-100 companies’ TSR
performance for the three years
ending 31 December 2009.
Vesting will be pro-rated for
TSR performance between
these two points.
Performance Share Plan awards
The specific performance and vesting arrangements for all conditional
Performance Share Plan awards made between 2004 and 2007 are set
out in the following table.
Performance Share Plan vesting in 2008
As a consequence of the result of the three-year performance period
for the March 2005 conditional awards, the following shares under the
2002 Performance Share Plan will be released to the Executive
Directors on 11 March 2008:
Performance Shares
Philip Cox 292,887
Mark Williamson 172,942
Tony Concannon 158,995
Steve Riley 158,995
Bruce Levy 158,995 88 Directors’ Remuneration Report
2008 conditional awards
After the release of its preliminary results, the Company will make
Performance Share Plan conditional awards to Philip Cox equivalent to
200% of his base salary and to Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon,
Steve Riley and Bruce Levy equivalent to 150% of their base salaries.
For the 2008 Performance Share Plan awards, covering the three-year
performance period 2008-2010, the Remuneration Committee has
determined the following to comprise appropriate EPS performance
targets which have been set on a cumulative basis over three years:
■ The threshold EPS performance condition has been set at 87 pence,
which represents a 3.4% compound annual growth on 2007 EPS
performance. 
■ The maximum EPS performance condition has been set at 94 pence,
which represents a 7.45% compound annual growth on 2007 EPS
performance.
Executive Share Option Plans
Eligibility for awards
International Power operates a range of Approved, Unapproved and
Global Executive Share Option Plans for the benefit of senior
management and other employees. The Executive Directors have also
historically been entitled to grants under these Plans and one Director
also holds options under another pre demerger National Power Plan. 
With effect from 1 January 2006, the Executive Directors have no
longer been eligible to participate in new awards under any of the
Company’s Executive Share Option Schemes.
Performance conditions
In accordance with the rules at the time, no performance conditions 
are attached to the National Power ‘Legacy’ Unapproved Options, 
which were granted to Tony Concannon prior to the demerger from
National Power.
For all other awards made previously to the Executive Directors under
the Approved, Unapproved and Global Executive Share Option Plans,
the performance conditions were based exclusively on EPS growth as
this reflected the underlying business performance of the Group, as
presented in the financial statements.
No retesting has been permitted in respect of any share option grant.
Given that the principal performance measures for the Company’s share
option plans are based on growth in EPS, the Committee has always
resolved to take into account, and adjust appropriately for, the
enhancement effects of any purchase and subsequent cancellation of
shares, or placing of shares into treasury, by the Company.
Benefits on exercise
The method of calculating an Executive Director’s ability to exercise
Options has been subject to the following conditions:
■ The exercise of 30% of each year’s grant is permitted where EPS
performance over the fixed three-year performance period is not less
than the threshold target for EPS established by the Remuneration
Committee at the outset.
■ The exercise of 100% of each year’s grant is permitted where EPS
performance over the fixed three-year performance period is equal
to or greater than the stretch target for EPS established by the
Remuneration Committee at the outset.
■ Straight line pro-rating has applied to EPS performance between the
threshold and stretch data points.
The following table comprises a summary of the performance periods
and performance conditions relating to those Executive Share Options
grants made under International Power Executive Share Option Plans
which may still be exercised by one or more of the Executive Directors.
Date of award Performance period Threshold performance
condition
Maximum performance
condition
Vesting rate
3 October 2000 1 January 2001 to 
31 December 2003
Fully exercisable if average annual growth in normalised earnings per International Power share 
for the financial reporting period ended on 31 December 2000 to the reporting period ended 
on 31 December 2003 is equal to or exceeds 7%.
Performance condition achieved.
24 May 2002 1 January 2002 to 
31 December 2004
Fully exercisable if average annual EPS growth over the performance period is not less than RPI+4%.
Performance condition not achieved but options may still be exercised on grounds of ill health
retirement or redundancy only.
2 March 2004 1 January 2004 to 
31 December 2006
Fully exercisable if EPS for the 2006 financial year is not less than 8.7p.
2006 EPS 22.4p: Performance condition met. 100% of the award fully exercisable from 
2 March 2007.
11 March 2005 1 January 2005 to 
31 December 2007
30% of the award will be
exercisable if EPS performance
for the year ended 
31 December 2007 
is not less than 13.7p.
100% of the award will be
exercisable if EPS performance
for the year ended 
31 December 2007 is equal 
to or greater than 14.5p.
Vesting will be pro-rated for
EPS performance between
these two points.
2007 EPS 27.1p: Performance condition met. 100% of the award fully exercisable from 11 March 2008. International Power Annual Report 2007 89
Directors’ service contracts
Philip Cox
Philip Cox has a service contract subject to 12-months’ notice by the
Company. For termination other than for cause, he may receive a
payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which includes the 12-months’
notice) to take account of the value of contractual benefits. The date
upon which this contract was entered into was 25 February 2003.
Mark Williamson, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon
Mark Williamson, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon have service
contracts which are subject to 12-months’ notice by the Company. 
For termination other than for cause, these Executive Directors may
receive a payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which includes the
12-months’ notice), which will be paid on a monthly basis until the
Executive Director secures alternative employment, up to a maximum 
of 12 monthly payments. The date upon which these contracts were
entered into was 23 February 2004.
Bruce Levy
Bruce Levy has a US-appointment agreement which is subject to 
12-months’ notice by the Company. For termination other than for
cause, he may receive a payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which
includes the 12-months’ notice), which will be paid in semi-monthly
instalments, plus benefit continuation. If the Company elects to release
Bruce Levy from the restrictive covenants in his contract, he can be
required to account for any salary received to reduce the amount of
these semi-monthly payments, to a maximum of 24 semi-monthly
payments. The date upon which his agreement was entered into was 
21 December 2005.
Executive Director service contracts terminate automatically on the date
they reach normal retirement age which is 22 September 2011 for
Philip Cox, 16 December 2015 for Bruce Levy, 29 December 2017 for
Mark Williamson, 16 August 2021 for Steve Riley and 17 December
2023 for Tony Concannon.
Executive Directors Date of commencement Notice period
Philip Cox 25 February 2003 12 months
Mark Williamson 23 February 2004 12 months
Tony Concannon 23 February 2004 12 months
Steve Riley 23 February 2004 12 months
Bruce Levy 21 December 2005 12 months
As a result of the 2007 stretch performance target applicable to the
final grant of Executive Share Options made to the Executive Directors
in 2005 having been exceeded, the following Options become
exercisable from 11 March 2008: 
Executive Share Options
Philip Cox 292,887
Mark Williamson 172,942
Tony Concannon 158,995
Steve Riley 158,995
Bruce Levy 158,995
Pension benefits
The pension arrangements for Philip Cox and Mark Williamson are
provided through the Senior Section of the International Power Group
of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme, which is an Her Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) registered scheme. The scheme provides
for: a normal retirement age of 60; an accrual rate that targets two-
thirds of pensionable salary at normal retirement age; four times salary
death-in-service benefits; a widow’s pension of two-thirds of Executive’s
pension; and Executive’s contribution of 6% of salary up to 15% of an
earnings cap based on the limits previously imposed by HMRC.
The benefits provided through the scheme are also restricted by 
an earnings cap based on that previously imposed by HMRC. To
compensate for this, the scheme benefits are supplemented by the
Company arranging additional life assurance cover and providing a non-
pensionable cash allowance. The cash allowance is 33% of salary less an
allowance for actual pension provision and the cost of the additional life
assurance cover.
The pension arrangements for Tony Concannon and Steve Riley are also
provided through the Senior Section of the International Power Group
of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme. As they are not restricted by
the HMRC earnings limit, the scheme provides for them: a normal
retirement age of 60; an accrual rate that targets two-thirds of
pensionable salary at normal retirement age; four times salary death-in-
service benefits; a widow’s pension of two-thirds of Executive’s pension;
and Executive’s contribution of 6% of salary. The Company does not
supplement this arrangement.
The pension arrangements for Bruce Levy are provided through a 401k
Savings Plan, a Retirement Plan and a Supplemental Retirement Plan,
which are money-purchase schemes operated by International Power
America, up to a cost to the Company of 33% of salary. 
Further information on the Executive Directors’ pension benefits for
2007 can be found within the audited section of this Report. 90 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman of International Power plc, Sir Neville Simms, has 
a letter of appointment with a 12-month notice period. The letter 
of appointment was signed on 22 February 2000. The other Non-
Executive Directors are appointed on a three-year fixed-term, annual
fixed-fee basis. Their appointment is reviewed at the end of each 
three-year period and extended for a period of one to three years 
if both parties agree.
Sir Neville Simms’ contract will expire at the 2010 AGM, following 
his 65th birthday, or earlier, subject to the above notice period.
Non-Executive Directors Date contract commenced Contract expiry
Sir Neville Simms 22 February 2000 12 months’ notice
Tony Isaac 2 October 2000 AGM May 2009
Struan Robertson 27 September 2004 AGM May 2008
John Roberts 18 May 2006 18 May 2009
Alan Murray 1 July 2007 AGM May 2010
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The annual fees for the Non-Executive Directors in 2007 are set out
below:
Sir Neville Simms £250,000
Tony Isaac £60,000
Adri Baan £55,000
Struan Robertson £45,000
John Roberts £45,000
Alan Murray £45,000
The above fees for the Non-Executive Directors comprise a basic fee of
£45,000, which covers Board membership duties (i.e. attendance at
Board meetings, general duties as Directors and their membership of
Board committees) and where applicable a fee of £10,000 per annum
for chairing each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and a fee
of £5,000 per annum for acting as Senior Independent Director.
With effect from 1 January 2008, the Chairman’s fees were increased
from £250,000 to £285,000 per annum to reflect the growing size and
complexity of the Group and in order to maintain competitiveness in
light of market trends. With effect from the same date, the basic fee for
all other Non-Executive Directors was also increased by £5,000 to
£50,000 and a £5,000 fee was introduced for Committee participation.
The fees for chairing a committee and acting as Senior Independent
Director remain unchanged. From 1 January 2008, a new Board
committee has been set up to cover health, safety and environmental
matters, which also attracts a Chairmanship fee of £10,000.
Audited content
The detail of the Directors’ remuneration, pensions and interests in
share options and long-term incentive plans as disclosed on pages 91 
to 95 have been audited by the Company’s external auditor.  International Power Annual Report 2007 91
2007 Directors’ remuneration and interests
Directors’ aggregate remuneration
The table below shows the aggregate remuneration of the Directors of International Power plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Salary Fees Performance Payment in Other Aggregate Aggregate
related bonus lieu of benefits remuneration remuneration
– cash pension year to year to
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£££££££
Sir Neville Simms – 250,000 – – – 250,000 250,000
Philip Cox 650,000 – 520,000 144,950 16,204 1,331,154 1,373,621
Mark Williamson 382,000 – 324,700 90,916 13,565 811,181 819,870
Tony Concannon 350,000 – 157,500 – 143,501 651,001 706,330
Steve Riley 350,000 – 297,500 – 49,350 696,850 734,008
Bruce Levy 374,551 – 243,458 123,602 28,111 769,722 1,129,268
Tony Isaac – 60,000 – – – 60,000 60,000
Adri Baan – 55,000 – – – 55,000 55,000
Struan Robertson – 45,000 – – – 45,000 45,000
John Roberts – 45,000 – – – 45,000 27,944
Alan Murray – 22,500 – – – 22,500 –
Total 2,106,551 477,500 1,543,158 359,468 250,731 4,737,408 5,201,041
Notes
1. For Philip Cox, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance
(£136,450) and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap (£8,500). He also received a car allowance
and private medical insurance, which are included in ‘Other benefits’.
2. For Mark Williamson, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash
allowance (£88,416) and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap (£2,500). He also received a car
allowance and private medical insurance, which are included in ‘Other benefits’.
3. The ‘Other benefits’ entry of £143,501 for Tony Concannon comprises elements delivered from the UK (£43,637) and in Australia (£38,228).
From the UK, a car allowance, private medical insurance, relocation support (which is tapering off from a previous relocation) and certain
elements of the expatriate package are provided. The balance of the expatriate package (rent, utility costs and children’s schooling fees) is
provided locally in Australia.
Also included within the ‘Other benefits’ disclosure for 2007 are taxes paid by the Company in the UK and Australia, net of hypothetical tax 
paid by Tony Concannon in 2007, under the Company’s expatriate policy. The net tax liability for 2007 has been estimated by the Company’s
taxation specialists to be £61,636. The disclosure for 2006, calculated on the same basis, has been re-stated by a negative adjustment of
£51,530. The fluctuations over the past two years are explained by changes in Tony Concannon’s personal tax treatment, a change in his
residency status mid-year and the general balancing mechanism which operates between estimated, accrued and actual taxes under the
Company’s expatriate taxation policy. 
4. The ‘Other benefits’ entry for Steve Riley incorporates a company car allowance, private medical insurance, the payment of children’s schooling
fees and the value of relocation support.
5. Bruce Levy’s payment in lieu of pension figure comprises contributions to a 401k Savings Plan (US$12,115), a Retirement Plan (US$17,385) 
and a Supplemental Retirement Plan (US$218,000). He also received a car allowance (US$21,600), medical and dental insurance (US$6,458),
disability and life insurance (US$3,231) and relocation support (US$25,000), the total of which is included under ‘Other benefits’. The values
shown in the above table have been converted from US dollars to sterling using the average annual exchange rate of 2.002.
6. Tony Isaac received a basic fee of £45,000 plus an additional fee of £5,000 for his role as Senior Independent Director and £10,000 for his role
as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
7. Adri Baan received a basic fee plus an additional £10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
8. Alan Murray was appointed on 1 July 2007, hence he received only half the basic fee of £45,000 during 2007.
9. Jack Taylor resigned as a Director on 17 May 2006 and hence has been excluded from the above table. His aggregate remuneration in 2006 was
£22,500. 92 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ pension benefits
Increase in accrued benefit Transfer value of accrued benefit
Accrued benefit Transfer value
At 31 December including excluding At 31 December At 31 December Increase less of increase in
2007 inflation inflation 2007 2006 Directors’ accrued pension
contributions excluding
inflation less 
Directors’
contributions
£££££££
Philip Cox 20,000 4,600 4,000 382,900 292,200 74,100 60,800
Mark Williamson 27,500 4,600 3,800 441,200 362,200 62,400 44,600
Steve Riley 119,300 13,800 10,000 1,768,300 1,551,200 194,400 125,200
Tony Concannon 111,800 12,900 9,200 1,489,200 1,307,900 158,600 100,500
■ The accrued benefit, as at 31 December 2007, is the pension entitlement which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the
end of 2007. In addition to the pension shown above, Mark Williamson has an entitlement to an accrued lump sum of £359, Steve Riley has an
entitlement to an accrued lump sum of £197,199 and Tony Concannon has an entitlement to an accrued lump sum of £187,166, payable on
retirement in each case. The normal retirement age is 60.
■ Dependants’ pensions on death are 58% of members’ pension in respect of service prior to 2 October 2000 and two-thirds of members’
pension in respect of service thereafter. On death-in-service a lump sum of four times salary is payable. On death within the first five years 
of retirement, a lump sum is payable equal to the balance outstanding of the first five years’ pension payments.
■ Post-retirement increases are expected to be in line with inflation (guaranteed up to the level of 5% p.a. and discretionary above that level).
■ The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
■ Members of the pension scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither the contributions, nor the resulting benefits
are included in the above table.
■ In addition to the above entitlements, cash allowances of £136,450 and £88,416 were paid to Philip Cox and Mark Williamson respectively
during 2007. These allowances are explained in the notes to the Directors’ aggregate remuneration table on page 91, alongside an explanation
of the £123,602 in pension contributions payable in 2007 to three arrangements in respect of Bruce Levy. International Power Annual Report 2007 93
Directors’ interests
The following information shows the interests of the Directors as at the end of the financial year in the Company’s Performance Share Plans,
Executive Share Option Plans and the Sharesave Plan.
Long-term incentive plans
i) 2002 Performance Share Plan
Conditional rights awarded over International Power plc Ordinary Shares under the 2002 Performance Share Plan held by Directors at 
1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 (together with details of awards made and vested during the period) were as follows:
As at Awards Market value End of Awards Market value As at
1 January made
(1)
as at date performance vested
(2)
on vesting 31 December
2007 of award period date 2007
(pence) (pence)
Philip Cox 384,529 123.53 31 December 2006 (384,529) 372.75 –
292,887 179.25 31 December 2007 292,887
434,163 281.00 31 December 2008 434,163
334,835 388.25 31 December 2009 334,835
1,111,579 334,835 (384,529) 1,061,885
Mark Williamson 202,384 123.53 31 December 2006 (202,384) 372.75 –
172,942 179.25 31 December 2007 172,942
192,170 281.00 31 December 2008 192,170
147,385 388.25 31 December 2009 147,385
567,496 147,385 (202,384) 512,497
Tony Concannon 190,240 123.53 31 December 2006 (190,240) 372.75 –
158,995 179.25 31 December 2007 158,995
176,156 281.00 31 December 2008 176,156
135,222 388.25 31 December 2009 135,222
525,391 135,222 (190,240) 470,373
Bruce Levy 158,995 179.25 31 December 2007 158,995
184,432 281.00 31 December 2008 184,432
149,918 388.25 31 December 2009 149,918
343,427 149,918 – 493,345
Steve Riley 190,240 123.53 31 December 2006 (190,240) 372.75 –
158,995 179.25 31 December 2007 158,995
176,156 281.00 31 December 2008 176,156
135,222 388.25 31 December 2009 135,222
525,391 135,222 (190,240) 470,373
(1)Awards made on 12 March 2007: The performance conditions that must be satisfied for the vesting of awards are provided earlier in the
remuneration report on page 86.
(2)Awards vested on 14 March 2007: The aggregate of the theoretical gain made by Directors on the vesting of the Performance Share Plan
Awards during the year was £3,605,957 (2006: £2,724,824). This is calculated by reference to the closing mid-market price of the shares on the
date of vesting, disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained and is stated before tax.  94 Directors’ Remuneration Report
ii) Executive Share Options
Options over International Power plc Ordinary Shares granted under the National Power Legacy Executive Share Option Scheme, the 
International Power UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan held by 
Directors at 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 (together with details of options exercised during the period), were as follows:
As at Exercise Exercised Date of Market Exercise Exercise As at
1 January price per during the exercise value on period from period to 31 December
2007 share year date of 2007
(pence) exercise
(pence)
Philip Cox 17,191 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 17,191
149,859 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 149,859
384,529 123.53 (384,529) 14.03.2007 372.75 02.03.2007 02.03.2014 –
292,887 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 292,887
844,466 (384,529) 459,937
Mark Williamson 5,403 277.55 02.10.2003 02.10.2010 5,403
30,624 277.55 (30,624) 04.04.2007 417.00 02.10.2003 02.10.2010 –
7,168 209.22 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 7,168
16,728 209.22 (16,728) 04.04.2007 417.00 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 –
35,415 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 35,415
202,384 123.53 (202,384) 04.04.2007 417.00 02.03.2007 02.03.2014 –
172,942 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 172,942
470,664 (249,736) 220,928
Tony Concannon 6,950 343.73 (6,950) 14.03.2007 372.75 02.12.2000 02.12.2007 –
7,873 313.92 01.12.2001 01.12.2008 7,873
3,377 277.55 02.10.2003 02.10.2010 3,377
19,139 277.55 02.10.2003 02.10.2010 19,139
4,480 209.22 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 4,480
10,455 209.22 22.03.2004 22.03.2011 10,455
6,447 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 6,447
17,835 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 17,835
190,240 123.53 (190,240) 14.03.2007 372.75 02.03.2007 02.03.2014 –
158,995 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 158,995
425,791 (197,190) 228,601
Bruce Levy 158,995 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 158,995
158,995 158,995
Steve Riley 12,001 343.73 (12,001) 14.03.2007 372.75 02.12.2000 02.12.2007 –
13,904 313.92 (13,904) 14.03.2007 372.75 01.12.2001 01.12.2008 –
31,608 174.50 24.05.2005 24.05.2012 31,608
190,240 123.53 (190,240) 14.03.2007 372.75 02.03.2007 02.03.2014 –
158,995 179.25 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 158,995
406,748 (216,145) 190,603
Notes:
1. Options exercisable prior to October 2003 were granted under the National Power Legacy Executive Share Option Scheme (Tony Concannon
and Steve Riley) to which no performance conditions applied.
2. Options exercisable from October 2003 were granted under the International Power Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans
(Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon and Steve Riley) and the Global Executive Share Option Plan (Bruce Levy).
3. Details of the performance conditions attaching to options capable of exercise from October 2003 are set out on page 88 of the Directors’
remuneration report.
4. Options exercisable from October 2003, March 2004, March 2006, March 2007 and March 2008 achieved their performance criteria in full 
and are capable of exercise in total.
5. Options that became exercisable from May 2005 did not meet their performance criteria.
6. The aggregate of the theoretical gain made by Directors on the exercise of Executive Share Options during the year was £2,591,633 
(2006: £2,154,335). This is calculated by reference to the difference between the mid-market closing price of an International Power 
Ordinary Share on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the options, disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained on exercise,
and is stated before taxation. International Power Annual Report 2007 95
iii) Sharesave Options
Options over International Power plc Ordinary Shares granted under the International Power Sharesave Plan and Global Sharesave Plan held by
Directors at 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 (together with details of options exercised during the period), were as follows:
As at Granted Exercised Market Option Exercise Exercise As at
1 January value price period from period to 31 December
2007 (pence) (pence) 2007
Philip Cox
(1)
20,499 (20,499) 464.75 80.12 24.12.2007 24.06.2008 –
2,467 389.00 01.01.2011 30.06.2011 2,467
Mark Williamson
(1)
8,050 200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Tony Concannon
(1)
8,050 200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Bruce Levy
(2)
8,050 200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Steve Riley
(1)
4,675 200.00 01.03.2009 31.08.2009 4,675
(1)Options held under the UK Approved Sharesave Scheme. Date of exercise by Philip Cox was 24 December 2007.
(2)Options held under the Global Sharesave Scheme.
Shares held in trust
As at 31 December 2007, a total of 253,990 Ordinary Shares of the Company were held in two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts 
(31 December 2006: 1,241,452). Being potential beneficiaries of these shares, the Directors (together with all other employees of the Company and
its subsidiaries) have an interest in these shares. During the year, 1,230,108 shares were acquired and placed into Trust by way of the exercise of the
outstanding balance of the share option granted to the Trustee in 2003. The option exercise price was 74.79 pence per share. The total cost of the
acquisition was £919,998.
Directors’ beneficial interests as at 31 December 2007 (unaudited)
The beneficial interest of the Directors in office at 31 December 2007 in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are shown in the table below:
At 31 December 2007 At 1 January 2007
Sir Neville Simms 178,220 178,220
Philip Cox 775,504 528,133
Mark Williamson 125,097 121,000
Tony Concannon 153,518 123,278
Bruce Levy 90,364 90,364
Steve Riley 189,902 112,226
Adri Baan 38,801 38,801
Tony Isaac 25,501 25,501
Alan Murray
(1)
– –
Struan Robertson 3,163 3,163
John Roberts 25,000 25,000
(1)Date of appointment as a Director 1 July 2007. Alan Murray purchased 10,000 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 12 March 2008.
No Director had, at any time during the financial year, any beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking.
The middle market quotation of an International Power plc Ordinary Share as at the close of business on 31 December 2007 was 453.50p 
(2006: 381.75p) and the daily quotations during the year ranged from 351.50p to 489.00p.
John Roberts
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Board of Directors of International Power plc
5 March 2008 Our core values 96
OUR CORE VALUES
FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
INTEGRITY OF COMMUNICATION
RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL
SAFE BEHAVIOUR
TEAM FIRST CULTURE
FIRST is translated into practical guidance through
International Power’s business policies. These cover the
communications, environment, health and safety, equal
opportunities, procurement, ethical business practices,
conduct in the community and charitable contributions. 
A Board-approved staff handbook, the International Power
Code of Business Conduct, which incorporates all relevant
International Power policies (to guide the Company’s activities
in all regions), has been distributed throughout the Group.
Financial discipline
Our aim of long-term financial success depends upon financial discipline.
While as a growing Company we are entrepreneurial in our approach
to investments, we are aware of our duty to protect and enhance
shareholder value.
Financial discipline means:
■ making realistic risk assessments to value potential investments;
■ not overpaying for assets we acquire or develop;
■ ensuring that risk can be managed and properly priced;
■ cutting out extravagance and waste in business-related expenditures,
including administrative and overhead costs.
Integrity of communication
International Power is managed on the basis of honesty, integrity,
openness and fairness in business dealings, both internally and externally.
Good business decisions are based on full and good quality information
presented clearly and concisely, in time, and with neither a positive nor
negative bias. This applies equally to information flowing to and from
management. We seek to build sustainable business relationships based
on honest communication.
We will ensure that any corporate reports and any other external
communications are complete, understandable and truthful and reflect
the proper operations of the business. At the same time, we will respect
our confidentiality obligations.
Respect for the individual
International Power is staffed at all levels by highly skilled professionals with
a range of expertise. Mutual respect is a key priority, demonstrated by:
■ respecting the opinions of colleagues;
■ zero tolerance for physical or verbal abuse;
■ hiring new professionals with not only the right competences, but
also the proper attitude and work ethic to integrate within
International Power;
■ applying equal opportunities to all, regardless of nationality, gender,
ethnicity or religion;
■ operating our business to the highest professional standards with
zero tolerance for any person who compromises these standards.
While we do not guarantee lifetime employment, we do believe every
International Power professional should have ample opportunity to use
his or her existing skills and develop new ones to the full. If
circumstances change, International Power and the individual will work
together to find a mutually acceptable solution.
Safe behaviour
It is relatively easy to introduce corporate policies and procedures which
demand compliance, but in essence all unsafe acts or omissions can be
avoided if the right attitude and a safe behaviour is automatically applied
to everything we do.
This safe behaviour will deliver our goal of zero accidents and zero
incidents whilst at work and can equally apply when not at work. We
therefore need to understand the right things to do and make sure that
they are performed properly, with no short-cuts or excuses – in short,
to behave safely all day, every day.
Team first culture
Our business has evolved from a technology-driven industry into one 
in which technical skill, project development expertise, construction and
procurement know-how, trading capability, financial, IT, legal, human
resources, communications, accounting and tax acumen all play a
substantial part. Such a complex business depends upon teamwork, 
with each employee bringing his or her individual skills and expertise 
to the fore.
Teamwork requires complete sharing of necessary information, inclusion
rather than exclusion and a ‘lend a hand’ philosophy at all levels of the
organisation. Meeting our customers’ needs calls for us to be customer-
focused and responsive. We want our customers to know our team and
respect its capabilities and performance. International Power Annual Report 2007 97
Introduction
The Directors submit their report and the International
Power plc Group and parent company audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. The
principal activity of International Power plc (the Company) 
is to act as the holding company for a group of companies
and a number of associated companies and joint ventures
(the Group). The principal activities of the Group are the
generation and sale of electricity, and closely related
activities such as district heating and desalination.
Business review
The Company is required to present a fair review of the business and
the Group during the year ended 31 December 2007 and of the
position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group (known as 
a ‘Business Review’). The information that fulfils the requirements 
of the Business Review can be found in the following sections of 
the Annual Report:
■ Business and financial review: pages 8 to 60;
■ Current Directors’ biographical details and Directors who served
through the year: pages 62 and 63;
■ Corporate governance: pages 67 to 71;
■ Employees: pages 80 to 82;
■ Directors’ remuneration: pages 83 to 95
which are incorporated in this review by reference.
Dividend
Following the payment of the 2007 interim dividend of 2.77p per
Ordinary Share, paid on 30 October 2007, the Directors propose to 
pay a final dividend of 7.39p per Ordinary Share in respect of the year
ended 31 December 2007, making a total dividend for 2007 of 
10.16p (2006: 7.9p).
Charitable and political donations
The Group does not make political donations. Details of charitable
donations are set out in the Corporate responsibility section on 
pages 77 and 78.
Research and development
Pure research is not a core element of the business of the Company.
For the period under review, the Company did not undertake any
expenditure on research and development. The Company will look 
to take advantage of technical advances as they arise and will continue
to seek to develop power stations in the regions in which the Group
operates making effective use of current and new technology as and
when available.
Share capital
The Company’s share capital consists of Ordinary Shares of 50p each
which rank pari passu with each other in respect of all rights, including
dividend, voting and return of capital. The Company has an unclassified
share of £1.00 and 21 deferred shares of one pence each, which carry
no rights.
During the period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 the Company
did not purchase any of its Ordinary Shares. 
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2008 AGM to renew for a further
year the Directors’ general authority to allot shares; to renew for a year
the partial disapplication of shareholders’ statutory pre-emption rights
over Ordinary Shares; and to renew the authority to purchase a
proportion of the Company’s shares.
An explanation of these and other resolutions being proposed at the
2008 AGM will be provided in the Notice of AGM, which will be sent 
to shareholders during April 2008.
Shares held in trust
As at 31 December 2007 253,990 Ordinary Shares of the Company
were held in trust for the benefit of employees of the Company and 
its subsidiaries. These shares had a nominal value of £126,995 and a
market value of £1,151,845. The employee share plan for which these
shares may be utilised is the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
Employee share schemes
No employee share schemes have any rights regarding control of the
Company.
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this report, the Company is aware of interests in 3%
or more of the issued share capital of the Company on behalf of the
organisations as shown in the table below.
Substantial shareholdings Number of shares
AXA S.A. 172,827,826 11.49%
Invesco Perpetual 95,854,537 6.38%
Legal and General Group plc 60,765,891 4.04%
Standard Life 58,397,077 3.88%
Fidelity Management & Research Co. 55,475,789 3.69%
Going concern
The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the ‘going concern’ basis
for the preparation of the financial statements.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Directors’ report 98
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each
Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a
Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of this information.
Auditor
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company
and to authorise the Directors to agree the auditor’s remuneration will
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association
Any amendment to the Company’s Articles of Association requires a
special resolution (75% majority) to be passed at a duly held meeting 
of the shareholders. 
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The Board has the power to appoint and replace any Director. Any
Director appointed by the Board has to offer him/her self for re-election
at the Company’s next AGM. The Company’s shareholders may by
ordinary resolution (simple majority) appoint or remove any person as
Director. All Directors offer themselves for re-election every three years.
There is no agreement in place between the Company and any of the
Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Restrictions and transfers of securities
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company 
or on voting rights except in the circumstances set out in the Articles 
of Association of the Company (for example, failure to disclose interest
in shares and non-payment of calls).
Significant agreements
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party
which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Prompt payment policy
The Company aims to observe the highest standard of business practice
as both a buyer and seller of products and services. The Company’s
average number of days outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 
31 December 2007 was 33 days.
By order of the Board
Stephen Ramsay
Company Secretary
5 March 2008 International Power Annual Report 2007 99
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group. 
The Companies Act 1985 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving 
a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
■ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
■ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
■ for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
■ for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed
and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
■ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 100
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
to the members of International Power plc
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) of International Power plc for the year ended 31 December 2007
which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated
cash flow statement and the related notes to the consolidated and Company financial statements. These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken
so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work,
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration report in accordance
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 99. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information that is cross-referred in the Business Review section of the Directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our
review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any
other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, 
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information
in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
■ the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007
and of its profit for the year then ended; 
■ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; 
■ the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2007;
■ the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985; and
■ the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements. 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered accountants 8 Salisbury Square
Registered auditor London 
5 March 2008 EC4Y 8BB International Power Annual Report 2007 101
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Results Exceptional Results for Results Exceptional Results for
excluding items and the year excluding items and the year
exceptional specific exceptional specific 
items and IAS 39 items and IAS 39
specific IAS 39 mark to specific IAS 39 mark to
mark to market mark to market
market movements
(i)
market movements
(i)
movements
(i)
movements
(i)
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
2 Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 3,872 (387) 3,485 3,645 138 3,783
15 Less: share of joint ventures’ revenue (340) – (340) (373) (6) (379)
15 Less: share of associates’ revenue (820) – (820) (820) – (820)
2 Group revenue 2,712 (387) 2,325 2,452 132 2,584
Cost of sales (1,927) (2) (1,929) (1,807) (32) (1,839)
Gross profit 785 (389) 396 645 100 745
3 Other operating income 96 – 96 83 19 102
3 Other operating expenses (163) (9) (172) (163) – (163)
2/15 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 186 12 198 208 6 214
Profit from operations 904 (386) 518 773 125 898
8 Disposal of interests in businesses – 289 289 –––
4 Finance income 77 – 77 53 – 53
5 Finance expenses (385) (16) (401) (301) (26) (327)
Net finance costs (308) (16) (324) (248) (26) (274)
Profit before tax 596 (113) 483 525 99 624
9 Tax expense (113) 159 46 (122) (25) (147)
3 Profit for the year 483 46 529 403 74 477
Attributable to:
Minority interests 77 (51) 26 71 (4) 67
Equity holders of the parent 406 97 503 332 78 410
11 Earnings per share:
Basic 27.1p 33.6p 22.4p 27.6p
Diluted 25.7p 31.8p 21.3p 26.2p
All results are from continuing operations.
(i) The Group separately presents certain items as exceptional. These are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by 
virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information. In addition, in order to assist the reader 
to understand the underlying business performance, the Group separately discloses within the income statement specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 
(refer to notes 1 and 8). Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 102
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2007
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Non-current assets
12 Goodwill 733 226
13 Other intangible assets 168 199
14 Property, plant and equipment 5,721 4,435
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,279 1,264
16 Other investments 13 26
17 Finance lease receivables 1,252 1,045
18 Other long-term receivables 91 94
19 Deferred tax assets 142 93
22 Derivative financial assets 45 38
Total non-current assets 9,444 7,420
Current assets
20 Inventories 158 141
21 Trade and other receivables 726 402
17 Finance lease receivables 41 33
22 Derivative financial assets 223 243
Assets held for trading – 42
23 Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 980
2,309 1,841
24 Non-current assets classified as held for sale – 128
Total current assets 2,309 1,969
Total assets 11,753 9,389
Current liabilities
25 Loans and bonds 539 241
22 Derivative financial liabilities 508 204
27 Trade and other payables 709 529
Current tax liabilities 203 142
28 Provisions 83 58
Total current liabilities 2,042 1,174
Non-current liabilities
25 Loans and bonds 5,284 4,356
22 Derivative financial liabilities 326 226
Other payables 30 40
7 Retirement benefit obligations 22 25
28 Provisions 91 126
19 Deferred tax liabilities 951 702
Total non-current liabilities 6,704 5,475
Total liabilities 8,746 6,649
Net assets 3,007 2,740
Equity
30 Share capital 751 746
30 Share premium account 411 402
30 Capital redemption reserve 145 145
30 Capital and revaluation reserves 413 422
30 Hedging and translation reserves (49) (72)
30 Retained earnings 1,173 819
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,844 2,462
Minority interests 163 278
Total equity 3,007 2,740
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 5 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Cox Mark Williamson
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer International Power Annual Report 2007 103
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Share Share Capital Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained Attributable Minority Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings to equity interests
account reserve holders of
the parent
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net loss on cash flow hedges ––––– (111) – – (111) (11) (122)
Revaluation deficit on 
step acquisition –––– (12) – – – (12) – (12)
Exchange differences recognised 
on net investment hedges –––––– (15) – (15) (2) (17)
Exchange differences arising 
on translation of foreign 
operations –––– (1) (3) 132 – 128 9 137
Tax on items taken directly 
to equity –––– 4 24 (4) – 24 (1) 23
Net (loss)/income recognised 
directly in equity –––– (9) (90) 113 – 14 (5) 9
Profit for the year ––––––– 503 503 26 529
Total recognised income and 
expense for the year –––– (9) (90) 113 503 517 21 538
Issue of shares 5 9 –––––– 14 – 14
Minority interests in
acquisitions and disposals –––––––– – (101) (101)
Distributions ––––––– (160) (160) (35) (195)
Other movements ––––––– 11 11 – 11
Total movements during the year 5 9 – – (9) (90) 113 354 382 (115) 267
At 1 January 2007 746 402 145 422 – 6 (78) 819 2,462 278 2,740
At 31 December 2007 751 411 145 422 (9) (84) 35 1,173 2,844 163 3,007
Share Share Capital Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained Attributable Minority Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings to equity interests
account reserve holders of
the parent
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net gain on cash flow hedges ––––– 167–– 167 6 173
Exchange differences recognised 
on net investment hedges –––––– 4– 4 1 5
Exchange differences arising 
on translation of foreign 
operations ––––– 4 (131) – (127) (15) (142)
Tax on items taken directly 
to equity ––––– (47) – – (47) (9) (56)
Net income/(loss) recognised 
directly in equity ––––– 124 (127) – (3) (17) (20)
Profit for the year ––––––– 410 410 67 477
Total recognised income and 
expense for the year ––––– 124 (127) 410 407 50 457
Issue of shares 9 8 –––––– 17 – 17
Minority interests in
acquisitions and disposals –––––––– – (1) (1)
Distributions ––––––– (67) (67) (54) (121)
Other movements ––––––– 13 13 – 13
Total movements during the year 9 8––– 124 (127) 356 370 (5) 365
At 1 January 2006 737 394 145 422 – (118) 49 463 2,092 283 2,375
At 31 December 2006 746 402 145 422 – 6 (78) 819 2,462 278 2,740 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 104
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 529 477
Adjustments for:
9 Tax expense (46) 147
4/5 Net finance costs 324 274
15 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (198) (214)
13/14 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets 320 273
3 (Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (2) 5
8 Exceptional gains and losses before tax (233) (55)
8 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 342 (64)
Other non-cash movements (5) (42)
Decrease in provisions (38) (9)
Decrease in finance lease receivables 35 14
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7 –
Other cash movements 9 (7)
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 145 113
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – maintenance (71) (128)
Net purchase of intangible assets (48) –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 1,070 784
Increase in inventories (2) (18)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (88) 22
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 42 (28)
Decrease in assets held for trading 44 9
Cash generated from operations 1,066 769
Taxes paid (101) (57)
Interest paid (374) (293)
Interest received 62 37
Free cash flow 653 456
Cash flows relating to exceptional items:
Receipt from TXU administrators – exceptional – 14
Receipt of compensation for breach of contract – exceptional – 5
Net cash inflow from operating activities 653 475
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – growth (160) (142)
Government grants received 1 –
31 Acquisitions (net of cash acquired), and increase in stake, of subsidiaries (778) (650)
31 Acquisitions of joint ventures, associates and investments (13) (64)
Investments in (net of returns from) joint ventures, associates and investments (1) 24
Proceeds from partial disposal of UK subsidiaries 168 –
Proceeds from disposal of investments 250 1
Net cash outflow from investing activities (533) (831)
Cash flows from financing activities
10 Dividends paid (160) (67)
Proceeds from share issue 13 15
Proceeds from new loans and bonds 616 1,340
Repayment of loans and bonds (423) (495)
Funding from minority interests 63 7
Funding repaid to minority interests (29) (4)
Distributions paid to minority interests (35) (54)
Net cash inflow from financing activities 45 742
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 165 386
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 980 620
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes thereon 16 (26)
23 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,161 980 International Power Annual Report 2007 105
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 
1 Accounting policies
a) General information
International Power plc (the Company) is a public limited company incorporated
and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is
disclosed on the last page of this Annual Report. The consolidated financial
statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007 comprise
the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and the
Group’s interest in joint ventures and associates. The parent company financial
statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not
about its Group. The principal activities of the Group are described in note 2.
b) Statement of compliance
European Union (EU) law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) requires that the
consolidated financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2007, be
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). These Group financial statements have
been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements 
in accordance with UK GAAP . The parent company financial statements are
presented on pages 165 to 174.
c) Adoption of new and revised Standards
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards,
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the International
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee, are applicable to the Group for
the first time in the current year and have been adopted by the Group with no
impact on the Group’s accounting policies or on its results or net assets included
within these consolidated financial statements:
■ IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures), effective for annual accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and a complementary
amendment to IAS 1 (Presentation of Financial Statements – Capital
Disclosures). IFRS 7 supersedes IAS 30 (Disclosures in the Financial Statements
of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions) and the disclosure requirements of
IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation). The application 
of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 have not affected the results or net
assets of the Group as they only require additional disclosures relating to the
Group’s use of financial instruments and the exposures to the risks they create,
and the management of capital;
■ IFRIC 7 (Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies);
■ IFRIC 8 (Scope of IFRS 2);
■ IFRIC 9 (Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives);
■ IFRIC 10 (Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment).
The Group has applied the following EU adopted interpretation in advance of its
effective date.
■ IFRIC 11 (IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions) is applicable to the
Group for years commencing on or after 1 January 2008. It provides guidance
on the application of IFRS 2 (Share-based Payment) to transactions which are
settled by the purchase of own shares and transactions in which employees of a
subsidiary receive rights to shares of a parent company. The application of this
interpretation had no impact on the Group’s results or net assets.
The following Adopted IFRS was available for early application but has not been
applied by the Group in these financial statements:
■ IFRS 8 (Operating Segments) is applicable for years commencing on or after 
1 January 2009. The new standard replaces IAS 14 (Segment Reporting) and
requires an entity to report segment information on the same basis as that
reported to management for decision making purposes. The application of 
IFRS 8 in 2007 would not have affected the results or net assets as the standard
is concerned only with disclosure. The adoption of this standard is not expected
to have a significant impact on the Group’s disclosures as management identify
and measure the results of reportable operating segments on a regional basis 
as set out in these consolidated financial statements;
The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and
IFRIC, but have not been adopted by the European Commission (and published
in the EU Official Journal) for their application to become mandatory:
■ IAS 23 (Borrowing Costs – Revised), effective for annual accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The revised standard requires the
capitalisation of borrowing costs, to the extent they are directly attributable 
to the acquisition, production or construction of a qualifying asset as part of
the cost of that asset. Previously there was an option to expense all borrowing
costs as incurred. Because the Group always capitalises borrowing costs
incurred on qualifying assets, the revisions to IAS 23 have no impact on either
the Group’s accounting policies or its results or net assets;
■ IAS 1 (Presentation of Financial Statements – Revised), effective for accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The revised standard aims to
enhance the usefulness of information presented in the financial statements
including the introduction of a new statement of comprehensive income that
combines all items of income and expense recognised in profit or loss
together with ‘other comprehensive income’. The application of the revised
standard will not affect the results or net assets of the Group as it is only
concerned with presentation and disclosures;
■ IFRS 3 (Business Combinations – Revised), complementary amendments 
to IAS 27 (Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements – Revised), and
consequential amendments to IAS 28 (Investments in Associates) and IAS 31
(Interests in Joint Ventures), effective for business combinations in annual
accounting periods of the Group beginning on or after 1 January 2010. 
The revised standard will make many changes to how future business
combinations will be accounted for, including accounting for acquisition costs,
contingent consideration, step acquisitions, partial disposals of an investment 
in a subsidiary and partial disposals of associates and joint ventures. As the
revised standard is to be applied prospectively it is not possible to quantify its
likely impact;
■ IFRIC 12 (Service Concession Arrangements) is effective for annual accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008. This interpretation sets out
general principles on recognising and measuring the obligations and related
rights in service concession arrangements. As the Group’s long-term power
purchase agreements which are affected by the adoption of IFRIC 12 are
already determined to be or to contain finance leases, and the consideration
receivable by the operator in each case gives rise to financial assets, the impact
of adopting IFRIC 12 is not expected to have a material impact on the Group;
■ IFRIC 13 (Customer Loyalty Programmes) is applicable to the Group for the
years commencing on or after 1 January 2009. It addresses the accounting of
an entity that grants loyalty award credits to its customers as part of a sales
transaction. The adoption of this interpretation is not expected to have any
significant impact on the Group’s results because it does not have any
customer loyalty programmes;
■ IFRIC 14 (IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding
Requirements and their Interaction) is effective for annual accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2008. It addresses when refunds or
reductions in future contributions to defined benefit pension schemes can 
be regarded as a defined benefit asset, particularly when a minimum funding
requirement exists. Based on actuarial advice, management does not currently
expect adoption of this interpretation to a have a significant impact on the
Group’s results. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 106
1 Accounting policies continued
d) Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the historical
cost convention, modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated in these
accounting policies.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented,
and specifically the Group’s underlying business performance, the Group presents
its income statement in three columns such that it identifies (i) results excluding
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, (ii) the effect
of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and 
(iii) results for the year. For the purposes of clarity, in the explanation of the 
basis of preparation applied in these consolidated financial statements, we
describe these columns as the ‘left hand column’, the ‘middle column’ and 
the ‘right hand column’ respectively.
Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are items which, 
in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of
their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial
information. The Group discloses exceptional items in the middle column.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its
physical and financial exposures. In relation to commodities trading, the Group
considers economic hedges to be those which are asset backed, i.e. where the
Group is either forward selling electricity from its own generation capacity or
forward buying fuel for its own generation capacity. In respect of interest rate
swaps and other treasury related derivatives the Group considers economic
hedges to be those which hedge existing assets, liabilities and firm commitments.
Some of these economic hedges achieve own use treatment under IAS 39 and
are accounted for on an accruals basis. Some are accounted for as cash flow
hedges under IAS 39 with fair value gains and losses recorded in the hedging
reserve. Where derivative contracts do not achieve the own use treatment and
the Group could not, or has not sought to, apply cash flow hedge accounting,
IAS 39 requires the derivative contract to be measured at fair value (marked 
to market) with fair value gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
The Group separately presents these mark to market movements on economic
hedges, in the middle column, to assist the reader’s understanding of underlying
business performance and to provide a more meaningful presentation.
For economic hedges, where fair value gains and losses are recorded in the
income statement, in the period in which the economically hedged transaction
settles, the settlement amount of the derivative, being the cumulative fair value
gains and losses recognised in the current and prior periods, is presented in 
the left hand column so that the transaction is measured at its contracted 
price (i.e. the spot price less the fair value gain or loss on the derivative contract
at that date).
As the cumulative mark to market movements have already been recognised 
in the middle column in the current and prior periods, an equal but opposite
amount is presented in the middle column so that cumulatively the amount
recognised in the middle column in respect of such economic hedges is zero.
By presenting fair value gains and losses in this manner, the left hand column is
not affected by mark to market movements and therefore reflects the underlying
business performance at contracted prices.
The amortisation of derivatives, which are acquired with a fair value other than
zero, is always recorded in the left hand column. This is achieved by presenting 
an equal but opposite amount in the middle column, such that specific IAS 39
mark to market movements presented in the middle column are shown net of
the amortisation during the period.
Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges under IAS 39 can arise from
business combinations, where the fair value of the derivatives at acquisition is 
not equal to zero, or as a result of the difference between the contractual profile
of the economic hedge and the profile of transactions defined as the hedged
item. IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges to be
recorded in the income statement, and therefore the Group records this
ineffectiveness in the middle column when it relates to an economic hedge.
Mark to market movements of the fair value of embedded derivatives in
convertible bonds, which relate to conversion features where the functional
currency of the issuer and other factors preclude the conversion feature being
treated as equity in the consolidated financial statements, are treated as specific
IAS 39 mark to market movements and as such are presented in the middle
column. The Directors consider the fair value gains and losses of these
embedded derivatives should be appropriately disclosed within specific IAS 39
mark to market movements, in the middle column, so as to separately identify a
non-cash movement which, if the conversion option is exercised, will ultimately
be extinguished by the issue of equity.
Mark to market movements relating to proprietary trading activities, the
revaluation of assets held for trading and amortisation of derivatives which 
are acquired with a fair value other than zero comprise part of the Group’s
underlying business performance and are appropriately, in the judgement 
of the Directors, included within the left hand column.
The right hand column presents the results for the year, showing all gains 
and losses recorded in the consolidated income statement.
To the extent that exceptional items are separately identified in the income
statement, they are also separately identified in the cash flow statement under
the respective heading to which they relate.
The fair values of certain assets and liabilities acquired as part of the Levanto wind
farm portfolio in November 2006 have been revised following the completion of
an independent third party valuation exercise during 2007 (refer to note 31). In
accordance with IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) the 2006 balance sheet has
been re-presented.
e) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of 
the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) up to 
31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power
to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain
benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are
measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of
acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised
as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the
identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the
income statement in the period of acquisition. 
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion 
of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the
minority interest in the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests 
of the parent, except when there is a binding obligation to fund those losses 
and the minority is in a position to do so.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included 
in the consolidated income statement from when control commences or up 
to when control ceases, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of
subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used 
by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation.
f) Revenue recognition
Certain power plants sell their output in merchant markets, where electricity is
sold through existing power exchanges, pool arrangements or through bilateral
contracts with third parties. In these markets, revenue from energy sales is either
recorded at the spot price obtained through pool or spot mechanisms when the
electrical output is delivered, or as set out below, when electricity is delivered in
accordance with the terms of any related hedging or forward contracts.
(i) Because power is a non-financial item, forward contracts entered into and
which continue to be held for the purpose of delivery (and sale) of power
generated by our own power plants (known as ‘own use’ contracts) can be
accounted for under accruals accounting, i.e. revenue for energy sales is
recognised as output is delivered in accordance with the forward contract; International Power Annual Report 2007 107
(ii) All other forward contracts, which are considered to be derivatives and do not
qualify for ‘own use’, are recognised at fair value with changes in fair value
recorded in the income statement. Where the Group applies cash flow hedge
accounting changes in fair values are deferred in a hedging reserve within
equity and only reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects
earnings. In addition, to the extent that there is ineffectiveness in the cash flow
hedge accounting of forward contracts, changes in fair values of the forward
contracts are taken to the income statement in the period.
Other power plants sell their output under power purchase agreements (PPAs).
Under such arrangements it is usual for the Group to receive payment for the
provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests the electrical
output (capacity payments) and for the variable costs of production (energy
payments). In such situations, revenue is recognised in respect of capacity
payments as:
(i) finance income (in accordance with note 1(r)) where the PPA is considered 
to be or to contain a finance lease;
(ii) operating lease minimum lease payments, on a straight-line basis (in
accordance with note 1(r)) where the PPA is considered to be or to 
contain an operating lease; or
(iii)service income in accordance with the contractual terms, to the extent that
the capacity has been made available to the contracted offtaker during the
period. Where the PPAs extend over more than one accounting period,
service income is recognised in each accounting period at the fair value 
of the Group’s performance under the contract in each period.
Under lease arrangements, those payments which are not included within
minimum lease payments are accounted for as service income (outlined in 
(iii) above).
Energy payments under PPAs are recognised in revenue in all cases as the
contracted output is delivered.
Liquidated damages (LDs), in respect of late commissioning, are included 
in other operating income.
Proprietary trading income is recognised on the basis of completed contracts 
and the mark to market value of outstanding contracts at the period end.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life 
of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
g) Foreign currencies
These Group financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional
and presentational currency of the Company. The functional currencies of Group
entities are principally determined by the primary economic environment in
which the respective entity operates. Transactions entered into by Group entities
are translated into the functional currencies of those entities at the exchange rate
ruling at the date of transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the exchange rate
ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost are
translated at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Exchange
differences on non-monetary items are recognised in line with whether the gain
or loss on the non-monetary item itself is recognised in the income statement 
or in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group
enters into forward contracts and options (refer note 1(q)), the accounting policy
on derivative financial instruments for details of the Group’s accounting policies 
in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
The net assets of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and
expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period which
approximate to actual rates. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity
are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the
closing rate. 
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the Group’s translation reserve,
which is a component of equity. Such translation differences are recognised as
income or as expenses in the income statement in the period of disposal of the
net investment in foreign operations.
In respect of foreign operations, any differences that have arisen before 
1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, are presented as part 
of retained earnings.
h) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition
over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date of
acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included in the
carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs
has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for
impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior
to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any
subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment annually and
when there are indications of impairment. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount 
of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
i) Other intangible assets
Emission allowances An intangible asset is recognised on receipt of allocated
emission allowances and recorded at the fair value on allocation. The fair value 
of the grant is also recognised on receipt and deducted from the value of the
intangible asset. As a result no net asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet
at initial recognition. 
Emission allowances are recognised at cost when purchased. As emission
allowances are utilised they are charged to the income statement within cost of
sales. To the extent that these allowances were received by way of grant there is
nil charge to the income statement for their utilisation. At the balance sheet date
the net carrying amount of emission allowances held is compared with the fair
value to assess for impairment.
Forward contracts for sales and purchases of emission allowances are measured
at fair value.
A provision is made for the estimated shortfall between emission allowances 
held and the anticipated requirement and is charged to the income statement on
a pro-rata basis according to current and expected future emissions throughout
the accounting period based on the market value of those allowances.
Contracts and rights ‘Contracts and rights’ is the term we use to describe
intangible assets, acquired in business combinations separately from goodwill,
arising from identifiable contractual or other legal rights where their fair values
can be measured reliably. These include ‘in the money’ commodity contracts,
which qualify as ‘own use’ contracts in accordance with the requirements of 
IAS 39. On acquisition, these contracts and rights are classified as intangible
assets and carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses (refer accounting policy note 1(o)) where cost represents fair value at 
the acquisition date. The intangible asset is then amortised on a systematic 
basis in accordance with the pattern in which the future economic benefit of 
the contract is expected to be consumed by the entity. Intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives are not amortised. An intangible asset with an indefinite
useful life is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount with 
its carrying amount annually, and whenever there is an indication that the
intangible asset may be impaired.  Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 108
1 Accounting policies continued
j) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost less accumulated
depreciation and any provision for impairment in value. The property, plant and
equipment of certain of the Group’s US operations, which had been revalued to
fair value on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRSs, are measured on the
basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
In the case of assets constructed by the Group, related works, commissioning and
borrowing costs as defined under IAS 23 (Borrowing costs) (refer accounting
policy note 1(w)) are included in cost. Assets in the course of construction are
included in property, plant and equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at
the balance sheet date.
Depreciation is calculated on a component part basis so as to write-down the
cost of property, plant and equipment to its residual value systematically over 
its estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation
methods are reviewed annually, taking into account commercial and technological
obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, provision being made where the
carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount. 
The depreciation charge is based on the following estimates of useful lives:
Years
Civil works 25-80
Power stations and wind farms 20-60
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10
Computer equipment and software 3-5
Combined cycle gas turbine  (CCGT) hot gas path parts,
on average 2-4
Leasehold improvements Life of lease
Freehold land is not depreciated.
k) Government grants
Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are
recognised at fair value. The grant is deducted from the cost of the related
property, plant and equipment to derive the carrying amount of the asset. The
grant is recognised as income over the life of a depreciable asset by way of a
reduced depreciation charge.
l) Project development costs
Project development costs are principally incurred in identifying and developing
investment opportunities and typically include feasibility studies, pre-bid costs, legal,
professional and other related advisory costs. These costs (including appropriate
direct internal costs) are recognised as expenses as incurred, except that directly
attributable costs are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the project will
proceed to completion and income will be realised. Such capitalised costs are
amortised over the life of the related property, plant and equipment or contract. 
m) Investments in joint ventures and associates
A joint venture is an entity over whose activities the Group has joint control,
established by contractual agreement.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise
significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. Significant influence is the
power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee
but is not control or joint control over these policies.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are incorporated
in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when
classified as held for sale. The results are presented after interest, tax and minority
interests. Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the balance
sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the
net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any impairment in the value of
individual investments. Losses of the joint ventures and associates in excess of the
Group’s interest in those joint ventures and associates are not recognised unless
the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values 
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture 
or associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill within the
carrying amount. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s
share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture or
associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited 
to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with a joint venture or associate of the
Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest 
in the relevant joint venture or associate. Losses may provide evidence of 
an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision 
is made for impairment.
n) Other investments 
Other investments consist of available for sale investments in debt and equity
instruments which are measured at market prices where available. Where quoted
market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot
be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost less
impairment.
o) Impairment of assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of 
its property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and those other
investments measured at cost, to determine whether there is any indication that
those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss, if any.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for
which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated 
to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-
generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is
recognised as an expense immediately.
At each balance sheet date, an assessment is made to determine whether there
is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no
longer exist or has decreased. Where such an indication exists, an impairment
loss is reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying value does not exceed the
carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
p) Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the
asset’s previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation
is charged on assets classified as held for sale.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be
recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This
condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset
is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be
committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as 
a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
q) Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s operating activities expose it to price risks associated with selling 
its generation output. The Group is also exposed to price risks associated with
the purchase of its fuel requirements and to financial risks of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group uses a range of derivative
instruments, including energy based futures and forward contracts, swaps and
options to hedge its risk to changes in power prices, fuel costs, foreign exchange
rates and interest rates. Derivative financial instruments are only used for hedging
purposes apart from energy based futures contracts, some of which are used for
proprietary trading purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s risk management
policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles 
on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management
strategy.  International Power Annual Report 2007 109
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the date a derivative
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at
each balance sheet date. The gain or loss on subsequent fair value measurement
is recognised in the income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge
accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature
of the item being hedged. Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of
financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in an active market
are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities held. If the
market for a financial instrument is not active, its fair value is established by 
using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques include comparison 
with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash
flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly
used by market participants.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the 
trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the 
assets. Regular way transactions require delivery of assets within the time 
frame generally established by regulation or convention in the market place.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments
that are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately
in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the
period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement. However, if
the hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the
amounts accumulated in equity on the hedging instrument are transferred from
equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires 
or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
At that time, for forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the 
income statement. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair
value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, the
hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being
hedged with the corresponding entry in net income. Gains or losses from
remeasuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives, the foreign currency
component of its carrying amount, are recognised in net income.
Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation Hedges of net
investments in foreign operations are accounted for on a similar basis to cash
flow hedges. Effective gains or losses on the hedging instrument are recognised
in the translation reserve, with ineffective gains or losses recognised in finance
costs in the income statement. Cumulative gains or losses in equity are taken 
to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments
or other non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when
their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives are reported in the
income statement. 
r) Leasing
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee, 
in return for a payment or a series of payments, the right to use a specific asset
for an agreed period of time. The definition can include arrangements such as
long-term PPAs, where power plants are specifically designated to fulfil the
requirements of an agreement.
Finance leases – Group as lessor Where the Group determines a long-
term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the offtaker has the principal
risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant through its contractual
arrangements with the Group, the arrangement is considered a finance lease. 
As discussed in note 1(f), capacity payments are apportioned between capital
repayments relating to the provision of the plant, finance income and service
income. The finance income element of the capacity payment is recognised as
revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant to give a constant periodic
rate of return on the net investment in each period. The service income element
of the capacity payment is the difference between the total capacity payment and
the amount recognised as finance income and capital repayments and recognised
as revenue as it is earned.
Arrangements that do not convey the right to use a specific asset through the
term of the agreement result in the continued recognition of property, plant and
equipment, rather than a finance lease receivable, which is depreciated over its
economic life.
The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded in the balance
sheet as financial assets, classified as finance lease receivables, at the amount of
the net investment in the lease after making provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Operating leases – Group as lessor An operating lease is any lease other
than a finance lease. Thus where the Group determines a long-term PPA to be or
to contain a lease, and where the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of
ownership of the power plant, the arrangement is considered an operating lease.
For operating leases, the power plant is capitalised as property, plant and
equipment and depreciated over its economic life.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over
the term of the arrangement.
Operating leases – Group as lessee Rentals payable under operating leases
are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease
are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such that the rental
income is less than the head lease rental cost, provision is made for the best
estimate of unavoidable lease payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated
future shortfall of sub-lease income compared with the head-lease expense.
s) Inventories
Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and consumables are valued at the lower 
of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where
applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in
bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated
using the weighted average method.
t) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group
and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank
overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form part of the Group’s cash
management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for 
the purpose of the cash flow statement.
u) Loans and bonds
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings
are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption
value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the
borrowings on an effective interest basis.
v) Convertible bonds
Convertible bonds are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of 
a liability component and either an equity component or an embedded 
derivative component. 
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using
the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt. The difference
between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value
assigned to the liability component represents the value of either an equity
component or an embedded derivative component attributable to the
embedded option to convert the bonds into equity of the Group.  Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 110
1 Accounting policies continued
IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be settled by the entity receiving
or delivering a fixed number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a fixed
amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity instrument. It also states
that a contract that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving a fixed
number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a variable amount of cash
or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial liability. For the purposes
of the consolidated financial statements, when making the assessment of
whether a convertible bond, when exercised, gives rise to the exchange of a 
fixed or variable amount of cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency
of the issuing company relative to the currency denomination of the bonds is
considered in addition to other features within the bond. 
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where there is a difference between
the currency of the bond and the functional currency of the issuing company, 
the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded as a derivative liability
because it is not a contract to exchange a fixed number of shares for a fixed
amount of bonds. The embedded derivative liability component is separately
identified and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where the currency of the bond 
and the functional currency of the issuing company are the same, i.e. where 
on conversion of the bonds a fixed number of shares is exchanged for a fixed
amount of bonds, the value of the embedded option to convert the bonds 
is recorded within equity on initial recognition.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and embedded option
components of the convertible bonds (recorded as equity or as a derivative
liability) based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the
prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability
component of the instrument. This interest expense, recognised in the income
statement, is calculated using the effective interest method, i.e. the difference
between the interest expense on the liability component and the interest paid 
is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond. 
w) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or
production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial
period of time to be prepared for their intended use or sale, are added to the
cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their
intended use or sale. As referred to in note q), to the extent that variable rate
borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective
cash flow hedge of interest rate risk, the hedging gain or loss relating to the
effective portion of the derivative is removed from the hedging reserve and
recognised as part of the initial carrying amount of the asset. Investment 
income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending 
their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs
eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which
they are incurred.
x) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result 
of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured 
at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation
at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect 
is material.
y) Decommissioning costs
Provision is made for reliably estimated decommissioning costs at the end of 
the useful economic life of the Group’s power stations and generating assets, 
if and when a legal or constructive obligation arises, on a discounted basis. 
The amount provided represents the present value of the expected costs. 
An amount equivalent to the initial provision is capitalised within property, 
plant and equipment and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related 
assets. The unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs. 
Where there is a subsequent change in estimate of decommissioning costs, 
the present value of the change is recognised in the cost of property, plant 
and equipment.
z) Environmental liabilities
Provision for environmental liabilities is made when expenditure on remedial
work is probable, the Group is obliged, either legally or constructively through its
environmental policies, to undertake such work and the amount can be reliably
estimated. Where the amount is expected to be incurred over the long-term, the
amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure and
the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
aa) Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the expected tax payable on taxable
income for the year, including adjustments in respect of prior periods and
deferred tax. Taxable profit differs from accounting profit, as reported in the
income statement, because it excludes items of income or expense that are
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from
goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial recognition (other
than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that
affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. Where the Group is able
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, no deferred tax
liability is recognised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet
date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable
profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period
when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or
credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or
credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the extent that
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax
liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an
asset and settle a liability simultaneously.
ab) Pension schemes
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as an expense as
they fall due. Payments made to state managed defined benefit pension plans 
are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans where the Group’s
obligations under the plans are equivalent to those arising in a defined
contribution pension plan.
For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined
using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried 
out at each balance sheet date.
The corridor method is applied in recognising actuarial gains and losses. Gains
and losses in an individual scheme are recognised to the extent they exceed the
greater of 10% of the gross assets or gross liabilities of the scheme. The amount
recognised in the following year is the excess amortised over the remaining
average service lives of the employees in the scheme and is recognised in the
income statement.
The net defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents 
the present value of the defined benefit obligations adjusted for unrecognised
actuarial gains and losses and unrecognised service costs and as reduced by the
fair value of the plan assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited 
to unrecognised actuarial losses and past service cost plus the present value 
of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. International Power Annual Report 2007 111
ac) Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value (excluding the
effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value
determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments is
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s
estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and where applicable, adjusted for
the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions including service conditions.
For the Group’s Executive Share Option Plans the fair values are measured using
the Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected lives used in these models have
been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, any exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, without 
a market-related performance condition, the fair values have been calculated 
as the face value of the award, discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends
during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan,
contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured
using a Monte Carlo simulation method. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 112
2 Segment reporting
The Group is a global energy business that operates solely in one business segment, that of electricity generation. The international operations are managed on 
a geographical basis, reflecting the different characteristics within each geographical market. The Group reports its primary segment information by geographic
segment as this reflects how results are reported for management purposes in the day-to-day management of the business. In presenting information on the basis 
of geographical segments, segment revenues and segment assets are based in the geographical location of both customers and assets. There is no inter-segmental
revenue. Refer to notes 37 and 38 for a list of significant entities within each region.
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total
ventures and ventures and
associates associates
£m £m £m £m £m £m
a) Revenue (excluding exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 705 172 877 732 183 915
Europe 1,462 399 1,861 1,266 411 1,677
Middle East 72 113 185 51 99 150
Australia 439 84 523 378 107 485
Asia 34 392 426 25 393 418
2,712 1,160 3,872 2,452 1,193 3,645
Revenue (including exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 677 172 849 761 183 944
Europe 1,300 399 1,699 1,426 411 1,837
Middle East 72 113 185 51 99 150
Australia 242 84 326 321 113 434
Asia 34 392 426 25 393 418
2,325 1,160 3,485 2,584 1,199 3,783
b) Profit from operations (excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 108 28 136 73 28 101
Europe 521 53 574 381 69 450
Middle East 44 24 68 32 20 52
Australia 83 (1) 82 121 3 124
Asia 14 82 96 38891
770 186 956 610 208 818
Corporate costs (52) – (52) (45) – (45)
718 186 904 565 208 773
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 
included within profit from operations (386) 125
Profit from operations (including exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements) 518 898
Profit from operations (including exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)
North America 91 24 115 83 28 111
Europe 329 54 383 547 68 615
Middle East 44 24 68 32 20 52
Australia (106) 15 (91) 64 10 74
Asia 14 81 95 38891
372 198 570 729 214 943
Corporate costs (52) – (52) (45) – (45)
Profit from operations (including exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements) 320 198 518 684 214 898 International Power Annual Report 2007 113
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit from operations (including exceptional items and
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) 518 898
Disposal of interests in businesses – exceptional 289 –
Net finance costs – excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (308) (248)
Net finance costs – exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (16) (26)
Profit before tax 483 624
Tax expense – excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (113) (122)
Tax expense – exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 159 (25)
Profit for the year 529 477
An analysis of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is included in note 8.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
c) Depreciation and amortisation expenses (excluding exceptional items)
North America 60 52
Europe 187 150
Middle East 3 3
Australia 66 63
Asia 3 2
319 270
Corporate costs 1 3
320 273
Depreciation and amortisation expenses are included within profit from operations. In 2007 the intangible assets relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas
supply agreement acquired with Saltend in 2005 was impaired. The charge of £47 million is not included within the Europe total in the above table. In 2006 an
impairment reversal of £36 million relating to Deeside power plant was recorded in the income statement. This impairment reversal is not included within the 
Europe total in the above table (refer to note 8).
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
d) Additions to property, plant and equipment
North America 29 62
Europe 141 83
Middle East 3 47
Australia 57 34
Asia 1 9
231 235
Corporate – 1
231 236 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 114
2 Segment reporting continued
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Goodwill Contracts Emission Goodwill Contracts Emission
and rights allowances and rights allowances
£m £m £m £m £m £m
e) Expenditure on goodwill and other intangible assets
North America –– 2 40 37 64
Europe 393 69 67 –1239
Middle East –1 – –––
Australia 71 – – –––
464 70 69 40 49 103
The table above includes both purchased goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition to expenditure
incurred on other intangible assets.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
SegmentInvestments Total Segment Investments Total
assets in joint assets in joint 
ventures and ventures and
associates associates
£m £m £m £m £m £m
f) Segment assets
North America 1,445 180 1,625 1,502 184 1,686
Europe 5,625 390 6,015 3,490 363 3,853
Middle East 355 88 443 366 92 458
Australia 2,262 10 2,272 1,879 43 1,922
Asia 68 611 679 194 582 776
9,755 1,279 11,034 7,431 1,264 8,695
Corporate 577 – 577 601 – 601
Segment assets excluding current and deferred tax assets 10,332 1,279 11,611 8,032 1,264 9,296
Current and deferred tax assets 142 93
Total assets 11,753 9,389
In 2006 the Asia region segment assets included assets held for sale amounting to £128 million. 
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
SegmentInvestments Total Segment Investments Total
liabilities in joint liabilities in joint 
ventures and ventures and
associates associates
£m £m £m £m £m £m
g) Segment liabilities
North America 1,070 – 1,070 1,134 – 1,134
Europe 3,349 – 3,349 2,016 – 2,016 
Middle East 342 – 342 336 – 336
Australia 1,783 – 1,783 1,330 – 1,330
Asia 55 – 55 55 – 55
6,599 – 6,599 4,871 – 4,871
Corporate 993 – 993 934 – 934
Segment liabilities excluding current and deferred tax liabilities 7,592 – 7,592 5,805 – 5,805
Current and deferred tax liabilities 1,154 844
Total liabilities 8,746 6,649
The analysis of total assets and liabilities includes all attributable goodwill and excludes intercompany balances, which have been eliminated on consolidation. 
Corporate assets and liabilities include cash held at the corporate level, included in cash and cash equivalents; corporate borrowings, included in loans and bonds; 
and provisions.  International Power Annual Report 2007 115
3 Profit for the year
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
Amortisation of other intangible assets 115 105
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 205 168
Development costs, net of recoveries and amounts capitalised 5 3
Exceptional items before tax (note 8) (233) (55)
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements before tax (note 8) 346 (44)
Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment (9) (6)
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 6 3
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) 5
Amount removed from translation reserve on disposal of a foreign operation (2) –
Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of joint ventures and associates but before disposal of interests in businesses, finance income, finance 
expenses and tax. Other operating income includes compensation for the late commissioning of plants, billings in respect of operations and maintenance 
services and profit on sale of development sites. Other operating expenses comprise corporate costs, Group-wide general administrative overheads and project 
development expenses.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Auditors’ remuneration
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.5
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.0 2.0
Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 1.4
Tax services 0.1 0.1
Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or the Group 0.2 0.2
2.9 4.2
‘Other services pursuant to such legislation’ in 2006 relates principally to reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission, interim reviews and 
additional audit work relating to the Group’s compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (which relate to internal controls 
over financial reporting).
‘Services relating to corporate finance transactions’ incorporate due diligence assistance on potential and completed acquisitions during the year and reviews 
of financial models for funding purposes.
The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity and independence could 
be compromised. These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound
commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee. Examples of 
pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of taxation and regulatory advice, and the completion of certain financial due diligence
work. All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit. Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer and 
the Audit Committee. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 116
4 Finance income
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Group finance income
Interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss on:
– available-for-sale financial assets 1 –
– loans to joint ventures and associates 14 16
– cash and cash equivalents 61 35
Group interest income calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets that 
are not at fair value through profit or loss 76 51
Group finance income on assets at fair value through profit or loss 
– net gain on remeasurement of assets held for trading 1 2
Total Group finance income 77 53
The net gain on remeasurement of assets held for trading includes interest and dividend income.
Interest income comprises interest earned from bank deposits and other financial assets. Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest
income of £23 million (2006: £21 million).
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 25 and 32.
5 Finance expenses
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Group finance expenses excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Interest on:
– bank loans and overdrafts 283 226
– other loans and bonds 91 77
– unwinding discount on provisions 1 1
– other payables 8 6
Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method 383 310
Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets (5) (9)
Group finance expense on liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 378 301
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on derivative financial instruments 16 26
Other foreign exchange losses 7 –
Total Group finance expenses 401 327
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 25 and 32.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest expense of £118 million (2006: £121 million). Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
included within interest expense of joint ventures and associates amount to an expense of £4 million (2006: £1 million).
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements comprise fair value gains and losses on interest rate swaps used for hedging purposes and on the 3.25% convertible 
euro bonds 2013 (refer to note 8). International Power Annual Report 2007 117
6 Employee benefit costs and employee numbers
Employee benefit costs, including Directors’ remuneration, were as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Wages and salaries 139 129
Social security costs 10 11
Contributions to defined contribution plans 4 4
Charge for defined benefit plans (note 7) 8 10
Share-based payments – equity settled 7 9
168 163
Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment (3) (4)
Total employee benefit costs 165 159
Remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate. Further details of Directors’ remuneration along
with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 83 to 95.
There are no personnel, other than the Directors, who as key management have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities,
directly or indirectly, of International Power plc. No member of key management had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance (other than 
a service contract) with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 5 5
Post employment benefits 1 1
Share-based payments 2 2
Total employee benefit costs of key management personnel 8 8
The average number of employees during the financial year, analysed by geographic segment was:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Number Number
North America 338 276
Europe 1,252 1,196
Middle East 566 625
Australia 783 769
Asia 599 628
Corporate and development 183 177
Average number of employees 3,721 3,671 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 118
7 Retirement benefit obligations
Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees. Benefits granted have been developed to reflect local practice
and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK and Australia:
UK: The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS), which is a defined
benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds. The ESPS is divided into sections, and the International Power Group of the ESPS was
opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees’ past service rights were transferred into the Group later that year.
The majority of employees taken on in First Hydro, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, are members of another section of the ESPS, the First Hydro Group.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2007. The results of these
valuations have been updated to 31 December 2007 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2007, 52% of the pension liability of the First Hydro Group and 85% of the International Power Group of the ESPS related to members in service.
AUSTRALIA: Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper. This plan provides benefits
primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria.
Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 30 November 2007, projected to
December 2007. The results of these valuations have been updated by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The liabilities and costs for IAS 19 were determined using the projected unit method. The Group has decided to recognise gains and losses through the income
statement over the expected working lifetime of active employees to the extent that gains or losses are in excess of the ‘corridor’ (10% of the greater of the defined
benefit obligation and the plan assets).
The charge for 2007 in respect of defined contribution plans was £4 million (2006: £4 million).
At 31 December 2007, 98% of the membership relating to the Australian schemes consists of members in service.
The Group used the following financial assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
Financial assumptions UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia
%% %%%%%%
Discount rate 5.8 5.3 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.6 5.3 4.5
Rate of increase in salaries 4.9 4.3 4.6 4.3 4.4 4.0 4.4 4.0
Inflation rate 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 3.0
Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 3.4 n/a 3.1 n/a 2.9 n/a 3.0 n/a
Increases to pensions payments 3.4 n/a 3.1 n/a 2.9 n/a 2.9 n/a
The mortality assumptions used have a significant impact on scheme liabilities for the UK plans.
The mortality assumptions at 31 December 2007 have been updated and are now based on a standard table derived from 1999-2002 census data. The mortality
tables allow for additional longevity improvements reflecting specific trends in the UK population regarding certain age groups. The following table of average life
expectancies illustrates the assumptions used:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
Mortality assumptions UK UK UK UK
years years years years
Life expectancy for a member aged 60 at year-end
Men 25.9 22.8 22.8 22.8
Women 28.5 26.1 26.1 26.1
Life expectancy for a member aged 60 in 20 years’ time
Men 27.3 23.7 23.7 23.7
Women 29.5 27.2 27.2 27.2
The plans in Australia provide lump sums at retirement and therefore the mortality assumption is much less important. International Power Annual Report 2007 119
The amounts charged to profit from operations, recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plans for the year ended 
31 December 2007 were as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Current service cost 11 11
Expected return on schemes’ assets (16) (13)
Interest on schemes’ liabilities 12 10
Amortisation of past service cost 1 –
Curtailment cost – 2
Total operating charge 8 10
The assets in the schemes and expected rates of return (weighted averages) were: 
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia
Long-term rate of return expected: %% %%%%%%
Equities 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.8 7.1 7.5 7.5 7.3
Bonds 5.2 5.1 4.7 4.6 4.4 5.0 4.9 4.8
Other 6.7 6.0 6.2 5.9 6.0 5.9 6.0 5.5
Total long-term rate of return expected 7.5 7.0 7.1 6.7 6.6 6.7 7.0 6.5
The expected rates of return reflect the Group’s best estimate of the investment returns that will be earned on each asset class. These returns are based on advice
provided by independent qualified actuaries.
The expected rates of return on bonds reflect the plans’ mix between index-linked, government and corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to long-term
government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities.
Other assets principally comprise cash and property. The expected return on cash is derived from short-term interest rates and the return on cash instruments. 
The expected return on other assets such as property is determined by adding an appropriate risk premium to government bonds in the relevant country.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total
Assets in schemes: £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 116 68 184 108 55 163 84 52 136 66 44 110
Bonds 20 18 38 17 15 32 14 17 31 11 16 27
Other 19 23 42 10 21 31 16 15 31 12 10 22
Total market value of assets 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159
The reconciliation of the schemes’ (deficits)/surpluses to the balance sheet amount is:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total market value of assets 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159
Present value of scheme liabilities (176) (93) (269) (158) (83) (241) (151) (79) (230) (114) (70) (184)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme (21) 16 (5) (23) 8 (15) (37) 5 (32) (25) – (25)
Unrecognised actuarial losses/(gains) 1 (18) (17) – (10) (10) 12 (7) 5 – (4) (4)
Unrecognised asset due to limit in 
IAS 19 para 58(b) ––––––––––––
Pension liability before 
deferred tax (20) (2) (22) (23) (2) (25) (25) (2) (27) (25) (4) (29) Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 120
7 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movements in fair value of assets:
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
At 1 January 226 198
Expected return on assets 16 13
Actuarial gains 4 9
Employer contributions 11 12
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 3
Benefits paid (5) (3)
Expenses, taxes and premiums paid – (1)
Exchange differences 9 (5)
At 31 December 264 226
Movements in defined benefit obligations:
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
At 1 January 241 230
Service cost 11 11
Interest cost 12 10
Actuarial gains (2) (6)
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 3
Benefits paid (5) (3)
Expenses, taxes and premiums paid – (1)
Settlements, curtailments and amendments 1 2
Exchange differences 8 (5)
At 31 December 269 241
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities at 31 December 2007 are:
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Decrease by 7.5%
Rate of increase in salaries Increase by 0.5% Increase by 3.0%
Inflation Increase by 0.5% Increase by 7.4%
Rate of mortality (UK plans only) Pensioners live one year longer Increase by 3.0%
History of asset experience gains and losses
The transition date for conversion to Adopted IFRSs for International Power was 1 January 2004 and therefore the following historical data has been presented from
that date. This will be built up into a rolling five-year record next year.
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2005 2004
Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes’ assets:
Amount (£m) 4 916 9
Percentage of schemes’ assets 2% 4% 8% 6%
Experience gains/(losses) on schemes’ liabilities*:
Amount (£m) 5 (2) 11 7
Percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities 2% 1% 5% 4%
*Does not include the effect of changes in assumptions.
Contributions in 2008
The Group expects to make contributions of approximately £7 million to its defined benefit pension arrangements in 2008. International Power Annual Report 2007 121
8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
In accordance with the basis of preparation outlined in note 1, the Group separately presents exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 
to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Group’s underlying business performance.
Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately 
by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures. Where these contracts do not achieve own use
treatment, hedge accounting or wholly effective hedge effectiveness under IAS 39, the Group separately presents the mark to market movements on these contracts,
recorded within the income statement to allow an understanding of underlying business performance.
Mark to market movements on convertible bonds, where the conversion option, if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity are also separately
presented to allow an understanding of the underlying business performance.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Mark to market movements (387) 132
Amounts recognised in revenue (387) 132
Impairment of Saltend gas contract (47) –
Impairment reversal of Deeside plant – 36
Mark to market movements 45 (68)
Amounts recognised in cost of sales (2) (32)
Compensation in respect of the tolling agreement with TXU – 14
Compensation in respect of breach of contract – 5
Amounts recognised in other operating income – 19
Provision against investment in BioX (9) –
Amounts recognised in other operating expenses (9) –
Mark to market movements 12 6
Amounts recognised in share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 6
Disposal of investment in Malakoff 115 –
Partial disposal of UK subsidiaries 174 –
Amounts recognised in disposal of interests in businesses 289 –
Mark to market movements (16) (26)
Amounts recognised in finance expenses (16) (26)
Taxation on impairment of Saltend gas contract 14 –
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities associated with acquisition of Maestrale 49 –
Taxation on Deeside plant impairment reversal – (11)
Taxation on compensation in respect of the tolling agreement with TXU – (4)
Taxation on mark to market movements 96 (10)
Exceptional taxation and taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 159 (25)
Total exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements after attributable taxation 46 74 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 122
8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements continued
At 31 December 2007, the intangible asset relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply agreement, acquired with Saltend in 2005, was impaired following
a reduction in the gas forward price curve. A charge of £47 million and associated tax credit of £14 million are classified as exceptional items.
On 30 June 2007 the Group made a full provision against its investment in BioX due to increases in palm oil prices.
On 30 April 2007 the Group completed the sale of its interests in the Malakoff wholesale power generation business to MMC Corporation resulting in a profit on
disposal of £115 million (refer to note 24).
On 20 June 2007 the Group completed the formation of a new partnership with Mitsui & Co., Ltd (Mitsui). The partnership created a common ownership platform
for the UK assets, excluding Derwent, and equalised returns from Paiton. A profit on disposal of £174 million was recorded on the partial disposal of Deeside, Rugeley
and Indian Queens (refer to note 31).
On 28 December 2007 a change in the standard rate of Italian corporation tax from 37.5% to 31.4%, effective from 1 January 2008, was approved by the Italian
government. Consequently all relevant deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007 have been remeasured at 31.4%. The resulting net credit of 
£49 million relating to reducing the net deferred tax liabilities of the Maestrale acquisition has been presented as an exceptional item due to its magnitude and
proximity of the date of change in standard rate of tax to the date of acquisition.
At the end of 2006 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Deeside power plant based on its estimated value in use. This led to the full
impairment reversal of the remaining £36 million impairment charge previously booked against this asset. A tax charge of £11 million was recorded on this item.
In the year ended 31 December 2006, Rugeley Power received further payments from TXU Administrators amounting to £16 million. An exceptional gain of 
£14 million was recorded, net of payments to creditors. A tax charge of £4 million was recorded on this item.
In June 2006 the Group received a settlement of £10 million following the conclusion of an international arbitration action under ICC rules for breach of contract
entered into in 2000 to transfer operating rights over three power plants in Turkey. An exceptional gain of £5 million was recorded, net of cost recoveries.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are separately identified within the preceding table described as ‘mark to market movements’. For the year ended 
31 December 2007 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is a loss of £346 million and on tax expense a credit of £96 million. For the year ended 
31 December 2006 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is a profit of £44 million and on tax expense a charge of £10 million. 
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses includes a charge of £17 million in respect of the fair value gains and losses on the 3.25%
convertible euro bonds 2013. (Year ended 31 December 2006 is a charge of £28 million). International Power Annual Report 2007 123
9 Tax
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
a) Tax expense for the year
Current tax charge
UK corporation tax charge 68 52
Foreign tax 52 40
Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 6
Total current tax charge for the year 124 98
Deferred tax charge
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (168) 64
Benefits of tax losses recognised (2) (15)
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge for the year (170) 49
Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 113 122
Exceptional tax credit (49) –
Tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (110) 25
Total income tax (credit)/expense for the year (46) 147
Included in the tax expense are the following amounts relating to exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, included in:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Revenue (deferred tax) (101) 33
Cost of sales (deferred tax) (4) (4)
Other operating income (current tax) – 4
Finance expenses (deferred tax) (5) (8)
Tax expense on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (110) 25
The deferred tax charge is derived as follows: £54 million from UK operations (2006: £46 million) and £116 million from foreign operations (2006: £3 million).
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Tax (credited)/charged to:
Income statement (46) 147
Equity 25 (43)
(21) 104 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 124
9 Tax continued
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Results excluding Results including Results excluding Results including
exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items
and specific and specific and specific and specific
IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark
to market to market to market to market
movements movements movements movements
£m £m £m £m
b) Reconciliation of tax expense to accounting profit
Profit before tax (before exceptional items and specific IAS 39
mark to market movements) 596 596 525 525
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements – (113) –99
Profit before tax 596 483 525 624
Tax at domestic tax rate of 30% (2006: 30%) 179 145 158 187
Tax effect of:
Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 44 14 14
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (42) (42) (38) (38)
Tax holidays (8) (8) (10) (10)
Expenses not deductible/(income not taxable) in determining taxable profit 10 (63) (4) (6)
Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised (4) (7) (4) (6)
Change in tax rate (31) (80) ––
Adjustment to prior year provisions 55 66
Tax expense for the year 113 (46) 122 147
Included in profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of £60 million (2006: £55 million) relating 
to the Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates. The £42 million shown above (2006: £38 million) represents 70% of this tax charge (2006: 70%). 
The remaining 30% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic tax rate.
Included in profit before tax including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of £60 million (2006: £54 million) relating 
to the Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates. The £42 million shown above (2006: £38 million) represents 70% of this tax charge (2006: 70%). 
The remaining 30% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic tax rate.
The statutory tax rate in the UK has been reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. Tax rate reductions have also occurred in Italy, Germany and 
the Czech Republic. The effect of these rate changes is included in the above amounts.
10 Dividends
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 15 May 2007, shareholders approved the payment of a final dividend of 7.9p (2006: 4.5p) 
per Ordinary Share to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 25 May 2007. This dividend amounted to £118 million (2006: £67 million) 
and was paid on 26 June 2007. 
An interim dividend of 2.77p per Ordinary Share, proposed by the Directors, was paid on 30 October 2007. This dividend amounted to £42 million (2006: £nil). 
In respect of the current year, the Directors propose a dividend of 7.39p per Ordinary Share, to be paid on 26 June 2008. The dividend is subject to approval by
shareholders at the Company’s AGM and has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2007. There are no tax consequences to the Company from the
estimated total dividend to be paid of £111 million. International Power Annual Report 2007 125
11 Earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings per share is presented both before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements in order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Group’s underlying business performance.
Further details of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements can be found in note 8 to these consolidated financial statements.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
pence pence
a) Earnings per share (basic)
Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 27.1 22.4
After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 33.6 27.6
b) Earnings per share (diluted)
Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 25.7 21.3
After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 31.8 26.2
c) Basis of calculation (basic) – earnings £m £m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 406 332
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (net of tax and minority interests) 97 78
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 503 410
d) Basis of calculation (diluted) – earnings £m £m
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 406 332
After tax dilutive effect of interest on convertible bonds 6 7
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 412 339
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (net of tax and minority interests) 97 78
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 509 417
e) Basis of calculation (basic) – number of Ordinary Shares Million Million
Weighted average number of issued Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS 1,498.5 1,486.2
Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) (0.5) (1.4)
Weighted average number of shares 1,498.0 1,484.8
f) Basis of calculation (diluted) – number of Ordinary Shares Million Million
Weighted average number of shares – basic 1,498.0 1,484.8
Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares:
Employee share schemes 10.8 14.0
Convertible bond 92.8 91.1
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,601.6 1,589.9
In July 2006 the Group issued 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013, which in 2007 and 2006 were anti-dilutive and have therefore been excluded from the diluted
earnings per share calculation. In future periods this financial instrument could potentially dilute basic earnings per share. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 126
12 Goodwill
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Carrying amount
At 1 January 226 189
Acquired through business combinations 464 40
Exchange differences 43 (3)
At 31 December 733 226
The £464 million acquired through business combinations in 2007 relates to Maestrale (£360 million), Simply Energy (£71 million), Saltend (£23 million) and 
First Hydro (£10 million). Refer to note 31 for further details of the acquisitions.
Given the geographical diversity of the Group’s power plants and the nature of their operations, for impairment testing purposes the Directors consider that each
power plant owning subsidiary is a separate cash generating unit. The following cash generating units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill:
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Maestrale (Europe) 391 –
First Hydro (Europe) 163 153
Simply Energy (Australia) 80 –
Coleto Creek (North America) 37 38
Turbogás (Europe) 28 26
Saltend (Europe) 23 –
International Power Opatovice (Europe) 9 8
Others 2 1
733 226
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or when there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired. The cash generating units’ recoverable amounts are
determined from value in use calculations. These are based on projected cash flows, which may extend forward as much as 40 years, from individual project whole life
asset models. These cash flows have been discounted using rates in the range 6% to 13% on a pre-tax basis. Key assumptions include the discount rates and market
prices for electricity and fuel costs over the lives of the assets. These market prices are considered in the light of forward price curves (which represent the Group’s
view as to prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates) and forecast demand
and supply growth over the lives of the assets. Electricity prices beyond the period of an observable market are determined by reference to long-term market price
assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would
be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity (‘new entrant pricing’). The projected cash flows extend over the whole of the assets’
expected lives as this best reflects the long-term nature of the returns generated by the long-life assets. Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates take into account current
market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the respective cash generating unit. International Power Annual Report 2007 127
13 Other intangible assets
Contracts Emission Total
and rights allowances
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2006 234 – 234
Additions –3939
Acquisition of subsidiaries 49 64 113
Disposals – (39) (39)
Exchange differences (1) (3) (4)
At 31 December 2006 282 61 343
Additions 15758
Acquisition of subsidiaries 69 12 81
Disposals – (10) (10)
Exchange differences 213
At 31 December 2007 354 121 475
Amortisation and impairments
At 1 January 2006 40 – 40
Amortisation charge for the year 101 4 105
Exchange differences – (1) (1)
At 31 December 2006 141 3 144
Amortisation charge for the year 66 49 115
Impairments 47 – 47
Exchange differences 1– 1
At 31 December 2007 255 52 307
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2006 194 – 194
At 31 December 2006 141 58 199
At 31 December 2007 99 69 168
Contracts and rights are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise. The contracts and rights acquired in 2007 principally relate to fixed-price 
offtake agreements and favourable contracts acquired as part of the Maestrale acquisition and our other European wind farm acquisitions. The amortisation of these
contracts are included in revenue. The acquired contracts and rights in 2006 relate to commodity contracts acquired as part of the acquisitions of Coleto Creek and
Indian Queens. The amortisation of these contracts is charged to cost of sales in the income statement. In addition, fixed price offtake agreements were acquired as part
of the acquisition of Levanto. Amortisation of these agreements is included in revenue. In 2007 the carrying amount of the Saltend gas contract was impaired in full.
Intangible assets with a carrying amount of £81 million (2006: £97 million) are subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which
are non-recourse to the Company.
The Group has recognised any emission allowances, allocated to the Group for no consideration, net of the fair value of the grant. As a result, no net asset or liability 
is shown on the balance sheet at initial recognition. The amortisation of any emission allowances purchased or acquired through business combinations is charged 
to cost of sales in the income statement over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
As part of the European Union (EU) Emissions Trading Scheme (EUETS), designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the EU over the medium term, the Group
was granted emission allowances amounting to £62 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 (2006: £49 million). Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 128
14 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant, machinery Assets in course Total
buildings and equipment of construction
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2006 180 4,540 316 5,036
Additions 3 169 64 236
Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 653 64 722
Disposals – (13) – (13)
Reclassifications and transfers (20) (19) (314) (353)
Exchange differences (4) (254) (36) (294)
At 31 December 2006 164 5,076 94 5,334
Additions 4 60 167 231 
Government grants received – – (1) (1) 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 977 85 1,064
Disposals (11) (12) – (23) 
Reclassifications and transfers 1 91 (136) (44)
Exchange differences 10 275 20 305
At 31 December 2007 170 6,467 229 6,866 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2006 34 795 – 829
Depreciation charge for the year 10 158 – 168
Disposals – (8) – (8)
Impairment reversal – (36) – (36)
Reclassifications (7) 7 – –
Exchange differences (1) (53) – (54)
At 31 December 2006 36 863 – 899
Depreciation charge for the year 10 195 – 205 
Disposals (6) (12) – (18) 
Exchange differences 3 56 – 59 
At 31 December 2007 43 1,102 – 1,145 
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2006 146 3,745 316 4,207
At 31 December 2006 128 4,213 94 4,435
At 31 December 2007 127 5,365 229 5,721 
Interest capitalised in the year was £5 million (2006: £1 million), at an average capitalisation rate of 7%. On a cumulative basis, after taking into account exchange
differences and depreciation, the carrying amount of interest capitalised is £64 million (2006: £60 million).
The total value of land, included within land and buildings, that is not depreciated is £41 million (2006: £46 million).
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of £5,377 million (2006: £4,163 million) is subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing
borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
In 2007 reclassifications and transfers consist of amounts moved from assets in course of construction to plant, machinery and equipment and to finance lease
receivables and inventories.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of £1 million (2006: £nil) is subject to finance lease arrangements. International Power Annual Report 2007 129
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s joint ventures and associates is set out below:
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
a) Joint ventures’ net assets (including goodwill)
Non-current assets 1,173 1,220
Current assets 225 316
Total assets 1,398 1,536
Current liabilities (123) (204)
Non-current liabilities (565) (588)
Total liabilities (688) (792)
Net assets 710 744
Group’s share of joint ventures’ net assets 346 365
b) Associates’ net assets (including goodwill)
Non-current assets 5,847 5,630
Current assets 1,298 1,247
Total assets 7,145 6,877
Current liabilities (724) (695)
Non-current liabilities (3,975) (3,788)
Total liabilities (4,699) (4,483)
Net assets 2,446 2,394
Group’s share of associates’ net assets 933 899
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
c) Results of joint ventures
Revenue 693 771
Profit for the year 122 124
Group’s share of results of joint ventures
Share of revenue 340 379
Share of profit for the year 59 59
d) Results of associates
Revenue 2,501 2,501
Profit for the year 426 460
Group’s share of results of associates
Share of revenue 820 820
Share of profit for the year 139 155
At 31 December 2007 the Group’s investments that are listed on a recognised stock market are those in The Hub Power Company Limited (HUBCO) and Kot Addu
Power Company Limited (KAPCO). HUBCO and KAPCO are considered associates and International Power continues to apply the equity method of accounting to
HUBCO despite its shareholding being less than 20% (refer to note 38). The Group’s share of HUBCO and KAPCO was valued at £50 million (2006: £46 million)
and £125 million (2006: £108 million), respectively, on the major Pakistan stock markets. Market values for Group shareholdings in these investments were in excess
of the respective carrying amounts at the year end.
A subsidiary, Al Kamil, is listed on the Muscat Securities Market and was valued at £15 million on 31 December 2007 (2006: £14 million). The Group owns 65% 
of Al Kamil.
Included within the Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is net debt of £1,297 million (2006: £1,524 million). These obligations are generally
secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group company. 
A full list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 38. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 130
16 Other investments
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Investments available-for-sale
Carrying amount
At 1 January 26 4
Additions – 23
Disposals (2) (1)
Provisions (9) –
Repayments (1) –
Exchange differences (1) – 
At 31 December 13 26
The Group owns debt instruments and minority shareholdings in a number of businesses related to power generation. The debt instruments are stated at fair value
based on an estimate of their discounted cash flows. The equity instruments are not quoted but are shares in privately owned companies. There is no market for 
these investments. Therefore the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be measured reliably and the carrying amount has been determined by using the cost 
of acquiring the shares in these companies.
It is not currently the intention of the Company to dispose of these investments, although circumstances may change. 
During 2007 the Group fully provided against its investment in BioX (refer to note 8). The provision arose from an assessment of the prospective cash flows of the
business following a significant increase in palm oil prices.
17 Finance lease receivables
Present value of
minimum lease payments
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Minimum lease payments:
Within one year 41 33 127 110
Later than one year and not later than five years 184 144 500 427
After five years 939 828 1,529 1,389
1,164 1,005 2,156 1,926
Add: unguaranteed residual value (after five years) 129 73
Gross investment in the lease 2,285 1,999
Less: unearned finance income (992) (921)
Total finance lease receivables 1,293 1,078
Analysed as:
Non-current finance lease receivables (recoverable after 12 months) 1,252 1,045
Current finance lease receivables (recoverable within 12 months) 41 33
Total finance lease receivables 1,293 1,078
Analysed as:
Present value of minimum lease payments 1,164 1,005
Add: unguaranteed residual value 129 73
Total finance lease receivables 1,293 1,078
International Power’s business is the generation of electricity. The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long
period of time. Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain finance leases. The tenors of the finance leases are usually a substantial portion of 
the assets’ useful economic lives.
The interest rate inherent in the lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average effective interest rate contracted is approximately 7% per
annum (2006: 8% per annum).
The fair value of the Group’s finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2007 is estimated at £1,226 million (2006: £1,106 million) based on discounting estimated
cash flows at the market rate.
Excluding assets which are constructed by the Group, the cost of assets acquired by the Group during the year for onward finance leasing was £126 million 
(2006: £273 million).
There are no finance lease receivables past due. Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German
governments. International Power Annual Report 2007 131
18 Other long-term receivables
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Total other long-term receivables 91 94
At 31 December 2007 receivables with a carrying amount of £7 million (2006: £6 million) were past due for more than six months for which an impairment loss 
has not been recognised. Offsetting liabilities are held against these receivables.
19 Deferred tax
Deferred tax accounted for in the consolidated balance sheet and the potential amounts of deferred tax are:
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities:
Property, plant and equipment accelerated capital allowances (989) (569)
Other temporary differences (35) (277)
Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (59) (57)
Total deferred tax liabilities (1,083) (903)
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Deferred tax assets:
Provisions – 43
Tax losses 139 161
Other temporary differences 279 245
Total gross deferred tax assets 418 449
Less: deferred tax assets not recognised (144) (155)
Total deferred tax assets 274 294
Net deferred tax liabilities (809) (609)
Deferred tax assets will be offset against suitable taxable profits when they arise.
Of the £139 million (2006: £161 million) deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses, £95 million (2006: £106 million) can be carried forward for a period of 
between 15 and 21 years. The balance can be carried forward indefinitely. Of the £139 million (2006: £161 million) of losses, £44 million has been recognised 
(2006: £55 million).
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures was 
£1,154 million (2006: £888 million). At 31 December 2007 a deferred tax provision of £59 million (2006: £57 million) has been recognised in respect of temporary
differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable to control the reversal of the timing difference.
Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability for the total aggregate undistributed earnings has not been undertaken as the Group is in a position to control the
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. If the temporary differences were 
to reverse in the future, it is probable that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances
(after offset) for balance sheet purposes.
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities (951) (702)
Deferred tax assets 142 93
Net deferred tax liabilities (809) (609)
As outlined in note 9, changes to the tax rates in certain jurisdictions were enacted or substantively enacted during 2007. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 132
19 Deferred tax continued
Movement in temporary differences during the year:
1 January Recognised Other Recognised Acquisition of Exchange 31 December
2007 in income movements in equity subsidiaries differences 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 330 (80) 345 – 337 57 989 
Other temporary differences 222 (95) (354) (21) 22 (13) (239)
Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 57 5 (3) – – – 59
609 (170) (12) (21) 359 44 809
1 January Recognised Other Recognised Acquisition of Exchange 31 December
2006 in income movements in equity subsidiaries differences 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 306 (17) 12 – 41 (12) 330
Other temporary differences 133 49 (8) 43 – 5 222
Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 40 17 1 – – (1) 57
479 49 5 43 41 (8) 609
20 Inventories
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Plant spares 27 26
Fuel inventories 47 55
Consumables 84 60
Total inventories 158 141
Inventories with a carrying amount of £95 million (2006: £116 million) are subject to fixed and floating charges of project finance facilities at various power plant
subsidiaries. These project finance facilities are non-recourse to International Power plc. Included within cost of sales are £211 million (2006: £288 million) 
of inventories recognised as an expense in the year. Inventories with a carrying amount of £2 million (2006: £nil) were written down during the year and recorded 
as an expense in the income statement.
21 Trade and other receivables
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade receivables 221 142
Other receivables 375 157
Accrued income 49 –
645 299
Prepayments 81 103
Total trade and other receivables 726 402
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value. Total trade and other receivables are stated net of the
following provisions for irrecoverable amounts.
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
At 1 January 23 16
Amounts provided for during the year – 7
At 31 December 23 23 International Power Annual Report 2007 133
Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income are analysed as follows:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Retail Corporate Government Total Retail Corporate Government Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Not overdue 35 397 185 617 1 251 38 290 
Up to 1 month past due 3–– 3 ––––
Between 1 and 3 months past due 2–– 2 ––––
Between 3 and 6 months past due 4–– 4 ––––
More than 6 months past due –19 – 19 –9 –9
At 31 December 44 416 185 645 1 260 38 299
Retail energy sales are those to residential, commercial, and industrial customers to cover end-use purposes. This mostly comprises sales to customers of Simply
Energy in South Australia and Victoria in Australia. Corporate energy sales are principally to merchant trading counterparties in the wholesale power market and
comprise electricity utility companies, who require energy to meet retail sales requirements, and market makers such as large investment banks. In the preceding
table, the term ‘Government‘ is used to describe customers who are either owned directly by government or the State or are institutions backed by guarantees from
government. Sales to these customers are typically administered under long-term power purchase agreements. Customers will include water and electricity authorities
located in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
The majority of the trade receivables which are not overdue relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company
guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security. Corporate receivables more than six months overdue relate to contractual disputes where we have significant
counter claims or offsetting liabilities.
The preceding table shows £28 million (4%) of debtors are overdue and, of these, £25 million (4%) relates to outstanding amounts greater than one month 
past due. As at 31 December 2007, all the merchant trading and PPA counterparties have demonstrated a consistent payment history and no defaults have been
registered in 2007 (2006: £nil). Management maintain a bad debt provision appropriate to the limited likelihood of retail, merchant and power purchase agreement
payment defaults.
Concentrations of credit risk relating to the Group’s wholesale power sales are limited due to the diversity of unrelated customers for our power plants located
worldwide. For the Group’s retail business in Australia, Simply Energy, concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being both large and unrelated.
Power purchase agreements and tolling agreements with major institutions can potentially have high concentration risk but this risk is mitigated by the diversity of
similar arrangements within our worldwide portfolio.
22 Derivative financial instruments
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Energy derivatives 208 734 236 362
Interest rate swaps 30 24 15 9
Options over equity 30 76 30 59
268 834 281 430
Current 223 508 243 204
Non-current 45 326 38 226
268 834 281 430
The Group utilises interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate exposures by swapping an element of its borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates. As at 
31 December 2007, the total notional value of interest rate swaps was £2,289 million (2006: £2,007 million). 
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses. The Group already has an equity interest in some of these businesses.
The Group has also issued convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc. The conversion feature in the 3.25% convertible 
euro bond is accounted for as an embedded derivative (refer to note 25).
The Group sometimes utilises foreign currency exchange contracts to manage its foreign exchange rate exposures. As at 31 December 2007, the total notional 
value of these contracts was £15 million (2006: £45 million) and the mark to market was £nil (2006: £nil). Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 134
23 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash at bank 672 378
Short-term deposits 489 602
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 1,161 980
The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes £377 million (2006: £211 million) of cash which is considered to be ‘restricted’ as it is primarily to secure
amounts required for debt repayments and letters of credit.
24 Assets held for sale
The sale of the Group’s investment in the Malakoff wholesale power generation business to MMC Corporation was completed on 30 April 2007. This resulted in
proceeds of £249 million and a profit on disposal of £115 million. The profit on disposal is included in ‘Disposal of interests in businesses’ in the income statement
(refer to note 8).
25 Loans and bonds
An analysis of the interest-bearing loans and bonds, which are measured at amortised cost, is as follows:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Face value Carrying Face value Carrying
amount amount
£m £m £m £m
a) Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds
Current liabilities
Secured bank loans
(1)
357 352 235 231
Secured bonds
(1)
12 12 10 10
369 364 245 241
Non-current liabilities
Secured bank loans
(1)
4,296 4,256 3,255 3,209
Secured bonds
(1)
634 682 626 677
4,930 4,938 3,881 3,886
Total secured interest-bearing loans and bonds 5,299 5,302 4,126 4,127
b) Unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds
Current liabilities
Loans from minority interests
(2)
24 24 ––
Preferred equity facility
(3)
151 151 ––
175 175 ––
Non-current liabilities
Loans from minority interests
(2)
91 91 81 81
Preferred equity facility
(3)
–– 153 152
3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023
(4)
127 115 129 113
3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013
(5)
169 140 155 124
387 346 518 470
Total unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds 562 521 518 470
c) Total interest-bearing loans and bonds
Current liabilities 544 539 245 241
Non-current liabilities 5,317 5,284 4,399 4,356
Total interest-bearing loans and bonds 5,861 5,823 4,644 4,597 International Power Annual Report 2007 135
A description of the foregoing items is as follows:
(1) Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds
Secured bank loans comprise amounts borrowed from commercial banks. Secured bonds comprise those relating to the financing of First Hydro and the Levanto 
wind farm portfolio.
The bank loans and bonds with a carrying amount of £5,302 million (2006: £4,127 million) are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain
subsidiaries. Substantially all of the Group’s power stations, generating assets and other operating assets are financed under facilities which are non-recourse to
International Power plc and secured solely on the assets of the subsidiary concerned.
Although not in default of principal or interest payment terms, at 31 December 2007 the Group had borrowings of £62 million in technical default which could have
allowed the lender to demand accelerated repayment of the loan. At 31 December 2007 the loan is classified as a current liability on the balance sheet. The technical
defaults were cured during the first quarter of 2008.
(2) Loans from minority interests
Loans from minority interests comprise both term loans and working capital facilities provided by minority shareholders in subsidiaries. These loans and working 
capital facilities are provided on an unsecured basis for various maturity periods and have interest terms based on fixed or floating rates as specified in each 
individual agreement.
(3) Preferred equity facility
The preferred equity facility comprises US$300 million in preference shares which were issued by Impala Magpie Limited to Mitsui Power Ventures Limited for the
purposes of financing the acquisition of the EME portfolio which was completed in December 2004.
Impala Magpie Limited is a 70% owned subsidiary of International Power plc and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mitsui & Co 
of Japan. Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is International Power’s partner in IPM Eagle LLP , which is the owner of assets formerly owned by Edison Mission Energy, 
and IPM (UK) Power Holdings Limited, which is the owner of certain UK generating assets.
The preference shares entitle the holder to a preferred dividend coupon of US dollar LIBOR plus 2%. The preference shares are redeemable from 16 December 2008
and may also be redeemed if funds become available following the sale of certain assets.
International Power (Impala), a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Power plc, has granted Mitsui Power Ventures Limited a put option to sell 70% of the
preference shares it holds on the date of exercise. The put option is exercisable in certain circumstances, including where Impala Magpie Limited fails to redeem the
preference shares on maturity.
Although the preference shares are unsecured, International Power plc has agreed to guarantee International Power (Impala)’s obligations to Mitsui & Co of Japan 
and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited.
(4) 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023
On 22 August 2003, International Power (Jersey) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 3.75% convertible
notes due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power (Jersey) Limited at the holder’s option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of,
and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 168p at any time up to 12 August 2023. Each US$1,000 principal
amount of notes will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power (Jersey) Limited. The notes may be
redeemed at the holder’s option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013, 2018 and 2023.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured notes will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal
amount.
Following the extinguishment of a cash settlement option on 17 January 2005, the remaining conversion feature, being an equity call option held by the bondholders
was recognised in equity. The remaining debt element of the convertible bond accretes to par value over the life of the bond at a constant periodic rate based on its
carrying amount.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 3.65% to the liability component for the period since the convertible US dollar
bond was issued. This is in addition to the coupon interest rate of 3.75% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the convertible US dollar bonds at 31 December 2007 to be approximately £122 million 
(31 December 2006: £114 million). This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2007. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 136
25 Loans and bonds continued
(5) 3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013
On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued €230 million 3.25% convertible
notes due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited at the holder’s option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary
Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 384p at any time up to 20 July 2013. Each €50,000 principal
amount of notes will entitle the holder to convert into a €50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited. The notes may
be redeemed at the holder’s option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured notes will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond have been split between the debt element and an embedded derivative component. 
This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 3.39% to the liability component for the period since the convertible 
euro bond was issued. This is in addition to the coupon interest rate of 3.25% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the convertible euro bonds at 31 December 2007 to be approximately £137 million 
(31 December 2006: £133 million). This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2007.
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations
The Group has loans denominated in foreign currencies that have been designated as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations in Europe and Australia. 
The value of these non-derivative financial liabilities, used as hedging instruments, at the balance sheet date was:
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Euro 165 150
Australian dollar 38 37
203 187
The foreign exchange loss of £17 million (2006: gain of £5 million) on re-translation of these loans has been taken to the translation reserve on consolidation.
Maturity of borrowings
The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to loans and bonds and a reconciliation from undiscounted cash flows, including
interest coupons, to carrying amounts:
31 December 2007
Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount
cash flows non-cash coupons/
items discounting
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Secured bank loans 528 603 2,623 2,222 5,976 (50) (1,318) 4,608
Secured bonds 73 61 180 995 1,309 (2) (613) 694
Loans from minority interests 41 17 150 – 208 – (93) 115
Preferred equity facility 167 – – – 167 – (16) 151
3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 6 5 14 178 203 (1) (87) 115
3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 8 5 17 172 202 (2) (60) 140
823 691 2,984 3,567 8,065 (55) (2,187) 5,823
31 December 2006
Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount
cash flows non-cash coupons/
items discounting
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Secured bank loans 471 519 1,481 2,227 4,698 (50) (1,208) 3,440
Secured bonds 69 59 186 1,033 1,347 (5) (655) 687
Loans from minority interests 21 9 71 – 101 – (20) 81
Preferred equity facility 13 169 – – 182 – (30) 152
3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 7 5 14 185 211 (2) (96) 113
3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 7 5 15 163 190 (2) (64) 124
588 766 1,767 3,608 6,729 (59) (2,073) 4,597
Other non-cash items represent debt issue costs. The above table assumes the convertible bonds are redeemed by the payment of cash at maturity. International Power Annual Report 2007 137
26 Net debt
Analysis of changes in net debt
1 January On acquisition Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December
2007 of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2007
(excluding cash) movements
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 980 – – 165 16 1,161
Assets held for trading 42 – 1 (44) 1 –
Total funds 1,022 – 1 121 17 1,161
Loans due within one year (231) (68) – (67) (10) (376)
Loans due after more than one year (3,290) (693) (11) (167) (186) (4,347)
Secured bonds due within one year (10) – – (1) (1) (12)
Secured bonds due after more than one year (677) – 2 12 (19) (682)
Preferred equity facility (152) – (1) – 2 (151)
Convertible bonds (237) – (9) – (9) (255)
Total debt (4,597) (761) (19) (223) (223) (5,823)
Net debt (3,575) (761) (18) (102) (206) (4,662)
1 January On acquisition Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December
2006 of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2006
(excluding cash) movements
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 620 – – 386 (26) 980
Assets held for trading 52 – 2 (9) (3) 42
Total funds 672 – 2 377 (29) 1,022
Loans due within one year (187) (26) (96) 73 5 (231)
Loans due after more than one year (2,802) (40) 84 (756) 224 (3,290)
Secured bonds due within one year – (10) – – – (10)
Secured bonds due after more than one year (445) (233) 3 – (2) (677)
Preferred equity facility (173) – – – 21 (152)
Convertible bonds (125) – 24 (152) 16 (237)
Total debt (3,732) (309) 15 (835) 264 (4,597)
Net debt (3,060) (309) 17 (458) 235 (3,575)
27 Trade and other payables
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade payables 184 85
Other payables 222 226
Accruals 268 206
Deferred income 35 12
Total trade and other payables 709 529
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value. All trade and other payables are expected to fall due within
one year. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 138
28 Provisions
Commodity Leave Site Other Total
contracts provisions restoration
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007 133 17 16 18 184
Acquisitions 17–– 3 20
Provisions made during the year 3 3 2  13 21 
Provisions utilised during the year (53) (3) – – (56)
Unwinding discount –– 1– 1 
Exchange differences (1) 2 2 1 4 
At 31 December 2007 99 19 21 35 174
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Current liabilities 83 58
Non-current liabilities 91 126
Total provisions 174 184
Commodity contracts added in 2007 principally relate to onerous customer contracts fair valued as part of the acquisition of Simply Energy (refer to note 31). 
Most of this provision will unwind during 2008 and will be credited to revenue in the income statement.
The carrying amount of existing commodity contracts brought forward from 2006 relate to ‘out of the money’ power sales contracts acquired as part of the
acquisition of Coleto Creek in 2006. When the provision is utilised it is credited to revenue in the income statement. This provision is expected to be mostly utilised 
by 2014.
‘Other’ provisions principally relate to onerous property leases and disputed contractual amounts and penalties. £10 million has been provided for during the year for
the expected vacancy period for leased premises at Senator House in London. The lease provision is expected to be utilised within the next three years. International Power Annual Report 2007 139
29 Share-based payments
a) Number of shares and exercise prices under Share Option Plans
The Group operates the following employee share plans for which shares may be issued by the Group out of authorised but unissued share capital upon exercise of
options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan; the UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans, the Global Executive Share
Option Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan. The total number of options outstanding at the end of the year was as follows:
Number of Ordinary Shares
Option Date Year ended Year ended
price range exercisable 31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Sharesave Plans 70.33p-389.00p 2006-2013 6,429,720 6,021,436
Executive Share Option Plans 62.32p-388.25p 2000-2016 14,695,753 21,294,173
2002 Performance Share Plan 74.79p 2003 onwards – 1,230,108
Total options outstanding 21,125,473 28,545,717
Details of each Plan are set out on the following pages:
i) Sharesave Plans
The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other jurisdictions to invest up
to a maximum of £250 (or foreign currency equivalent) per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group. The option prices are fixed at a discount of 20%
to the market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares as at the date of grant of the option. Options are exercisable at the prices set out below. The option exercise
period commences either three or five years after the option has been granted (determined at the time that the employee enters into the savings agreement) and 
if the options remain unexercised after a period of six months following the beginning of the option exercise period, the options expire. Except for certain specific
circumstances (e.g. redundancy) options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences. Details of the share options
outstanding at the end of the year are as follows:
Number of Ordinary Shares
Option Date Year ended Year ended
price exercisable 31 December 31 December
2007 2006
178.06p 2006-2007 – 6,631
80.12p 2007-2008 1,985,637 2,578,756
97.93p 2006-2007 – 79,672
97.93p 2008-2009 69,582 69,582
70.33p 2008 570,644 591,812
97.93p 2007 – 149,183
97.93p 2009 99,331 99,331
200.00p 2009 1,314,025 1,362,177
200.00p 2011 1,035,019 1,084,292
389.00p 2011 606,225 –
389.00p 2013 749,257 –
6,429,720 6,021,436
The number and weighted average exercise prices of Sharesave Plan share options are as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Number of Weighted Number of Weighted 
Ordinary average Ordinary average
Shares exercise price Shares exercise price
pence pence
Options outstanding at beginning of the year 6,021,436 129.15 4,861,349 79.07
Granted during the year 1,365,425 389.00 2,535,694 200.00
Exercised during the year (830,476) 87.10 (1,196,959) 74.24
Expired during the year –– (37,857) 75.41
Forfeited during the year (126,665) 186.68 (140,791) 157.26
Options outstanding at end of the year 6,429,720 188.63 6,021,436 129.15
Options exercisable at end of the year 1,985,637 86,303
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Sharesave Plan share options exercised during the year was 435.21 pence (2006: 287.15 pence). 
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 70.33 pence to 389.00 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.36 years (2006: 2.36 years). Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 140
29 Share-based payments continued
ii) Executive Share Option Plans
The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan are discretionary employee share option plans. Options
are granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company. The exercise price of the options is fixed at the
market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares as at the date that the options are granted. The option exercise period is between the third and tenth anniversaries 
of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised before the expiry of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse. Except 
for certain specific circumstances (e.g. redundancy) options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee
resigns from the Company. Details of the share options outstanding at the end of the year are as follows:
Number of Ordinary Shares
Option Date Year ended Year ended
price exercisable 31 December 31 December
2007 2006
343.73p 2000-2007 – 440,687
313.92p 2001-2008 210,568 586,630
277.55p 2003-2010 667,968 1,527,844
209.22p 2004-2011 342,766 631,668
193.19p 2004-2011 – 49,959
174.50p 2005-2012 2,968,750 3,329,619
62.32p 2006-2013 297,040 622,483
123.53p 2007-2014 644,297 6,228,318
179.25p 2008-2015 5,000,370 5,215,424
281.00p 2009-2016 2,502,846 2,661,541
388.25p 2009-2016 2,061,148 –
14,695,753 21,294,173
The number and weighted average exercise prices of Executive Share Options are as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
Number of Weighted Number of Weighted 
Ordinary average Ordinary average
Shares exercise price Shares exercise price
pence pence
Options outstanding at beginning of the year 21,294,173 186.60 32,687,124 145.14
Granted during the year 2,095,124 388.25 2,671,718 281.00
Exercised during the year (7,826,019) 162.29 (13,073,207) 104.51
Expired during the year (26,044) 343.73 (27,589) 287.76
Forfeited during the year (841,481) 200.50 (963,873) 152.77
Options outstanding at end of the year 14,695,753 227.22 21,294,173 186.60
Options exercisable at end of the year 5,131,389 7,188,890
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Executive Share Options exercised during the year was 407.32 pence (2006: 293.26 pence). 
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 62.32 pence to 388.25 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 5.8 years (2006: 6.8 years). International Power Annual Report 2007 141
iii) 2002 Performance Share Plan
Under this Plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group are awarded conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company. These conditional 
awards may vest three years after the awards have been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition (determined at the time that the
conditional awards are made). In 2003 the Group granted to the Trustee of the International Power Employee Share Ownership Trust an option to acquire 3,807,057
Ordinary Shares in the Company at an option price of 84 pence per share. Following a rights issue in 2004, the number of shares under option was increased to
4,276,215 and the option exercise price was adjusted to 74.79 pence per share. This option could only be exercised to the extent required to satisfy conditional
awards made under the Performance Share Plan. These conditional awards can only vest after the end of the relevant performance period and only to the extent 
to which the performance conditions have been satisfied.
During 2006 the Trustee exercised this option to the extent of 3,046,107 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in March 2006. During 2007
the Trustee exercised this option over the remaining 1,230,108 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in March 2007.
b) Fair value of options under Share Option Plans
i) Sharesave Plans
The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 136 pence per share (2006: 82 pence per share). 
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted average share price 473p 250p
Weighted average exercise price 389p 200p
Expected volatility 25% 30%
Expected life 4 years 4 years
Risk free rate 4.44% 4.16%
Expected dividend yield 2.70% 2.36%
ii) Executive Share Option Plans
The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 76 pence per share (2006: 61 pence per share).
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted average share price 384p 269p
Weighted average exercise price 388p 281p
Expected volatility 25% 30%
Expected life 4 years 4 years
Risk free rate 5.11% 4.39%
Expected dividend yield 2.70% 2.36%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous six years. The expected life used in the model
has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
iii) 2002 Performance Share Plan
No performance share plan options were granted during the current or prior year. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 142
30 Share capital and reserves
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 7,826,019 4 
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 830,476 – 
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan – – 1,230,108 1 
At 31 December 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,474,736,637 737
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 13,073,207 6
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 1,196,959 1
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan – – 3,046,107 2
At 31 December 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of the Company.
Deferred shares
The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 pence each in issue. These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and Innogy in 2000 was
effected as efficiently as possible. The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting. 
Unclassified share
Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Company’s authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of £1. International Power Annual Report 2007 143
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share Share Capital Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
account reserve
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007 746 402 145 422 – 6 (78) 819 2,462
Profit for the year ––––––– 503 503
Other recognised income and expenses 
relating to the year –––– (9) (90) 113 – 14
Issue of shares 5 9 –––––– 14
Distributions ––––––– (160) (160)
Other movements ––––––– 11 11
At 31 December 2007 751 411 145 422 (9) (84) 35 1,173 2,844
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share Share Capital Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained Total
capital premium redemption reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
account reserve
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 737 394 145 422 – (118) 49 463 2,092
Profit for the year ––––––– 410 410
Other recognised income and expenses 
relating to the year ––––– 124 (127) – (3)
Issue of shares 9 8 –––––– 17
Distributions ––––––– (67) (67)
Other movements ––––––– 13 13
At 31 December 2006 746 402 145 422 – 6 (78) 819 2,462
The share capital represents the authorised Ordinary Shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution of dividends or capital 
of the Company.
A number of International Power plc Ordinary Shares are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs). These shares are held by the ESOTs to meet
awards made under the Company’s 2002 Performance Share Plan. At 31 December 2007, the ESOTs held 253,990 International Power plc Ordinary Shares
(2006: 1,241,452). At 31 December 2007 the market value of these shares was £1,151,845 (2006: £4,739,243). The maximum number of Ordinary Shares
required to meet all outstanding awards (assuming full vesting of those awards) as at 31 December 2007 was 6,139,922 (2006: 6,444,745).
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.  
The capital redemption reserve was created in March 1995 when the Company purchased and then cancelled approximately 98 million of its Ordinary Shares 
in conjunction with HM Treasury’s sale of its remaining 40% shareholding in the Company. The reserve was subsequently increased in the years ended 
31 March 1996, 31 March 2000 and 31 December 2003 when further share purchases were made and these shares were cancelled. The capital redemption reserve
is not distributable.
The capital reserve was vested in the Company at 31 March 1990 under the Transfer Scheme whereby the net assets of the Central Electricity Generating Board
(CEGB) were divided among the CEGB successor companies. It is not distributable.
The revaluation reserve comprises the deficit arising from the revaluation of certain intangible assets as part of the step acquisition of Simply Energy on 
16 August 2007 (refer to note 31a).
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions
that have not yet occurred and to cumulative gains and losses on hedging instruments that no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, until the forecast
transaction occurs.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral 
to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in foreign operations (refer to note 32d).
£424 million (2006: £527 million) of the Group’s retained earnings is not distributable as it arose from unrealised gains on intra-group transfers. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 144
31 Acquisitions and disposals
a) Simply Energy
On 7 July 2005, iPower Pty Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed a retail energy partnership agreement with EnergyAustralia. 
The consideration was £27 million for a 50% share of the partnership. The retail energy partnership sells electricity and gas to retail customers in Victoria and 
South Australia. In the Group accounts, the retail partnership was accounted for as a jointly controlled entity and its results were accounted for under the equity
method with effect from 7 July 2005.
On 16 August 2007, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the EnergyAustralia and International Power Australia retail energy partnership,
through its subsidiary IP Retail Pty Limited, for £56 million. Following the completion of this transaction the business was renamed Simply Energy. The results of 
Simply Energy have been consolidated as a subsidiary from this date using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, result and fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below:
Acquiree’s Fair value Fair value
carrying adjustments to the 
amount Group
£m £m £m
Other intangible assets 6 (6) –
Trade receivables 19 – 19
Other receivables 1– 1
Prepayments and accrued income 35 – 35
Derivative financial assets 40 – 40
Cash and cash equivalents 4– 4
Bank loans (25) – (25)
Trade payables (27) – (27)
Other payables (2) – (2)
Deferred tax (20) 7 (13)
Provisions – (17) (17)
Net assets acquired 31 (16) 15
Goodwill arising on acquisition 71
Fair value of net assets acquired and goodwill 86
Components of cost of acquisition
Consideration for initial 50% shareholding in July 2005 27
Consideration for remaining 50% shareholding 56
Total cost of acquisition 83
Earnings under equity method of initial 50% shareholding (while Simply Energy was a jointly controlled entity) 11
Revaluation deficit on step acquisition (8)
Fair value of net assets acquired and goodwill 86
Consideration for remaining 50% shareholding 56
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (4)
Net cash outflow to the Group 52
In the period from 17 August 2007 to 31 December 2007, Simply Energy contributed £88 million of revenue and £2 million to the Group’s profit from operations
(both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements). Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, 
it contributed to the Group £85 million of revenue and incurred a loss from operations of £3 million.
It also contributed £14 million to the Group’s net operating cash flows and paid £1 million in respect of net interest and £nil in respect of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of the net assets acquired and principally represent the recognition of the fair value of non-contractual
customer relationships included by the acquiree as intangible assets, the recognition of provisions for unprovided amounts in respect of onerous customer contracts,
and the associated deferred tax on the temporary timing difference created by the fair value adjustments. International Power Annual Report 2007 145
Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents a payment made by the acquirer in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable
of being individually identified and separately recognised. In the case of Simply Energy, goodwill is generated by non-contractual customer relationships and synergies
existing within the acquired business, such as the value of the assembled workforce. Synergies expected to be achieved as a result of combining Simply Energy with 
the International Power Group also contribute to goodwill.
Goodwill is recognised on the acquisition of Simply Energy as a result of the continuing recognition of goodwill previously recognised in July 2005 on the acquisition 
of the initial 50% interest in the jointly controlled entity. Further goodwill arises on consolidation following the acquisition in August 2007.
The revaluation deficit comprises the adjustment to the fair values in August 2007 of customer relationships and customer contracts which were treated as ‘own use’
in accounting for the initial 50% interest in the retail partnership under the equity method.
It is impracticable to state what the impact would have been on Group revenue and profit for the year had the acquisition been completed on 1 January 2007 due to
the difficulty in ascertaining the valuation of assets and liabilities at that time.
b) Maestrale
On 31 August 2007 International Power plc, through wholly owned subsidiaries, completed the acquisition of the 636 MW Maestrale wind farm portfolio which
comprised 581 MW in operation and 55 MW under construction. Maestrale was acquired from private investors connected with the Matrix Group and CJS Capital
Partners Limited. The wind farm portfolio is located onshore in Germany and, predominantly, in southern Italy. The results of Maestrale have been consolidated as 
a subsidiary from 31 August 2007 using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and provisional fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below:
Acquiree’s Fair value Fair value
carrying adjustments to the 
amount Group
£m £m £m
Other intangible assets –6464
Property, plant and equipment 343 675 1,018
Finance lease receivable 75 22 97
Inventory 11 – 11
Trade receivables 20 – 20
Other receivables 124 – 124
Derivative financial assets 4– 4
Cash and cash equivalents 44 – 44
Bank loans (41) – (41)
Trade payables (20) – (20)
Other payables (8) – (8)
Accruals (56) – (56)
Current tax liabilities (18) – (18)
Bank loans (652) – (652)
Deferred tax (65) (283) (348)
Provisions (3) – (3)
Net assets acquired (242) 478 236
Minority interests in net assets acquired (1)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 360
Group’s share of net assets acquired and goodwill 595
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration paid (including £2 million acquisition costs) 595
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (44)
Net cash outflow to the Group 551 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 146
31 Acquisitions and disposals continued
In the period from 1 September 2007 to 31 December 2007, Maestrale contributed £40 million of revenue and £9 million to the Group’s profit from operations 
(both including and excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements). It also contributed £22 million to the Group’s net operating cash
flows and paid £18 million in respect of net interest and £4 million in respect of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of the net assets acquired. These principally represent the recognition of intangible assets consisting of
contract-based intangibles and the value of green certificates held at the date of acquisition, the recognition of operating plant and assets under construction as well 
as finance leases at fair value. Deferred tax is also recognised for the temporary timing difference created by the fair value adjustments.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of the Maestrale wind farm portfolio as a result of value, attributed to future cash flows associated with the expected repowerings 
of the assets and the resulting life extension of the tariff regimes, in excess of the amount that can be attributed to property, plant and equipment.
Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the year end, the complexity of the business and the number of entities acquired, the fair values attributed to the acquired
assets and liabilities are provisional and may be revised. Similarly for the same reasons, it is impracticable to state what the impact would have been on Group revenue
and profit for the year had the acquisition been completed on 1 January 2007 due to the difficulty in ascertaining the valuation of assets and liabilities at that time.
c) Other acquisitions and disposals
New partnership with Mitsui
On 20 June 2007, International Power completed the formation of a new partnership with Mitsui & Co., Ltd (Mitsui). The partnership created a common ownership
platform for the UK assets, (excluding Derwent), held 75% International Power and 25% Mitsui, and equalised the returns from Paiton, Indonesia. This follows the
Extraordinary General Meeting on 15 June 2007, when shareholders voted in favour of the transaction.
As part of this agreement, International Power sold a 25% equity interest in Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens to Mitsui and acquired an additional 5% equity
interest in First Hydro and Saltend. Mitsui provided a £200 million credit facility to support trading activities of the UK assets. International Power also acquired the
right to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to 9.2% of Paiton’s earnings and cash distributions.
The sale and purchase of the interests in the UK assets and Paiton resulted in a net cash payment of £106 million to International Power. Gross proceeds of 
£168 million and a profit on disposal of £174 million were recorded on the partial disposal of Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens. 
Acquisition of other European wind farms
During 2007 International Power also acquired 100% of the voting equity instruments or partners’ capital of the following businesses:
■ In July 2007 a 16 MW operational wind farm, located at Delfzijl-Zuid in the Netherlands;
■ In September 2007 the 28 MW Schkortleben operational wind farm, located in Germany, from e.n.o. energy;
■ In December 2007 a 15 MW operational wind farm, located at Delfzijl-Zuid in the Netherlands;
■ In December 2007 the 20 MW Karstaedt operational wind farm, located in Germany.
Total consideration for all acquisitions amounted to £50 million. Consideration of £2 million remains unpaid at the year end.
d) Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents acquired
In addition to the net cash outflow to the Group of £52 million relating to the acquisition of Simply Energy and the net cash outflow of £551 million relating to 
the acquisition of Maestrale, net cash outflows of £46 million arose on the acquisition of the other European wind farms and £129 million relating to the purchase 
of an additional 5% equity interest in First Hydro and Saltend, and rights to additional returns from Paiton. This results in a total net cash outflow to the Group of 
£778 million (2006: £650 million).
e) Fair value hindsight adjustments – acquisitions during 2006
The fair values of certain assets and liabilities associated with the purchase of the Levanto portfolio of onshore wind farms, predominantly located in France 
and Germany, which took place in November 2006 have been revised. This follows the conclusion of an independent third party fair valuation exercise commissioned
during 2007. As a result of the finalisation of the valuation, the following changes have been made to the acquired assets and liabilities. Property, plant and equipment
of €20 million, intangible assets of €22 million and receivables of €4 million have been recognised. The fair values of finance lease receivables have been reduced
from €419 million to €395 million and loan and bond creditors have increased from €414 million to €427 million. Corresponding deferred tax adjustments have
also been applied to these changes in fair values. International Power Annual Report 2007 147
32 Financial instruments
a) Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value
amount amount
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 1,161 980 980
Available-for-sale:
Other investments 13 13 26 26
Loans and receivables:
Finance lease receivables 1,293 1,226 1,078 1,106
Other long-term receivables 22 22 29 29
Trade receivables 221 221 142 142
Other receivables and accrued income 424 424 157 157
At fair value through profit or loss:
Assets held for trading –– 42 42
Derivative financial assets not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 236 236 164   164  
Designated cash flow hedge relationships:
Derivative financial assets designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 32 32 117   117   
Total financial assets 3,402 3,335 2,735 2,763
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Trade payables 184 184 85 85
Other payables (current) 222 222 226 226
Accruals 268 268 206   206   
Other payables (non-current) 30 30 40 40
Secured bank loans 4,608 4,608 3,440 3,439
Secured bonds 694 749 687 736
Preferred equity facility 151 151 152 152
Convertible bonds 255 259 237 247
Loans from minority interests 115 115 81 81
Provisions 63 63 43 43
At fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial liabilities not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 729 729 322   322   
Designated cash flow hedge relationships:
Derivative financial liabilities designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 105 105 108   108
Total financial liabilities 7,424 7,483 5,627 5,685 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 148
32 Financial instruments continued
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
(i) Other investments comprise minority shareholdings held in privately owned, unquoted companies as well as debt instruments where there is no active market
available to value them. Where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, the fair value shown is recorded at cost. The debt
instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows.
(ii) The fair value of finance lease receivables and other long-term receivables have been estimated by discounting estimated cash flows. Discount rates in the range
of 4% to 10% have been applied.
(iii) Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income have been stated at their book values.
(iv) Fair values of derivative financial instruments:
Energy derivatives are measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification techniques. A forward price
curve represents the Group’s view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities at future dates. An
electricity price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over 
the more distant horizon period. Discount rates in the range of 7% to 10% have been applied. The prices in the distant horizon period are determined by
reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new
power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity (‘new entrant pricing’).
Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to both third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves and spot rates in effect 
at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of the Group’s foreign currency and equity conversion options have also been measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and
through calculations using market rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
(v) The fair value of assets held for trading have been calculated using quoted market prices.
(vi) Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade payables, other payables and accruals have been stated at their book values.
(vii) The fair values of all bank loans, bonds, convertible bonds, the preferred equity facility and loans from minority interests have been calculated using market prices
where available or the present value of estimated future cash flows. Discount rates in the range of 4% to 15% have been applied.
(viii) Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted 
to present value where the effect is material. Consequently the fair value has been presented as book value. Discount rates in the range of 5% to 6% have 
been applied.
As explained in (iv) above, prices for valuing energy derivatives outside of an active market are derived from long-term assumptions. Changes to these long-term
assumptions could have a significant impact on the modelled price. For example, reasonable increases in the assumed cost of construction could increase modelled
long-term power prices in the order of 10%, while reasonable variations in the assumed long-term cost of oil could have an impact in the order of 30% on modelled
long-term power prices.
Most of our energy derivatives settle within the period covered by an active market and hence these variations in long-term price assumptions have a limited impact
on our derivative valuations. We have one long-term derivative contract for power, which was acquired with the Loy Yang B plant in Australia. The contract is open
until 2016. Reasonable changes in assumed construction costs could affect the value of this derivative in the order of A$30 million. Changes in the long-term cost of
oil are less significant, since energy prices in Australia are currently not closely linked to world oil prices.
Refer to note 32 f) (i) for sensitivity analysis. Refer to note 39, ‘Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty’, for further information 
on the valuation techniques used and the assumptions applied in determining the fair values of financial assets and liabilities. International Power Annual Report 2007 149
b) Derivative financial instruments
The following table discloses the carrying amount of financial instruments, which are carried at fair value in the balance sheet, that have been valued using a technique
based on market observable inputs and those that been valued using non-market observable inputs:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Valuation Valuation Valuation Valuation  
technique technique technique technique
– market – non-market – market – non-market
observable observable observable observable
inputs inputs inputs inputs
Assets held for trading
Carrying amount (£m) –– 42 –
Percentage of total carrying amount –– 100% –
Derivative financial assets
Carrying amount (£m) 234 34 245 36
Percentage of total carrying amount 87% 13% 87% 13%
Derivative financial liabilities
Carrying amount (£m) (681) (153) (291) (139)
Percentage of total carrying amount 82% 18% 68% 32%
(447) (119) (4) (103)
In the merchant markets of Australia, the US and the UK, market observable inputs are usually defined as published forward curves. Typically observable market data
for forward power prices is available in Australia, the US and the UK for between two and three years. For interest rate swaps all forward rates are deemed to be from
observable markets.
Non-market observable inputs are typically defined as price forecasts for a particular commodity, which are derived from the Group’s in-house modelling. Non-market
observable inputs are not published and often form part of a valuation technique when a forward curve is deemed illiquid. A number of modelling techniques exist to
generate these forecasts, but a standard approach that the Group follows for valuing forward power sales is to look at the economics of a new-entrant power plant.
When a new-entrant is believed to be required in a particular market, the long-term power price assumed will cover the new-entrant’s cost and target return. 
That is, power prices reflect the ‘new-entrant cost’ level from this particular point.
As explained on pages 18 to 20 of the business and financial review, the Group’s policy is to hedge various exposures.
Energy price risk: We use commodity contracts to fix the prices we achieve for the electrical output from our power stations and the cost of fuel inputs to our power
stations. For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group the financial products and commodity contracts used for this purpose, which are classified as
derivatives, under the heading ‘Energy derivatives’.
Interest rate risk: Principally we use pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps. We also use options and forward rate agreements. For the purposes of presentation
which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading ‘Interest rate swaps’.
Foreign currency risk: For structural and transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use foreign currency borrowings,
forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps. For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under
the heading ‘Other derivatives’. This category also encompasses options over equity. The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related
businesses. The Group already has an equity interest in some of these businesses. The Group has convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of
International Power plc. The conversion feature in the 3.25% convertible euro bond is accounted for as an embedded derivative (refer to note 25). Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 150
32 Financial instruments continued
The carrying amount of these derivative financial instruments at the reporting date and whether these derivatives are designated in a formal hedging relationship 
is analysed as follows:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Energy derivatives 881 102 100
Interest rate swaps 24 24 15 8
32 105 117 108
Not designated in a qualifying hedge relationship
Energy derivatives 200 653 134 262
Interest rate swaps 6– –1
Other derivatives 30 76 30 59
236 729 164 322
268 834 281 430
Current 223 508 243 204
Non-current 45 326 38 226
268 834 281 430
The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities which have been designated at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition.
The following table shows the carrying amounts, net gains and losses, cash flows and other movements relating to the Group’s derivative financial instruments 
and where the movements in the income statement are recorded.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Energy Interest rate Other Total Energy Interest rate Other Total
derivatives swaps derivatives derivatives swaps derivatives
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January (126) 6 (29) (149) (394)   (25)   –   (419)   
Specific IAS 39 mark to market
movements recognised in:
– revenue (387) – – (387) 132   –   –   132
– cost of sales 45–– 45 (68)   –   –   (68) 
– interest – 1 (17) (16) –   2   (28)   (26) 
Other movements in the income statement 24 3 – 27 51   6   –   57 
Movement in the hedging reserve (85) (10) – (95) 140   22   –   162 
Cash flow (8) – – (8) 2   –   (1)   1
Acquisitions 40 4 – 44 –  –   –   –
Exchange differences (29) 2 – (27) 11   1   –   12 
At 31 December (526) 6 (46) (566) (126) 6 (29) (149)
‘Other movements in the income statement’ comprise mark to market movements on proprietary trading activities, i.e. on non-asset backed trader, and the
amortisation of derivatives acquired with a fair value other than zero. Mark to market movements on asset backed hedges are included within ‘specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements’ (refer to note 1). International Power Annual Report 2007 151
c) Cash flow hedging reserve movements
The cash flow hedging reserve balance at 31 December 2007 and the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur are as follows:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total
derivatives swaps derivatives swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flows expected in:
Less than 12 months (42) (2) (44) 22 (1) 21
1-2 years (11) (12) (23) (12) − (12)
2-5 years (3) (11) (14) (7) (2) (9)
More than 5 years – (3) (3) –66
Unrecognised (losses)/gains at 31 December (56) (28) (84) 336
The amounts shown in the preceding table are expected to affect profit or loss in the same period as the cash flows.
The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year, including where gains and losses have been recognised in the 
income statement.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total
derivatives swaps derivatives swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 336 (103) (15) (118)
(Losses) and gains recognised in the 
hedging reserve during the year (32) (35) (67) 37 15 52
(Losses) and gains arising in 
previous years that reversed 
during the year (22) 1 (21) 67 2 69
Amount removed from hedging reserve 
and included within the income 
statement during the year due to 
settlement of contracts. Recognised in:
Group revenue 95 – 95 (4) – (4)
Share of joint ventures and associates –22 –––
Net finance costs – (3) (3) –––
Cash settlement of derivatives during the year (95) 1 (94) 415
Ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 1– 1 (1) – (1)
Amount removed from hedging 
reserve and included within a non-financial 
item during the year ––– – (1) (1)
Exchange differences (6) 3 (3) 314
At 31 December (56) (28) (84) 336 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 152
32 Financial instruments continued
d) Hedge of a net investment
An economic foreign currency exposure arises from net investments in Group entities whose functional currency differs from the parent’s. An accounting exposure arises
from differences between the functional currency of the net investments and the Group’s presentation currency. Changes in exchange rates between the functional
currency of the net investment and that of its parent will cause the amount of the net investment to vary.
In the absence of hedge accounting, foreign exchange gains and losses on retranslating the net assets of a foreign operation would be taken to reserves, whilst those on
the loan would be recognised in the income statement. This creates a mismatch in foreign currency translation. When net investment hedging is applied, this mismatch
is eliminated.
The Group, as part of its hedging strategy, has therefore chosen to borrow some debt denominated in foreign currencies in order to hedge the net investments in
certain foreign operations within its portfolio. As the hedging instruments are foreign currency borrowings rather than derivatives, no fair values for these instruments
are included within the fair value of derivatives disclosed on the balance sheet.
Gains and losses recognised in the translation reserve for hedges of net investments are shown in note 25 and as a separate line item in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
e) Risk identification and risk management
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group. Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is
chaired by the CFO, and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate
control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent with the Group’s strategy and objectives. Assessments are conducted
for all material entities.
The Group owns power plants in various locations around the world including merchant markets in the US, Australia and Europe. Plant ownership in the merchant
markets exposes the Company to highly volatile and unpredictable commodity prices (including those relating to power and gas) and trading and risk management
teams exist in each region to manage the exposure by trading a range of products including physical and financial forwards and futures. A Global Commodities Risk
Committee together with the regional risk management teams are responsible for ensuring an adequate risk framework is in place in each region. Local Risk
Committees operate in each region and they are responsible for ensuring that the risk framework is applied and that they manage their respective positions in
compliance with these Board approved limits. 
Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the management and development of the Group’s business whilst managing its market
risks and credit risks. The Group’s treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions. Group treasury acts within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by
the Board.
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the balance sheet. Note 30 provides details on equity and note 25 on loans and bonds. Short and medium-term
funding requirements are provided by a variety of loan facilities with a range of counterparties and maturities. Longer term funding or funding for a particularly large
transaction may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by raising additional equity. Identification of total
funding and phasing is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis. 
Project development activities can, on occasions, require credit support in the normal course of business. This is provided by established funding facilities or via additional
bilateral facilities with related project banks. At the individual business level we finance our projects with non-recourse debt in order to insulate the Group from adverse
events at the project level, limiting our balance sheet exposure to a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
Credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties is managed within clearly defined limits, policies and procedures. Financial counterparty risk is restricted to
arrangements with relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with investment grade ratings. All credit exposures are monitored daily by local
regional management and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
f) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. The Group is exposed to
changes in: commodity prices in the merchant markets in which it operates; interest rates; and foreign currency exchange rates. A significant number of the Group’s
projects operate without power purchase agreements and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel
purchased. In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK within our Europe region, North America, and Australia, operate on a merchant basis.
(i) Energy trading and market risk
The Group hedges exposures that arise from the ownership and operation of power plants and related sales of electricity and purchases of fuel by using derivatives to
optimise the return achieved from these assets. The Group uses commodity derivative financial instruments to convert floating or indexed electricity and fuel prices to
fixed prices. This lessens the Group’s vulnerability to reductions in electricity prices for the electricity it generates and to increases in fuel prices for the fuel it consumes 
in its power plants. Commodity derivative financial instruments also provide a way to meet customers’ pricing requirements while achieving a price structure consistent
with the Group’s overall pricing strategy.
The Group’s trading operations are carried out subject to global and local policies and procedures. A similar structure is in place in each region covering monetary,
volumetric and term limits. Metrics and limits applied to the trading books include Value-at-Risk (VaR), stop/loss, credit, fuel mismatch, term, volume, approved traders
and approved products. Position reports are produced on a regular basis for both the trading and plant books.
The Group accounts for certain derivative financial instruments relating to energy sales and fuel purchases as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is highly
probable and the hedge is assessed as effective. The Group’s coal purchase contracts are typically treated as ‘own use’ because they are both entered into and continue
to be held for the purpose of the Group’s electricity production requirements and they are not net settled. 
Sensitivity analysis 
As stated earlier, when hedging the output of our generation assets it is our policy to both forward sell the power and forward buy the corresponding fuel at the same
time in order to lock in the ‘spread’. The spread is the difference between the cost of fuel to generate a unit of electricity and the price at which that unit of electricity is
sold. Spreads are usually expressed in terms of price per MWh. When gas is used as fuel the difference is called ‘spark spread’ and when coal is used as the fuel it is
called ‘dark spread’.
From a management perspective, once the spread relating to the future output from a generation asset is forward contracted, the asset is considered hedged. To the
extent that future output has not been forward contracted in this manner it is considered unhedged. Management review on an ongoing basis the extent to which
generation output is unhedged. International Power Annual Report 2007 153
However, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) the following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Group’s results
of changes in market prices as a result of entering into financial instruments including derivatives. Specifically, this sensitivity shows the impact on the Group’s results
arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts which are entered into to hedge the future output of our generation assets following a change in forward
market prices.
The table below shows the impact on equity and profits of a 20 percent increase in the forward curves for both electricity sales prices and gas purchase prices as if
they had occurred on 31 December 2007. This could be viewed as the opportunity cost of our forward contracting if prices had changed in this manner. It should also
be noted that if there were to be a 20 per cent decrease in forward prices, the results of the sensitivity analysis would produce an opposite impact on profits and
equity to that shown.
The movement of forward price curves by 20 per cent is believed to be a reasonable approximation of how much markets can move, on average, over any given year.
In some years markets will be less volatile and in other years they may be more volatile. 
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of these sensitivities:
■ All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting;
■ Commodity contracts that qualify for the own use treatment continue to do so, and thus this sensitivity has no impact for these contracts. These typically include
coal purchase contracts.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests.
Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on
profit for total equity profit for total equity
the year the year
2007 2007 2006 2006
+/– +/– +/– +/–
£m £m £m £m
20% increase in forward price curves for electricity (296) (357) (227) (285)
20% increase in forward price curves for gas 52 52 30 29
This sensitivity analysis highlights that because we hedge the spark spread, i.e. the sales price of electricity and the cost of gas, at the same time, there is little net
impact on the fair value of our derivative contracts to changes in the forward price curves to sell electricity and to purchase gas. However, for the dark spread, where
the cost of coal is contracted in advance but is accounted for as ‘own use’, only the electricity sales contracts are exposed to fair value gains and losses arising from
changes in the forward curves because these are considered commodity derivative financial instruments. Therefore, from an accounting perspective, forward
contracting of dark spread at coal plants potentially gives rise to more volatility in earnings. However, to the extent that fair value gains and losses are recorded in any
period within either the income statement or the hedging reserve (when applying cash flow hedge accounting) ultimately they will reverse by the time of delivery.
It should be noted that changes in the fair value of derivatives, which are entered into for economic hedging purposes (refer to basis of preparation in note 1), are
recorded in the ‘middle column’ in the Group’s income statement and therefore the fair value gains and losses have no impact on underlying business performance.
To the extent that our power plants are not already contracted, and spreads change as assumed above, it is likely that the future profitability of our coal plants would
also improve, because they would contract into the higher dark spreads.
It also means that if plants are unavailable at the point in time at which power should be delivered under the contract, the mark to market position represents the
anticipated net cost of purchasing power and selling fuel in the markets to fulfil the contractual obligations and in that instance the unrealised fair value gains and losses
would become realised.
(ii) Interest rate risk
Variability in interest payments can introduce volatility into project returns and corporate funding costs. We mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally 
by using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements. A limited number of our PPAs also have interest rate pass through mechanisms. Significant interest rate
management programmes and instruments require the specific approval of the Board.
The Group’s policy is fix interest rates for up to 75% of its debt portfolio over the medium to long-term. At individual project company level, it is usually a condition 
of the non-recourse debt funding that project companies maintain a certain minimum level of fixed rate debt, typically 70%. This complements the Group’s policy. 
The overall level of the Group’s fixed rate debt is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis. 154 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007
32 Financial instruments continued
A forward rate agreement is a contract in which one party pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating interest rate equal to a reference rate specified at the time
of entering into the contract. The payments are calculated over a notional amount over a certain period with the differential being settled at the termination date. An
interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange pre-determined interest payments, based on a notional principal amount, over an agreed period
of time. 
At 31 December 2007, including the impact of ‘receive variable: pay fixed’ interest rate swaps, £3,587 million (62%) (2006: £3,187 million and 71%) of total debt
had fixed interest rates. In 2007 the weighted average interest rate of fixed rate debt, taking into account the effect of ‘receive variable: pay fixed’ interest rate swaps 
on floating rate debt, was 7% (2006: 7%). The Group accounts for certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is considered highly
probable and the hedge is assessed as effective.
The effect of the Group’s interest rate swaps effectively replaced £806 million (2006: £796 million) of floating rate Australian dollar borrowings, £759 million 
(2006: £869 million) of floating rate US dollar borrowings, £297 million (2006: £300 million) of floating rate sterling borrowings, £83 million (2006: £7 million) 
of floating rate Czech koruna borrowings and £344 million (2006: £35 million) of floating rate euro borrowings with fixed rate borrowings. 
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance for various time periods up to 12 months by reference to official
market rates e.g. LIBOR.
When we use project finance in companies with power purchase agreements, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the power
purchase agreement.
Sensitivity analysis 
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a 100 basis point parallel increase in the interest rate yield curve as if it had occurred on 31 December.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity:
■ The impact of this sensitivity has only been recorded for changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, which have their fair value gains and losses
recorded within the financial statements; assets available-for-sale; and assets held for trading as the Group does not designate any other financial asset at fair value
through profit or loss and these are the only significant financial instruments whose carrying amounts change as a result of changes in interest rates. All other
financial instruments are carried at amortised cost and hence no adjustment has been applied;
■ No impact is recorded from changes in interest rates on employee benefits (including pensions), provisions and other financial assets and liabilities;
■ All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting;
■ Fair value gains and losses on interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting as at 31 December are reflected solely in the income statement.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests.
Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on
profit for total equity profit for total equity
the year the year
2007 2007 2006 2006
+/– +/– +/– +/–
£m £m £m £m
Increase in yield curve by 100 basis point parallel shift 8 49 (3) 33
A second sensitivity analysis calculates the impact on profitability of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on unhedged interest-bearing loans and bonds, 
i.e. those which are subject to a floating rate of interest, i.e. where there is no ‘receive variable: pay fixed’ interest rate swap, and on cash balances on which variable
rates of interest are earned. The calculation is performed as follows. The year end cash balance is deducted from the year end unhedged floating rate loans and bonds.
The net borrowing is multiplied by 1 percent. In 2007 this equated to £8 million before tax (2006: £3 million).
(iii) Foreign currency risk
International Power operates in 20 countries worldwide which exposes it to foreign currency exchange risks. These relate to translation, transaction and economic risks.
Treasury policy is to hedge a reasonable proportion of the Group’s translation exposures by borrowing in the same currency as the underlying investment. 
Any residual translation exposure will result in fluctuating sterling profits and balance sheet asset and liability movements which are not related to underlying business
performance. In countries with historically weak currencies we aim to have PPA tariffs denominated in a major international currency. This protects future returns from
large and rapid devaluations. Group translation exposure is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
For the purposes of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income statement results of the Group’s foreign operations are translated into sterling 
at the average exchange rates for the period concerned. The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Currency translation exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit
involved, other than borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations.
In order to hedge the net assets of foreign operations, borrowings are generally in the same currency as the underlying investment. The Group aims to hedge a
reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way. It is not our policy to hedge currency translation through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Currency transaction exposure arises where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency. Transaction exposure 
also arises on the remittance from overseas of dividends or surplus funds. The Group’s policy is to match transaction exposure where possible, and hedge remaining
transactions as soon as they are committed, by using foreign currency contracts and similar instruments. All external currency instruments used to manage transaction
exposure are transacted by Group treasury or under the guidance of Group treasury. Identification of potential transaction exposures is achieved via a detailed cash
flow forecast by local currency which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.  International Power Annual Report 2007 155
As noted in 32b), to hedge our foreign exchange risks for transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use both non-
derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency borrowings, and derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign currency contracts, currency options
and swaps. When we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposures to foreign currency risk, the Group may choose to account for these as either fair
value hedges or cash flow hedges if they meet the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
Sensitivity analysis 
The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of currency translation exposures arising from monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated
in the functional currencies of International Power plc or of its subsidiaries. It shows the impact on the Group’s consolidated income statement by changing the year
end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies. To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in sterling in subsidiaries with 
non-sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in the year end exchange rate is determined. To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in non-sterling currencies in International Power plc or its subsidiaries with sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in year end exchange
rate is determined.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity:
■ The results of foreign exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated loans, that are treated as net investment hedges, 
are not recorded within the impact on the Group income statement, as these foreign exchange gains and losses are recorded within the translation reserve;
■ The exposure on translating the financial statements of subsidiaries into the sterling presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements are not
included in the sensitivity analysis;
■ No sensitivity has been applied to the results of joint ventures and associates.
The results are presented before tax and minority interests.
Impact on Impact on
profit for profit for
the year the year
2007 2006
+/– +/–
£m £m
10% strengthening of sterling 11 20
10% weakening of sterling (15) (26)
g) Credit risk
We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event that counterparties to traded contracts and financial instruments do not perform according to the terms of the
contract or instrument.
The Group’s policy is to manage its credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits. Energy trading activities are strictly monitored
and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit exposures in each of our 
key regions. Counterparty exposure via customer power purchase agreements (agreements to sell power) is monitored and managed by the local asset team with
assistance from Group treasury where appropriate. The impact of an individual PPA default is minimised by the geographical diversity and large number of projects in
which the Group is involved. In addition, the non-recourse nature of the funding arrangements, which limits our exposure to our equity commitment in a project, also
provides limited credit exposure to the Group.
For the majority of the Group’s commodity trading arrangements we have master netting agreements which establish legally enforceable rights of set-off that reduce
the credit exposure of the Group in the event of counterparty default. Where possible, the Group will also enter into ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives
Association) master agreements to mitigate its credit exposure to financial instruments.
In the normal course of business there may be occasions when we have a significant concentration of credit risk with one counterparty in order to minimise
settlement risk on major transactions. This risk is normally only applicable for a short period of days and is always with an existing relationship bank with a strong
investment grade rating. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 156
32 Financial instruments continued
Group treasury manages the Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated basis for financial counterparties, with the active and close 
involvement of the global risk manager. Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to relationship banks and commercial paper with strong investment grade
credit ratings.
With regard to financial instruments subject to credit risk, International Power selects counterparties with appropriate ratings for the size, type and duration of the
instrument involved. A small proportion of counterparties trading energy are below investment grade. For those energy market transactions with counterparties below
investment grade, and which are not supported by appropriate collateral, reserves are carried against the trading risk. Exposures within this band are restricted and
closely monitored within narrow limits.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive fair value by counterparty at 
31 December 2007. 
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be:
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents
(1)
1,161 980
Available-for-sale financial assets 13 26
Loans and receivables (refer to note 32a)
(2) (3)
1,960 1,406
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
–  assets held for trading – 42
–  derivative financial assets
(3)
236 164
Designated cash flow hedge relationships
–  derivative financial assets
(3)
32 117
Total financial assets 3,402 2,735
(1) The majority of cash balances and short-term deposits are held with strong investment grade banks or financial institutions.
(2) Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
(3) The majority of trade receivables and derivative financial assets relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent
company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
As at 31 December 2007 there were no significant financial guarantees or third party obligations that increase the credit risk of the financial assets set out above. 
International Power holds £79 million at 31 December 2007 (31 December 2006: £171 million) in collateral as security for the above financial assets. Collateral held
as security includes parent company guarantees (of appropriate credit worthiness), letters of credit issued by investment grade banks and cash margining as set out in
the following table:
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Parent company guarantee 31 112
Letters of credit – 1
Cash margining 48 58
79 171
During 2007 we have not needed to take possession of collateral available to us in order to settle any outstanding debts owed to us.
If the Group was to take possession of collateral or to call on other credit enhancements (e.g. guarantees), and the assets held as security were not readily convertible
into cash, we would regularly update our estimates of value and develop a realistic plan for monetisation. We would defend rigorously our right to recoup any
outstanding amounts from arrangements which ultimately do not fully settle a liability.
Although we have seen no direct evidence of changes to the credit risk of our counterparties, the current focus on financial liquidity in all international markets has
introduced increased financial volatility. We use market knowledge, changes in credit ratings and other techniques to identify significant changes to the financial profile
of our counterparties. 
h) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due. The Group’s treasury function
is responsible for managing liquidity. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient headroom under both normal and abnormal
conditions. It manages this through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and a financial headroom analysis which is used to determine funding
requirements for a rolling five year period.
The Group holds additional collateral from counterparties in the form of parent company guarantees and letters of credit of £180 million at 31 December 2007 
(31 December 2006: £73 million). This collateral only becomes enforceable if existing exposures increase or additional trading with that counterparty is contracted. International Power Annual Report 2007 157
i) Borrowing facilities
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2007 in respect of which all conditions
precedent have been met at that date amount to £586 million (2006: £667 million):
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available
£m £m £m £m £m £m
US dollar Corporate revolving credit facility (October 2010)
(1)
427 425 425 327 322 322
US dollar ANP Funding 1 revolving credit facility (May 2010)
(2)
55 42 42 56 40 40
US dollar Tihama term facility (December 2021) ––– 249––
Australian dollar Canunda facility (December 2014) ––– 37––
Sterling Rugeley FGD construction facility (July 2014) 145 57 9 145 129 129
Sterling Rugeley working capital and credit facility (July 2014) 195 97 32 195 100 100
Czech koruna IPO revolving credit facility (May 2012) 138 24 24 24 24 24
Sterling Corporate letter of credit facilities
(3)
323–– 324 11 11
Subsidiary facilities in various currencies 156 54 54 110 41 41
Total 1,439 699 586 1,467 667 667
(1) The drawn element of the US dollar Corporate revolving credit facility relates to letters of credit issued of £2 million (2006: £5 million).
(2) The ANP Funding 1 revolving credit facility includes a US$50 million supported and US$60 million unsupported working capital credit facility with capacity 
to issue letters of credit. At 31 December 2007, £4 million (2006: £4 million) and £9 million (2006: £12 million) of letters of credit had been drawn from 
each of these facilities respectively.
(3) The Corporate letter of credit facilities can be utilised to issue letters of credit. At 31 December 2007, £323 million of letters of credit had been drawn from 
these facilities (2006: £324 million) and £173 million of cash and cash equivalents was used as collateral in relation to these facilities (2006: £212 million).
Uncommitted facilities available at 31 December 2007 were: 
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Total Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Facility
Bank borrowing and overdraft facilities 50 – 50 35 – 35
Subsidiary facilities in various currencies 44 3 41 1129
94 3 91 46 2 44
Uncommitted facilities of £94 million (2006: £46 million) include an undrawn and available cash element of £52 million (2006: £37 million). Also included is 
£39 million (2006: £7 million) of undrawn and available credit lines for the purposes of issuing letters of credit and guarantees in the normal course of business.
Bank borrowing facilities are normally reaffirmed by the banks annually although they can theoretically be withdrawn at any time.  Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 158
32 Financial instruments continued
The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities at the balance sheet date and a reconciliation from
undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts:
31 December 2007
Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other  interest amount
cash flows non-cash coupons/
items discounting
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Loans and bonds (note 25) 823 691 2,984 3,567 8,065 (55) (2,187) 5,823
Other financial liabilities 697 18 23 64 802 – (35) 767
Derivative financial liabilities
Net payments
–  Energy derivatives 388 145 129 249 911 – (177) 734
–  Interest rate swaps 7 12 5 1 25 – (1) 24
–  Other derivatives –––– – 76 – 76
Total financial liabilities 1,915 866 3,141 3,881 9,803 21 (2,400) 7,424
31 December 2006
Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other  interest amount
cash flows non-cash coupons/
items discounting
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Loans and bonds  (note 25) 588 766 1,767 3,608 6,729 (59) (2,073) 4,597
Other financial liabilities 530 19 30 61 640 – (40) 600
Derivative financial liabilities
Net payments
–  Energy derivatives 134 61 92 202 489 – (127) 362
–  Interest rate swaps 1 7 2 – 10 – (1) 9
–  Other derivatives –––– – 59 – 59
Total financial liabilities 1,253 853 1,891 3,871 7,868 – (2,241) 5,627
The net payments relating to interest rate swaps have been calculated based on the yield curves as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006. Net payments
under the interest rate swaps represent the projected net settlement amounts under the swaps. The variable interest payments, of the loans to which the swaps relate,
are included in the maturity analysis table in note 25 and included in ‘loans and bonds’ above.
The above tables do not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted as at 31 December 2007.
Refer to note 34 for a breakdown of the Group’s commitments and to note 35 for a summary of the Group’s bonds and guarantees. An assessment of the Group’s
current liquidity position is given in the ‘Business and financial review’ section of the Annual Report on page 56.
The disclosure of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheet has been made in line with management’s view of the Group’s operating cycle. This reclassifies certain
energy derivative cash flows shown above due after more than one year to being due within one year. International Power Annual Report 2007 159
33 Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Within one year 13 9
In the second to fifth years inclusive 46 33
After five years 140 63
199 105
Offset by future minimum receipts under non-cancellable operating subleases. (3) (5)
Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for office properties and wind turbine equipment.
The Group as lessor
International Power’s business is the generation of electricity. The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long
period of time. Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain operating leases. At 31 December 2007 the Group had contracted to receive from
offtakers the following minimum lease payments:
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Within one year 9 9
In the second to fifth years inclusive 38 38
After five years 41 51
Total minimum lease payments 88 98
31 December 31 December 
2007 2006
£m £m
Operating lease income earned during the year 9 10
34 Commitments
Fuel purchase and transportation commitments
At 31 December 2007, the Group’s subsidiaries had contractual commitments to purchase and/or transport coal and fuel oil. Based on contract provisions, 
which consist of fixed prices, subject to adjustment clauses in some cases, these minimum commitments are currently estimated to aggregate to £494 million 
(2006: £385 million) expiring within one year, £1,811 million (2006: £1,373 million) expiring between one and five years and £1,063 million (2006: £880 million)
expiring after more than five years.
Capital commitments
Capital commitments, contracted but not provided in 2007 amount to £90 million (2006: £174 million). 
35 Contingent liabilities
a) Legal proceedings
The Company is aware of the following matters, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group:
(i) Claims and potential claims by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board (CEGB), 
and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether
directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
(ii) In 1994 separate complaints were made by the National Association of Licensed Opencast Operators (NALOO) and the South Wales Small Miners Association
(SWSMA) to the European Commission against the Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and HM Government. The complaint alleges violations of
EU competition law arising out of the coal purchasing arrangements entered into by the CEGB prior to 1 April 1990 and requests the Commission to find that 
the CEGB’s practices violated EU law. NALOO and SWSMA allege that such a finding would be grounds for a claim for damages in the English courts by their
respective members. The Commission ruled on the complaint in 1998 and did not make any findings against the Company. Appeals against the Commission’s
findings were brought by NALOO and SWSMA. The SWSMA appeal was initially ruled out of time, but on appeal a faction was allowed to proceed. Progress with
this claim will be influenced by the outcome of the NALOO appeal. At first instance, the European Court ruled that the Commission is under an obligation to
investigate the complaint by NALOO. The Company, PowerGen plc, British Coal Corporation and the Commission appealed against the ruling to the European
Court of Justice which delivered a judgment on 2 October 2003 for the main part dismissing the appeal. In its judgment, the court decided that the Commission
has the power to investigate and in June 2007 the Commission gave a ruling in favour of the Company and PowerGen plc; SWSMA have appealed this ruling. It is
not practicable to estimate legal costs or probable damages, at this stage. RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power on an after-tax basis to the
extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings. Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 160
35 Contingent liabilities continued
b) Taxation
The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group has operations,
including its joint ventures and associates. The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made
for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c) Collateral, bonds and guarantees
The Group has pledged financial assets with carrying amounts totalling £1,752 million as collateral as at 31 December 2007 (31 December 2006: £1,441 million).
These comprise finance lease receivables (refer to note 17), cash margining in support of commercial arrangements and trade receivables. 
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling £475 million (31 December 2006:
£442 million). Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling £430 million 
(31 December 2006: £487 million). 
d) Joint ventures and associates
(i) Legal proceedings
A number of the Group’s joint ventures and associates, particularly in the Middle East, are involved in major construction projects. The Company is aware of a number
of issues which may be the subject of disputes with the EPC contractors responsible for the construction projects. The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to
professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any liabilities that may arise out of these disputes.
(ii) Bonds and guarantees
The Group’s joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees. The Group’s
share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to £82 million. These obligations are normally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or
associate. Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group subsidiary are included within bonds and guarantees disclosed in note 35(c). 
36 Related party transactions
The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. The compensation of key
management personnel can be found in note 6 and the Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 83 to 95 of the Annual Report.
(i) Operations and maintenance contracts
In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arm’s length basis to provide power station operation and maintenance services 
to joint ventures and associates. During the year the Group derived income of £55 million (2006: £50 million) from these arrangements. Included in trade receivables
is £5 million (2006: £8 million) in relation to these contracts.
(ii) Retail supply contracts
In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracted on an arm’s length basis to provide power and gas to joint ventures and associates involved in retail
supply. During the year the Group derived income of £36 million (2006: £34 million) from these arrangements. Included in trade receivables is £nil (2006: £3 million)
in relation to these contracts.
(iii) Transportation contracts
In the course of normal operations, the Group has contracts in place, in relation to fuel transportation, with one of its jointly controlled entities. During the year, 
the Group incurred costs of £8 million (2006: £8 million) in relation to these contracts.  International Power Annual Report 2007 161
37 Subsidiaries
The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries which are all indirectly held by International Power plc, unless otherwise stated.
Country of Group
incorporation and effective
Name and nature of business registration Type of share shareholding
North America
ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC (power generation) US Ordinary Shares 100%
ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC (power generation) US Ordinary Shares 100%
ANP Funding I, LLC (financing company) US Ordinary Shares 100%
Coleto Creek Power LP (power generation) US Partners’ Capital 100%
Hays Energy Limited Partnership (power generation) US Partners’ Capital 100%
Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership (power generation) US Partners’ Capital 100%
Milford Power Limited Partnership (power generation) US Partners’ Capital 100%
Europe
International Power Opatovice A.S. (power generation) Czech Republic Ordinary Shares 100%
First Hydro Company (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
First Hydro Finance plc (financing company) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Indian Queens Power Limited (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
IPM Energy Trading Limited (energy trading) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Rugeley Power Limited (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited (power generation) England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Deeside Power Limited (power generation) Gibraltar
(1)
Ordinary Shares 75%
IP Maestrale Investments Limited (investment holding company) Gibraltar
(1)
Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power Levanto Holdings BV (investment holding company) Netherlands
(2)
Ordinary Shares 100%
Turbogás – Produtora Enérgetica S.A (power generation) Portugal Ordinary Shares 60%
Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL (power generation) Spain Ordinary Shares 64%
Ibérica de Enérgías SL (power generation) Spain Ordinary Shares 70%
Middle East
Al Kamil Power Company SAOG (power generation) Oman Ordinary Shares 65%
Tihama Power Generation Company Limited (power generation) Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60%
Australia
Canunda Power Pty Limited (power generation) Australia Ordinary Shares 100%
Gippsland Power Pty Limited (power generation) Australia Ordinary Shares 70%
Hazelwood Power Partnership (power generation) Australia Partners’ Capital 92%
Latrobe Power Partnership (power generation) Australia Partners’ Capital 70%
Perth Power Partnership (power generation) Australia Partners’ Capital 49%
Simply Energy (retail supplier) Australia Partners’ Capital 100%
Synergen Power Pty Limited (power generation) Australia Ordinary Shares 100%
Pelican Point Power Limited (power generation) England and Wales
(3)
Ordinary Shares 100%
Asia
Thai National Power Company Limited (power generation) Thailand Ordinary Shares 100%
Corporate
IPM Eagle LLP (investment holding company) England and Wales Partners’ Capital 70%
Normanglade 4 LLP (financing company) England and Wales Partners’ Capital 70%
IPR Insurance Company Limited
(4)
(insurance captive) Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power (Jersey) Limited (financing company) Jersey
(1)
Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited (financing company) Jersey
(1)
Ordinary Shares 100% Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 162
37 Subsidiaries continued
All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below. All subsidiaries have a 31 December year end. The Group also has a number 
of overseas branch offices. 
(1) Operates in the UK.
(2) International Power Levanto Holdings BV owns indirectly, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, equity relating to the Nuon portfolio and bonds relating to the 
Breeze portfolio of the Levanto wind farm portfolio. As required, we consolidate 100% of the results of the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
(3) Operates in Australia.
(4) Held directly by International Power plc.
38 Joint ventures and associates
The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates which are all indirectly held by International Power plc.
Country of Group
incorporation and Accounting effective
Name and nature of business operation period end Type of share shareholding
Joint ventures
North America
EcoEléctrica LP (power generation) Bermuda
(1)
31 December Partners’ Capital 35%
Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership (power generation) US 31 December Partners’ Capital 50%
Oyster Creek Limited Partnership (power generation) US 31 December Partners’ Capital 50%
Europe
Prazská Teplárenská A.S. (power generation) Czech Republic 31 December Ordinary Shares 49%
Australia
South East Australia Gas Pty Limited (gas pipeline) Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33%
Associates
Europe
Derwent Cogeneration Limited (power generation) England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23%
Opus Energy Limited (retail supplier) England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 30%
ISAB Energy Srl (power generation) Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34%
Carbopego – Abastecimento de Combustiveis, S.A. (fuel supplies) Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Pegop – Energia Electrica, S.A. (power station operations) Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Tejo Energia – Producao e Distribuicao de Energia Electrica, S.A. 
(power generation) Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A.S. (power generation) Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33%
Middle East
Hidd Power Company BSC(c) (power generation and desalination) Bahrain 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
Q Power QSC (power generation and desalination) Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
Arabian Power Company PJSC (power generation and desalination) UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
Fujairah Asia Power Company PJSC (power generation and desalination) UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC 
(power generation and desalination) UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
Asia
PT Paiton Energy Company (power generation) Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 41%
Kot Addu Power Company Limited (power generation) Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36%
The Hub Power Company Limited
(2)
(power generation) Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17%
Uch Power (Pvt) Limited (power generation) Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
All joint ventures and associates operate in their country of incorporation except as identified.
(1) Operates in Puerto Rico.
(2) International Power continues to equity account for HUBCO, despite its shareholding being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power to exert
significant influence over the entity. At HUBCO, International Power continues to have significant board representation. International Power Annual Report 2007 163
39 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The Group’s accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these financial statements. Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of
these policies. Areas which management believe require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows (apart from those policies involving estimation which
are outlined in (b) below). 
a) Critical accounting judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Cash flow hedge accounting
The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel
for its own power plants. In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and accordingly have to be marked 
to market. Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to be deferred in
equity. In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly
probable and whether the hedge is effective. This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination. 
Income recognition from long-term PPAs
When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment (known as a ‘capacity payment’) for
the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output. In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to sell electricity
output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a
service contract. 
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance or operating
lease. This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside. For finance leases it is necessary to calculate the
proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision. For operating leases it is
necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between minimum lease payments and fees for service provision. 
Evaluation of levels of control and influence
The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the
appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements. We achieve control or influence through Board representation and by obtaining
rights of veto over significant actions. We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as investments available for sale. These
investments available for sale are carried at market value where market prices are available. Where quoted market prices in an active market are not available, and
where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost. 
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entity’s operating and financial
policies, we treat the entity as an associate. Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest (but less than 20%) in an entity and has the power to exert significant
influence over its operations, we also treat that entity as an associate. This treatment is applied to our interest in The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we
own 17% (refer to note 38). Where the Group has the power to control the operations of an entity, and it has less than 50% of the equity, we treat the entity as a
subsidiary when required. 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control. Where we recognise our
interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity we use the equity method of accounting. Sometimes we may apply the equity method to a joint venture where
we do not posses an equal shareholding to the other venturers, because the venturers are bound by a contractual arrangement and the contractual arrangement
establishes joint control.
Exceptional items
The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial
statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity. The Directors label these items collectively as ‘exceptional items’. 
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter. However, circumstances that the Directors believe would 
give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: 
(i) disposals of interests in businesses;
(ii) discontinued operations;
(iii) impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate. In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made of all items 
in one column on the face of the income statement. 
Taxation
The income tax expense recorded in the income statement is dependent on the profit for the year and the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, unless new 
tax rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is also dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities 
in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates. It is necessary to consider the extent to which deferred tax assets should be
recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.  Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 164
39 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment
The original cost of greenfield developed power plant and other assets includes relevant borrowings and development costs:
(i) Interest on borrowings relating to major capital projects with long periods of development is capitalised during construction and then amortised over the useful
life of the asset; 
(ii) Project development costs (including appropriate direct internal costs) are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the contract will proceed to completion and
income will be realised. 
Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective estimated useful lives. The
Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives and residual values of the assets so that depreciation is charged on a systematic and proportionate basis to
the current carrying amount. It is Group policy to depreciate gas plant over 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific
components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value. Coal plants, hydro plants and wind farms are considered on an individual basis. Our depreciation lives
are disclosed in the accounting polices (note 1).
Fair values of energy derivatives
The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the presentation requirements of IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure”, 
the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” and the accounting requirements of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement”. In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts on its balance sheet at fair value (unless they qualify for ‘own use’ treatment).
Changes in the value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in the income statement unless the required hedge accounting criteria are met which 
allows the movement in fair value to be recorded within equity. The Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price
curves. A forward price curve represents the Group’s view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities,
such as power or gas, at future dates. Generally the forward price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon
period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period. Assumptions which underpin the long-term price curve relate to the prices of
commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to
enter the market and build additional capacity (‘new entrant pricing’). The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the
shape of the forward price curve. The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity. As disclosed 
in note 32, at 31 December 2007 only 13% (2006: 13%) of the carrying amount of derivative assets are based on non-market observable inputs and only 
18% (2006: 32%) of the carrying amount of derivative financial liabilities are based on non-market observable inputs.
Fair values on acquisition
The Group is required to bring acquired assets and liabilities on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value. Power plant and equipment usually have long operating
lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs. Hence determination of the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts can require
a significant amount of judgement. Fair values on our major acquisitions are disclosed in note 31 to these financial statements. In determining the fair values of assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities as part of the acquisitions of Simply Energy and Maestrale we have used the services of professional firms of valuers.
Impairment analysis
Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to the carrying amounts of the Group’s long-life assets, including goodwill and other
intangible assets and the Group’s power plant and other property, plant and equipment. As a minimum, the recoverability of goodwill is tested on an annual basis. This
includes a review of market conditions in both the short-term and long-term. Impairment reviews require a comparison of the current carrying amount of the asset
with the present value of the expected future cash flows of the comparable cash generating unit and its fair value less costs to sell. The reviews are generally based 
on pre-tax risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets. We
benchmark the results of this testing against post-tax risk adjusted cash flows, discounted on a post-tax basis. At each balance sheet date, consideration is also given as
to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods has reversed. As disclosed in note 8, the Group has impaired an intangible asset
relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply agreement, acquired with Saltend in 2005, following a reduction in the gas forward price curve. The charge of
£47 million and associated tax credit of £14 million are classified as exceptional items. In 2006 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its
Deeside power plant based on its estimated value in use. This led to the full impairment reversal of the remaining £36 million impairment charge previously booked
against this asset. A tax charge of £11 million was recorded on this item.
Provisions
Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions. The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions about such items as the
risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs. For example, the pensions liability is based on assumptions
relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries, expected mortality and future increases in pension payments. We review these assumptions regularly, and for
pensions annually. However, a change in estimates could have a material impact on the carrying amount of these provisions. In relation to pensions liabilities, the result
of a sensitivity analysis relating to actuarial assumptions is included in note 7.
40 Events after the balance sheet date
There are no events after the balance sheet date to report.
41 Events subsequent to the date of the auditor’s report
On 19 March 2008, International Power acquired an additional 31% shareholding in Uch Power (Pvt) Limited for a total cash consideration of US$86 million 
(£43 million). The acquisition takes the Group’s total holding in Uch Power (Pvt) Limited to 71%. International Power Annual Report 2007 165
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2007 
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
(restated)
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
5 Tangible assets 2 2
6 Investments:
Subsidiary undertakings 4,263 3,982
Other investments 1 1
Total fixed asset investments 4,264 3,983
Total fixed assets 4,266 3,985
Current assets
7 Debtors 128 181
Cash at bank and in hand 246 329
Total current assets 374 510
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (1,719) (1,559)
Net current liabilities (1,345) (1,049)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,921 2,936
4 Retirement benefit obligations (12) (8)
9 Provisions for liabilities and charges (42) (35)
Net assets 2,867 2,893
Capital and reserves
10/11 Called up share capital 751 746
11 Share premium account 411 402
11 Capital redemption reserve 145 145
11 Capital reserve 415 415
11 Profit and loss account 1,145 1,185
Shareholders’ funds – equity 2,867 2,893
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 5 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Cox Mark Williamson
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 166
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2007  
1 Accounting policies
a) Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under applicable law and UK
Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) using the
historical cost convention, modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated
in the accounting policies. 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with
items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements, except
as noted below.
Under section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from
the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. 
As the results of the Company are being presented together with its
consolidated financial statements (refer to pages 101 to 164), the Company has
taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not
disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group 
(or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties). In addition, the Company
has also taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 (Financial Instruments:
Disclosures) not to present Company only information as the disclosures
provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements comply with the
requirements of this standard.
The Company has adopted UITF abstract 44 (IFRIC Interpretation 11) FRS 20
(IFRS 2) – Group and Treasury Share Transactions for the first time in the year
ended 31 December 2007.
The prior year comparatives have been restated with the effect of increasing the
net assets by £3 million and a credit to the profit and loss account of £1 million.
In addition the Company has reclassified the prior year deferred tax asset on the
pension scheme, liability from provisions to Retirement benefit obligations (refer
to note 4).
The Company has not adopted the amendments to FRS 17 (Retirement
Benefits) requiring additional disclosure of the scheme’s assets and liabilities. This
amendment applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 6 April 2007. 
b) Income recognition
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised in the profit and loss
account on receipt of the cash. 
c) Foreign currencies
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rate of
exchange at the balance sheet date. Foreign currency non-monetary items
measured in terms of historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the
date of the transaction. Exchange differences on monetary items are dealt with 
in the profit and loss account. Exchange differences on non-monetary items are
recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non-monetary item itself
is recognised in the profit and loss account or in equity. 
d) Pension schemes
The Company operates a pension scheme (by participating in the International
Power section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme) providing benefits based
on final pensionable pay. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those
of the Company. 
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. Pension scheme
liabilities are measured using a projected unit credit method and discounted at
the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term
and currency to the liability. 
The pension scheme surplus (to the extent that it is recoverable) or deficit is
recognised in full. The movement in the scheme surplus/deficit is split between
operating charges, finance items and, in the statement of total recognised gains
and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
For defined contribution arrangements, contributions are charged to the profit
and loss account as they fall due.
e) Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line
basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease
are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such that the rental
income is less than the head lease rental cost, provision is made for the best
estimate of unavoidable lease payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated
future shortfall of sub-lease income compared with the head-lease expense.
f) Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at original cost less accumulated depreciation 
and any provision for impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write-down the cost of tangible fixed assets 
to their residual value evenly over their estimated useful lives. 
The depreciation charge is based on the following estimates of useful lives:
Years
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10
Computer equipment and software 3-5
Leasehold improvements Life of lease
g) Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for
impairment. 
h) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences, arising from the different
treatment for accounts and taxation purposes of transactions and events
recognised in the financial statements of the current year and previous years.
Deferred taxation is calculated at the rates at which it is estimated that tax will
arise. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 
i) Loans and bonds
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings
are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption
value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the
borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
j) Financial guarantees
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the
indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these
to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the
Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as
it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment
under the guarantee.  International Power Annual Report 2007 167
k) Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value (excluding the
effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value
determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments for
employees of the Company is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period, based on the Company’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest
and where applicable, adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting
conditions.
For the Group’s Executive Share Option Plans the fair values are measured using
the Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected lives used in these models have
been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, any exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, without
a market-related performance condition, the fair values have been calculated as
the face value of the award discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends
during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan,
contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured
using a Monte Carlo simulation method. 
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity settled share-based
payments for employees of subsidiaries of the Company is recognised as an
increase in investment in subsidiary undertakings on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period, based on the same estimates.
l) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs.
m) Derivative financial instruments
The Company has adopted the Group accounting policies for derivatives as set
out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
n) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result
of a past event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured 
at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation
at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the impact
is material. Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 168
2 Profit of the parent company
The profit of the parent company for the financial year amounted to £118 million (2006 (restated): £933 million). By virtue of Section 230(4) of the Companies Act
1985, the Company is exempt from presenting a separate profit and loss account.
The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Employees
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Number Number
Based in UK 203 179
Based overseas 27 33
230 212
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
(restated)
£m £m
Wages and salaries 25 21
Share-based payments 5 8
Social security costs 3 5
Other pension costs 7 8
40 42
For details of the Company’s share-based payments, refer to note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Remuneration of the Directors is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and in the audited section of the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 83 to 95. International Power Annual Report 2007 169
4 Pension arrangements
The Company is part of the industry-wide pension scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS), which is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested 
in separate trustee administered funds as described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The valuation used for the FRS 17 disclosure at 31 December 2007 has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the International Power section of the
Electricity Supply Pension Scheme at 31 March 2007 updated by independent qualified actuaries to reflect the requirements of FRS 17.
The major assumptions used by the actuary were:
Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2005
% %%
Inflation assumption 3.4 3.1 2.9
Rate of increase in salaries 4.9 4.6 4.4
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.4 3.1 2.9
Rate of increase of deferred pensions 3.4 3.1 2.9
Rate used to discount plan liabilities 5.8 5.1 4.7
The assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return were:
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005
Long-term Value Long-term Value Long-term Value
rate of return rate of return rate of return 
%£m %£m % £m
Equities 8.0 78 7.5 71 7.1 60
Bonds 5.7 11 5.0 8 4.6 7
Other 6.7 11 6.4 9 6.0 7
Total market value of assets 100 88 74
Present value of scheme liabilities (117) (100) (92)
Deficit in scheme (17) (12) (18)
Related deferred tax asset 5 45
Net pension liability (12) (8) (13)
Analysis of amounts charged to operating profit:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Current service cost 7 6
Settlement/curtailment cost – 2
Total operating cost 7 8
Analysis of amounts credited to other finance income:
2007 2006
£m £m
Expected return on pension plan assets 6 5
Interest on pension plan liabilities (5) (4)
Net return 1 1
Analysis of amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
2007 2006
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (2) 2
Experience losses arising on the scheme liabilities (6) –
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 2 5
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (6) 7 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 170
4 Pension arrangements continued
Analysis of movement in deficit during the year:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Deficit in scheme at 1 January (12) (18)
Current service cost (7) (6)
Settlement/curtailment cost – (2)
Contributions 7 6
Other finance income 1 1
Actuarial (loss)/gain (6) 7
Deficit in scheme at 31 December (17) (12)
History of experience gains and losses:
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Difference between the actual and expected return on pension scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (2) 2934
Percentage of scheme assets 2% 2% 12% 5% 9%
Experience (losses)/gains arising on the scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) (6) – (6) 4 –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 5% –7%6% –
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£m) (6) 7 (6) – 4
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 5% 7% 7% – 7%
5 Tangible fixed assets
Freehold Plant, Total
land and machinery and 
buildings equipment
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2007 28 10
Additions –11
Disposals – (3) (3)
At 31 December 2007 26   8
Depreciation
At 1 January 2007 178
Provided during the year –11
Disposals – (3) (3)
At 31 December 2007 156
Net book value
At 31 December 2007 112
At 31 December 2006 112 International Power Annual Report 2007 171
6 Fixed asset investments
Subsidiary undertakings
Investment Loans to Other Total
investments
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 (restated) 2,571 496 1 3,068
Additions 515 1,426 – 1,941
Capitalisation of loan due from subsidiary undertakings 52 (52) – –
Distribution and loan repayments – (323) – (323)
Disposals (974) – – (974)
Impairment loss charged (70) – – (70)
Impairment loss reversed 311 45 – 356
Exchange differences – (15) – (15)
At 31 December 2006 2,405 1,577 1 3,983
Additions 1,346 183 – 1,529
Distribution and loan repayments – (1,015) – (1,015)
Disposals (250) – – (250)
Exchange differences –17 – 17
At 31 December 2007 3,501 762 1 4,264
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are provided in notes 37 and 38 to the consolidated financial statements.
7 Debtors
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Due from subsidiary undertakings 99 135
Other debtors 10 11
Corporation tax 16 30
Prepayments and accrued income 3 5
Total debtors 128 181
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade creditors 1 1
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 1,654 1,491
Other creditors 21 19
Other taxation and social security – 1
Accruals and deferred income 43 47
Total creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,719 1,559 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 172
9 Provisions
Deferred Other Total
tax
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 27 11 38
Credited to profit and loss (2) (1) (3)
At 31 December 2006 25 10 35
Charged to profit and loss –1010
Credited to profit and loss (2) (1) (3)
At 31 December 2007 23 19 42
‘Other’ provisions comprise a provision for onerous property leases and legacy pension commitments relating to other members of the Electricity Supply Pension
Scheme. £10 million has been provided for during the year for the expected vacancy period for leased premises at Senator House. The lease provision is expected to
be mostly utilised within the next three years. The remaining liabilities are not expected to arise in the short-term. The Directors are uncertain as to the timing of when
these provisions will be utilised.
10 Share capital
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 7,826,019 4
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 830,476 –
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan – – 1,230,108 1
At 31 December 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,474,736,637 737
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan – – 13,073,207 6
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan – – 1,196,959 1
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan – – 3,046,107 2
At 31 December 2006 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of the Company. 
Deferred shares
The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 pence each in issue. These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and Innogy in 2000 
was effected as efficiently as possible. The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting. 
Unclassified share
Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Company’s authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of £1. International Power Annual Report 2007 173
11 Share capital and reserves
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Called up Share Capital Capital Profit Total
share premium redemption reserve and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve account funds – 
equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007 (restated) 746 402 145 415 1,185 2,893
Profit for the year –––– 118 118
Issue of shares 5 9––– 14
Dividends –––– (160) (160)
Actuarial loss on pension (net of deferred tax) –––– (4) (4)
Other movements –––– 6 6
At 31 December 2007 751 411 145 415 1,145 2,867
Attributable to equity holders to the parent
Called up Share Capital Capital Profit Total
share premium redemption reserve and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve account funds –
equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 737 394 145 415 307 1,998
Prior year adjustments –––– 2 2
At 1 January 2006 (restated) 737 394 145 415 309 2,000
Profit for the year (restated) –––– 933 933
Issue of shares 9 8––– 17
Dividends –––– (67) (67)
Actuarial gain on pension (net of deferred tax) –––– 5 5
Other movements –––– 5 5
At 31 December 2006 (restated) 746 402 145 415 1,185 2,893
The share premium account, capital redemption reserve and capital reserve are not distributable.
A number of International Power plc Ordinary Shares are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs). These shares are held by the ESOTs to meet awards
made under the Company’s 2002 Performance Share Plan. At 31 December 2007, the ESOTs held a total of 253,990 International Power plc Ordinary Shares 
(2006: £1,241,452). At 31 December 2007 the market value of these shares was £1,151,845 (2006: £4,739,243). The maximum number of shares required 
to meet all outstanding awards (assuming full vesting of those awards) at 31 December 2007 was 6,139,222 (2006: 6,444,745).
£424 million (2006: £527 million) of the Company’s profit and loss reserve is not distributable as it arose from unrealised gains on intra-group transfers.
As stated in note 1, changes in UK GAAP have occurred arising from the implementation of UITF 44. This has resulted in an addition to shareholders’ funds at 
1 January 2006 of £2 million. The impact on the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2006 was an increase of £1 million.
12 Commitments
Lease commitments
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
£m £m
Property leases (annual commitment):
Expiring within one year 1 –
Expiring between one and five years – –
Expiring after five years 5 5 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 174
13 Contingent liabilities
a) Legal proceedings against the Company
Details of legal proceedings against the Company are shown in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. 
b) Taxation
Details of contingent liabilities relating to tax issues are shown in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
c) Bonds and guarantees
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Company totalling £472 million (2006: £292 million). 
This includes International Power plc’s guarantee of International Power (Impala)’s obligations to Mitsui & Co of Japan and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited (as set out 
in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements). Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the
Company totalling £299 million (2006: £418 million).
d) Convertible bonds
As set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements International Power plc has guaranteed the 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023 issued by
International Power (Jersey) Limited and the 3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013 issued by International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited. 
14 Related party disclosures
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part 
of the Group. International Power Annual Report 2007 175
FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
The following tables are the consolidated income statements, the consolidated income statements excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements and the summary balance sheets for the five years ended 31 December 2007. For the year ended 31 December 2003 results have been
prepared under UK GAAP . They have been re-presented under an IFRS format, in the table below, to aid comparability.
Consolidated income statements
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
(IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (UK GAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 3,485 3,783 2,936 1,267 1,273
Less: share of joint ventures’ and associates’ revenue (1,160) (1,199) (1,003) (499) (421)
Group revenue 2,325 2,584 1,933 768 852
Cost of sales (1,929) (1,839) (1,513) (637) (1,133)
Gross profit/(loss) 396 745 420 131 (281)
Other operating income 96 102 122 56 66
Other operating expenses (172) (163) (129) (67) (64)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 198 214 198 113 195
Profit/(loss) from operations 518 898 611 233 (84)
Disposal of interests in businesses 289 –10 4 27
Finance income 77 53 53 30 42
Finance expenses (401) (327) (255) (138) (169)
Profit/(loss) before tax 483 624 419 129 (184)
Tax expense 46 (147) (89) (25) (28)
Profit/(loss) for the year 529 477 330 104 (212)
Attributable to:
Minority interests 26 67 45 6 7
Equity holders of the parent 503 410 285 98 (219)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 33.6p 27.6p 19.4p 7.5p (17.6)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 31.8p 26.2p 18.5p 7.4p (17.6)p
The share of results from joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2003, presented under UK GAAP in the above table, is shown before
interest, taxation and minority interests.
With effect from 1 January 2004, we reverted to the equity method of accounting for our 36% stake in KAPCO and now account for it as an associate. KAPCO had
previously been accounted for as a trade investment with dividend receipts recorded in income from investments. To aid comparability the dividends received in 2003
have been included in the share of results of joint ventures and associates in the above table. Five-year financial summary 176
Consolidated income statements excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
(IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (UK GAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 3,872 3,645 2,980 1,267 1,273
Less: share of joint ventures’ and associates’ revenue (1,160) (1,193) (1,000) (499) (421)
Group revenue 2,712 2,452 1,980 768 852
Cost of sales (1,927) (1,807) (1,570) (637) (729)
Gross profit 785 645 410 131 123
Other operating income 96 83 64 56 66
Other operating expenses (163) (163) (129) (78) (64)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 186 208 191 113 160
Profit from operations 904 773 536 222 285
Finance income 77 53 53 30 42
Finance expenses (385) (301) (255) (107) (153)
Profit before tax 596 525 334 145 174
Tax expense (113) (122) (68) (25) (54)
Profit for the year 483 403 266 120 120
Attributable to:
Minority interests 77 71 52 8 7
Equity holders of the parent 406 332 214 112 113
Basic earnings per share 27.1p 22.4p 14.6p 8.6p 9.1p
The comments set out below the table on the preceding page also apply to the results presented above.
Consolidated balance sheets
As at As at As at As at As at
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
(IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (UK GAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 9,444 7,420 6,592 5,667 2,585
Inventories 158 141 110 91 65
Other current asset receivables and derivatives 990 806 676 238 160
Cash and cash equivalents and assets held for trading 1,161 1,022 672 612 743
Current assets 2,309 1,969 1,458 941 968
Current liabilities (2,042) (1,174) (1,305) (551) (847)
Non-current liabilities (6,704) (5,475) (4,370) (3,999) (1,146)
Net assets 3,007 2,740 2,375 2,058 1,560
Net debt 4,662 3,575 3,060 2,752 692
Gearing 155% 130% 129% 134% 44%
Debt capitalisation 61% 57% 56% 57% 31%
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions) 1,072 1,080 847 1,549 130 International Power Annual Report 2007 177
SHAREHOLDER PROFILE
as at 31 December 2007 
Category of holdings
Number Percentage Ordinary Percentage 
of shareholders of total Shares of issued 
shareholders share capital
Private individual 386,220 98.85 173,077,818 11.52
Nominee companies 4,221 1.08 1,308,325,118 87.11
Limited and public limited companies 209 0.05 2,835,480 0.19
Other corporate bodies 82 0.02 12,537,127 0.84
Pension funds, insurance companies and banks 18 0.00 5,163,970 0.34
Total 390,750 100.00 1,501,939,513 100.00
Range of holdings
Number Percentage Ordinary Percentage 
of shareholders of total Shares of issued 
shareholders share capital
1 – 199 94,770 24.25 14,406,087 0.96
200 – 499 209,674 53.66 60,527,268 4.03
500 – 999 57,279 14.66 39,094,863 2.60
1,000 – 4,999 25,811 6.61 45,077,531 3.00
5,000 – 9,999 1,791 0.46 11,847,529 0.79
10,000 – 49,999 680 0.17 13,362,240 0.89
50,000 – 99,999 142 0.04 10,176,022 0.68
100,000 – 499,999 316 0.08 76,834,761 5.12
500,000 – 999,999 96 0.02 67,864,799 4.52
1,000,000 – highest 191 0.05 1,162,748,413 77.41
Total 390,750 100.00 1,501,939,513 100.00 Shareholder information 178
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES AND INFORMATION
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The 2008 AGM will be held on Tuesday 13 May 2008. Further details 
will be set out in the Notice of the AGM to be sent out in April 2008.
Electronic voting
For the AGM you can register your vote electronically by logging on to the
following website: www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your voting reference
numbers (the three 8-digit numbers shown on your Proxy Form). Alternatively, 
if you have already registered for a shareview portfolio with Equiniti, then log on
to your portfolio at www.shareview.co.uk and click on company meetings.
Receive your Annual Report online
If you have access to the Internet, in future you can receive your copy of the
Annual Report by registering with www.shareview.co.uk. This is a service
offered by Equiniti that also enables you to check your holdings in many UK
companies and helps you to organise your investments electronically. Once you
have registered for a portfolio, you can also use this service to change your
address details online as well as register your vote for a company’s General
Meeting safely, securely and privately.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you can choose to reinvest 
your money in the Company’s shares by using a Dividend Reinvestment Plan. 
The DRIP works by reinvesting your dividend money by way of buying shares 
in the open market. If you would like to receive further information and an
application form for the International Power DRIP , please contact Equiniti 
on 0871 384 2268.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
Information on the International Power corporate ISA, which offers a tax-efficient
way of holding shares, can be obtained from Equiniti Financial Services Limited,
who can be contacted on 0871 384 2244.
Shareholder enquiries
If you have any queries on the following:
■ transfer of shares;
■ change of name or address;
■ lost share certificates;
■ lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of dividends 
directly into a bank or building society account;
■ death of the registered holder of shares;
■ receiving duplicate copies of this report;
■ receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual Report in addition 
to the electronic version of the report;
please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082 or write to them at Equiniti, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, quoting
International Power and including your shareholder reference number 
(found on your share certificate).
Additional information can be found on the Equiniti Limited website 
at www.equiniti.com.
Share dealing services
Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service for both the purchase 
and sale of shares. This is a postal service only. For information on the 
low-cost dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, please contact Equiniti 
on 0871 384 2082.
Shareview dealing
Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share dealing service, details of
which can be found on their website www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
This arrangement is available at any time during market trading hours and
provides an easy and convenient facility to trade shares offering real time prices
through a range of market makers and giving you control of when and for how
much you wish to trade your shares. Full terms and conditions for this service are
available on the Shareview website. You should note that for sales, the maximum
online trade size is £25,000 and for purchases £20,000. To trade over the
telephone, please call 08456 037 037.
Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider’s costs may vary.
Share price
Our latest share price information is available on our website at
www.ipplc.com/ipr/investors/shareinfo. This link will provide you with
International Power’s latest share price, historical closing prices and volumes 
and an interactive share price graph.
In addition, you can now access the latest share price on your Blackberry, 
PDA or mobile phone at http://mobile.ipplc.com.
Contact details
General enquiries
Please contact:
Stephen Ramsay
Company Secretary
International Power plc
Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4DP
Tel: 020 7320 8706
Corporate investor & media enquiries
Please contact:
Aarti Singhal
Head of Communications
International Power plc
Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4DP
Tel: 020 7320 8600
Website
The International Power website – www.ipplc.com contains the 2007 
Annual Report and Summary Annual Report, along with a wide range of
other information on the Group. The Annual Report and Summary Annual Report
can be found at: www.ipplc.com/ipr/investors/reports.
The website also hosts an Alert Service
www.ipplc.com/ipr/siteservices/alerts, where you can sign up for 
e-mail alerts of news releases, reports, results and presentations, and events.
Corporate social responsibility
Further information on corporate social responsibility is available on our website
www.ipplc.com/ipr/environment/corpresp.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Interim Management Statement 8 May 2008
Annual General Meeting 13 May 2008
Ex-dividend date 21 May 2008
Dividend payment date 26 June 2008
Announcement of interim results for the period ended 30 June 2008 7 August 2008
Interim Management Statement 6 November 2008 International Power Annual Report 2007 179
GLOSSARY
AGM Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the Company.
Asset-backed trading The selling of the physical output generated by our power stations.
Availability A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually available to be generated during the period, after taking
account of both planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the maximum potential electrical energy
generation.
Bond Security that obligates the issuing company to make specified payments to the bondholders.
Capacity (installed) Generator capacity (megawatts), usually indicated on a nameplate physically attached to the generator.
CCGT Combined cycle gas turbine – the combination of a gas turbine (GT) and steam turbine (ST) in a configuration that enables
electricity to be generated directly from a generator driven by the GT and, by using exhaust gases from the GT to produce steam, 
a ST coupled to the same generator or another generator.
CO
2
Carbon dioxide.
Cogeneration The simultaneous generation of electricity and heat in the form of steam, typically where the need for both arises for industrial 
or commercial purposes and where the steam is generated by utilising the waste heat from electricity generation.
Combined Code The Code which sets out the expected corporate governance standards for companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Corridor approach Under this approach to recognising surpluses and deficits in defined benefit pension plans, actuarial gains and losses are not
recognised immediately. Only when the cumulative gains or losses fall outside the corridor is a specified portion recognised in the
income statement from the following year onwards. The corridor is 10% of the present value of the pension rights accrued or of
the fund assets at market value, if greater.
CR Corporate responsibility.
Dark spread The difference between the coal cost to generate electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
Debt capitalisation Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and total equity.
Demerger The process whereby National Power split its UK and international operations into separate businesses.
Desalination plant Plant which produces drinking water from sea water.
Emission allowances Under various environmental schemes, emission allowances are required to cover the amount of relevant emissions made by 
a power station. Cap and trade schemes are a common type of scheme. Under a cap and trade scheme, operators are required 
to purchase sufficient emission allowances to cover their actual emissions, and the operator may or may not be granted an initial
volume of allowances. Examples of such schemes include the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EUETS) which covers emissions 
of CO
2
, based on a cap and trade system. Other examples include the Clean Air Act in the US which covers emissions of NOx 
and SOx.
EPS Earnings per share, calculated by dividing the profit after interest, tax and minority interests by the weighted average number of
shares in issue.
FGD Flue gas desulphurisation – a process which removes sulphur from the flue gas emissions of a coal plant.
Forced outage rate A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually unavailable for generation during the period, after taking
account of planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the maximum potential electrical energy generation.
Form 20-F An annual filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), similar to an annual report and accounts.
Functional currency The currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
Generator nameplate The maximum output of a generator, under specific conditions designated by the manufacturer.
Greenfield Building a power plant on a new undeveloped site.
Hedge contracts A contract that gives protection against risks of future price movements.
HSE Health, safety and environment.
HUBCO The Hub Power Company.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards.
ISO 14001 The international standard of environment management systems.
JBIC Japan Bank for International Cooperation.
KAPCO The Kot Addu Power Company.
KPI Key performance indicator.
LNG Liquefied natural gas.
Load factor The proportion of electricity actually sold, compared with the maximum possible sales of electricity at maximum net capacity.
LTIP Long-term incentive plan.
Merchant market A merchant market is a deregulated market. Glossary 180
Merchant plant Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets selling power into the traded market without long-term power purchase
agreements (PPAs).
Mitsui Mitsui & Co. of Japan. 
MIGD Millions of imperial gallons per day.
MW Megawatt; one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts.
MWth One megawatt of thermal power.
National Allocation Plan The Plan issued under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme that sets out how greenhouse gas emission allowances will be allocated
to affected industry sectors and the carbon-producing assets within the relevant sector.
NOx Oxides of nitrogen.
Non–recourse debt Debt secured on an asset, and where the lender has no recourse to the shareholder.
O&M Operations and maintenance, usually used in the context of operating and maintaining a power station.
OCGT Open cycle gas turbine – turbines, typically fuelled by gas or diesel oil, are used to drive the generators to produce electricity.
Offtake agreement Power purchase agreement between a company owning a power station and its customer (the offtaker) whereby the customer
takes the electricity generated by a power station.
OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18001. A management system specification, developed by British Standards
Institute, for health and safety which is compatible with ISO 9001:1994 (Quality) and ISO 14001:1996 (Environmental)
management.
Peak load The maximum demand for electricity during a specified high demand period. This may require use of plant (for example pumped
storage) that is kept in reserve for peak periods.
PPA Power Purchase Agreement (see also Offtake agreement).
Proprietary trading The trading of commodities for the purposes of making a profit, when the commodity, such as electricity, is not generated by our
own power stations or purchased for use by our own power stations, Also known as non-asset backed trading.
Put To sell a security back to the issuer at a pre-determined price.
Recourse debt Debt where the lender has recourse to parties other than the borrower, usually a parent company or shareholder.
Reserve margin The amount of available plant reserve capacity above the system’s peak electricity requirements.
RPI Retail Price Index.
SO
2
Sulphur dioxide.
SOx Sulphur oxides.
Spark Spread The difference between the gas cost to generate electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
Spread The difference between the fuel costs to generate electricity and the price at which electricity is sold.
Technical Availability A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually available to be generated during the period, after taking
account of both planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the maximum potential electrical energy
generation.
Turnbull Guidance The Turnbull Guidance expands upon the Combined Code requirements for the Directors’ review of the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal controls.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in reaction to the highly publicised bankruptcies of Enron and WorldCom and 
is concerned with strictly enforcing corporate governance and financial disclosure. It is important to us that our Annual 
Report is produced in an environmentally
responsible manner, including the sourcing 
of materials. This Annual Report is printed 
in the UK by Royle Print, a Carbon Neutral
company, on Revive 75 Silk (cover) and
Matt (text pages) which contains 75% 
post consumer waste, using soya-based 
inks and water-based sealants. The printer
and paper-manufacturing mill are both
accredited with ISO 14001 Environmental
Management systems standard and both are
Forestry Stewardship Council accredited.
When you have finished with this item, please
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Our Company – learn more
about International Power’s
assets and global reach
Shareholder information – 
visit the dedicated site for
International Power
shareholders and investors
Environment and society – 
get the full picture about
International Power, the
environment and corporate
responsibility
Designed and produced by Roundel
www.roundel.com
Board and senior management
photography by Orla Deevy
Satellite images: front cover and page 
36 Michael Dunning/Getty Images; 
back cover, pages 42, 46 and 50
Worldsec/NASA/Alamy; page 32
Stocktrek Images/Alamy.
The International Power
website has a wealth of detailed
and up-to-date information
about the Company and its
business activities:
www.ipplc.com Registered Office, 
International Power plc, 
Senator House, 
85 Queen Victoria Street, 
London EC4V 4DP
Registered in England and Wales
No: 2366963
Published by International Power plc
www.ipplc.com
