 Electricity 
–
 essential day and night
Annual Report 2008
Electricity 
–
 essential day and night
Annual Report 2008 Highlights
International Power is a leading independent power 
generation company with interests in 33,21 1MW (gross)  
of power generating capacity, located in 2 1 countries across 
five core regions – North America, Europe, Middle East, 
Australia and Asia.
Profit from
operations
Note: All references above to profit from operations and earnings per share 
are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
2007
£904m
£1,050m
27.1p
32.4p £653m
£513m
2008
Earnings per
share (basic)
2007 2008
Free cash flow
2007 2008
£1 ,050 million
Proﬁt from operations
 32.4 pence
Earnings per share
£ 5 13 million
Free cash flow
Front cover
London by night
Highlights
International Power is a leading independent power 
generation company with interests in 33,21 1MW (gross)  
of power generating capacity, located in 2 1 countries across 
five core regions – North America, Europe, Middle East, 
Australia and Asia.
Profit from
operations
Note: All references above to profit from operations and earnings per share 
are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
2007
£904m
£1,050m
27.1p
32.4p £653m
£513m
2008
Earnings per
share (basic)
2007 2008
Free cash flow
2007 2008
£1 ,050 million
Proﬁt from operations
 32.4 pence
Earnings per share
£ 5 13 million
Free cash flow
Front cover
London by night 1 1
Business and financial review 
The Business and financial review is based on the 
guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews 
published by the Accounting Standards Board. 
To assist shareholders with their understanding 
of our business we look at issues affecting the 
Group as a whole on pages 10 to 35 followed 
by reviews of our five regions on pages 36 to 51. 
We cover our financial position and resources on 
pages 52 to 61.
Disclaimer
This document includes certain forward-looking 
statements. These statements are based on 
current expectations and projections of the Group 
about future events. However, by their nature 
forward-looking statements involve risks and 
uncertainties because they relate to events and 
depend on circumstances that will or may occur 
in the future. Actual results may differ from those 
expressed in such statements, depending on a 
variety of factors including, but not limited to, the 
economic and business circumstances occurring 
from time to time in the countries in which the 
Group operates, changes in trends in the general, 
global or regional economies, changes in trends 
in the global energy sector, changes in regulation 
and natural disasters or other calamities. 
Business overview 
 2 Chairman’s statement 
 4 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
 6 Our portfolio 
 8 Our core values 
 10 Business and financial review 
 10  Strategy and Group overview 
 18  Our approach to risk and risk management
 28  Key performance indicators and financial highlights 
 36  Regional reviews 
 52  Financial position and resources 
 62 Management and employees 
 62  Board of Directors 
 64  Senior management team
 65  Our people 
Corporate responsibility 
 68 Corporate responsibility 
Governance 
 78 Corporate governance 
 84 Directors’ remuneration report 
 100 Directors’ report
Financial statements 
 102 Responsibility statement of the Directors 
 103 Consolidated income statement 
 104 Consolidated balance sheet
 105  Consolidated statement of recognised  
income and expense
 106 Consolidated cash flow statement 
 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
 166 Company balance sheet
 167 Notes to the Company financial statements
 176 Independent auditor’s report 
Supplementary information 
 177 Five-year financial summary
 179 Shareholder profile 
 180 Shareholder services and information 
 180 Financial calendar 
 181 Glossary
Case studies 
 17 T-Power, Belgium
 67 Elecgas, Portugal
 77 Peaking plants, North America
 83 Fujairah F2, UAE
Contents
Highlights I am pleased to report a strong performance from 
the Group in 2008 where Profit From Operations* 
(PFO) rose 16% to £1,050 million and Earnings Per 
Share* (EPS) increased 20% to 32.4 pence from 
27.1 pence in 2007.
2008 again demonstrated the strength of our 
portfolio. PFO was up in all regions with particularly 
strong growth in Australia and North America. 
Good performance from the European assets, 
principally First Hydro, helped to offset the impact 
of the unplanned outage at Rugeley. Our plants in 
the Middle East and Asia operated well delivering  
a consistent performance.
We also achieved further growth across the 
portfolio with the acquisition of 2,437MW (net)  
of capacity in the US, Europe and Asia and the 
announcement of future greenfield capacity 
additions in Europe of 555MW (net). Four out of  
the five of these new investment opportunities 
arose from our existing assets and these four all 
have long-term power offtake contracts. These 
developments are particularly noteworthy as  
they were achieved against a backdrop of the  
credit crisis and a tight equipment supply market.
The turmoil in global financial markets and 
economic slowdown in major economies has, in  
one way or another, impacted the demand for many 
products and affected many businesses around the 
world. At International Power we deliver a service 
that remains key to the normal functioning of every 
economy and every household. Electricity is and will 
remain essential day and night. The need for our 
service, together with our international footprint, 
diversified fuel base and the balance of contract 
types (long-term and short-term), across developed 
and developing markets, offers good security for 
our business and its future in these uncertain times.
International Power’s financial position remains 
strong, with good liquidity, committed corporate 
bank facilities and strong free cash flow generation. 
Our business is capital-intensive but we have a 
robust capital structure and one that, through the 
use of non-recourse debt, allows us to maintain 
appropriate levels of debt in a relatively low risk 
manner. Through our broad geographic spread and 
our regional knowledge, we continue to have access 
to good growth opportunities. However, the value 
of financial prudence in the current economic 
environment is clear and accordingly we will invest 
our capital very carefully.
During 2008 we welcomed Ranald Spiers to  
the Board as the Executive Director responsible  
for the Middle East and Asia. Ranald has led the 
growth that has been achieved in our Middle East 
region over the last eight years, and his project 
development skills will be important as we seek  
to grow our business further, particularly in Asia.
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
established a Health, Safety and Environment 
(HS&E) Committee under the Chairmanship of 
Non-Executive Director, Struan Robertson. The 
Committee meets at least twice a year, at different 
power stations across the portfolio and, through its 
advisory role, reinforces the fact that these matters 
are as important to the Board as they are to our staff 
at power plants, development sites and offices 
around the world.
Staff commitment to our in-house behavioural 
safety programme, known as ‘Fresh Eyes’, along 
with improved management of health and safety 
issues, particularly during maintenance outages  
at our plants, delivered a further 25% reduction  
in the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR).
At International Power , we deliver a service that remains  
key to the normal functioning of every economy and every 
household. Electricity is and will remain essential day and night.
Chairman’s statement
 
*  All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairman’s  
statement are before exceptional items and  
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Chairman’s statement 
International Power Annual Report 2008
2 We were able to deliver growth in earnings and 
generating capacity around the world in 2008, 
despite some challenges. The dedication displayed 
by our teams across the business was a key factor  
in our success, which would not have been possible 
without their commitment. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all our staff for the vital role  
that they play in the growth of our Company.
Looking forward to 2009, we have a well established 
portfolio of long-term contracted assets which 
continues to perform well. We are also well positioned 
in our key merchant markets, although forward 
pricing in the UK and the US does not reflect  
the attractive long-term market fundamentals.  
In the absence of a significant improvement in  
pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group 
profitability in 2009 will be lower than in 2008. 
However, our assets are well placed to capture 
value, from both market recovery and short-term 
pricing volatility.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, 
with good corporate liquidity and no material 
refinancings in 2009. We expect to continue  
to deliver strong free cash flow in 2009.
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
On the environmental front we track very carefully 
proposed legislation which targets reduced  
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) emissions in our markets.  
We support these initiatives in principle, and we are 
actively involved in dialogue with governments and 
regulators to ensure a balanced outcome for our 
business. We will apply the experience gained from 
operating within the European Union Emissions 
Trading Scheme (EUETS) to any new scheme in our  
other markets, and will invest in renewables and  
other economically viable opportunities aimed  
at reducing carbon emissions from our plants.
Aside from managing carbon emissions, the 
installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) 
equipment at Rugeley in the UK, and at our Pego 
plant in Portugal, where Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) technology has also been fitted, 
will make a significant contribution to reducing 
atmospheric emissions.
In August last year, the Board announced an interim 
dividend of 3.56 pence per share (35% of the 
previous year’s full-year dividend). The Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share 
for the year which, including the interim dividend, 
will take the total for 2008 to 12.15 pence per share. 
This represents an increase of 20% on 2007 and  
an EPS* pay-out ratio of 37.5%.
Business overview 3 2008 was certainly an unprecedented year across  
all markets, as the severity of the credit and banking 
crisis, and its dramatic impact on the global 
economy, really started to become apparent. 
Clearly, no sector or company is immune from these 
wider market conditions, but electricity remains a 
domestic, industrial, and commercial necessity. Our 
geographic spread across North America, Europe, 
the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be  
a major strength, ensuring no over-concentration  
of risk in any one market and allowing us to focus our 
growth initiatives where we see the most potential.
In these market conditions, strong free cash flow 
generation, good liquidity, and an absence of major 
near-term refinancings are all very good indicators 
of financial position, and I am pleased to report that 
we score well on all these criteria. We generated 
free cash flow (after maintenance capital 
expenditure, interest, and tax) of £513 million in 
2008, retained good liquidity at the corporate 
centre, have minimal project refinancings in 2009, 
and the vast majority of our debt is non-recourse  
to the parent company.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
We have a strong balance sheet with good free cash flow and 
liquidity, and our international spread across North America, 
Europe, the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be a 
major strength.
Regional reviews
The regional reviews, on pages 36 to 51, give  
you an in-depth analysis of the business, but let me 
give you an overview of some of the highlights and 
key issues.
In North America, our Profit From Operations 
(PFO) increased, principally through an improved 
performance from our gas and coal-fired plants in 
Texas. Hays benefited from a higher achieved spark 
spread and load factor, as a result of higher demand 
and transmission constraints while Coleto Creek 
operated at a significantly higher load factor of 90% 
compared to 75% in 2007. We also successfully 
concluded the acquisition of four peaking plants  
in the north eastern and mid western US markets 
(PJM and MISO regions) that we have targeted for 
some time. These are high quality, modern, and 
efficient plants which have been quickly integrated 
into our US portfolio. Forward power prices have 
reduced principally on the back of lower oil and  
gas prices, and on expectations of lower demand 
growth. Forward margins in the power market do 
not yet reflect the strong fundamentals across our 
major US merchant markets, and for this reason,  
we are relatively lightly forward contracted for 
2009. Our contracted assets in the region  
continue to perform well.
Our European portfolio performed well during 
2008, particularly in the UK where our gas-fired  
and pumped storage assets delivered excellent 
results, which helped to offset the extended  
outage at our Rugeley coal-fired plant. The fitting  
of Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) at Rugeley will 
continue into 2009, and will ensure a longer life for 
this important asset. Overall, our UK portfolio is 
very well positioned to benefit from the attractive 
fundamentals of this market, and we have forward 
contracted output from selected plants for 2009 
where we have seen particular value. We acquired a 
further 40% of the Turbogás 1,008MW Combined 
Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) plant in Portugal during 
the year, and this plant continued to perform well, 
contributing to a strong performance from our 
long-term contracted assets across the region. 
Similarly, our European wind portfolio of 1,179MW 
operated well, although wind levels and resulting 
load factors were lower than long-term averages. 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
International Power Annual Report 2008
4 At ISAB, where there was a major incident in 
October, one of the two units returned to service  
in mid December, with the second one expected  
to be back online in the middle of 2010. The Czech 
Republic power and district heating businesses  
had another excellent year, improving on a very 
strong 2007 performance. On the growth front, 
construction of the 830MW Elecgas CCGT plant 
in Portugal is making good progress and we 
were very pleased to announce the development 
and successful financing of the 420MW T-Power  
project in Belgium, in challenging financial market 
conditions, demonstrating the availability of 
non-recourse finance for high quality projects.
The Middle East is a good example of a market  
that continues to grow strongly despite the wider 
financial turmoil. The market is driven by strong 
fundamentals, even in a lower oil price environment, 
and we continue to see a range of near and 
longer-term growth opportunities that reflect the 
expansion and diversification of the economies in 
which we operate. Our existing portfolio continues 
to operate well with consistently high availability 
factors. We have established a strong presence  
in this important market and we are focused on 
growing and adding value for the long-term,  
with the construction of the Fujairah F2 plant 
(2,000MW and 130MIGD) in the UAE on schedule.
Australia had a much improved performance in 
2008, driven by better overall plant availability  
and by improved achieved market prices. The  
major issue for the power sector in Australia is  
the planned introduction of a Carbon Pollution 
Reduction Scheme (CPRS), in this market where 
coal (a relatively high emitter of carbon dioxide) 
represents the dominant share (some 85%) of total 
power generation. A government White Paper was 
published in December, followed by draft legislation 
in March 2009, and this provided some insight into 
the proposed scheme, but many more details need 
to be clarified before the full impact on our portfolio 
can be properly evaluated. The scheme is still 
planned for implementation in mid 2010, and the 
draft terms include assistance for brown coal-fired 
generation – which is the cornerstone of our 
Australian generation portfolio.
Our Asian portfolio comprises long-term 
contracted assets, where high plant availability is 
the key driver of value. We continue to deliver high 
operational standards, and therefore profitability 
has been consistently good. Demand for power 
continues to be strong, and is reflected in the 
growth opportunities across the region, and in 
Indonesia in particular. The planned expansion  
of our plant at Paiton in Indonesia, where we are 
seeking to add a further 815MW by 2012, is an 
excellent example of this growth. Payments from 
our government owned offtaker in Pakistan (Water 
and Power Development Authority) were delayed 
in 2008, as its cash flow was negatively impacted  
by the high price of oil. Various measures, including 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) assistance, give 
us confidence that this issue will be satisfactorily 
resolved. We continue to look carefully at selected 
new markets in this region, with Vietnam a clear 
focus, given its high growth rate and its desire  
to attract inward investment in the power sector.
Delivering maximum value
Operational excellence is core to our ability to 
deliver maximum value, and although we had some 
unplanned outages in 2008 – Rugeley and ISAB in 
particular – we always strive to learn the maximum 
possible from these events to ensure that we 
maintain the highest standards of plant safety  
and operations. We have a number of initiatives 
underway to constantly drive improved operational 
performance across the portfolio.
Our approach to environmental management  
has three major building blocks – improved 
environmental performance at our existing assets, 
the building of high efficiency plants where we 
develop greenfield growth opportunities, and the 
expansion of our significant renewables portfolio. 
Examples include the installation of FGD equipment 
in the UK and Portugal, the development of lower 
emission technology for brown coal generation in 
Australia, incorporation of high efficiency turbines 
in our new-build projects in the Middle East, 
Portugal, and Belgium, and the further 
development of our European onshore wind 
portfolio. All these initiatives make very sound 
environmental and commercial sense.
The growth and development of our business 
would not be possible without a committed team  
of employees, and I am always impressed by the 
enthusiasm displayed by our teams around the 
world. I would like to thank all our employees  
for their contribution during 2008.
As outlined in the Chairman’s statement, it is  
likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower 
than in 2008. However our assets are well placed  
to capture value, from both market recovery  
and short-term pricing volatility. Our focus is on 
maintaining a strong balance sheet with good free 
cash flow and liquidity, together with achieving the 
highest operational standards across our portfolio. 
Growth remains on our agenda, but we will 
continue to use our capital very selectively and 
carefully in light of the constrained capital 
markets. Our regional spread and market 
knowledge are key advantages, and enable us  
to allocate capital where we see the best returns.
Philip Cox
Chief Executive Officer
Business overview 5 The following tables set out details in relation to our operating plants, assets under construction and other significant business interests  
as at 10 March 2009.
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
       steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
North America
Hartwell Georgia Gas (OCGT) 318 50 159  
Calumet Illinois Gas (OCGT) 303 100 303  
Bellingham Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 539 100 539  
Blackstone Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 488 100 488  
Milford Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 100 160  
Troy Ohio Gas/oil (OCGT) 616 100 616  
Armstrong Pennsylvania Gas/oil (OCGT) 625 100 625  
Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 100 667  
Hays Texas Gas (CCGT) 913 100 913  
Midlothian Texas Gas (CCGT) 1,423 100 1,423  
Oyster Creek Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 440 50 220 100MWth 50MWth
Pleasants West Virginia Gas/oil (OCGT) 313 100 313  
EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 548 35 192  
North America total in operation   7,353   6,618
Europe
International Power Opatovice
(1)
 Czech Republic Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 100 585 2,040MWth 2,040MWth
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy, Wind 1,179 100 1,179
  France, Netherlands 
ISAB Italy  Gas (IGCC) 562 34 193
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal  Coal 628 50 314
Turbogás Portugal Gas (CCGT) 1,008 100 1,008
Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro/solar 88 67 58
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey Gas (CCGT) 488 33 162
Deeside UK Gas (CCGT) 500 75 375
Derwent UK Gas (CCGT) 214 23 49
First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566
Indian Queens UK Oil (OCGT) 140 75 105
Rugeley UK  Coal (50MW of OCGT) 1,050 75 788
Saltend UK  Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 75 900 0.30m lbs/hr 0.23m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation   9,730    7,282
Middle East
Hidd Bahrain Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,006 40 402 90MIGD 36MIGD
Al Kamil Oman Gas (OCGT) 276 65 180
Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,055 40 422 60MIGD 24MIGD
Tihama Saudi Arabia Gas (Cogen) 1,076 60 646 4.5m lbs/hr 2.7m lbs/hr
Shuweihat S1 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,572 20 314 100MIGD 20MIGD
Umm Al Nar UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,450 20 490 143MIGD 29MIGD
Middle East total in operation   7,435   2,454
Our portfolio
Our portfolio
International Power Annual Report 2008
6   Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
       steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
Australia
Canunda South Australia Wind 46 100 46
Pelican Point South Australia Gas (CCGT) 487 100 487
Synergen South Australia Gas/distillate 371 100 371
Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 92 1,541
Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 70 718
Kwinana Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 49 58
Australia total in operation   3,723   3,221
Asia
Paiton
(2)
 Indonesia Coal 1,365 31 423  
HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219  
KAPCO Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 36 576  
Uch Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 572 71 406  
TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 100 143 7.7MWth
(3)
 7.7MWth
(3)
Asia total in operation   4,970  1,767
Total in operation around the world  33,21 1  21,342
Assets under construction
IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy  Wind 30 75 23
Elecgas Portugal Gas (CCGT) 830 50 415
T-Power Belgium Gas (CCGT) 420 33 140
Fujairah F2 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,000 20 400 130MIGD 26MIGD
Total under construction around the world   3,280  978
  Region IPR  Description
   ownership
   %  
Other businesses
Opus Energy UK 30  Independent supplier of electricity to small and  
medium-sized businesses
Simply Energy Victoria & South Australia 100 Electricity and gas retailer
SEA Gas pipeline Victoria & South Australia 33 687 km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia
Notes:  
Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
(1) Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
(2) In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distributions.
(3) District cooling system capacity.
Business overview 7 Our FIRST values are translated into practical 
guidance throughout International Power’s business 
policies. These cover the environment, health and 
safety, communications, equal opportunities, 
procurement, ethical business practices, conduct  
in the community and charitable contributions.  
A Board-approved staff handbook, the International 
Power Code of Business Conduct, which 
incorporates all relevant International Power  
policies, has been cascaded throughout the Group. 
Financial discipline
Our aim of long-term financial success depends 
upon financial discipline. While, as a growing 
company, we are entrepreneurial in our approach  
to investments, we are aware of our duty to protect 
and enhance shareholder value.
Financial discipline means:
—  making realistic risk assessments when we  
value potential investments
—  not overpaying for assets we acquire or develop
—  ensuring risk can be managed on an ongoing 
basis
—   cutting out extravagance and waste in  
business-related expenditures, including 
administrative and overhead costs
Integrity of communication
International Power is managed on the basis of 
integrity, honesty, openness and fairness in business 
dealings, both internally and externally. Good 
business decisions are based on good quality 
information presented clearly and concisely, on 
time, and with neither a positive nor negative bias. 
This applies equally to information flowing to and 
from management. We seek to build sustainable 
business relationships based on honest 
communication.
We will ensure that any corporate reports and  
other external communications are complete, 
understandable and truthful and reflect the proper 
operations of the business. At the same time,  
we will respect our confidentiality obligations.
Our core values
F
I
R
S
T eam first culture
afe behaviour
espect for the individual
ntegrity of communication
inancial discipline
HUBCO, Pakistan
Our core values
International Power Annual Report 2008
8 Respect for the individual
International Power is staffed by highly skilled 
professionals with a range of expertise. Mutual 
respect is a key priority, demonstrated by: 
—  respecting the opinions of colleagues
—  zero tolerance for physical or verbal abuse
—  hiring new employees with not only the  
right competencies, but also a good attitude  
and work ethic to integrate within  
International Power
—  applying equal opportunities to all, regardless  
of nationality, gender, age, ethnicity or religion
—  operating our business to the highest 
professional standards
We believe every International Power professional 
should have ample opportunity to use his or her 
existing skills and develop new ones.
Safe behaviour
It is relatively easy to introduce corporate policies 
and procedures which demand compliance, but all 
unsafe acts or omissions can be avoided if the right 
attitude and safe behaviour is automatically applied 
to everything we do.
This safe behaviour will help to deliver our goal of 
zero accidents whilst at work, and can equally apply 
when not at work. We therefore need to ensure  
our staff understand the right things to do, and 
make sure that they are performed properly, with 
no short cuts or excuses – in short, to behave safely 
all day, every day.
Team first culture
Our business has evolved from a technology-driven 
industry into one in which technical skill, project 
development expertise, construction and 
procurement know how, trading capability, 
operations, financial, information technology, legal, 
human resources, communications, accounting  
and tax acumen all play a substantial part. With  
such a range of disciplines, success depends on 
teamwork, with each employee being able to bring 
his or her individual skills and expertise to the fore.
Teamwork requires complete sharing of necessary 
information, inclusion rather than exclusion,  
and a ‘lend-a-hand’ philosophy at all levels of the 
organisation. Meeting our customers’ expectations 
calls for us to be customer-focused and responsive.  
We want our customers to know our teams and 
respect their capabilities and performance.
First Hydro, UK
Coleto Creek, US
Business overview 9 Strategy and Group overview
International Power Annual Report 2008
10
Strategy and Group overview
Our strategy is to deliver growth  
in shareholder value through power 
generation, ensuring a balanced 
international portfolio in terms of markets, 
fuel, contract type and technology. We 
create value by the efficient operation, 
financing, and trading of output from  
our power generation fleet, whilst 
maintaining the highest levels of safety 
and environmental performance. We  
exercise rigorous financial control in  
all our investment decisions, and invest  
in the development of our people for  
the long-term.
We create value by the efficient operation, financing,  
and trading of output from our power generation  
fleet, whilst maintaining the highest levels of safety  
and environmental performance.
International Power is a leading independent  
power generation company with interests in 
33,211MW (gross) of power generating capacity, 
located in 21 countries across five core regions – 
North America, Europe, Middle East, Australia  
and Asia.
A portfolio approach
We manage our business through a portfolio 
management approach, which involves maintaining 
a balance in the portfolio in terms of geographical 
spread, fuel diversity, technology and contract  
type. This approach gives us access to multiple 
opportunities to create value whilst mitigating  
the risks associated with over exposure to any 
particular market, fuel, technology or contract type.
Strategy and Group overview
International Power Annual Report 2008
10
Strategy and Group overview
Our strategy is to deliver growth  
in shareholder value through power 
generation, ensuring a balanced 
international portfolio in terms of markets, 
fuel, contract type and technology. We 
create value by the efficient operation, 
financing, and trading of output from  
our power generation fleet, whilst 
maintaining the highest levels of safety 
and environmental performance. We  
exercise rigorous financial control in  
all our investment decisions, and invest  
in the development of our people for  
the long-term.
We create value by the efficient operation, financing,  
and trading of output from our power generation  
fleet, whilst maintaining the highest levels of safety  
and environmental performance.
International Power is a leading independent  
power generation company with interests in 
33,211MW (gross) of power generating capacity, 
located in 21 countries across five core regions – 
North America, Europe, Middle East, Australia  
and Asia.
A portfolio approach
We manage our business through a portfolio 
management approach, which involves maintaining 
a balance in the portfolio in terms of geographical 
spread, fuel diversity, technology and contract  
type. This approach gives us access to multiple 
opportunities to create value whilst mitigating  
the risks associated with over exposure to any 
particular market, fuel, technology or contract type. Business overview 11
International Power’s 913MW  
CCGT power station at Hays, US
Business overview 11
International Power’s 913MW  
CCGT power station at Hays, US Note:
All charts presented based on net MW, excluding assets under construction,  
as at 10 March 2009.
Our geographic spread gives us access to growth 
opportunities whilst reducing the potential impact, 
on the overall business, of adverse performance in 
any particular market. The portfolio approach also 
extends through to our operational capabilities.  
We are able to operate a range of power plant 
technologies, including thermal, hydro, pumped 
storage and renewables. These technologies 
produce electricity using different fuel types that 
include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such  
as wind, water and solar. This multi-technology 
expertise allows us to capture opportunities that 
are best suited to the market in question.
As electricity is critical for any economy, 
governments carefully decide whether or not  
they wish to liberalise this key sector. Several 
governments have retained full control of the  
sector while others have fully liberalised both the 
production and supply of electricity. The skills 
required for operating in liberalised (merchant)  
or non-liberalised (contracted) markets are very 
different – and we have both.
The government-controlled, contracted markets 
typically offer opportunities to sell power to 
government bodies via long-term Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs) that offer stable returns. Assets 
in the merchant markets are subject to the forces  
of supply and demand, and these markets are 
generally more volatile. Both these markets offer 
attractive risk/reward environments for 
investments.
International Power maintains a balanced presence 
in both types of markets, providing the business 
with a stable platform of long-term contracted 
earnings and cash flow, overlaid by merchant 
generation which offers greater potential for 
superior returns when market conditions are 
favourable. We also ensure that lessons learnt in  
any particular market – for example, experience  
of the environmental legislation in Europe relating 
to Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) emissions trading – are 
shared across the business. 
Maximising the value of our existing portfolio
Our specific strategies for value enhancement  
in each country and for each individual plant are 
tailored to local requirements, but generally we 
seek to achieve the following:
—  Optimise the operations of our power plants 
We optimise the operation of our power plants 
through several means including: managing  
all of our sites to high standards of safety and 
operating performance; managing our business 
on a portfolio basis; closely co-ordinating plant 
operations with trading to maximise the value  
of our output; standardising management 
reporting for all investments; and investing  
in improved plant efficiency.
—  Maximise the return from our portfolio  
We optimise operations as described above  
and we leverage our investments, particularly  
by using non-recourse finance at the project 
company level. We sell businesses if this 
generates a higher rate of return.
Portfolio by geography
Europe 34%
Middle East 12%
Australia 15%
Asia 8%
North America 31%
Portfolio by fuel type
Gas 60%
Hydro 0.5%
Oil 3%
Pumped storage 7%
Coal 23.5%
Wind 6%
Portfolio by contract type*
Long-term 
contracted 34%
Wind 6%
Pumped storage 7%
Short-term
contracted 24%
* Rolling one-year average
Uncontracted 29%
TNP (Pluak Daeng), Thailand
Oyster Creek, US
Strategy and Group overview
International Power Annual Report 2008
12 Our growth
Canunda, Australia 
Project Location MW 
(net)
Acquisition/
greenfield
Contract type
Uch (additional %) Pakistan 177 Acquisition PPA to 2023
Elecgas Portugal 415 Greenfield/under 
construction
25-year tolling agreement
Portfolio of peaking plants North America 1,857 Acquisition Merchant
Turbogás (additional %) Portugal 403 Acquisition PPA to 2024
IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy/Germany/
France
104
(1)
Greenfield/under 
construction
Various
T-Power Belgium 140 Greenfield/under 
construction
15-year tolling agreement
Growth in 2008
Portfolio growth
(Net GW)
2000
8.3
8.9
10.6 10.5
15.3
15.9
18.5
18.8
21.3
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Asia
Australia
Middle East
Europe
North America
Note: Chart presented based on net MW, excluding
assets under construction, as at 31 December
Note:
(1)   81MW in operation and 23MW under construction.
Business overview 13 Our growth
The Group has grown significantly in the last five 
years, increasing its net operational capacity by 
10,719MW through both successful acquisitions 
and greenfield developments. International Power 
now has an operational interest in over 45 power 
stations, with 33,211MW of gross capacity, and 
owns net operating capacity of 21,342MW.
Growth is an important part of International 
Power’s strategic objectives, and we have clear 
investment criteria to ensure that our acquisitions 
and greenfield projects deliver value for our 
shareholders. Clearly in the current economic 
climate where capital availability is constrained, 
financial prudence is key and we will be very 
selective in our capital allocation programmes,  
and will invest our capital even more carefully.
Our geographic footprint and in-depth market 
knowledge present us with multiple growth 
opportunities, both new-build and acquisition. 
Wherever possible we seek to source opportunities 
through our regional knowledge, our extensive 
industry contacts and our existing relationships. 
Investment process
The capital allocation process is centred on a 
detailed review by the Investment Committee 
(ICOM) which comprises the Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), all Regional 
Directors and all corporate function heads. Of the 
opportunities evaluated by regional and corporate 
business development teams each year, only the 
best projects are submitted to the ICOM for initial 
review and to ensure they are consistent with the 
Group’s strategic plan. 
If projects pass this review, they are allocated a  
budget for detailed due diligence. The project then 
undergoes further analysis during the due diligence 
process, at the end of which a detailed review is 
carried out by the ICOM. Only then is the decision 
taken as to whether to proceed with the opportunity, 
subject to Board approval. This process ensures that 
we fully evaluate all the risks and returns of a project 
prior to making a commitment and that we proceed 
with only the most value-enhancing deals. 
The ICOM review process determines resource 
allocation and evaluates the costs of due diligence  
at an early stage, so as to avoid potential expenditure 
on projects that are less likely to succeed. In addition, 
the process encourages healthy internal competition 
for capital across regions and functions. 
The cross-regional and cross-functional 
membership of the ICOM ensures that only  
the most attractive investments are presented to 
the Board for approval. The due diligence teams, 
which comprise employees from our functional  
and regional teams and external advisors (where 
appropriate), use their varied experiences and skill 
sets to assess thoroughly all potential projects 
before they are presented to the ICOM. We subject 
new investment opportunities to rigorous 
evaluation criteria, with a focus on the elements 
shown opposite.
Local knowledge/
relationships
Investment 
Committee initial 
review
Detailed due 
diligence
Investment 
Committee 
review/approval
Board 
review/approval
Completion/
integration
Continuous 
performance 
appraisal/post-
investment review
Other e.g. investment 
advisors/banks
Government/private
invitations
Regional M&A and business
development teams
Cross-regional and 
cross-functional 
representation
Follow-on opportunities
Continuous knowledge sharing across portfolio Opportunity sources
Strategy and Group overview
International Power Annual Report 2008
14 Area Considerations include
Financial
— 
 
returns in excess of our investment thresholds, which are continually assessed in  
light of changing market conditions
— 
 
 contribution measured by financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) –  
Profit From Operations (PFO), Earnings Per Share (EPS) and free cash flow
— 
 
quality and sustainability of earnings
— 
 
availability of project finance and an appropriate degree of gearing
— 
 
payback period
— 
 
efficient financial structuring
Operational
— 
 
age, plant type and operational history of the plant
— 
 
health and safety performance
— 
 
maintenance record and likely capital expenditure requirements
— 
 
ability to have a major/controlling stake in Operations and Maintenance activities
— 
 
synergy potential
— 
 
potential to increase output/availability of plant
Market
— 
 
market fundamentals – demand/supply balance
— 
 
 forward market prices and history
— 
 
new entrant economics and impact on long-term forecast prices
— 
 
analysis of incumbent players and market dynamics
— 
 
market track record of respecting foreign direct investment
— 
 
opportunity for future investment and growth
Commercial
— 
 
contractual position
— 
 
offtake arrangements/security of offtake
— 
 
security of fuel supply
— 
 
counterparty credit rating
— 
 
correlation between power and fuel price
— 
 
portfolio benefits of merchant assets
— 
 
environmental obligations and pricing
Environmental
— 
 
environmental regulation and potential changes
— 
 
environmental performance
Legal/regulatory
— 
 
market regulation
— 
 
potential regulatory changes
— 
 
any outstanding/historical legal or contractual issues
People
— 
 
historical staff/management relationships
— 
 
staffing requirements for acquisition and integration
— 
 
potential to acquire new knowledge and skills
Ownership
— 
 
degree of control – focus on investments where we are able to contribute  
directly to the realisation of projected returns
— 
 
 plant operations’ structure and management
Property
— 
 
opportunities for future expansion or development
Investment evaluation criteria
We ensure that all acquisitions and greenfield projects are quickly and efficiently integrated into our 
regional business structures. The forecast returns from investments are built into regional business 
performance targets and we measure delivery against these targets at a regional and Group level through 
our financial and non-financial KPIs, which are set out on pages 28 to 31.
The ICOM conducts post-investment reviews for all major projects to ensure we improve the quality  
of future investment decisions by feeding back lessons learned from past evaluations. 
Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which we operate, is that our investments 
create value for our shareholders over the long-term. 
Business overview 15 International Power’s financing strategy and overall 
capital structure, as this provides the opportunity  
to raise an appropriate level of debt for individual 
businesses and represents excellent risk mitigation 
for the Group.
Asset management All our investments are 
expected to deliver specific performance targets. 
Through regular and robust technical, commercial 
and financial reviews, the regional offices and 
corporate headquarters together monitor the 
performance of each asset in the portfolio. We  
work to ensure that we maximise fleet efficiencies 
where we operate plants with similar technologies.  
In addition, we have a global Health, Safety and 
Environment (HS&E) management committee which 
co-ordinates the Group’s activities and enables best 
practice to be adopted at all plants. This co-ordinated 
approach helps us manage operational risk and 
extract the full portfolio benefits. 
Plant operations We have comprehensive  
power station operational experience and skills. 
Through-life engineering and maintenance plans, 
meticulously implemented, ensure maximum 
availability and efficiency in the operation of our 
plants and are key for delivering value in both  
our merchant and long-term contracted markets. 
Effective plant operations are enhanced by an 
integrated Operations and Engineering team  
across the Group, ensuring information is shared 
across the portfolio and key operational staff are 
rotated on a regular basis. Safe behaviour and 
environmental best practice are cornerstones  
of International Power’s operations, and we share 
best practices across the portfolio to ensure  
all of our plants operate to the highest possible 
safety and environmental standards.
Trading We operate in a number of merchant 
markets. We have the skills necessary to maximise 
our returns in these markets, with a practical focus 
on closely co-ordinating trading and plant 
operations to optimise value. For us, trading 
predominately means selling the physical output 
generated by our plants, which we call asset-backed 
trading. Our traders operate within strict guidelines 
and risk policies to ensure our traded position is 
carefully monitored and managed. This includes 
matching fuel purchases with power sales within 
pre-defined limits and carrying out only a limited 
amount of non asset-backed trading. We forward 
sell our output when we consider the commercial 
returns are favourable, but we often retain some 
uncontracted capacity as mitigation against 
unplanned outages and to benefit from upsides  
in the short-term market.
Long-term power contracts expertise We have 
strong commercial skills to structure and negotiate 
long-term power and water contracts in regulated 
markets such as Asia and the Middle East. Under 
these contracts, the majority of our income is 
delivered from having our plant available, and  
key cost risks such as fuel and turbine maintenance 
are very significantly mitigated through long-term 
hedging and supply arrangements. Availability 
bonuses incentivise us to keep the plant well 
maintained in order to generate superior returns. 
Overall, the contracts provide visibility and stability 
of earnings and cash generation over the long-term.
Core capabilities
Our core capabilities for implementing our strategy 
can be categorised into the following seven areas:
International Power’s high quality asset portfolio, 
together with the capabilities of our teams  
around the world, forms a strong combination  
for performance optimisation, effective risk 
management and future growth in earnings  
and cash flow.
International Power has in-depth experience in 
plant operations and engineering which is shared 
throughout the portfolio. This not only helps to 
ensure excellent plant operations, but also that  
we understand all operational and technical issues 
relating to the potential acquisition and upgrade  
of existing assets or development of new power 
plants. The Group has skills to execute power 
projects from inception right through to the 
delivery of power in the most advanced and 
complex traded markets of the world.
Greenfield development and construction 
management We have excellent experience of 
developing large capital-intensive infrastructure 
projects – from selecting the appropriate site, 
securing multiple government/stakeholder 
approvals, project managing the entire  
construction programme right through  
to successful commercial operation. 
Acquisitions We have demonstrated our ability  
to execute acquisitions at the right time and at the 
right value, together with the capability to integrate 
newly acquired assets quickly and seamlessly into 
the portfolio. Historically, International Power has 
executed a number of successful acquisitions which 
have met or exceeded financial and operational 
performance targets. 
Financing Given the very capital-intensive nature  
of our business we maintain access to multiple 
sources of finance, which include strong free cash 
flow generation from our portfolio, project finance, 
corporate borrowing facilities, and capital from our 
partners. Non-recourse project finance is key to 
Kwinana, Australia
Shuweihat, UAE
Acquisitions
Greenfield 
development
and 
construction 
management
Financing
Plant 
operations
Asset 
management
Trading Long-term
power 
contracts
expertise
Strategy and Group overview
International Power Annual Report 2008
16 Case study
T-Power 420MW Combined Cycle 
Gas Turbine (CCGT) greenfield  
project in Belgium
In December 2008 some E391 million  
was successfully raised to finance T-Power,  
a 420MW CCGT greenfield project in 
Tessenderlo, eastern Belgium.
The T-Power project will be co-owned by 
International Power, Siemens Project Ventures  
and Tessenderlo Chemie, and operated by 
International Power under a 15-year operations  
and maintenance agreement.
The plant will be constructed by Siemens under  
a full turnkey Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) contract, and will utilise 
Siemens V94.3A turbines with an efficiency of  
58%. This, along with using the latest technology 
throughout the plant, will make it cheaper and  
more efficient than other plants currently operating 
in the region. The overriding effect of this will be a 
reduction in Belgium’s overall emissions intensity.
Being a greenfield project, the construction  
of T-Power will be of great benefit to the local 
community, creating up to 800 jobs during the 
construction phase. Following construction,  
the plant will require 27 full-time staff for operation, 
many of whom will come from the local area. 
Once operational in 2011, output from the new 
plant will be sold, under a 15-year tolling agreement 
(with a five-year extension option), to Essent 
Trading International S.A., a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Essent NV, which is the largest energy 
supplier in the Netherlands. The plant’s output will 
make a significant contribution towards assuring 
Belgium’s power supply.
The development and successful financing of this 
project (total project costs are estimated to be 
€448 million) in challenging financial market 
conditions demonstrates the availability of 
non-recourse debt for high quality projects.
A computer-generated image of the completed 
420MW T-Power plant in Belgium
Case study 17 Our approach to risk and risk management
International Power Annual Report 2008
18
Our approach to risk and risk management
Our risk management philosophy is designed to deal with  
the diverse set of risks faced by our business and contains  
both bottom-up and top-down elements to support  
the identification, reporting and management of risks.
International Power’s 1,365MW  
coal-ﬁred power station at Paiton  
in Indonesia
45 plants
International Power owns  
or has equity interests in over
70%
Percentage of portfolio less than
1 5 years old approximately
Our approach to risk and risk management
International Power Annual Report 2008
18
Our approach to risk and risk management
Our risk management philosophy is designed to deal with  
the diverse set of risks faced by our business and contains  
both bottom-up and top-down elements to support  
the identification, reporting and management of risks.
International Power’s 1,365MW  
coal-ﬁred power station at Paiton  
in Indonesia
45 plants
International Power owns  
or has equity interests in over
70%
Percentage of portfolio less than
1 5 years old approximately Business overview 19
International Power’s principal activities are the 
development, acquisition and operation of power 
generation plants together with closely related 
activities, such as desalination, retail and district 
heating. These principal activities are supported by 
our network of local, regional and corporate offices 
which carry out activities such as trading, financial 
management and treasury operations. All of these 
activities have inherent risks.
Our general approach to risk management is set  
out here. This is followed by a description of the 
principal risks and exposures faced by the business.
Risk management framework
International Power owns, or has equity interests 
in, over 45 plants and some closely linked 
businesses located in 21 countries. Our portfolio 
contains all major technologies and fuel types  
with the exception of nuclear power. Overall,  
around 70% of the portfolio entered service less 
than 15 years ago. Geographically the portfolio is 
diverse, having a presence in developed and 
developing countries with a variety of cultural, 
political and legal systems. Our risk management 
philosophy is designed to deal with the diverse set 
of risks faced by our business. To reflect the profile 
of our business we have developed a system that 
contains both bottom-up and top-down elements 
to support the identification, reporting and 
management of risks.
Business overview 19
International Power’s principal activities are the 
development, acquisition and operation of power 
generation plants together with closely related 
activities, such as desalination, retail and district 
heating. These principal activities are supported by 
our network of local, regional and corporate offices 
which carry out activities such as trading, financial 
management and treasury operations. All of these 
activities have inherent risks.
Our general approach to risk management is set  
out here. This is followed by a description of the 
principal risks and exposures faced by the business.
Risk management framework
International Power owns, or has equity interests 
in, over 45 plants and some closely linked 
businesses located in 21 countries. Our portfolio 
contains all major technologies and fuel types  
with the exception of nuclear power. Overall,  
around 70% of the portfolio entered service less 
than 15 years ago. Geographically the portfolio is 
diverse, having a presence in developed and 
developing countries with a variety of cultural, 
political and legal systems. Our risk management 
philosophy is designed to deal with the diverse set 
of risks faced by our business. To reflect the profile 
of our business we have developed a system that 
contains both bottom-up and top-down elements 
to support the identification, reporting and 
management of risks. Corporate level 
Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set 
at the corporate level, with the Board of 
Directors taking ultimate responsibility. 
Acceptable business practices and engineering 
and operational standards are set centrally.
Regional businesses  
Market and trading risks are managed 
regionally within the framework set at the 
corporate level. Political risks are also  
managed regionally with support from the 
corporate centre.
Business units  
Risk assessments and mitigation action plans 
are mainly originated in business units. Health, 
Safety and Environmental (HS&E) compliance 
activities are also managed locally, within a 
central policy framework. Local business 
managers are accountable for managing the 
risks within their areas of responsibility. This 
principle also applies to the managers of our 
regional and corporate functions. 
There is a process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the key risks faced by the Group. 
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, 
which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
and comprises Executive Directors and senior 
managers. 
The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf  
of the Board, for ensuring:
—  the adequacy of systems for identifying and 
assessing significant risks
—  that appropriate control systems and other 
mitigating processes are in place
—  that residual exposures are consistent with  
the Group’s strategy and objectives
During the business planning process, each 
significant business unit and functional group 
identifies and assesses the key risks associated  
with the achievement of its principal business 
objectives and their potential impact. During the 
year, significant changes in the risk profile are 
highlighted through the business performance 
reporting process.
Each year, the business carries out a Group-wide, 
risk review. This is based on the outcome of the 
business planning exercise, updated as necessary  
to take account of ‘post business plan’ events. The 
assessments are synthesised into a risk report, that 
identifies all the principal risks, which is reviewed  
by the Risk Committee. Where risks are considered 
to exceed the Group’s risk appetite, the Risk 
Committee directs which actions are to be taken. 
The risk report is reviewed by the full Board. 
Schematically the annual risk report system 
functions as follows:
In order to compare risks across the Group on  
a systematic basis, we segment our activities as 
shown below. In reality, certain risk exposures 
interact and other exposures apply to more than 
one ‘risk area’ (for example, regulatory risk applies 
to all of our activities). Such cross-segmental risks 
are assessed in each of the areas in which they occur.
Review by full Board 
Review by Risk
Committee
Actions
Synthesis by risk report
working group
Risk assessment by business 
units and functions
Financial risks
Market and trading risks
Fuel supply risks
Country and political risks
Construction and operational risks
Health, safety and environmental risks
Staffing and human resources risks
Our approach to risk and risk management
International Power Annual Report 2008
20 Principal risks and exposures
Risk Impacts Mitigating factors
Adverse conditions in 
our electricity sales or 
fuel purchase markets 
and/or counterparty 
default risk
— 
 
financial volatility
— 
 
 reduction in profitability  
and cash flow
— 
 
 potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 application of Group policies and procedures 
setting limits on trading counterparty 
exposures and maintenance of financial 
headroom at the corporate level
— 
 
structuring of project companies as stand-
alone businesses and use of non-recourse 
project finance to limit Group impact
Price volatility or 
changes in market 
conditions result in 
exceptional trading 
credit support 
requirements
— 
 
 reduction in financial resources 
available for growth
— 
 
reduced ability to forward  
sell output
— 
 
 maintenance of financial headroom at the 
corporate level
— 
 
 trading through investment grade financial 
institutions
— 
 
for specific projects additional support is 
provided, for example Mitsui provides a credit 
support facility for International Power Mitsui 
(IPM) trading in the UK
Market spreads outturn 
below expectation
— 
 
reduction in profitability and  
cash flow
— 
 
potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 a rolling forward contracting programme 
typically aims to lock in margins 
—  34% of our net capacity has long-term 
contractual arrangements shielding our 
annual profitability from significant volatility
Capital market access
— 
 
 reduced availability and increased 
cost of non-recourse project and 
corporate financing
— 
 
reduced availability and increased  
cost for refinancings
— 
 
 maintenance of strong liquidity
— 
 
 high credibility and experience in delivering 
bankable solutions
— 
 
 strong banking relationships with major 
project financing banks worldwide
— 
 
maintenance of stringent project evaluation 
criteria 
Unplanned availability 
losses
— 
 
reduction in profitability and  
cash flow
— 
 
potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 structured approach to the management  
of engineering risk
— 
 
 appropriate budgeted spend on plant 
maintenance
— 
 
strong corporate and asset Operations  
and Engineering teams 
Challenging 
Engineering, 
Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) 
market conditions
— 
 
delays and increases in the price of 
greenfield development impacts 
growth rate
— 
 
long-standing relationships with all major  
EPC contractors
— 
 
ongoing review of contracting strategies  
to meet changing market conditions
— 
 
 new entrant pricing should reflect the  
cost of building new plant
Changes in 
environmental 
regulatory regimes 
limit our ability to 
profitably operate our 
fossil fuel plants
— 
 
reduction in profitability and  
cash flow
— 
 
potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 increased potential capital 
expenditure to ensure longer asset 
lives under tighter legislation
— 
 
increased trading risk
— 
 
plant upgrades and carbon trading processes 
to meet new environmental legislation in our 
developed markets
— 
 
new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines 
with proven environmental technology
— 
 
approximately 6% of net operating capacity 
made up of wind generation
— 
 
senior representation in industry groups and 
ongoing advocacy
These risks are discussed in greater detail overleaf, along with other factors that could potentially  
have a material impact on our business.
Hidd, Bahrain
Eco Eléctrica, Puerto Rico
Business overview 21 Financial risks
Our business can be subject to financial volatility. 
This can originate from a number of sources, 
including the project company, counterparty-related 
events and general market conditions. However,  
our capital structure and corporate financial 
headroom are designed to address these risks. 
Our business is strongly cash generative and in 
addition, at the corporate level, we have a number  
of loan facilities which provide us with a prudent  
level of financial headroom (cash plus undrawn  
and available credit lines, net of known financial 
obligations). These facilities can be applied to various 
aspects of our business should the need arise; for 
example, to support growth or trading credit 
requirements. These facilities will meet the short to 
medium-term funding requirements envisaged by 
the business. Longer-term funding requirements,  
or funding for a particularly large transaction, may  
be sourced from a combination of these facilities and 
suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by 
raising additional equity. The actual choice of funding 
instrument(s) will depend on the size and nature of 
the transaction and market conditions at that time.
In merchant markets, we are usually required to 
provide credit support for our trading operations. 
Fuel and electricity markets periodically experience 
sharp price movements and when these occur this 
has an immediate and corresponding effect on our 
trading credit support requirements, which can  
be volatile as a consequence. The maintenance  
of corporate financial headroom offers protection 
against increases in trading credit support 
requirements. 
Project development can, on occasions, also require 
credit support. This support can take the form  
of parent company guarantees or credit support 
instruments issued by banks. In the event that credit 
support facilities are unavailable to support the 
growth developments that we are planning, this 
could require us to reduce our development 
activities. However, we consider that a prudent level 
of corporate financial headroom and strong free 
cash flow generation, together with additional 
bilateral facilities with banks, should enable us to 
continue to pursue attractive opportunities.
At the individual business level, we mainly finance 
our projects with non-recourse debt. We use 
non-recourse finance as this insulates the Group 
from adverse events occurring at the project level, 
limiting our balance sheet exposure on a given 
project to the loss of the equity in that project. 
Liquidity in the financial markets has reduced 
following the ‘fallout’ from the US subprime market 
and subsequent global credit impacts. Although  
this has increased the cost of non-recourse finance 
and/or reduced its availability, we believe that we 
should be able to continue to refinance high quality 
projects in our key markets. International Power  
has only limited project refinancing commitments 
becoming due in 2009. The US Combined Cycle Gas 
Turbine (CCGT) fleet, and Hazelwood in Australia 
will require refinancing in 2010 and there is a risk 
that it will not be possible to refinance on the same 
terms. Accordingly we are taking early steps to 
ensure the Group is well positioned to manage 
these risks. 
Counterparty risk
In merchant markets we manage our credit 
exposure to trading and financial counterparties  
by establishing clearly defined limits, policies and 
procedures. Energy trading activities are strictly 
monitored and controlled through delegated 
authorities and procedures, which include specific 
criteria for the management of credit exposures  
in each of our key regions. With respect to our 
treasury activities, the financial counterparty  
credit exposure is limited to arrangements with 
relationship banks, money market funds and to 
commercial paper that has an investment grade 
credit rating. 
Counterparty exposures arising from sale and 
purchase agreements with our customers are 
monitored and managed locally with oversight  
from Group treasury. In the unlikely event that  
a counterparty default occurs, International Power 
has the ability to continue to sell the power under 
the contract to the market. In addition, Group 
treasury manages the consolidated counterparty 
credit positions, with the active involvement of 
the global risk manager. Further information on 
credit risk is included in the financial statements 
on page 156. Risks associated with specific Power 
Purchase Agreements (PPAs) are included in the 
country and political risks section on page 25.
Currency and interest rate exposures
In order to mitigate foreign exchange exposure 
within project companies, borrowings of the entity 
are normally made in the currency of the project 
company revenues, which is usually the project 
company’s functional currency. In addition, in 
countries with historically weaker currencies than 
those of the major economies, we aim to have PPA 
tariffs denominated in, or indexed to, a major 
international currency such as the US dollar. This 
protects future returns against large and rapid 
devaluations of the local currency.
When one of our project companies makes sales 
and purchases in a currency other than its functional 
currency, this gives rise to a currency transaction 
exposure. We match transaction exposures, in 
advance where possible, and hedge any unmatched 
transactions as soon as they are committed. We use 
foreign currency contracts and similar instruments 
for this purpose. Transaction exposures also arise 
when dividends or other funds are remitted from 
our overseas investments. We may utilise these 
exposures, where possible, to hedge existing 
transaction exposures on sales and purchases 
through matching.
Variability in interest payments can introduce 
further volatility into project returns. We mainly 
mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, 
principally by using interest rate swaps. A limited 
number of our PPAs also have interest rate 
pass-through mechanisms. Overall, 78% of our 
borrowings were protected from interest rate 
fluctuations in these ways at the end of 2008.
Blackstone, US
Deeside, UK
Our approach to risk and risk management
International Power Annual Report 2008
22 At Group level, in order to hedge our investments in 
foreign operations, borrowings to fund investments 
in foreign operations are generally in the same 
currency as the underlying investment. As a result, 
any changes in the value of our foreign operations, 
arising from movements in foreign exchange rates, 
are offset by a change in the value of the foreign 
currency borrowings used to fund the investment.  
It is not our policy to hedge the currency translation 
exposure relating to foreign operations with 
derivatives, such as foreign exchange contracts or 
currency swaps, though we do hedge this exposure 
through matching against existing transaction 
exposures on sales and purchases, where possible. 
To the extent that foreign currency borrowings are 
less than foreign currency investments, this exposes 
our balance sheet net assets to fluctuations that are 
not related to underlying business performance. 
Similarly, our Group earnings are exposed to 
translation exposures on earnings from foreign 
operations during the period.
For 2008 and 2007, average and year end rates  
of exchange to sterling, for major currencies which 
are significant to the Group, were:
Further information on market risk, interest rate 
risk and foreign currency risk is included in note 31 
to the consolidated financial statements on pages 
153 to 156.
Investment structures and contingent liabilities 
The capital-intensive nature and global spread of  
our business, together with the rapidly growing body 
of tax legislation, continues to make tax planning  
and forecasting an increasingly complex process.  
We closely monitor actual and potential changes  
in tax legislation in order to assess the continued 
effectiveness of our corporate structures and financial 
planning assumptions. We are supported by internal 
and external tax experts in making these assessments.
International Power has a number of actual and 
potential liabilities arising from certain tax planning 
assumptions that have not yet been confirmed  
by the relevant fiscal authorities. We have 
appropriately provided for those sums that  
we believe will ultimately be paid.
Funding of pension obligations 
The Group operates a range of pension plans 
internationally, with the most significant defined 
benefit arrangements in the UK and Australia. These 
latter schemes guarantee their members’ retirement 
benefits (calculated by reference to their final salary 
at retirement), which gives rise to the risk that our 
pension funds will not be sufficient to meet these 
obligations. Retirement benefits under our UK 
defined benefit plans are paid in the form of a lifetime 
pension plus a lump sum. Substantially all of the 
benefits from our Australian defined benefit plans  
are paid in the form of a lump sum on retirement.
Following a strategic review of the Group’s 
exposure to pension risk over the longer-term and  
a period of consultation with employees and their 
representatives, both of our defined benefit plans  
in the UK were closed to new members during 
2008. Existing members will continue to accrue 
future service benefits under these plans. From  
1 June 2008, all new UK employees are eligible  
to become members of a defined contribution 
pension plan.
The closed UK defined benefit pension schemes, 
which have approximately 700 active members, 
carried out their latest triennial actuarial valuations  
on 31 March 2007. These valuations revealed that  
the plans had a combined deficit of approximately  
£12 million. Deficit repair arrangements have  
been agreed with the trustees of these plans and,  
as part of this, the Group made deficit repair  
payments of approximately £3.8 million in 2007  
and approximately £0.8 million in 2008. In addition, 
following the valuations, the Group’s contributions to 
fund the cost of members’ future service benefits were 
also increased in line with the actuarial advice received.
Due to the adverse market conditions since  
31 March 2007, relative to the assumptions used  
in determining the actuarial liabilities, the deficits  
in the UK defined benefit plans have increased.  
The next actuarial valuations of these plans are 
scheduled for 31 March 2010, at which point their 
financial position will be re-evaluated and the 
Group’s contributions to repair the deficits, and  
to fund the estimated cost of members’ future 
service benefits, will be adjusted if necessary.
The long-term nature of the UK plans, with 
currently few retired members, allows any 
increased deficits to be funded through payments 
spread over a number of years. As the plans have 
been closed to new entrants, this also mitigates  
the potential growth of net liabilities.
Our Australian businesses sponsor three defined 
benefit plans, two of which are closed to new 
members. Existing members continue to accrue 
future service benefits under these plans. The 
majority of new employees participate in 
accumulation funds where employer contributions 
are fixed. The employer contribution rates to our 
defined benefit plans are reviewed periodically,  
with such reviews typically occurring as at 30 June 
and 31 December. Given that all but one of these 
plans have been closed to new members, as with  
our UK plans, the risks of significant increases  
in the Group’s contributions have been limited.
  Average At 31 December
  2008  2007 2008  2007
US dollar 1.85  2.00 1.44  1.99
Australian dollar 2.18  2.39 2.06  2.27
Euro 1.26  1.46 1.03  1.36
Czech koruna 31.64  40.43 27.77  36.20 
Business overview 23 Financial processes and internal control
We consider that we have an appropriate and 
robust internal control system. During the past few 
years, we have reviewed our systems of financial 
control to ensure they were able to meet the 
requirements of section 404 of the US Sarbanes-
Oxley Act for the year ended 31 December 2006. 
Although, since deregistration from the Securities 
and Exchange Commission in 2007, we are no 
longer subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have 
continued to provide comprehensive control 
coverage of our business.
In order to measure our performance, the delivery 
of our strategy and to provide an early warning of 
variances to our forecasts, we monitor a number  
of performance indicators. The principal financial 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are Profit From 
Operations (PFO), Earnings Per Share (EPS) and  
free cash flow, details of which are set out on  
pages 28 to 30.
Insurance risk management
Our risk management processes assist us in the 
identification of events that can be partly or entirely 
mitigated through the use of insurance. Risks that 
we insure include, inter alia, business interruption, 
Directors’ and officers’ liability and property 
damage. Where we are legally required to effect 
third party liability insurances these are also in place. 
Due to the current economic climate, we have 
broadened our exposure to insurance companies  
by extending the capacity of other insurers in the 
insurance programme. This will ensure that the 
continuity of insurance cover can be maintained in 
the event of the failure of an insurance company 
within the programme.
Market and trading risks
A significant number of the projects in which we 
have an interest, operate on a merchant basis 
without a PPA and are, therefore, vulnerable to 
market forces (including climatic conditions) which 
determine the price and amounts of power sold  
and fuel and emissions allowances purchased. In 
particular, the majority of our plants in the UK, 
North America and Australia operate on a 
merchant basis. In order to limit our exposure to 
market movements, and if trading conditions allow, 
we forward sell a proportion of our anticipated 
output and buy the related commodities including 
fuel, transmission rights, capacity and emission 
credits. The key risks facing our market and trading 
activities and their mitigating factors are as follows.
Hedging activities
Uncontracted output is subject to price and volume 
volatility. To reduce the impact of this uncertainty, we 
typically operate a ‘rolling hedge’ programme under 
which we increase the proportion of output that is 
sold forward as the production date approaches. 
Whilst we generally aim to hedge a relatively high 
proportion of our output for the following year, this 
strategy is dependent on market conditions. Due to 
market liquidity considerations, we are generally 
unable to hedge high levels of output beyond two 
years ahead.
We do not always match the expected output  
of a plant with power sales and fuel and other 
commodity purchases. Mismatched positions  
have the potential to result in losses. This potential 
exposure is addressed in our trading policies, which 
limit the potential size of mismatched positions.
In addition to asset-backed trading we carry out 
some proprietary trading (trading not linked to  
the expected output of our power plants). Our  
non asset-backed trading activities have strict  
risk limits and controls and any exposures are 
correspondingly small.
Framework for trading activities
Our trading activities operate within a robust 
framework of policies and oversight functions. 
Trading and forward contracting strategies are 
continually reviewed by regional and corporate 
trading and risk management professionals, to 
ensure they are best suited to both local market 
conditions and corporate risk guidelines. A 
Group-wide oversight of our trading operations is 
provided by a Global Commodities Risk Committee 
(GCRC) which includes the Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO), the head of corporate finance, and the global 
trading and risk managers. The GCRC acts under 
the authority of the Board, and delegates limits  
and authorities to local risk committees, which have 
been established in each of our trading operations 
to oversee the management of market, operational 
and credit risks arising from our marketing and 
trading activities. The local risk committees include 
the local trading manager, global and local risk 
managers, Regional Directors and senior managers.
Fuel supply risks
Fuel supply security is fundamental to our  
business. Most of our markets have robust supply 
infrastructures. Other factors such as mines local  
to the power plant, fuel storage, dual-fuel capability 
and sourcing from a number of reputable suppliers 
enhance our security of fuel supply. Consequently, 
we have experienced very few fuel supply 
interruptions that have had an impact on 
operations. However, the performance of our 
growing wind energy portfolio is dependent upon 
wind conditions, which may vary from year-to-year.
We procure fuel under a variety of contractual 
arrangements ranging from long-term Fuel Supply 
Agreements (FSAs) to on-the-day merchant gas 
purchases. The principal determinant of our fuel 
supply activity is the need to match purchases to 
power sales, both in terms of volume and price. 
Hence, we operate long-term FSAs at power plants 
where we have long-term PPAs and predominantly 
short-term merchant supply arrangements in  
our merchant power markets. This strategy helps 
mitigate against fuel price impacts, particularly in 
the climate of high fuel prices which existed during 
2008, and protects operational profitability from 
the effect of fuel price volatility.
Our approach to risk and risk management
International Power Annual Report 2008
24 It is not always possible to achieve an exact balance 
between fuel purchases and power production. This 
is particularly an issue for our projects with PPAs, 
where the associated FSAs often have minimum 
fuel purchase obligations. By structuring the 
purchases flexibly and incorporating appropriate 
force majeure protection, we are able to mitigate 
this risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that the price 
and volume obligations in the PPA and FSA mirror 
one another and, to date, we have not experienced 
a significant financial impact due to mismatches 
between our FSAs and PPAs.
Country and political risks
A number of our projects with long-term PPAs  
are in countries that carry a degree of country  
risk. In Pakistan, payments from the state-owned 
customer, the Water and Power Development 
Authority (WAPDA), were delayed in 2008. 
However, our plants are continuing to receive 
payments for the majority of current output  
and have also been receiving interest on  
overdue amounts. Our share of the receivable,  
in March 2009, was US$149 million (£108 million). 
With respect to the overdue amounts, the 
management of the three project companies  
are in active dialogue with the offtaker. WAPDA, 
which does not dispute either the tariff or the 
overdue amounts, has been unable to pay due to a 
cash flow issue within the government of Pakistan. 
There are a number of initiatives currently 
underway to resolve the cash flow issue in Pakistan, 
including an International Monetary Fund (IMF) 
US$7.6 billion loan package. A key condition of the 
IMF loan is that the government has to implement  
a plan to clear the overdue receivables in the energy 
sector. We remain confident of a satisfactory 
outcome. We continually review our PPAs and 
believe that further payment defaults remain a  
low risk. In the past, some PPA tariffs have been 
re-opened by our offtakers and renegotiated,  
but we do not currently foresee the prospect  
of further PPA tariff renegotiations.
Country risk assessment is an important element of 
our due diligence prior to participating in a project. 
We favour projects where the need for power is 
acute, the magnitude of government subsidy is 
limited, and international arbitration is available for 
resolving disputes. Once projects are operational, 
International Power always strives to be a ‘good 
corporate citizen’, supporting the local, regional 
and national communities wherever possible. We 
also attempt to maintain good relationships with 
political institutions and our customers.
Furthermore, non-recourse debt arrangements 
limit our financial exposure to the loss of our equity 
investment and future cash flows from the project. 
Thus, whilst the loss or impairment of assets  
in a project company might affect the financial 
performance of the Group, other operating 
companies would remain unaffected.
Construction and operational risks
Our policy with regard to new-build is, wherever 
possible, to award major projects on an EPC basis  
to suitably qualified contractors. EPC contracts 
transfer the majority of the design and construction 
risks to the contractor, and provide substantial 
protection through liquidated damages in the  
event of failure on the part of the contractor to  
meet contractual completion or plant performance 
targets. Where there is a project specific need to 
adopt a risk sharing approach within the contract, 
this is done on the basis of deliverable technical and 
performance assumptions and with due regard to 
the ability to manage these risks. We supplement 
this contractual protection with insurances.
The rapid global growth in the demand for new 
power capacity and rising raw material prices during 
2008 have contributed to significant price increases 
and longer lead times for the delivery of power plant 
equipment. Recent world economic events may 
begin to ease this situation, however, there remains  
a risk that greenfield project development timescales 
will be extended further and, in addition, the ability  
to secure extensive commercial protection from the 
original equipment manufacturers will become more 
difficult. This risk is generally greater for coal-fired 
plant because of longer construction lead times.  
We continue to work with the main suppliers, such  
as Alstom, General Electric, Mitsubishi and Siemens, 
with whom we have long-term relationships, with 
emphasis on our growth plans and long-term 
opportunities.
A key operational risk is unplanned availability  
loss, which can therefore lead to a reduction in 
profitability and cash flows. Plants operating under 
long-term PPAs are generally rewarded for high 
levels of availability, and therefore unplanned 
outages can result in a loss of significant revenue. 
For our merchant plants, unplanned outages can 
result in the need to buy back power which has  
been forward contracted. During 2008, despite  
some unplanned outages, our portfolio achieved  
an average technical availability rate of 89.1%, 
compared to a North American Electric Reliability 
Council (NERC) average rate of 85.3%. A Group-
wide integrated Operations and Engineering team 
ensures that our experiences are shared throughout 
the portfolio, and this, combined with an ongoing 
maintenance programme, maximises commercial 
availability at all our plants.
Power plants are characterised by high 
temperatures, pressures, voltages and rotational 
velocities. Providing a safe environment for people 
on our sites and in surrounding areas is a major 
priority. We achieve a safe environment by using  
a combination of engineering and operational 
procedures and standards, provision of training, 
performance monitoring and by employing 
experienced staff. In addition, we are currently 
applying a new engineering risk assessment 
approach to assist in the identification and 
management of the key engineering risks  
across the plant portfolio. 
Paiton, Indonesia
Business overview 25 We are a minority participant in a number of 
projects and cannot set operational standards  
in such cases. In these circumstances we provide 
support, where appropriate, and use our influence 
as an experienced plant operator to achieve 
standards that are consistent with our own. 
However, our ability to influence partners varies.
During construction we closely monitor progress  
by reference to four major factors: safety, 
construction programme, cost and quality. Once  
a plant is in operation we monitor performance by 
reference to a number of safety and performance 
indicators including, for example, Accident 
Frequency Rate (AFR), technical availability,  
net maximum capacity, thermal efficiency  
and forced outage rate.
Health, safety and environmental risks
Excellent HS&E performance is critically important 
for our business. Risks range from harm to our  
staff and to our reputation in the wider community, 
to enforced plant closures and substantial fines.
Health, safety and environmental  
compliance activities
At plant level, HS&E requirements are set by 
corporate, local and national standards and 
regulations, and individual plants operate within  
site specific environmental licensing limits. We have 
an ongoing HS&E audit programme to provide 
assurance in this area and we monitor closely the 
AFR and breaches of environmental permits.  
The AFR and reportable environmental incidents 
are amongst our KPIs.
Plant operating and monitoring procedures are 
effective in ensuring that we comply with the 
conditions of our environmental licences and 
consents. Whilst we have experienced occasional 
breaches of our environmental operating limits, 
there have been no recent incidents that have posed 
a significant threat to the environment, or to our 
ability to run our plants.
Sites are required to adhere to a set of corporate 
health and safety standards and to local regulations. 
Health and safety performance is the responsibility 
of our plant managers, who are supported by local 
health and safety specialists. Our global health and 
safety manager is responsible for ensuring that our 
corporate policies and standards remain current 
and are understood by all of our sites.
Environmental regulation
Environmental legislation is one of the key drivers  
of the long-term development of the electricity 
industry. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions are expected to impose increasing 
commercial constraints on our ability to emit  
Carbon Dioxide (CO
2). Although the majority of our 
fleet comprises gas-fired and renewable generation, 
with relatively low or nil CO 2 emissions, it is clear 
that there will be increasing constraints on our 
ability to use fossil fuels to generate power. The 
impact of carbon reduction measures is currently 
most apparent at our European plants, where  
we are required to ensure that we have sufficient 
carbon credits to support our expected levels of 
generation. Certain of our projects have change  
of law protection, which enables us to pass on  
any carbon costs to the offtaker. In such cases  
the economic impact of carbon risk is removed. In 
addition, International Power employs regulatory 
and legislative experts who will advocate the 
Company’s position during any proposed changes 
in environmental rules.
European Union (EU) member states are 
committed to meeting existing EU-wide legislation 
designed to tackle climate change. Under the Kyoto 
Protocol, the EU is planning an 8% reduction (from 
1990 levels) in greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, 
and is seeking to achieve this through a number of 
measures. Firstly, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme 
(EUETS) cap and trade mechanism is designed to 
promote the reduction of CO 2 emissions across 
European industry. In addition, the EU Renewables 
Directive sets individual national targets for the 
amount of electricity to be obtained through 
renewable sources. In December 2008, EU member 
states agreed new, longer-term binding targets:  
a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 
2020 (again from 1990 levels) and 20% of energy 
use to come from renewable sources by 2020. 
These targets are apportioned between member 
states and implemented through new directives. 
From 2013 full auctioning of CO 2 allowances is to  
be implemented for the power sector across the  
EU, although certain central and eastern European 
countries will retain some free allowances (declining 
to zero by 2020), in recognition of their high 
dependency on fossil fuels and low GDPs.
Our approach to risk and risk management
International Power Annual Report 2008
26 In December 2007, under a new federal 
government, Australia ratified the Kyoto Protocol. 
Carbon dioxide measurement and reporting 
legislation was passed in July 2008 and the 
government is planning to introduce an emissions 
trading scheme across most industrial sectors, 
including the power sector, by mid 2010. 
International Power Australia is engaged with both 
the federal and state governments on the design 
and implementation of the scheme. The current 
proposals are for a minimum 5% reduction in CO 2 
emissions against 2000 levels by 2020, with the 
potential for this target to rise to 15% (pending the 
UN meeting in Copenhagen planned to be held at 
the end of 2009). Under the proposals, there is 
currently a period of five years where, in effect,  
no charge will be applied for a portion of emissions 
from coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood 
and Loy Yang B assets would be eligible for this 
relief. The details of the proposals are yet to be 
finalised, with the government aiming to introduce 
the legislation into Parliament in May 2009. The 
impact of the legislation upon our assets in Australia 
will remain uncertain until some time after 
legislation is finalised.
In the US, the newly elected government is 
progressing fast in developing its carbon emissions 
reduction plans. There are currently state and 
federal programmes in development which would 
establish incentives for low carbon emissions. At the 
state level, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative 
programme is now in effect in the north eastern  
and mid Atlantic states, and aims to reduce CO 2 
emissions by 10% by 2018. The first auction of 
emission allowances was held in September 2008 
and the scheme commenced on 1 January 2009. At 
the federal level, the new administration is expected 
to introduce emissions legislation in 2009 that will 
become effective in 2012 or later. We expect the 
legislation to include a combination of carbon 
allocations and auctions. The overall efficiency of 
our US power stations means that the US business  
should be well positioned to meet the requirements 
of this new legislation. International Power will be 
actively engaged in advocating the Company’s 
position during the legislative process.
There is no imminent legislation expected in  
either the Middle East or Asia. Our projects in  
these regions operate under long-term PPAs,  
and many of these have change of law protection, 
which would enable us to pass on any carbon costs 
to the offtaker.
At the global level, there is uncertainty over what 
will replace the Kyoto Protocol on climate change 
when it expires at the end of 2012. Most 
governments in developed countries have 
introduced legislation to incentivise renewable 
generation, to the point where growth in renewable 
generation may have a material impact on our fossil 
fuelled plants. In response, we continued to make 
major investments in renewable energy during 
2008. We also have dedicated resources to review 
technology trends in order to ensure that we are 
well positioned to participate in the drive towards  
a lower carbon environment.
Staffing and human resources risks
Despite the current economic downturn, there 
remains competition for well qualified and 
experienced staff, particularly engineers, from 
other power companies and similar industries.  
In this competitive environment, attracting the  
right staff to International Power is a challenge.  
By offering market remuneration and focusing  
on career development options within our 
international portfolio, International Power is  
still managing to recruit talented staff, though  
the talent pool can be limited in certain skills  
and geographic regions.
In addition, a number of coal-fired power plants 
have an ageing staff profile. Succession planning  
helps identify areas at risk, though there is a risk that 
employment costs will rise above the local inflation 
rate to attract enough suitable staff to  
keep plants fully operational.
A few of our sites have high union representation. 
We have not been affected by industrial action for 
several years but this remains a risk. We maintain 
appropriate dialogues with staff unions to ensure 
that we are aware of any potential issues in good 
time to mitigate our risks.
In order to reduce, where required, the threat  
of terrorism, we liaise with local law enforcement 
organisations on security issues and we also utilise 
the services of a global security consultancy, to 
ensure that our risk assessments and physical 
security measures fully reflect local conditions.  
The consultancy additionally has the capacity  
to provide personal security services if required.
Pelican Point, Australia
Indian Queens, UK
Business overview 27 We consider PFO and EPS, excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements  
(for more information see pages 33, 60 and 107 to 108), to be appropriate indicators of performance,  
as these measures:
—  exclude significant items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, could potentially distort  
year-on-year comparisons
—  allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Group’s 
underlying business performance, by excluding fair value movements on economic hedges
—  assist shareholders and analysts who, for the reasons set out above, have expressed a preference  
for the reporting of results without the inclusion of the effects of exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market movements
Presenting the Group’s segmental results, total PFO, and EPS, before exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market movements, is consistent with the way management measures the Group’s 
performance in its budgets, forecasts and management accounts on a day-to-day basis.
The financial KPIs are calculated from data included within the consolidated financial statements.  
On pages 33 to 35, the results of our financial KPIs, which are presented excluding exceptional  
items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, are also reconciled to the results presented 
including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Key performance indicators and financial highlights
We use a range of performance indicators, both financial and 
non-financial, to measure the delivery of our strategic objective 
and to manage the business.
Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs
Our financial KPIs address two key aspects of the  
business: its profitability and its cash generation 
Our non-financial KPIs address other key performance 
aspects of the business: safety, environmental and 
operational performance
Profit From Operations (PFO)* Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
Earnings Per Share (EPS)* Reportable environmental incidents
Free cash flow Technical availability
* Financial KPIs are presented excluding exceptional items and speciﬁc IAS 39 mark to market movements
Financial KPIs
  Year ended 31 December
  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
PFO £222m £536m £773m £904m £1,050m
EPS 8.6p 14.6p 22.4p 27.1p 32.4p
Free cash flow £104m £285m £456m £653m £513m
Key performance indicators
We use a range of performance indicators, both financial and non-financial, to measure the delivery of our 
strategic objective – growth in shareholder value through the efficient operation, financing, and trading of 
output from our portfolio, whilst maintaining the highest levels of safety and environmental performance 
– and to manage the business.
The most important of these measures are considered Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and their targets 
are determined annually during the business planning process. The KPIs are used by management to compare 
actual performance during the year, and the latest monthly forecasts, against the annual budgeted targets. 
Our KPIs, both financial and non-financial, are set out below.
The explanations and results of our KPIs follow.
Key performance indicators and financial highlights
International Power Annual Report 2008
28 Profit from operations
PFO is a measure of the operating profitability of the 
Group. It excludes the impact of all non-operating 
costs from subsidiaries, financing costs and  
income tax expense, and therefore provides  
a comprehensive measure of operational 
performance. 
PFO, excluding exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market movements, has grown  
at an average compound growth rate of 47%  
over the last four years reflecting strong financial 
performance over the period. The results for the 
current and prior year are also presented in the 
consolidated income statement on page 103.
This KPI is also used as one of the measures to 
evaluate Regional Directors’ performance when 
quantifying their annual bonuses (more information 
can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 84 to 99).
 
Earnings per share
EPS is a measure of the overall profitability of the 
Group and shareholder returns. It is defined as the 
profit in pence attributable to each Ordinary Share 
in the Company, based on the consolidated profit 
for the year, after deducting tax and minority 
interests. Growth in EPS over time is indicative  
of the ability of the Group to add value.
EPS, excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements, has grown at an 
average compound growth rate of 39% over the 
last four years. The calculation of this year’s result is 
presented in note 11 to the financial statements on 
page 126. This KPI is also used as the basis of one  
of the measures to evaluate Directors’ performance 
when quantifying their annual bonuses and as a 
performance condition in their long-term incentive 
plans (more information can be found in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 84 to 99).
This KPI is also used as a performance condition  
in the Company’s share-based reward and  
incentive schemes (more information can be  
found in note 28 of the consolidated financial 
statements on pages 141 to 145).
 
Profit from operations
2004
£222m
£536m
£904m
£1,050m
£773m
2005 2006 2007 2008
Earnings per share
2004
8.6p
14.6p
27.1p
32.4p
22.4p
2005 2006 2007 2008
Business overview 29 Free cash flow
Power generation is a capital-intensive business  
and hence it requires the assets within the Group  
to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the initial 
investment in those assets, to provide returns  
for shareholders and to provide funds for future 
investment opportunities. We define free cash  
flow as net cash flow from operating activities after 
all pre-exceptional operating costs, maintenance 
capital expenditure, interest and tax (i.e. exceptional 
items are excluded from free cash flow).
We consider this measure of cash flow to be a key 
indicator of performance as it measures the cash 
generated from the underlying business 
performance of continuing operating activities.  
This is consistent with the way management 
measures the Group’s performance in its budgets, 
forecasts and management accounts on a day-to-
day basis. This KPI is also used as one of the 
measures to evaluate Directors’ performance when 
quantifying their annual bonuses (more information 
can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 84 to 99).
Free cash flow has grown at an average compound 
growth rate of 49% over the last four years 
reflecting both an increase in the size of the Group 
and strong operational and financial performance 
over the period. The results for the current and prior 
year are also presented in the consolidated cash 
flow statement on page 106.
 
Non-financial KPIs
Accident frequency rate
Health and safety is of vital importance in our 
business. It is important to provide all personnel  
at our sites with a safe place to work, and any 
accident is disruptive to the running of the  
business. AFR is our reporting standard and is 
defined as the number of Lost Time Accidents  
(LTAs) divided by the number of hours worked, 
multiplied by 100,000. 
We define a LTA as 24 hours absence from work – 
this is a much tighter definition than the usual legal 
requirement of three days. In addition to recording 
accidents at our subsidiaries we include, in the 
results presented, any accidents pertaining to staff 
at joint ventures and associates and we also include 
contractors in our accident statistics, which is not 
common practice. This approach to reporting helps 
us to improve our understanding and management 
of health and safety at our sites.
The majority of the injuries are relatively minor and 
result from slips, trips and falls, or incorrect lifting 
and handling. More serious injuries are rare.
In 2008 the AFR for employees and contractors  
combined was 0.09. This can be compared with  
0.12 for 2007. International Power has seen a 
reduction in AFR over the last three years and 
intends to maintain this improvement. This does not 
mean we tolerate unsafe behaviour; our overriding 
target is zero LTAs. All Regional Directors have a 
common personal, non-financial objective, relating 
to Health, Safety and the Environment (HS&E).
Uch, Pakistan
International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic
Free cash flow
2004
£104m
£285m
£653m
£513m
£456m
2005 2006 2007 2008
Accident frequency rate
2005
0.23
0.16
0.09
0.12
2006 2007 2008
Key performance indicators and financial highlights
International Power Annual Report 2008
30 Reportable environmental incidents
Our power plants are issued with environmental 
licences by the relevant statutory authorities. 
Environmental licences require that any significant 
environmental incident is reported. 
We have always had a policy of complying with  
all applicable environmental regulations and we 
measure our ability to comply with environmental 
regulations by recording the number of reportable 
environmental incidents at all plants where we have 
an interest (including joint ventures and associates). 
 
In 2008 there were six reportable environmental 
incidents which demonstrates a significant 
improvement on 2007. This information is derived 
using data submitted by individual plants directly 
into the corporate reporting system.
The environmental incidents reported in 2008 
related to relatively minor breaches of the pollution 
control limits set by operating licenses and none 
have led to prosecution. International Power has 
reduced reportable environmental incidents over 
the last four years and intends to maintain this 
improvement as it moves towards the ultimate  
goal of zero reportable environmental incidents.
Technical availability
Technical availability measures when a plant  
is available for dispatch. Each of our plants will 
generally be unavailable during some periods in  
the year due to a combination of planned outages 
for maintenance and unplanned outages.
An important aspect of our business is ensuring that 
our merchant power trading and Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs) are closely aligned to our 
operational activities and availability planning is a 
key factor in this regard. The year-on-year variance 
in the profile of planned outages influences the 
technical availability.
Technical availability is calculated by first 
determining the potential maximum amount of 
electricity that could be generated in the year if all 
our plants, including joint ventures and associates, 
were operated at full output for the entire year.  
We then deduct from this maximum amount the 
electricity that could not be produced due to 
planned and unplanned outages at the plants 
throughout the year. 
This number is then expressed as a percentage  
of the potential maximum electricity that could be 
generated, where all these quantities are calculated 
in terms of electrical energy (GWh). This calculation 
is performed by using data submitted by individual 
plants directly into the corporate reporting system.
In 2008 we achieved technical availability of 89.1%, 
a decrease from the 90.0% achieved in 2007. The 
extension of the outage at Rugeley was the key 
contributor to the reduced technical availability  
this year. If technical availability at Rugeley had  
been consistent with its average performance  
over the last three years, the technical availability  
of the portfolio as a whole would have been 90.3%.
Non-financial KPIs
  Year ended 31 December
   2005 2006 2007 2008
AFR  0.23 0.16 0.12 0.09
Reportable environmental incidents  16 16 13 6
Technical availability  90.1% 89.6% 90.0% 89.1%
All non-financial KPIs are calculated on a full impact basis, at all assets where we have an interest, including joint ventures and associates.
Reportable environmental incidents
2005
16 16
6
13
2006 2007 2008
Technical availability
2005
90.1%
89.6% 89.1%
90.0%
2006 2007 2008
Business overview 31 Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
32 Key performance indicators and financial highlights
International Power Annual Report 2008
32
Financial highlights
The financial information included in the consolidated financial statements has been prepared on the basis 
of all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
(EU). A discussion of the policies we believe to be most critical in considering the impact of estimates and 
judgements on the Group’s financial position and results of operations are set out on pages 52 to 61.
In order to allow a full understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated 
financial statements, and specifically the Group’s underlying business performance, the Group presents  
its income statement such that it separately identifies: 
—  the results excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
—  the effect of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
—  the total result
The basis of preparation is outlined more fully in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on  
pages 107 to 108. However, in summary, those items that the Group separately present as exceptional  
are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size  
or incidence in order to enable a proper understanding of the financial information. Those items that  
the Group separately present as specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are those mark to market 
movements recorded in the income statement which relate to: derivative contracts into which the Group 
has entered in order to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures; and fair value 
gains and losses on equity conversion features embedded within convertible bonds, so as to separately 
identify a non-cash movement which, if the conversion option is exercised, will ultimately be extinguished 
by the issue of equity. 
A summary of the Group’s financial performance during the year is as follows:
Income statement
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m
Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Revenue (including joint ventures and associates)    4,891 3,872
Profit from operations
– from subsidiaries     821 718
– from joint ventures and associates     229 186
Profit from operations     1,050 904
Interest     (368) (308)
Profit before tax     682 596
Taxation     (123) (11 3)
Profit for the year     559 483
Attributable to:
Minority interests     69 77
Equity holders of the parent     490 406
Earnings per share (basic)     32.4p 27.1p
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Profit from operations     1,156 518
Profit for the year     759 529
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent    667 503
Earnings per share (basic)     44.2p 33.6p Overall section 33 Business overview 33
Profit from operations
2008 PFO (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) at £1,050 million 
is 16% ahead of 2007, driven by higher profit from operations in Australia and North America, a record 
year at First Hydro in the UK, and good performance from our long-term contracted asset base.
PFO (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) is discussed in more 
detail in the regional review sections which follow.
Reconciliation from PFO to PFO excluding exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market movements 
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m
PFO     1,156 518
Losses on exceptional items      57 56
(Gains)/losses on specific IAS 39 mark to market movements   (163) 330
PFO excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements  1,050 904
Segmental results
 Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007
 Subsidiaries Share of Total Subsidiaries Share of Total
  joint ventures   joint ventures 
  and associates   and associates 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
North America 148 29 177 108 28 136
Europe 500 81 581 521 53 574
Middle East 43 26 69 44 24 68
Australia 164 4 168 83 (1) 82
Asia 15 89 104 14 82 96
 870 229 1,099 770 186 956
Corporate costs (49) – (49) (52) – (52)
       
PFO excluding exceptional items 
 and specific IAS 39 mark  
 to market movements 821 229 1,050 718 186 904
Exceptional items and  
  specific IAS 39 mark  
to market movements 115 (9) 106 (398) 12 (386)
Profit from operations 936 220 1,156 320 198 518
The regional performance is discussed in more detail on pages 36 to 51. 
Earnings per share 
2008 EPS (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements) at 32.4p is 20% 
ahead of 2007. This increase principally reflects those items discussed under the heading ‘profit from 
operations’ and also reflects an increase in interest expense and a smaller increase in tax expense (both  
of which are discussed on page 53).
Al Kamil, Oman
Spanish Hydro, Spain Reconciliation from EPS to EPS excluding exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market movements 
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     pence pence
EPS     44.2p 33.6p
Deduct after tax and minority interest gains on exceptional items   (0.6)p (20.3)p
(Deduct)/add after tax and minority interest (gains)/losses on specific 
 IAS 39 mark to market movements     (11.2)p 13.8p
EPS excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements  32.4p 27.1p
Balance sheet
     As at  As at
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
Net assets     £4,135m £3,007m
Net debt     £6,318m £4,662m
Gearing     153% 155%
Debt capitalisation     60% 61%
Free cash flow
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m
Profit for the year     759 529
Depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash movements
(1)
   411 406
Exceptional items     57 (233)
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movement    (172) 342
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates    135 145
Capital expenditure – maintenance     (108) (71)
Net sale/(purchase) of intangible assets     25 (48)
Net increase in working capital     (109) (4)
Tax and net interest paid     (485) (413)
Free cash flow     513 653
(1)  Depreciation, amortisation and other movements include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, and the share of profit of joint ventures  
and associates. 
Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2008 was £513 million, a decrease of £140 million 
compared with 2007. This decrease is driven by an increase in maintenance capital expenditure of  
£37 million, principally at Rugeley, Hazelwood and Saltend; and an increase in net interest paid of  
£87 million. In addition, there was a working capital increase in the year of £109 million due to stock 
building at Rugeley and a reversal of some one-off working capital benefits in 2007.
Key performance indicators and financial highlights
International Power Annual Report 2008
34 Tejo Energia (Pego), Portugal
Reconciliation from net cash inflow from operating activities to free cash flow
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities      506 653
Add back exceptional payment of Australian stamp duty    7 –
Free cash flow     513 653
A review of liquidity is included on pages 55 to 57.
Dividend 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share, bringing the full-year dividend to  
12.15 pence per share (2007: 10.16 pence per share), an increase of 20% year-on-year. Payment  
of this final dividend to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 5 June 2009 is due  
to be made on 9 July 2009, following approval at the 2009 AGM which will be held on 21 May 2009.
Outlook
We have a well established portfolio of long-term contracted assets which continues to perform well.  
We are also well positioned in our key merchant markets, although forward pricing in the UK and  
the US does not reflect the attractive long-term market fundamentals. In the absence of a significant 
improvement in pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower  
than in 2008. However, our assets are well placed to capture value, from both market recovery and  
short-term pricing volatility. The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good corporate 
liquidity and no material refinancings in 2009. We expect to continue to deliver strong free cash flow  
in 2009.
Business overview 35 Regional review – North America
International Power Annual Report 2008
36
Regional review 
—
 North America
01 Hartwell Georgia
02 Calumet Illinois
03 Bellingham Massachusetts
04 Blackstone Massachusetts
05 Milford Massachusetts
06 Troy Ohio
07 Armstrong Pennsylvania
08 Coleto Creek Texas
09 Hays Texas
10 Midlothian Texas
11 Oyster Creek Texas
12 Pleasants West Virginia
13 EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW  
Assets in operation
Hartwell Georgia Gas (OCGT) 318 50 159  
Calumet Illinois Gas (OCGT) 303 100 303  
Bellingham Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 539 100 539  
Blackstone Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 488 100 488  
Milford Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 100 160  
Troy Ohio Gas/oil (OCGT) 616 100 616  
Armstrong Pennsylvania Gas/oil (OCGT) 625 100 625  
Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 100 667  
Hays Texas Gas (CCGT) 913 100 913  
Midlothian Texas Gas (CCGT) 1,423 100 1,423  
Oyster Creek Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 440 50 220 100MWth 50MWth
Pleasants West Virginia Gas/oil (OCGT) 313 100 313  
EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 548 35 192  
North America total in operation   7,353   6,618
Note:  Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009.
01
02
03
05
07
11
1 3
08
09
10
12
06
04
Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
36 Regional review – North America
International Power Annual Report 2008
36
Regional review 
—
 North America
01 Hartwell Georgia
02 Calumet Illinois
03 Bellingham Massachusetts
04 Blackstone Massachusetts
05 Milford Massachusetts
06 Troy Ohio
07 Armstrong Pennsylvania
08 Coleto Creek Texas
09 Hays Texas
10 Midlothian Texas
11 Oyster Creek Texas
12 Pleasants West Virginia
13 EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW  
Assets in operation
Hartwell Georgia Gas (OCGT) 318 50 159  
Calumet Illinois Gas (OCGT) 303 100 303  
Bellingham Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 539 100 539  
Blackstone Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 488 100 488  
Milford Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 100 160  
Troy Ohio Gas/oil (OCGT) 616 100 616  
Armstrong Pennsylvania Gas/oil (OCGT) 625 100 625  
Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 100 667  
Hays Texas Gas (CCGT) 913 100 913  
Midlothian Texas Gas (CCGT) 1,423 100 1,423  
Oyster Creek Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 440 50 220 100MWth 50MWth
Pleasants West Virginia Gas/oil (OCGT) 313 100 313  
EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 548 35 192  
North America total in operation   7,353   6,618
Note:  Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009.
01
02
03
05
07
11
1 3
08
09
10
12
06
04 Overall section 37 Business overview 37
Results – North America 
 Year ended Year ended
 31 December 31 December
 2008 2007
 £m £m
Profit from operations 156 115
Exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market
movements – losses 21 21
PFO (excluding exceptional   
items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements)  177 136
Profit From Operations (PFO) in North America 
was up at £177 million, from £136 million last year, 
primarily due to much improved contributions  
from the Hays and Coleto Creek plants in Texas.  
Our contracted assets, EcoEléctrica, Hartwell and 
Oyster Creek, all performed well and delivered  
a consistent financial performance.
Hays, in south Texas, benefited from a significantly 
higher achieved spark spread, which increased from 
$10/MWh in 2007 to $21/MWh in 2008, as a result 
of higher demand and transmission constraints, 
particularly during the second quarter of the  
year. The plant continued to deliver a strong 
performance in the second half of the year reflecting 
a high zonal premium, driven by supply constraints. 
The load factor increased to 65%, from 45% in 
2007. At Midlothian, in north Texas, the load factor 
fell from 55% to 40%, at a slightly reduced spark 
spread of $13/MWh (2007: $14/MWh), due to  
a relatively cool summer and additional supply  
from wind generators.
Coleto Creek achieved a dark spread of $30/MWh at 
a significantly higher load factor of 90% compared 
to 75% in 2007, when the plant had a two-month 
planned outage to install dust emission control 
equipment. The output at Coleto Creek is heavily 
forward contracted (75%) for 2009.
In New England, the average achieved spark spread 
for Blackstone and Bellingham increased from  
$16/MWh to $19/MWh but at a reduced load factor 
of 45% (2007: 60%), mainly due to lower running  
in the first quarter, and cooler weather during the 
summer. Earnings in New England continue to  
be underpinned by capacity payments under the 
Forward Capacity Market (FCM) where prices have 
been determined through to May 2012. In 2008, 
capacity payments accounted for some 50% of  
PFO at Blackstone and Bellingham.
The New England states are now participating in  
the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI),  
a cap and trade Carbon Dioxide (CO
2
) reduction 
programme which commenced in January 2009. 
The first two CO 2 auctions, held in September 2008 
and December 2008, cleared at $3.07/ton and 
$3.38/ton of CO 2 respectively.
In July 2008, we successfully completed the 
acquisition of the 1,857MW portfolio of four 
modern peaking generation facilities, located in 
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland (PJM) and 
Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) 
power pools, for a total consideration of  
$864 million (£436 million). In PJM, where three  
of the plants are located, the capacity price has  
been established through to May 2012 under  
the Reliability Pricing Mechanism, with the next 
capacity auction (for the period June 2012 to  
May 2013) planned for May 2009. The 616MW 
peaking plant located in MISO has a capacity  
tolling agreement until the end of 2012. We  
expect this acquisition to provide an attractive 
return on investment, largely underpinned by 
capacity payments.
Armstrong, US
Troy, US
Achieved and forecast spreads and load factors
 Year ended 31 December
    2009 2008 2007
    Forecast Actual Actual
New England
Spark spread ($/MWh)    $19 $19 $16
Load factor    50% 45% 60%
Contracted position    30%
Texas (Hays)
Spark spread ($/MWh)    $11 $21 $10
Load factor    55% 65% 45%
Contracted position    45%
Texas (Midlothian)
Spark spread ($/MWh)    $13 $13 $14
Load factor    35% 40% 55%
Contracted position    45%
Texas (Coleto Creek)
Dark spread ($/MWh)    $27 $30 $29
Load factor    95% 90% 75%
Contracted position    75%
Notes:
—  New England: Spark spreads include income from the FCM and exclude the cost of CO2. 
— Dark spreads at Coleto Creek exclude the cost of Sulpher Dioxide (SO 2 ) credits.
— The forward contracted positions at Coleto Creek include sales via gas hedges. Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
38 Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
38 Regional review – North America
International Power Annual Report 2008
Whilst long-term fundamentals in Texas and  
New England remain attractive, both markets  
face near-term challenges. Since the second half  
of 2008, power prices in both markets have seen  
a material decline, primarily driven by a significant 
reduction in gas prices, expectations that demand 
growth will slow on the back of the poor economic 
outlook, and reduced trading liquidity. Assuming  
no significant improvement in forward prices, PFO 
in the current year from these markets would be 
lower than that achieved in 2008. We have forward 
contracted 45% of our expected merchant 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) output 
in Texas and 30% in New England for 2009.
Market position
For the reasons stated above, we have revised our 
demand growth projections in Texas to a lesser  
rate. However, with the announced retirement of 
3,836MW of ageing capacity, the reserve margin  
is expected to fall to 12% by 2011. Given this 
backdrop, our modern, efficient fleet is well 
positioned to capture value from both market 
recovery and short-term pricing volatility.
In New England, following the introduction of the 
FCM, we monitor the reserve margin including and 
excluding demand side management (as shown in 
the graph below). Following the second capacity 
auction, a high level of demand side management 
was included, placing greater reliance on existing 
old generation capacity. Overall, we expect this will 
put the system under greater strain, particularly  
on high demand days. Also following the second 
ERCOT reserve margin
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015
Reserve margin – downside case
Reserve margin – base case
Target reserve line
2014 2016
20
%
10
5
15
0.00
1.25
2.50
3.75
5.00
6.25
7.50
8.75
10.00
11.25
12.50
13.75
15.00
16.25
17.50
18.75
20.00
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
32.5
35.0
37.5
40.0
Note: Downside case reflects demand 
reduction in 2009 and 2010.
NEPOOL reserve margin
2009 2010 2011 2013 2015 2012 2014 2016
Reserve margin including
demand side resources
Reserve margin excluding
demand side resources
Target reserve line
40
%
20
10
30
0.00
1.25
2.50
3.75
5.00
6.25
7.50
8.75
10.00
11.25
12.50
13.75
15.00
16.25
17.50
18.75
20.00
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
32.5
35.0
37.5
40.0
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
32.5
35.0
37.5
40.0
Note: Reserve margin reflects reduced 
demand growth and additional supply 
following latest capacity auction.
auction, an additional 1,157MW of new capacity  
is expected to come online in 2011. However, this 
will be principally located in Connecticut to serve 
local load, and as such our plants should not be 
impacted by this additional supply as Connecticut  
is not a region we supply (due to transmission 
constraints). In this market, our relatively more 
efficient CCGT plants are well positioned to benefit 
from this increasing dependence on older plants, 
which have a higher cost of generation.
As stated before, during 2008, International Power 
acquired 1,857MW of peaking plants in the PJM  
and MISO power pools. The PJM power pool  
is the largest power region in the US with  
installed capacity of over 164GW. PJM comprises 
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, 
Virginia, West Virginia and parts of Ohio, Indiana, 
Illinois, Michigan and North Carolina. The MISO 
power pool was formed in 2001 and has over 
118GW of installed capacity, covering 15 states and 
one Canadian province, including most of Michigan, 
Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, 
Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin. 
The impact of the economic slowdown has been 
more evident in the PJM market, and we are 
assuming some demand reduction in 2009. 
However, given that our peaking assets run at  
a low load factor, and that a large proportion  
of their income is underpinned by capacity 
payments, which have been determined through  
to mid 2012, this reduction in demand is not 
expected to have a major impact on profitability. Overall section 39 Overall section 39 Business overview
Snapshot – regional markets
North America
31% of International Power’s net capacity is located in North America.
Key markets for International Power: Texas and New England.
Texas (ERCOT)
— Total installed capacity: 74GW
— Market type: liberalised – merchant market
— Forecast peak demand growth: base case 0%, downside case -1% (2008/09)
— Peak reserve margin: 14% (in 2008)
— Peak demand season: summer
— International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 3,223MW (net)
  – 2,556MW gas CCGT, 667MW coal
New England (NEPOOL)
— Total installed capacity: 31GW
— Market type: liberalised – merchant market
— Forecast peak demand growth: -1% (2008/09)
— Peak reserve margin: 12% (in 2008)
— Peak demand season: summer
— International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 1,187MW (net)
  – 1,187MW gas CCGT
In addition to plants in Texas and New England, International Power has interests in four peaking plants in PJM  
and MISO and two long-term contracted plants: Hartwell (Georgia) and EcoEléctrica (Puerto Rico).
Texas (ERCOT) market capacity
by fuel type (MW)
Gas CCGT 37%
Other 1%
Nuclear 7%
Coal 21%
Gas peaking 6%
Gas ST 28%
New England (NEPOOL) market capacity
by fuel type (MW)
Gas CCGT 36%
Pumped storage 5%
Other renewable 9%
Coal 9%
Nuclear 15%
Oil/gas peaking 6%
Oil/gas ST 20% Regional review 
—
 Europe
Regional review – Europe
International Power Annual Report 2008
40
01  International Power Opatovice 
Czech Republic
02  IPR European Wind Portfolio 
Germany, Italy, France,  
the Netherlands
03  ISAB Italy
04  Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal
05  Turbogás Portugal
06  Spanish Hydro Spain
07  Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey 
08 Deeside UK
09 Derwent UK
10 First Hydro UK
11 Indian Queens UK
12 Rugeley UK
13 Saltend UK
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
International Power Opatovice
(1)
 Czech Republic Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 100 585 2,040MWth 2,040MWth
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy,  Wind 1,179 100 1,179
  France, Netherlands 
ISAB Italy  Gas (IGCC) 562 34 193
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal  Coal 628 50 314
Turbogás Portugal Gas (CCGT) 1,008 100 1,008
Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro/solar 88 67 58
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey Gas (CCGT) 488 33 162
Deeside UK Gas (CCGT) 500 75 375
Derwent UK Gas (CCGT) 214 23 49
First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566
Indian Queens UK Oil (OCGT) 140 75 105
Rugeley UK  Coal (50MW of OCGT) 1,050 75 788
Saltend UK  Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 75 900 0.30m lbs/hr 0.23m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation   9,730    7,282
Assets under construction
IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy  Wind 30 75 23
Elecgas Portugal Gas (CCGT) 830 50 415
T-Power Belgium Gas (CCGT) 420 33 140
Europe total under construction     1,280  578
  Region IPR  Description
   ownership
   %  
Other businesses
Opus Energy UK 30  Independent supplier of electricity to small and  
medium-sized businesses
Notes:  
Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009. 
(1) Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
01
02
02
02
02
03
04
05
06
07
09
10
11
12
1 3
08
Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
40
Regional review 
—
 Europe
Regional review – Europe
International Power Annual Report 2008
40
01  International Power Opatovice 
Czech Republic
02  IPR European Wind Portfolio 
Germany, Italy, France,  
the Netherlands
03  ISAB Italy
04  Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal
05  Turbogás Portugal
06  Spanish Hydro Spain
07  Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey 
08 Deeside UK
09 Derwent UK
10 First Hydro UK
11 Indian Queens UK
12 Rugeley UK
13 Saltend UK
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
International Power Opatovice
(1)
 Czech Republic Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 100 585 2,040MWth 2,040MWth
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy,  Wind 1,179 100 1,179
  France, Netherlands 
ISAB Italy  Gas (IGCC) 562 34 193
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal  Coal 628 50 314
Turbogás Portugal Gas (CCGT) 1,008 100 1,008
Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro/solar 88 67 58
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey Gas (CCGT) 488 33 162
Deeside UK Gas (CCGT) 500 75 375
Derwent UK Gas (CCGT) 214 23 49
First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566
Indian Queens UK Oil (OCGT) 140 75 105
Rugeley UK  Coal (50MW of OCGT) 1,050 75 788
Saltend UK  Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 75 900 0.30m lbs/hr 0.23m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation   9,730    7,282
Assets under construction
IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy  Wind 30 75 23
Elecgas Portugal Gas (CCGT) 830 50 415
T-Power Belgium Gas (CCGT) 420 33 140
Europe total under construction     1,280  578
  Region IPR  Description
   ownership
   %  
Other businesses
Opus Energy UK 30  Independent supplier of electricity to small and  
medium-sized businesses
Notes:  
Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009. 
(1) Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
01
02
02
02
02
03
04
05
06
07
09
10
11
12
1 3
08 Overall section 41 Overall section 41 Business overview 41
Results – Europe 
 Year ended Year ended
 31 December 31 December
 2008 2007
 £m £m
Profit from operations 658 383
Exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market
movements – (profits)/losses (77) 191
PFO (excluding exceptional   
items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements)  581 574
Profit From Operations (PFO) in Europe increased  
to £581 million in 2008 (2007: £574 million).  
In the UK, First Hydro performed particularly well. 
The region also benefited from a first time full-year 
contribution from the Maestrale wind farm 
portfolio and a strong performance at International 
Power Opatovice, in the Czech Republic. Together 
these factors helped offset the impact of the 
extended outage at Rugeley. Our contracted assets 
in Iberia and Turkey also delivered good financial 
and operational performance.
In 2008, the UK power market was impacted by 
high levels of plant unavailability which was driven 
by unplanned plant outages at nuclear plants and by 
extended outages at coal-fired power stations that 
were undergoing Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) 
installation. These factors, together with a 
particularly high gas price environment in the 
middle of 2008, resulted in a tight market with 
increased prices which benefited our plants, 
particularly First Hydro and Deeside. 
First Hydro performed very strongly, benefiting 
from volatile prices and increased spreads in the 
short-term market. Deeside was able to benefit 
from its largely uncontracted position, which 
enabled it to capture higher short-term spreads at  
a higher load factor. Saltend continued to operate  
at a high load factor benefiting from its lower cost  
of gas, supplied under an indexed gas contract 
which expires in 2015.
Rugeley had a major extended outage during 2008 
and the units returned to service in late September 
and early October. 
The FGD equipment installation at Rugeley has 
experienced a further delay and is now anticipated 
to be completed in the second quarter of 2009. 
Primarily due to this delay, we now expect Rugeley 
to achieve a lower than previously forecast spread in 
2009. Rugeley has been able to maintain generation 
levels through the use of ultra-low sulphur coal, 
despite the delay, but this alternative coal is more 
expensive than Rugeley’s normal intake and has 
resulted in some re-scheduling of original deliveries 
to 2010. In addition, part of Rugeley’s output had 
been forward sold via gas hedges (a proxy for power 
sales) to facilitate sales during periods where 
liquidity in the forward power market was low. 
These gas hedges have been adversely impacted by 
the gradual decline in 2009 market spark spreads. 
As a result we now expect Rugeley to achieve a 
clean spread of £15/MWh, down from £18/MWh, 
and a pre-carbon spread of £20/MWh at a load 
factor of 75% in 2009. For 2010, which will benefit 
from the re-scheduled coal, we expect a clean 
spread of £21/MWh and a pre-carbon spread  
of £27/MWh.
Looking forward, we expect relatively less tension 
in the supply/demand position in the UK in 2009,  
as plants previously on outage return to service and 
new capacity is brought online. For 2009 we have 
forward contracted 90% of our expected output  
at Rugeley, 90% at Saltend, and 30% at Deeside.
In the Czech Republic, PFO increased from 2007  
as the business benefited from rising power prices. 
During 2008, Czech power prices continued to 
follow German prices which were driven up by 
strong prices for coal, oil and gas. In addition, 
reported profits benefited from a significant 
strengthening of the Czech koruna.
At ISAB in Italy, PFO in 2008 benefited from a rise  
in oil prices. This strong performance helped to 
offset the impact of the major incident in October. 
Both units at ISAB were offline until 15 December, 
when one unit was returned to service. Work on  
the second unit is underway and it is expected to  
be back online in the middle of 2010. Discussions 
with insurance providers are continuing, and we 
expect the impact of this outage to be largely 
covered by business interruption insurance.
ISAB, Italy
International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic
Achieved and forecast spreads and load factors
 Year ended 31 December
    2009 2008 2007
    Forecast Actual Actual
Rugeley
Dark spread (£/MWh)    £20 £9 £34
Load factor    75% 35% 65%
Contracted position    90%
Deeside
Spark spread (£/MWh)    £15 £30 £23
Load factor    55% 70% 50%
Contracted position    30%
Notes:
—  The forward contracted positions at Rugeley include sales via gas hedges.
—  Spreads at Rugeley and Deeside exclude the cost of Carbon Dioxide (CO
2 ) and are adjusted to reflect the fuel optimisation achieved by trading our coal and gas 
assets as a portfolio. The Maestrale wind farm portfolio delivered a first 
time full-year contribution, following its acquisition 
in the second half of 2007. Operational availability  
of the portfolio has been good, however wind levels 
and resulting load factors in 2008 were lower than 
long-term averages. In November, the Italian 
government announced a new Decree which set a 
price of E98/MWh for the sale of Green Certificates 
(from 2007 and 2008), which are a significant 
source of income for wind farms in Italy, 
demonstrating the government’s commitment  
to ensuring an attractive economic environment  
for renewable generation.
We have continued to build on our European wind 
portfolio with a further 81MW coming online.  
In addition, construction is underway on the new 
30MW PEG project in Italy, in which International 
Power has a 75% share, and this is expected to be 
completed in 2009. International Power’s European 
wind portfolio now comprises 1,179MW of 
operational capacity.
In Portugal both our plants, Pego and Turbogás, 
continue to operate well. Construction of FGD  
and Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) equipment 
at Pego has now been completed. The Elecgas 
830MW (gross) Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 
(CCGT) project, which is located adjacent to Pego, 
reached financial close in March 2008 and is on 
track to become operational in 2011. In addition,  
we completed the acquisition of an additional 40% 
shareholding in Turbogás, the 1,008MW gas-fired 
plant located in Portugal, and an additional 27% 
shareholding in the associated operations and 
maintenance company Portugen, for a total  
cash consideration of E127 million (£101 million). 
International Power now owns 100% of Turbogás 
and Portugen.
In December 2008, the T-Power project in Belgium 
was successfully financed at attractive terms. The 
project, located at Tessenderlo in Eastern Belgium, 
is co-owned by International Power, Siemens 
Project Ventures and Tessenderlo Chemie, and will 
be constructed by Siemens under a full turnkey 
Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) 
contract. Once operational in 2011, the output from 
T-Power will be sold to Essent Trading International 
S.A. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Essent NV, the 
largest energy supplier in the Netherlands) under  
a 15-year tolling agreement with a five-year 
extension option. Natural gas will be supplied  
by Essent under the tolling agreement.
GB reserve margin
2009 2010 2012 2013 2015 2016 2018 2019
Including firm new-build 
and proposed projects
Including firm new-build
Target reserve line
2020
40
%
20
10
30
0.00
1.25
2.50
3.75
5.00
6.25
7.50
8.75
10.00
11.25
12.50
13.75
15.00
16.25
17.50
18.75
20.00
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
32.5
35.0
37.5
40.0
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
32.5
35.0
37.5
40.0
2011 2014 2017
Note: Forecast reserve margin 
reflects reduced demand growth.
Market position
Expected plant retirements, unreliable ageing 
generation capacity and an increasing focus on the 
environment, both through tightening emissions 
legislation and increasing renewables targets, are 
key trends affecting the power industry in Europe. 
We see these factors across our European markets 
and we continuously work to ensure that our 
portfolio is optimally positioned. For example, we 
are investing in major environmental upgrades to 
ensure that our coal-fired plants are best positioned 
for the long-term, and we continue to grow our 
thermal and renewables portfolio by further 
expanding in our key markets.
A significant proportion of our European installed 
generation is located in the UK. As stated before, 
during 2008, this market experienced exceptionally 
tight supply/demand conditions, principally  
driven by plant outages and delays to fitting FGD 
equipment at coal-fired plants. Whilst we expect 
there to be relatively less strain on the system in 
2009, general uncertainty on both plant availability 
and new-build programmes in the UK market, could 
put the reserve margin under pressure at times  
of peak demand. Some 12,255MW of coal and 
oil-fired plant in the UK has ‘opted out’ of the Large 
Combustion Plant Directive (LCPD) and has an 
obligation to retire by 2016. Dependent upon 
running regimes over the next few years, this  
plant could retire earlier, potentially accelerating  
the requirement for new-build in the UK. 
Overall, we still see expansion opportunities in 
Europe – for both thermal assets and renewables. 
Our strong presence in regional markets, combined 
with our diverse, efficient generation portfolio, 
ensures that we are well positioned to take 
advantage of these opportunities. 
First Hydro, UK
Turbogás, Portugal
Regional review – Europe
International Power Annual Report 2008
42 Snapshot – regional markets
Europe
34% of International Power’s net capacity is located in Europe.
Key merchant markets for International Power: Great Britain and Czech Republic.
Great Britain
— Total installed capacity: 81GW
— Market type: fully liberalised – merchant market
— Forecast demand growth: -1.8% (2008/09)
— Peak reserve margin: 21% (2008)
— Peak demand season: winter
— Signatory to Kyoto Protocol
— Part of European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EUETS): 
  – Free allocations to 2012
  – Target of 21% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 on 2005 levels
— International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 3,783MW (net)
  – 1,324MW gas, 788MW coal, 1,566MW pumped storage, 105MW oil
Czech Republic
— Total installed capacity: 16GW
— Market type: fully liberalised – merchant market
— Demand growth: 4.0% (2007/08)
— Peak reserve margin: over 21%
(1)
— Peak demand season: winter
— Signatory to Kyoto Protocol
— Part of EUETS: 
  – Free allocations to 2012
  – Target of 21% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 on 2005 levels
  – EUETS phase III – derogation for Czech Republic, full auctioning may not apply
— International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 585MW (net)
  – 585MW coal/gas
International Power actively trades in the Czech bilateral market, but also has a three-year offtake contract  
with a local offtaker, ending December 2010.
(1)
 Dependent on level of interconnector capacity assumed.
Rest of Europe
Total collective installed capacity in International Power’s existing markets is 489GW
(2)
— Market type: fully regulated markets – with long-term offtake contracts
— Fuel mix: various
— Renewable support mechanisms for wind assets in Germany, Italy, France and the Netherlands
— Peak demand season: winter for northern countries and summer for southern countries
— Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain – all signatories to the Kyoto Protocol;
   Turkey ratified the Kyoto Protocol in 2008
— EU states part of EUETS: 
  – Free allocations to 2012
  – Target of 21% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 on 2005 levels
— International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 2,914MW
  – 1,363MW gas, 314MW coal, 1,179MW wind, 58MW hydro/solar
(2)
 Based upon EIA 2007 data, including: Germany, Italy, France, The Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Turkey.
Great Britain market capacity by fuel type (MW)
Coal 34%
Other 4%
Renewables 5%
Oil 7%
Nuclear 13%
Gas 33%
Peak hydro 4%
Czech Republic market capacity by fuel type (MW)
Lignite 49%
Other 2%
Gas/mixed 5%
Pumped storage 7%
Hard coal 9%
Nuclear 22%
Run of river hydro 6%
Business overview 43 Regional review 
—
 Europe
Regional review – Europe
International Power Annual Report 2008
44
01  International Power Opatovice 
Czech Republic
02  IPR European Wind Portfolio 
Germany, Italy, France,  
the Netherlands
03  ISAB Italy
04  Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal
05  Turbogás Portugal
06  Spanish Hydro Spain
07  Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey 
08 Deeside UK
09 Derwent UK
10 First Hydro UK
11 Indian Queens UK
12 Rugeley UK
13 Saltend UK
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
International Power Opatovice
(1)
 Czech Republic Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 100 585 2,040MWth 2,040MWth
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy,  Wind 1,179 100 1,179
  France, Netherlands 
ISAB Italy  Gas (IGCC) 562 34 193
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal  Coal 628 50 314
Turbogás Portugal Gas (CCGT) 1,008 100 1,008
Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro/solar 88 67 58
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey Gas (CCGT) 488 33 162
Deeside UK Gas (CCGT) 500 75 375
Derwent UK Gas (CCGT) 214 23 49
First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566
Indian Queens UK Oil (OCGT) 140 75 105
Rugeley UK  Coal (50MW of OCGT) 1,050 75 788
Saltend UK  Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 75 900 0.30m lbs/hr 0.23m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation   9,730    7,282
Assets under construction
IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy  Wind 30 75 23
Elecgas Portugal Gas (CCGT) 830 50 415
T-Power Belgium Gas (CCGT) 420 33 140
Europe total under construction     1,280  578
  Region IPR  Description
   ownership
   %  
Other businesses
Opus Energy UK 30  Independent supplier of electricity to small and  
medium-sized businesses
Notes:  
Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009. 
(1) Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
01
02
02
02
02
03
04
05
06
07
09
10
11
12
1 3
08
Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
44 Regional review – Middle East
International Power Annual Report 2008
44
Regional review 
—
 Middle East
Regional review – Middle East
International Power Annual Report 2008
44
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
    MW  MW steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
Hidd Bahrain Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,006 40 402 90MIGD 36MIGD
Al Kamil Oman Gas (OCGT) 276 65 180
Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,055 40 422 60MIGD 24MIGD
Tihama Saudi Arabia Gas (Cogen) 1,076 60 646 4.5m lbs/hr 2.7m lbs/hr
Shuweihat S1 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,572 20 314 100MIGD 20MIGD
Umm Al Nar UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,450 20 490 143MIGD 29MIGD
Middle East total in operation   7,435   2,454
Assets under construction
Fujairah F2 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,000 20 400 130MIGD 26MIGD
Middle East total under construction    2,000  400
Note:  Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009.
01 Hidd Bahrain
02 Al Kamil Oman 
03 Ras Laffan B Qatar
04 Ras Tanura Tihama Saudi Arabia
05 Ju’aymah Tihama Saudi Arabia
06 Shedgum Tihama Saudi Arabia
07 Uthmaniyah Tihama Saudi Arabia
08 Shuweihat S1 UAE
09 Umm Al Nar UAE
01 05
06
07
09
08
02
03
04 Overall section 45 Business overview 45
Results – Middle East 
 Year ended Year ended
 31 December 31 December
 2008 2007
 £m £m
Profit from operations 68 68
Exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market
movements – losses 1 –
PFO (excluding exceptional   
items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements)  69 68
In the Middle East, Profit From Operations (PFO) 
was £69 million in 2008 (2007: £68 million).  
The region benefited from the completion of  
the Ras Laffan B project in Qatar and additional 
desalination capacity at Hidd in Bahrain. However, 
profit in 2007 included a development fee for the 
Fujairah F2 project.
Construction at Ras Laffan B was completed in  
June 2008 with the final 135MW and 15MIGD being 
finished ahead of schedule. The plant now has an 
overall capacity of 1,055MW and 60MIGD, and  
is operating under the first full-year of its 25-year 
Power and Water Purchase Agreement (PWPA).
In Bahrain, the final phase (48MIGD) of the 
desalination extension at Hidd achieved commercial 
operation in May. The plant is now fully operational 
with a capacity of 1,006MW and 90MIGD. 
In the UAE, the construction programme for the 
Fujairah F2 project (2,000MW, 130MIGD) is well 
underway. Activities across the whole site have 
progressed well during the year; a large number of 
the underground foundations and other civil works 
have been completed and the first gas turbine has 
arrived on site. 
Market position
Although the worldwide economic downturn is 
affecting most economies, the Middle East markets 
where we operate have been less impacted due  
to relatively limited integration into global financial 
markets. Driven by economic growth and 
expansion, increasing populations, and the drive  
to diversify economies away from their historic 
dependence on oil, demand for power and water 
continues to grow. The Middle East markets will 
require some 50GW of additional power capacity 
and very significant additional desalinated water 
capacity over the next six to eight years. Our strong 
reputation and track record of delivery across the 
region places us in a good position to continue  
to deliver further growth across these markets.
In addition to the Middle East, we are also working 
on the development of projects in other selected 
northern and southern African countries. Overall  
in 2009 we expect that up to 8,000MW (gross)  
of projects will be tendered in these regions. 
Snapshot – regional markets
Middle East
12% of International Power’s net capacity is located in the Middle East.
Total collective installed power and desalination capacity in International Power’s existing markets  
in the Middle East: 60GW and over 3,000MIGD.
— Majority of plants in the market are integrated to supply both power and desalinated water
— Market type: regulated market – all long-term contracted assets
— Fuel mix: mainly gas-fired generation, with some oil-fired
— Peak demand season: summer
— Revenue is primarily linked to plant availability
— Typically fuel and other major costs passed through to offtaker
—  International Power’s current installed operational capacity in the market 2,454MW (net) 109MIGD (net) 
– 2,454MW gas, 109MIGD desalinated water
Shuweihat S1, UAE
Hidd, Bahrain Regional review 
—
 Australia
Regional review – Australia
International Power Annual Report 2008
46
01 Canunda South Australia
02 Pelican Point South Australia
03 Synergen South Australia
04 Hazelwood Victoria
05 Loy Yang B Victoria
06 Kwinana Western Australia
07  SEA Gas pipeline  
Victoria and South Australia
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net 
    capacity ownership capacity 
    power  %  power  
    MW  MW  
Assets in operation
Canunda South Australia Wind 46 100 46
Pelican Point South Australia Gas (CCGT) 487 100 487
Synergen South Australia Gas/distillate 371 100 371
Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 92 1,541
Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 70 718
Kwinana Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 49 58
Australia total in operation   3,723   3,221
  Region IPR  Description
   ownership
   %  
Other businesses
Simply Energy Victoria & South Australia 100 Electricity and gas retailer
SEA Gas pipeline Victoria & South Australia 33 687 km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia
Note:  Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009.
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
46
Regional review 
—
 Australia
Regional review – Australia
International Power Annual Report 2008
46
01 Canunda South Australia
02 Pelican Point South Australia
03 Synergen South Australia
04 Hazelwood Victoria
05 Loy Yang B Victoria
06 Kwinana Western Australia
07  SEA Gas pipeline  
Victoria and South Australia
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net 
    capacity ownership capacity 
    power  %  power  
    MW  MW  
Assets in operation
Canunda South Australia Wind 46 100 46
Pelican Point South Australia Gas (CCGT) 487 100 487
Synergen South Australia Gas/distillate 371 100 371
Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 92 1,541
Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 70 718
Kwinana Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 49 58
Australia total in operation   3,723   3,221
  Region IPR  Description
   ownership
   %  
Other businesses
Simply Energy Victoria & South Australia 100 Electricity and gas retailer
SEA Gas pipeline Victoria & South Australia 33 687 km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia
Note:  Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009.
01
02
03
04
05
06
07 Overall section 47 Business overview 47
Results – Australia 
 Year ended Year ended
 31 December 31 December
 2008 2007
 £m £m
Profit/(loss) from operations 219 (91)
Exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market
movements – (profits)/losses (51) 173
PFO (excluding exceptional   
items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements)  168 82
Profit From Operations (PFO) increased 
significantly to £168 million from £82 million in 
2007, principally reflecting significantly improved 
contributions from Hazelwood and Loy Yang B.  
The region also benefited from a strong 
performance at Synergen, which captured high  
spot prices during the summer months. The rest  
of the portfolio performed well and delivered a 
good financial performance.
Hazelwood, in Victoria, achieved a significantly 
higher average price of A$43/MWh (2007:  
A$32/MWh), at a slightly lower load factor of 75%. 
A strong forward contracted position and good 
operational performance in the second half of  
the year helped deliver these results. For 2009  
we have forward contracted 80% of the expected 
output at Hazelwood.
During the first two months of 2009, Victoria and 
South Australia experienced a major heat wave, 
causing the most severe bush fires in Victoria in 
recorded history and all-time record levels of 
demand and price volatility in the electricity market. 
The transmission network was under significant 
strain, and there were two instances of load 
shedding. Good levels of availability across our 
portfolio ensured the impact of these events  
was financially neutral on our business.
Details of the proposed emissions trading scheme 
(due to start from July 2010) were announced  
in a White Paper in mid December. The current 
proposals are for a minimum 5% reduction in 
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) emissions against 2000 
levels by 2020, with the potential for this target  
to rise to 15% (pending the UN meeting in 
Copenhagen, planned to be held at the end of 
2009). Under the proposals, there is currently a 
period of five years where, in effect, no charge will 
be applied for a portion of emissions from coal-fired 
power plants, and our Hazelwood and Loy Yang B 
assets would be eligible for this relief. The details  
of the proposals are yet to be finalised, with the 
government aiming to introduce the legislation  
into Parliament in May 2009. Draft legislation  
was released in March 2009. Overall, it is too  
early to draw firm conclusions at this stage.
Loy Yang B, Australia
Hazelwood, Australia
Achieved and forecast spreads and load factors
 Year ended 31 December
    2009 2008 2007
    Forecast Actual Actual
Hazelwood   
Achieved power price (A$/MWh)    A$45 A$43 A$32
Load factor    80% 75% 80%
Contracted position    80% Snapshot – regional markets
Australia
15% of International Power’s net capacity is located in Australia.
Key markets for International Power: South Australia and Victoria.
— Total installed capacity: 14GW in South Australia and Victoria
— Market type: merchant market
— Forecast peak demand growth: 1.1% (2008/09)
— Peak reserve margin: 10% (in 2008)
— Peak demand season: summer
— Australian CO2 emission reduction target: 
  – Signed up to the Kyoto Protocol in December 2007 
  – 60% reduction from 2000 levels by 2050
— International Power’s current installed capacity in these markets 3,163MW (net)
  – 858MW gas, 2,259MW coal, 46MW wind
In addition to Victoria and South Australia, International Power has a presence in Western Australia with interests 
in the 118MW Kwinana gas-fired plant.
Victoria and South Australia market capacity
by fuel type (MW)
Brown coal 48%
Distillate 1% 
Wind 7%
Gas OCGT 11%
Conventional gas 14%
Hydro 14%
Gas CCGT 5%
Market position
In Australia, peak power demand in South Australia 
and Victoria continues to grow at around 1% per 
annum and the overall reserve margin is expected 
to remain attractive over the medium-term. Whilst 
the reserve margin is a good metric to follow, 
demand in Victoria and South Australia can be very 
volatile. For example, in 2007 and again in early 
2009, due to a sudden and sharp increase in peak 
demand, the reserve margin dropped significantly, 
making the system extremely tight, leading to load 
shedding and volatile prices.
Our balanced asset portfolio in Australia, 
comprising coal, gas, and renewable technologies, 
coupled with our commercial and trading skills  
in selling our output in both wholesale and retail 
markets, offers us a solid platform to grow and  
add value in this region. However, as previously 
discussed, the most significant development for  
the Australian power market is the planned 
introduction of an emissions trading scheme in 
2010. The final details of the emissions trading 
scheme are key to determining the economic 
viability of any future investment in the country.
Victoria and South Australia reserve margin
2009 2010 2011 2013 2014 2016 2017 2015 2012
Reserve margin with new-build
Reserve margin without 
new-build
Target reserve line
2018
25
%
15
10
5
20
0.00
1.25
2.50
3.75
5.00
6.25
7.50
8.75
10.00
11.25
12.50
13.75
15.00
16.25
17.50
18.75
20.00
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
32.5
35.0
37.5
40.0
0.0000
1.5625
3.1250
4.6875
6.2500
7.8125
9.3750
10.9375
12.5000
14.0625
15.6250
17.1875
18.7500
20.3125
21.8750
23.4375
25.0000
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
22.5
25.0
27.5
30.0
32.5
35.0
37.5
40.0
0.0000
1.5625
3.1250
4.6875
6.2500
7.8125
9.3750
10.9375
12.5000
14.0625
15.6250
17.1875
18.7500
20.3125
21.8750
23.4375
25.0000
Regional review – Australia
International Power Annual Report 2008
48 Business overview 49
Regional review 
—
 Asia
01 Paiton Indonesia
02 HUBCO Pakistan
03 KAPCO Pakistan
04 Uch Pakistan
05 TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW  
Assets in operation
Paiton
(1)
 Indonesia Coal 1,365 31 423  
HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219  
KAPCO Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 36 576  
Uch Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 572 71 406  
TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 100 143 7.7MWth
(2)
 7.7MWth
(2)
Asia total in operation   4,970  1,767
Notes:  
Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009.
(1)  In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distributions.
(2)  District cooling system capacity.
01
02
03
04
05
Overall section 49 Business overview 49
Regional review 
—
 Asia
01 Paiton Indonesia
02 HUBCO Pakistan
03 KAPCO Pakistan
04 Uch Pakistan
05 TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW  
Assets in operation
Paiton
(1)
 Indonesia Coal 1,365 31 423  
HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219  
KAPCO Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 36 576  
Uch Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 572 71 406  
TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 100 143 7.7MWth
(2)
 7.7MWth
(2)
Asia total in operation   4,970  1,767
Notes:  
Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions. As at 10 March 2009.
(1)  In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distributions.
(2)  District cooling system capacity.
01
02
03
04
05 Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
50
Results – Asia 
 Year ended Year ended
 31 December 31 December
 2008 2007
 £m £m
Profit from operations 104 95
Exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market
movements – losses – 1
PFO (excluding exceptional   
items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements)  104 96
Profit From Operations (PFO) in Asia increased 
from £96 million in 2007 to £104 million, primarily  
as a result of a strong performance from Paiton  
and an increased contribution from Uch, where an 
additional 31% stake was acquired in March 2008. 
These factors more than offset the sale of Malakoff 
in May 2007. All our contracted assets in the region 
continue to deliver good operational performance 
and our plants in Indonesia and Thailand have 
maintained strong payment records.
In Pakistan, payments from the state-owned 
customer, the Water and Power Development 
Authority (WAPDA), were delayed in 2008. 
However, our plants are continuing to receive 
payments for the majority of current output and 
have also been receiving interest on overdue 
amounts. Our share of the overdue receivable,  
in March 2009, was US$149 million (£108 million). 
There are a number of initiatives currently 
underway to resolve the cash flow issue in Pakistan, 
including an International Monetary Fund (IMF) 
US$7.6 billion loan package. A key condition of  
the IMF loan is that the government of Pakistan  
has to implement a plan to clear the overdue 
receivables in the energy sector. We remain 
confident of a satisfactory outcome.
In August, PT Paiton Energy, the project company  
in which International Power has a 40.5%* interest, 
signed a 30-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) 
with PT PLN, the Indonesian state utility, for the 
proposed 815MW coal-fired Paiton 3 plant in 
Indonesia. The project is covered by a fixed-price 
contract and the main equipment will be supplied by 
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. The project will be 
located within the existing Paiton complex and is 
expected to be fully operational by the end of 2012. 
Financial close is now expected in the second 
quarter of 2009.
In March, International Power completed the 
acquisition of an additional 31% shareholding in Uch, 
the 572MW gas-fired plant located in Pakistan. Total 
consideration was US$93 million (£47 million). The 
acquisition, from affiliates of Tenaska Holdings (L) 
Corp, takes International Power’s total holding in  
Uch to 71%.
*  The ownership percentage includes interests held via IPM Eagle LLP,  
a 70/30 partnership between International Power and Mitsui. 
International Power’s 40.5% interest in PT Paiton Energy also  
includes a 9.2% economic interest.
Regional review – Asia
International Power Annual Report 2008
Uch, Pakistan
HUBCO, Pakistan Overall section 51 Business overview 51
Market position
Demand for power across our Asian markets has 
typically grown at high rates. Although there may 
be some slow down in certain economies, we still 
expect power demand to grow, driven by selective 
economic development, and the progressive 
expansion of distribution grids connecting more  
of the population to the power network.
Through our successful operations over the past 
several years, we have developed a good reputation 
and strong long-term relationships with state-
owned customers and key stakeholders in the 
region. This places us in a good position to source 
and deliver on new opportunities. For example, in 
Indonesia we are developing Paiton 3 (815MW), 
and are also engaged in the development process 
for other opportunities. In Thailand we are 
developing a 100MW expansion project. 
Snapshot – regional markets
Asia
8% of International Power’s net capacity is located in Asia.
Total collective installed capacity in International Power’s existing markets in Asia: 70GW.
— Market type: regulated markets – all long-term contracted assets
— Fuel mix: various
— Peak demand season: summer
— Revenue is primarily linked to plant availability
— Typically fuel and other major costs passed through to offtaker
— International Power’s current installed capacity in the market 1,767MW (net)
  – 1,125MW gas, 423MW coal and 219MW oil
In addition we are considering projects in new 
markets such as Vietnam, where power demand 
is estimated to grow at a high rate. For example, 
we are working on a competitive bid for Nghi Son 2 
(1,200MW), a coal-fired independent power 
project which has recently been announced in 
Vietnam. Overall, Asia remains an attractive region 
for International Power with good potential for 
further growth.
KAPCO, Pakistan
Paiton, Indonesia 52 Financial position and resources
International Power Annual Report 2008
Financial position and resources
Acquisitions of £614 million in 2008 include the four peaking 
facilities in North America and additional shareholdings in 
T urbogás and Uch. The fi nancial position of the Group remains 
strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash fl ow generation.
Financial position and resources
International Power Annual Report 2008
52
Financial position and resources
Acquisitions of £614 million in 2008 include the four peaking 
facilities in North America and additional shareholdings in 
T urbogás and Uch. The fi nancial position of the Group remains 
strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash fl ow generation. 53 Business overview 53
Corporate costs
Corporate costs at £49 million (2007: £52 million) 
are £3 million lower than 2007.
Interest 
Net interest expense at £368 million is £60 million 
higher than 2007; mainly due to the interest expense 
relating to acquisitions made during 2007 and 2008.
Tax
The Group tax charge has increased by £10 million 
to £123 million. The effective tax rate for the year 
was 22% (2007: 26%) after the release of provisions 
relating to prior year tax, following the satisfactory 
resolution of some historic tax issues. Excluding 
these items, the effective tax rate would have been 
27%. In 2007, the effective rate benefited from the 
impact of tax rate changes in the UK, Czech Republic, 
Germany and Italy.
*  Excluding exceptional items and speciﬁc  
IAS 39 mark to market movements.
 + 1 6%
Proﬁt from operations* increased 
to £1,050 million
 + 20%
Earnings per share* increased  
to 32.4 pence
The 118MW CCGT power station  
at Kwinana in Western Australia
Business overview 53
Corporate costs
Corporate costs at £49 million (2007: £52 million) 
are £3 million lower than 2007.
Interest 
Net interest expense at £368 million is £60 million 
higher than 2007; mainly due to the interest expense 
relating to acquisitions made during 2007 and 2008.
Tax
The Group tax charge has increased by £10 million 
to £123 million. The effective tax rate for the year 
was 22% (2007: 26%) after the release of provisions 
relating to prior year tax, following the satisfactory 
resolution of some historic tax issues. Excluding 
these items, the effective tax rate would have been 
27%. In 2007, the effective rate benefited from the 
impact of tax rate changes in the UK, Czech Republic, 
Germany and Italy.
*  Excluding exceptional items and speciﬁc  
IAS 39 mark to market movements.
 + 1 6%
Proﬁt from operations* increased 
to £1,050 million
 + 20%
Earnings per share* increased  
to 32.4 pence
The 118MW CCGT power station  
at Kwinana in Western Australia Foreign exchange
The weakening of sterling, principally against the Czech koruna, US dollar and euro, on the retranslation 
of profits from foreign operations has benefited EPS by 1.9 pence in comparison with 2007.
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Exceptional losses before and after tax of £57 million comprise the impairment of our Milford plant  
by £37 million and a £20 million charge for Australian stamp duty arising from our acquisition of the  
Loy Yang B and Valley Power plants in 2004.
The specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in profit before tax for the year are gains  
of £290 million (2007: losses of £346 million), £163 million of which relates to decreases in forward 
commodity prices in the UK, US and Australia, £150 million to fair value gains on the 3.25% and  
4.75% convertible euro bonds, and £23 million to losses on interest rate swaps.
Tax on mark to market movements during the year was a charge of £92 million (2007: a credit of  
£96 million).
The Group has US tax losses of US$593 million (£412 million). As a result of the acquisition of IPA Central 
(the portfolio of four peaking plants in PJM and MISO in North America), certain of these tax losses have  
now been recognised as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet. This has resulted in an exceptional tax 
credit of £59 million.
Cash flow
A summary of the Group’s cash flow is set out below:
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m
Profit for the year     759  529
Depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash movements
(1)
   411  406
Exceptional items     57  (233)
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements    (172) 342
Dividends from joint ventures and associates    135  145
Capital expenditure – maintenance     (108) (71)
Net sale/(purchase) of intangible assets     25  (48)
Net increase in working capital     (109) (4)
Tax and net interest paid     (485) (413)
Free cash flow     513  653 
Australian stamp duty – exceptional     (7) –
Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt    (33) (2)
Capital expenditure – growth     (156) (160)
Purchase of intangibles – growth     (8) –
Investments in joint ventures, associates and investments   (58) (1)
Acquisitions     (614) (841)
Disposals      – 418
Dividends paid     (166) (160)
Proceeds from share issue     10 13
Net receipts from/(payments to) minority interests    28 (35)
Foreign exchange and other     (1,163) (261)
Increase in net debt     (1,654) (376)
Opening net debt     (4,662) (3,575)
Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries     (2) (711)
Closing net debt     (6,318) (4,662)
(1)   Depreciation, amortisation and other movements are set out in the consolidated cash flow statement on page 106. They include income statement charges  
for interest, tax, depreciation, and the share of profit of joint ventures and associates.
Financial position and resources
International Power Annual Report 2008
54 Liquidity
Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2008 was £513 million, a decrease of £140 million 
compared with 2007. This decrease is driven by an increase in maintenance capital expenditure of  
£37 million, principally at Rugeley, Hazelwood and Saltend; and an increase in net interest paid of  
£87 million. In addition, there was a working capital increase in the year of £109 million due to stock 
building at Rugeley and a reversal of some one-off working capital benefits in 2007.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and exceptional items, as described on the previous page,  
have been reversed out of the profits for the year in calculating free cash flow.
Growth capital expenditure was £156 million in the year (2007: £160 million) and mainly related to fitting 
Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) at Rugeley, the west field mine extension at Hazelwood and further 
construction in our European wind portfolio.
Acquisitions of £614 million in 2008 include the four peaking facilities in North America and additional 
shareholdings in Turbogás and Uch.
Net debt has increased by £1,656 million between 2007 and 2008, of which £1,282 million is attributed  
to currency translation impacts. Overall, over 85% of International Power’s total debt is represented by 
non-recourse project finance.
Summary balance sheet
A summarised, reclassified Group balance sheet is set out below:
     As at As at
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m 
Goodwill and intangibles     1,137 901
Property, plant and equipment     7,318 5,721
Investments     1,803 1,292
Long-term receivables and others     1,943 1,530
     12,201 9,444 
Net current liabilities (excluding net debt items)    (137) (387)
Non-current liabilities (excluding net debt items)    (1,611) (1,388)
Net debt     (6,318) (4,662)
Net assets     4,135 3,007 
Gearing     153% 155%
Debt capitalisation     60% 61%
Net debt – joint ventures and associates     (1,820) (1,297)
Goodwill and intangibles, property, plant and equipment, and investments have increased by  
£2,344 million during the year, with the majority of this increase relating to the weakening of sterling.  
The acquisition of the portfolio of North American peaking plants in July also contributed an increase  
in property, plant and equipment of £480 million at that time.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash flow 
generation. At 31 December 2008 the business had £354 million of cash (31 December 2007:  
£290 million) at the corporate level and £775 million (31 December 2007: £871 million) at the asset  
level. Debt within the Group comprises three convertible bonds with a book value of £900 million  
and £6,547 million of project level debt. The Group has a corporate revolver of US$850 million which  
is predominantly used for letters of credit, bid bonds and short-term liquidity requirements.
Debt capitalisation has decreased marginally to 60% (31 December 2007: 61%).
During 2008, International Power and its partners raised a total of £919 million (gross), £516 million (net) 
of project finance to fund acquisitions and greenfield development projects in North America and Europe. 
In addition International Power issued E700 million of senior convertible bonds, due in 2015. These 
significant financings were successfully completed in a challenging banking market in 2008, with all  
deals completed on attractive terms.
Canunda, Australia
Business overview 55 Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
56
Net debt and capital structure 
Group net debt
      As at As at
      31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
      £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents     1,129 1,161
Convertible bonds     (900) (255)
Other bonds     (755) (694)
Bank loans and preferred equity     (5,792) (4,874)
Net debt     (6,318) (4,662)
The above net debt of £6,318 million excludes the Group’s share of joint ventures’ and associates’ net  
debt of £1,820 million (2007: £1,297 million). These obligations are generally secured by the assets  
of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power  
or any other Group company. 
The Group has sufficient credit facilities in place to fund and support adequately its existing operations  
and to finance the purchase of new assets. These facilities comprise an US$850 million revolving credit 
facility expiring in October 2010 and three convertible bonds. The first convertible bond of US$228 million 
matures in August 2023 but with bond holders having the right to ‘put’ the bond back to the Group  
in August 2010, 2013, 2018 and 2023. Under the terms of this bond an issuer call option was granted, 
enabling International Power to redeem the bonds at any time after 13 September 2008, subject to certain 
conditions. The second convertible bond of E230 million matures in July 2013. A new convertible bond  
of E700 million was issued in June 2008 with a maturity date of June 2015. The bondholders have the right  
to convert all bonds into our shares at anytime and, during 2008, US$24 million of the 2023 convertible 
bond was redeemed. In addition, the Group has uncommitted bilateral credit lines from various banks  
at its disposal at the corporate level. Further information on liquidity is included in the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 157 to 159.
Financial position and resources
International Power Annual Report 2008 Overall section 57
Secured non-recourse finance
The Group’s financial strategy is to finance its  
assets by means of limited or non-recourse project 
financings at the project company or intermediate 
holding company level, wherever that is practical. 
As part of this strategy, IP Maestrale Investments 
Limited and Pelican Point refinanced their existing 
loans and replaced them with new loans totalling 
E1,288 million and A$190 million with a maximum 
maturity of December 2022 and 2018 respectively. 
In addition, the Group raised non-recourse facilities 
of E494 million, E391 million and US$400 million 
to support the construction of Elecgas, T-Power  
and the acquisition of the IPA Peakers.
Corporate and Group debt
On 31 December 2008 we had aggregated debt 
financing of £7,447 million denominated principally 
in US dollars, Australian dollars, sterling, euro, 
Czech koruna and Thai baht. Of this amount only 
£900 million has recourse at corporate level and 
£6,259 million is secured by fixed or floating 
charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
Aggregated debt financing of £421 million is due  
for repayment in 2009 and £1,144 million in 2010, 
with the majority of the remaining debt balance  
due after 2013.
During 2008 Standard & Poor’s, Fitch and Moody’s 
reviewed the credit rating at corporate level. Standard 
& Poor’s maintained the rating of BB- with stable 
outlook. Fitch maintained its rating of BB with stable 
outlook and Moody’s made a two notch upgrade  
to Ba3 with stable outlook.
Short-term deposits
Surplus funds are placed for short periods in 
investments that carry low credit risk and are  
readily realisable in major currencies.
Interest rate policy
The Group’s policy is to fix interest rates for a 
significant portion of the debt (73% as at  
31 December 2008) using forward rate or 
interest rate swap agreements. Turbogás’ interest 
costs are a pass through in the Power Purchase 
Agreement (PPA) tariff and therefore not an 
exposure to the Group. Adjusting for this item 
would increase fixed rate debt to 78%. The Group 
has limited exposure to changes in interest rates as 
variable rate debt is similar in size to variable rate 
cash and cash equivalents. Significant interest rate 
management programmes and instruments require 
specific approval of the Board. The weighted average 
interest rate of aggregated debt financing was 7% 
in 2008. Where project finance is utilised, our policy 
is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual 
terms of the customer offtake agreement. 
Critical accounting policies and estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements  
in compliance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
(EU). As such, we are required to make certain 
estimates, judgements and assumptions that we 
believe are reasonable based upon the information 
available. These estimates and assumptions affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at  
the date of the financial statements, the reported 
amounts of income and expenses during the periods 
presented and the related disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities. 
On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates 
using previous experience, consultation with experts 
and other methods considered reasonable in the 
particular circumstances to ensure full compliance 
with IFRSs and best practice. Actual results may 
differ significantly from our estimates, the effect  
of which is recognised in the period in which the 
facts that give rise to the revision become known.
Our Group accounting policies are detailed in  
note 1 to the consolidated financial statements  
(on pages 107 to 113). The table on page 61 
identifies some of the areas where significant 
judgements are required, normally due to the 
uncertainties involved in the application of 
particular accounting policies.
Income recognition
Our income is derived principally from owning and 
operating power plants worldwide. In merchant 
markets, the Group enters into various types of 
hedging or forward contracts for the buying and 
selling of commodities related to this activity: 
principally the sale of electricity and the purchase  
of fuel for our own power plants. These contracts 
typically fall within the definition of derivative 
financial instruments and are therefore required  
to be fair valued. Accounting for these contracts  
as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedge 
is effective, the changes in value of the derivatives  
to be deferred in a hedging reserve within equity.  
Business overview
Uni-Mar (Marmara), Turkey 
Midlothian, US On 1 January 2008, the Group revoked the 
designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales 
of power and purchases of fuel (i.e. non-financial 
items). For these cash flow hedges, the cumulative 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the 
period when the hedge was effective shall remain 
separately recognised in equity until the forecast 
transaction occurs (or is no longer expected to 
occur). Fair value gains and losses, after the date  
of dedesignation as cash flow hedges, are recorded  
in the consolidated income statement. The Group 
continues to apply cash flow hedge accounting for 
interest rates swaps and other financial items. For 
these financial items to continue to achieve cash 
flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group 
to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a 
forecast transaction is both highly probable and 
whether the hedge is effective.
When our power plants sell their output under 
long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant 
owning company to receive payment (known as 
a ‘capacity payment’) for the provision of electrical 
capacity whether or not the offtaker requests 
electrical output. In these situations, where there 
is a long-term contract to sell electrical output and 
electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group 
to evaluate the contractual arrangements and 
determine whether they constitute a form of lease 
or a service contract. Where the arrangements are 
determined to be or to contain a form of lease, an 
evaluation is then required of where the substantial 
risks and rewards of ownership reside, in order to 
determine the form of lease it represents. For those 
arrangements determined to be finance leases, 
it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total 
capacity payments which should be treated as 
finance income, capital repayment and as a fee 
for service provision. For operating leases it is 
necessary to calculate the split between minimum 
lease payments and fees for service provision.
The Group receives payments from contractors  
in respect of late commissioning and under 
performance of new power plants. Receipts which 
relate to compensation for lost revenue are treated 
as income when the compensation is due and 
payable by the contractor. Those receipts that relate 
to compensation for plants not achieving long-term 
performance levels specified in the original 
contracts are recorded as a reduction in the  
cost of the assets. 
Fair values of energy derivatives
The Group has prepared its financial statements  
in accordance with the presentation requirements 
of IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Presentation),  
the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 (Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures) and the accounting 
requirements of IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement). In accordance with 
IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts 
on balance sheet at fair value (unless they qualify  
for ‘own use’ treatment). Changes in the value of 
derivative contracts in each period are recorded  
in earnings unless strict hedge accounting criteria 
are met which allow the movement in fair value to  
be recorded within equity. 
The Group estimates the fair value of its energy 
derivative contracts by reference to forward price 
curves. A forward price curve represents the 
Group’s view as to the prices at which customers 
would currently contract for delivery or settlement 
of commodities, such as power or gas, at future 
dates. Generally the forward price curve is derived 
from published price quotations in an active market, 
over the short-term horizon period, and from 
valuation techniques over the more distant horizon 
period. Assumptions which underpin the long-term 
price curve relate to the prices of commodities such 
as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the 
building of new power plants, and the prices at 
which it would be economic for companies to enter 
the market and build additional capacity (new 
entrant pricing). Assumptions are also made in 
relation to the impacts of environmental legislation 
from the valuation date into the distant horizon. 
Short-term assumptions are typically based on 
existing or substantively enacted legislation, whilst 
the long-term assumptions are typically based on 
the Group’s view as to market developments.  
The assumptions used during the application of 
valuation techniques will directly impact the shape 
of the forward price curve. The forward price curves 
are underpinned by many assumptions, and are only 
estimates of future prices. Therefore they possess 
inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
Umm Al Nar, UAE
IPR European Wind Portfolio, Germany
Financial position and resources
International Power Annual Report 2008
58 Recoverable amount of long-life assets
Depreciation of plant is charged so as to write down 
the value of the asset to its residual value over its 
estimated useful life:
—  Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) plant is 
depreciated over 30 years to a 10% residual 
value, unless the circumstances of the project  
or life of specific components indicate a shorter 
period or a lower residual value. 
—  Other plant, including wind farms, coal and 
hydro plants are considered on an individual 
basis.
Our asset lives are set out in note 1j) to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 110.
The Group regularly considers whether there has 
been any change to the estimated useful lives of 
our long-life assets.
They also consider whether there are any 
indications of impairment to carrying values of  
the Group’s long-life assets, including goodwill, 
intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment. These indicators include both the 
impact of new environmental legislation and  
the impact of any adverse market conditions. 
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the 
current carrying amount of the asset with the 
present value of the expected future cash flows  
of the respective cash-generating unit and its fair 
value less costs to sell. The calculations are generally 
based on risk adjusted discounted cash flow 
projections that require estimates of discount rates 
and future market prices over the remaining lives  
of the assets. Modelling assumptions, including the 
price of power and the output of the plants, take 
into account all existing environmental legislation 
and management’s best estimates of the impacts of 
substantively enacted and potential new legislation. 
At the end of 2008, the Group performed an 
impairment review of its Milford plant. Principally  
as a result of its long-term PPA coming to an end, 
and the projections of forward capacity and energy 
prices, the carrying amount of the plant was 
impaired by £37 million. In the consolidated 
financial statements this impairment has been 
treated as an exceptional item.
As noted earlier in this Annual Report, 
environmental legislation is one of the key drivers  
of the long-term development of the electricity 
industry. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions are expected to impose increasing 
constraints on our ability to use fossil fuels to 
generate power. As examples, recent changes to 
legislation that affect some of our plants in the US 
and in Australia include the Regional Greenhouse 
Gas Initiative (RGGI) programme and Australia’s 
Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme (CPRS) 
respectively. The impact of the legislation on our 
assets will remain uncertain until some time after 
the legislation is finalised.
Fair values on acquisition
The Group is required to bring assets and liabilities 
acquired in business combinations on to the Group 
balance sheet at their fair value. Power plant and 
equipment usually have long operating lives,  
and are often bought with associated long-term 
contracts such as PPAs. Hence determination of  
the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts 
can require a significant amount of judgement. 
Consolidation policy – amount of influence
The determination of the level of influence the 
Group has over a business is often a mix of 
contractually defined and subjective factors that can 
be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment 
of entities in the consolidated financial statements. 
At entities which are not subsidiaries, we achieve 
influence through Board representation and by 
obtaining rights of veto over significant actions. We 
generally treat investments where the Group holds 
less than 20% of the equity as ‘investments available 
for sale’. These investments are carried at market 
value where quoted market prices in an active 
market are available. Where they are not available, 
and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, 
equity instruments are measured at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of 
the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise 
significant influence over the entity’s operating and 
financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate. 
Equally, where the Group holds a substantial 
interest (but less than 20%) in an entity and has  
the power to exert significant influence over its 
operations, we also treat that entity as an associate. 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement 
whereby two or more parties undertake an 
economic activity that is subject to joint control. 
Where we recognise our interest in a joint venture 
as a jointly controlled entity, we apply the equity 
method of accounting. Sometimes we may apply 
the equity method to a joint venture where we  
do not possess an equal shareholding to the other 
venturers, because the venturers are bound by  
a contractual arrangement and the contractual 
arrangement establishes joint control. 
Business overview 59 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark  
to market movements
As discussed on pages 28 and 32, in order to allow a 
full understanding of the financial information 
presented within the consolidated financial 
statements, and specifically the Group’s underlying 
business performance, the Group presents its 
consolidated income statement such that it 
separately identifies the effect of exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
The Directors consider that items of income or 
expense which are material by virtue of their nature 
and amount should be disclosed separately if the 
financial statements are to fairly present the 
financial position and financial performance of the 
Group. The Directors label these items collectively 
as ‘exceptional items’.
Determining which transactions are to be 
considered exceptional in nature is often a 
subjective matter. However, circumstances that  
the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional 
items for separate disclosure would include:
—  disposals of interests in businesses
—  discontinued operations
—  impairments and impairment reversals
All exceptional items are included on the 
appropriate income statement line to which they 
relate. In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure  
is made of all such items in one column on the  
face of the consolidated income statement.
Those items that the Group separately present as 
specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in the 
consolidated income statement principally relate  
to derivative contracts into which the Group has 
entered in order to economically hedge certain  
of its physical and financial exposures.
Taxation
The tax expense recorded in the consolidated 
income statement is dependent on the profit for  
the year and the tax rates at the balance sheet date, 
either in place or which have been substantively 
enacted. The level of current and deferred tax 
recognised is also dependent on subjective 
judgements as to the outcome of decisions to  
be made by the tax authorities in the various tax 
jurisdictions in which International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets 
should be recognised based on an assessment of the 
extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
Recoverability of trade and other receivables
The Group assesses the recoverability of its trade 
and other receivables on a periodic basis. Payment 
delays by the offtaker (the Water and Power 
Development Authority) in Pakistan have occurred 
at the Group’s joint ventures and associates during 
2008. The Group has not made a provision against 
overdue amounts at 31 December 2008 as it 
considers that all amounts will be fully recovered 
from the offtaker.
Provisions
Within the Group there are a number of long-term 
provisions. The carrying amount of these provisions 
is estimated based on assumptions about items 
such as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount 
rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of 
costs. For example, the pensions liability is based on 
assumptions relating to discount rates used, future 
changes in salaries, expected mortality, and future 
increases in pension payments. We regularly review 
the assumptions underlying provision calculations, 
and pensions assumptions are reviewed on an 
annual basis. However, a change in estimates could 
have a material impact on the carrying amount of 
these provisions.
Financial position and resources
International Power Annual Report 2008
60 Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from 
the determination of the following:
Income recognition —  correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual  
arrangements in place and the allocation of the risks and rewards  
of ownership of the plant
—  appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors
Fair values of energy derivatives —  forward price curve for commodities where there is no observable market
Recoverable amount of property,  
plant and equipment 
—  indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using 
projected cash flows, together with risk adjusted discount rates,  
or other more appropriate methods of valuation
Fair values on acquisition —  useful economic life and residual value of certain assets
—  fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and hence how much of the 
purchase price is attributed to goodwill arising on acquisition of a business
Consolidation policy, extent of 
influence
—  extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the 
operations, strategic direction and financial policies of entities in which  
it holds an equity stake
Items of income and expense which 
require separate disclosure – 
‘exceptional items’
—  items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature 
and amount which require separate disclosure. The Directors consider 
these items most appropriately disclosed as ‘exceptional’
Taxation —  appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated 
decisions of the tax authorities
—  assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings
Recoverability of trade and other 
receivables
—  assessment of intention and ability of customers to pay amount billed
Provisions —  appropriate assumptions to calculate reliable estimates of the amount  
to be provided
TNP (Pluak Daeng), Thailand
Business overview 61 Bruce Levy (53) 
Executive Director, North America
Bruce was appointed to the Board in June 2005,  
and is responsible for all aspects of performance in 
North America including plant operations, finance, 
energy trading and business development. Prior to 
joining the Company, he was senior vice president 
and Chief Financial Officer at GPU, Inc. a diversified 
energy production and distribution corporation. 
Bruce is Chair of the Electric Power Supply 
Association, the national association of competitive 
power suppliers in the US.
Steve Riley (47) 
Executive Director, Europe
Steve was appointed to the Board in January 2004 
and is responsible for managing all aspects of 
performance in the European region including plant 
operations, finance, energy trading and business 
development. Steve joined the Company in 1985 
holding senior positions in two UK power stations 
before being appointed managing director, Australia 
in January 2000. Steve is currently Chairman of  
the Association of Electricity Producers in the UK.  
He is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks Group plc. 
Tony Concannon (45) 
Executive Director, Australia
Tony was appointed to the Board in January 2004 
and is responsible for managing all aspects of 
performance in the Australian region including plant 
operations, finance, energy trading and business 
development. Tony is a Chartered Engineer and 
joined the industry in 1982. He has previously 
worked in a number of business areas including 
power station operations, trading and international 
business development. 
Board of Directors
Chairman
Sir Neville Simms FREng (64)
Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of 
National Power in August 1998 and was appointed 
Chairman of International Power in October 2000. 
He has been a member of the President’s Committee 
of the CBI since 1998, is Deputy Chairman of 
Ashridge Management College and Chairman of the 
BRE Trust. Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director 
of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002 and 
Chairman of the government’s Sustainable 
Procurement Task Force from 2005 to 2007.
Executive Directors
Philip Cox (57) 
Chief Executive Officer
Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 as Chief 
Financial Officer and was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer of International Power in December 2003.  
He is responsible for the overall management of the 
Company, and leading the executive and operational 
teams in implementing the strategies approved by 
the Board. Philip is a Chartered Accountant and prior 
to joining the Company he was a senior vice 
president at Invensys. He is a Non-Executive Director 
of Wincanton plc and will become a Non-Executive 
Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC with 
effect from 1 April 2009.
Mark Williamson (51) 
Chief Financial Officer
Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer  
of International Power in December 2003. His 
responsibilities include financial control and reporting, 
tax and risk management. Mark joined the Company 
as Group financial controller, with responsibility for the 
Group’s financial reporting, in September 2000. Prior 
to this Mark was at Simon Group plc, where he was 
the Group financial controller. He is a Non-Executive 
Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and Chairman  
of its Audit Committee.
The Board of Directors  
from left to right:
Bruce Levy, Philip Cox, Alan Murray,  
Steve Riley, Struan Robertson,  
Sir Neville Simms, John Roberts,  
Ranald Spiers, Tony Isaac,  
Mark Williamson and Tony Concannon.
Board of Directors
International Power Annual Report 2008
62 Ranald Spiers (53) 
Executive Director, Middle East & Asia
Ranald was appointed to the Board in May 2008, as 
Executive Director, Middle East and Asia, based in  
Abu Dhabi and Singapore. Prior to this appointment, 
he was Regional Director for the Middle East, where 
he was responsible for leading the development, 
financing, construction and operation of power and 
water desalination assets throughout the region. 
Ranald joined National Power in 1993, having 
previously spent 1 2 years with the BP Group.  
Ranald is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry 
(FRSC) and a Chartered Chemist.
Non-Executive Directors
Anthony (Tony) Isaac (67) 
Non-Executive Director
Tony became a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company in October 2000. He is the Senior 
Independent Director and was Chairman of the 
Audit Committee until 1 April 2008. He was 
previously the Chief Executive of The BOC Group plc 
and is a Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger 
Limited and Hogg Robinson Group plc.
Alan Murray (55) 
Non-Executive Director
Alan became a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company on 1 July 2007 and Chairman of the  
Audit Committee on 1 April 2008. He was a 
member of the Managing Board of Heidelberg 
Cement AG until the end of 2008 and was 
previously the Chief Executive of Hanson PLC,  
from April 2002 to October 2007. He joined 
Hanson in 1988 and held various positions prior  
to his appointment as Chief Executive, including 
Finance Director of Hanson PLC and Chief Executive 
of Hanson Building Materials America.
Struan Robertson (59) 
Non-Executive Director
Struan became a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company on 1 October 2004. He is Chairman of  
the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.  
He was Group Chief Executive of Wates Group Ltd 
until January 2004. Before that he was Executive 
Chairman of BP Asia Pacific. He is currently  
a Non-Executive Director at Forth Ports plc, 
Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc,  
Tomkins plc, and is the Senior Independent Director 
of Salamander Energy plc. Previously he was the 
Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
John Roberts (63) 
Non-Executive Director
John became a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company on 18 May 2006. He is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. He was previously Chief 
Executive of United Utilities PLC, a position he held 
for over six years. Before that, he was Chief Executive 
of Hyder Utilities and of Manweb. He is a Fellow  
of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Institution  
of Engineering and Technology and the Association 
of Chartered Certified Accountants. He is a 
Non-Executive Director of Royal Bank of Canada 
(Europe) Limited, Merrill Lynch New Energy 
Technology Trust and Remote Energy Monitoring 
Holdings Limited.
Business overview 63 Peter Barlow 
Peter is the head of corporate finance for 
International Power and is responsible for funding 
and bank relationships. Peter joined us in 1998  
and has been involved in corporate finance,  
project finance and treasury activities since  
that time. He is a Non-Executive Director  
of Hampson Industries.
Penny Chalmers 
Penny is head of global resources. She is  
responsible for Group human resources, 
information technology and corporate 
communications. Penny has over 20 years’ 
experience in the energy sector and has been  
with us since 1997.
Gareth Griffiths 
Gareth manages global trading, with  
responsibility for our trading operations in the  
UK, US and Australia. He has over 1 5 years’ 
experience in the industry and was previously  
vice president, marketing and trading for our  
North American business.
Edward Metcalfe 
Edward manages operations and engineering  
and has 35 years’ experience in the industry. Prior  
to his appointment in July 2006, he was executive 
managing director of Arabian Power Company and 
was previously responsible for our operations in 
South Australia, specifically Pelican Point, Synergen 
and SEA Gas.
Stephen Ramsay 
Stephen is our company secretary and general 
counsel. He joined the Company in 1996, after  
ten years as a solicitor in private practice, first 
working at National Wind Power and then in 
the international legal group, before becoming 
company secretary in October 2000.
Senior management team
The senior management team  
from left to right:
Gareth Grifﬁths, Penny Chalmers, 
Edward Metcalfe, Peter Barlow  
and Stephen Ramsay.
Senior management team
International Power Annual Report 2008
64 International Power is a diverse Group both in terms 
of our locations and employee backgrounds. At the 
end of 2008, we employed some 4,000 people 
either directly or through our subsidiaries.
We work in a complex business environment and 
recruiting and retaining highly skilled employees  
is essential. We therefore focus on attracting, 
developing and retaining talented people 
throughout our organisation. Due to the nature  
of our growth strategy, we also employ new groups  
of skilled people through acquiring power stations 
from other companies, from whom we learn,  
share best practice and experience new cultures.
In light of our strategy to balance risk through 
operating a global portfolio, our business 
ownership structures often lead to the sharing  
of influence over people policies. Our senior 
management team establishes the important 
values, principles, guidelines and standards of good 
governance by which employees at our businesses 
are employed. Even in joint ventures or associates, 
International Power is committed to providing input 
into employment practices to ensure our general 
principles are followed.
Our regional senior management teams are 
responsible for managing our power plants to 
ensure we respect national cultures and comply 
with local employment regimes and embed  
our FIRST core values (set out on pages 8 and 9). 
Attracting employees
In our organisation, like many others, getting the 
right people to join our business is critical for the 
future success of the Group. We seek to attract and 
retain high calibre employees, including those with 
specialist qualifications, skills and experience. We 
also seek to recruit people who have the potential  
to develop within the Group to fit the needs of the 
organisation.
The energy industry globally faces challenges as the 
number of engineers retiring exceeds the number 
graduating with engineering degrees. This resource 
shortage affects International Power, its partners 
and its competitors. This is an issue International 
Power is keen to address so, for example, in 
Australia, we are one of the founding members  
of the Power Academy, an engineering scholarship 
fund for students who would like to study electrical 
power engineering. Bursaries are available to high 
calibre students, who can also undertake 
undergraduate placements with the seven 
sponsoring power companies.
In addition, at Hub Power station in Pakistan,  
our apprenticeship scheme is in its twelfth year  
of operation. Approximately 130 apprentices have 
passed through the programme, which gives local 
people access to professional training.
In the US, the Armstrong and Pleasants power 
stations run a training programme for combustion 
turbine technicians. This is a three-year programme 
that successfully trains technicians to operate in a 
multidisciplinary environment and enables them  
to become specialists.
We are also continuing to run apprentice and 
graduate schemes in Australia and the UK. In the 
UK, our Rugeley, First Hydro and Saltend plants 
have all been successful in attracting good quality 
apprentices. Additionally, both First Hydro and our 
London corporate office have recruited graduates, 
who embark on further professional training with 
International Power.
Developing and retaining employees
We operate in a competitive international market 
for key skills and talent. We recognise that the  
skills and dedication of our employees makes us 
competitive as we work to achieve our strategy, so 
we invest in developing their skill base to meet the 
needs of the individual and the Group. Developing 
employees not only helps retain them for the 
business, but is also critical in assisting the Company 
in its succession planning, to ensure we are growing 
our talent for the future.
We are committed to providing employees with 
interesting and challenging roles, and opportunities 
to learn, develop and advance their careers. Where 
possible, we encourage internal applicants from 
within the Group for all new roles, in order to give 
our staff a broad range of experience.
Our people
We work in a complex business environment and recruiting 
and retaining highly skilled employees is essential. Therefore  
we focus on attracting, developing and retaining talented 
people throughout our organisation.
Business overview 65 In the Middle East, a number of countries operate  
a form of ‘localisation’ whereby employers are 
required to increase the number of local staff in the 
workforce over time. This requires detailed training 
programmes to be in place and co-operation with 
external training institutes and government bodies.
We develop staff through local programmes  
and global initiatives. In Europe, a management 
development programme was created and 
delivered for first time managers from a wide range 
of countries and assets. In Australia, we are working 
with the Australian Institute of Management to 
develop a similar programme. At First Hydro, a 
modular management programme was offered  
to senior staff so that they could focus on those 
topics of most benefit to themselves, to ensure the 
business continues to be well placed for the future.
In the US, we implemented a training programme 
for new managers in co-ordination with a local 
college that brings academic staff into our plants  
to teach management principles and techniques.
A further global leadership programme for high 
potential managers took place this year at Ashridge 
Business School. The participants were drawn from 
every region and a variety of disciplines, providing 
an excellent opportunity for knowledge sharing.
The provision of technical training is also essential 
for the growth of our business and continues 
throughout the Group. The majority of Group 
companies encourage people to study for national 
qualifications or accredited skills. A number of 
safety training initiatives have also continued this 
year, with the ‘Fresh Eyes’ programme being 
introduced to all plants where we have some 
management control. This initiative concentrates 
on improving safe behaviour at our power stations 
through colleagues observing their peers at work 
and then providing feedback.
Health, safety and effective communications are 
essential for our employees’ wellbeing, and health 
talks and educational sessions are offered at many 
of our power stations, reflecting our commitment 
to employee welfare. Employee assistance 
programmes are offered at a number of locations, 
supported by local providers.
The sharing of knowledge and skills has been 
another priority and a number of forums have been 
introduced to enhance this area. An Operations and 
Engineering forum took place in 2008, with 60 
attendees, to discuss common challenges affecting 
our plants. This initiative will continue in 2009 to 
facilitate co-ordination and knowledge sharing 
around the Group.
Team briefings are undertaken on a regular basis  
at our power stations to ensure key messages  
are rolled out to all staff in a timely manner. 
Additionally, in 2008, the Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) launched a new initiative – the Connect Live 
CEO Briefings. This all-employee conference call 
allows every employee in the Group, from all parts 
of the world, to hear directly from Philip Cox the 
issues impacting upon the Group. Employees are 
also given the opportunity to ask him questions.
We continue to invest in the latest technology to aid 
rapid communication with all of our staff around the 
world and this year launched ‘IPR Connect’. This  
is an intranet-based knowledge platform which  
is gradually being rolled out to employees in our 
regional offices and subsidiary companies and  
will allow and encourage information sharing  
and collaborative working.
We offer competitive pay and benefits to attract  
and retain talented people in our organisation and 
we also operate a number of incentive plans for 
employees. For senior staff, we continue to operate 
a number of share-based long-term incentive plans 
and see these as an integral part of our strategy  
to align the interests of staff with the Group’s 
performance based on clear financial criteria.
Equal opportunities and diversity  
in the workplace
In line with our FIRST core values (which are 
outlined on pages 8 and 9), we endeavour  
to ensure that our employees conduct themselves 
with the highest integrity at all times, irrespective of 
their position within the Group. To help employees 
understand and follow consistent standards of 
conduct throughout our international operations,  
a Code of Conduct has also been developed for use 
by employees and managers and this is regularly 
reviewed and discussed around our business. 
Recognising the very wide diversity of our 
employees and business partners across the globe, 
International Power is fully committed to the 
provision of equal opportunities and the elimination 
of discrimination of any type in our Group. We 
believe wholeheartedly that it makes sound 
business sense to benefit from the wide ranging 
knowledge and experience of individuals in all 
sectors of the societies in which we have a presence. 
A number of our plants are active participants in 
diversity programmes. For example, in the UK, 
Rugeley power station is accredited with the 
‘Positive about Disability’ standard and Rugeley, 
First Hydro and Saltend are all accredited to 
‘Investors in People’.
Rugeley, UK
Hidd, Bahrain
Our people
International Power Annual Report 2008
66 Case study
Elecgas 830MW greenfield  
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine  
(CCGT) project in Portugal
In March 2008, International Power 
successfully completed the financing  
of the new Elecgas 830MW CCGT  
project in Portugal.
Key agreements, including an offtake (tolling) 
contract and an Engineering Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) agreement, were also signed  
in March 2008 and construction is now well 
underway, with piling works completed and the 
foundations for both units laid.
This greenfield development is expected to be fully 
operational in 2011 and will be owned and operated 
on a 50:50 basis by International Power and Endesa, 
a leading player in the Iberian electricity market.  
The facility will further strengthen International 
Power’s position in the attractive Portuguese 
market, and add to our long-term contracted 
earnings stream.
The Elecgas project will be located on a site  
adjacent to our existing 628MW Pego coal-fired 
power plant and, as a result, will benefit from shared 
services such as cooling water infrastructure. This 
will not only ensure lower operating costs than a 
stand-alone plant, but will also promote closer 
working relationships and knowledge sharing 
between facilities.
The total project cost is estimated to be  
E580 million, which is being funded by a mix  
of debt and equity in an 85:15 ratio.
The plant is being constructed by a consortium  
of Siemens companies, and labour levels on site 
reached a peak in December 2008 with nearly  
200 people working on the project. The facility is 
utilising the latest technology to ensure minimum 
emissions and will operate using Siemens V94.3A 
turbines in combined cycle mode with a targeted 
efficiency rating of 58%.
The entire output of the new plant will be sold to 
Endesa Generacion S.A., a subsidiary of Endesa, 
under a 25-year tolling contract.
A schematic of the new Elecgas 830MW CCGT plant in 
Portugal which is expected to be fully operational in 2011
Case study 67 Corporate responsibility
Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that has the power 
to enhance quality of life. As an international company we 
must demonstrate responsible and ethical working practices.
Corporate responsibility
International Power Annual Report 2008
68
 1 ,225MW
Renewable portfolio increased to
14%
From 2005 to 2008, the average 
carbon intensity of our global 
portfolio fell by
Uthmaniyah power station is  
one of four assets contributing  
to Tihama’s 1,076MW of  
capacity in Saudi Arabia  
in our Middle East region
Corporate responsibility
Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that has the power 
to enhance quality of life. As an international company we 
must demonstrate responsible and ethical working practices.
Corporate responsibility
International Power Annual Report 2008
68
 1 ,225MW
Renewable portfolio increased to
14%
From 2005 to 2008, the average 
carbon intensity of our global 
portfolio fell by
Uthmaniyah power station is  
one of four assets contributing  
to Tihama’s 1,076MW of  
capacity in Saudi Arabia  
in our Middle East region Business impact
Our aim is to ensure that International Power is 
known throughout the world as a responsible, 
efficient and successful company. Our stakeholders 
– our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, 
regulators and host communities – expect nothing  
less of us, and we aim to deliver on this commitment. 
Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that  
has the power to enhance quality of life. As an 
international company we must demonstrate 
responsible and ethical working practices. For  
a global wholesale generating company like 
International Power, this equates to following fair 
and ethical principles to govern the way we manage 
and conduct our business. It means working in 
a smart and integrated way – by ensuring our  
key competencies, technical expertise and best 
practices are properly implemented over a widely 
dispersed and diverse range of assets to produce 
power, water and process heat safely and cleanly.  
It also means that corporate responsibility (CR) forms 
an integral part of our business decision process  
and contributes to our global competitiveness  
and reputation.
Our CR performance includes our management  
of the impact of emissions to air and water,  
other environmental impacts, health and safety, 
employment, human rights and community 
development. A reputation for good CR performance 
is essential to our business since it influences our 
relations and standing with all our stakeholders, 
together with our ability to recruit the best people.
The measures necessary to combat global climate 
change represent one of the biggest challenges to 
our business. Government actions across the world 
to meet the Kyoto Protocol and other climate 
change initiatives to reduce Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 
emissions will, over time, increase the cost of 
emitting carbon. These measures will alter the 
economic balance between different fuels, 
favouring low carbon and renewable technologies. 
New business opportunities may be created to 
exploit renewable energy technologies and, 
potentially, carbon capture and storage technologies. 
Our strategy is to generate energy in an efficient way, 
to develop low carbon technology and to expand 
our renewables portfolio. 
To track our performance in implementing this 
strategy we measure the carbon intensity of each 
unit of electricity generated across our portfolio. 
The average carbon intensity of International Power’s 
global portfolio has fallen considerably in recent years 
from 0.736 kg/kWh in 2005 to 0.636 kg/kWh  
in 2008. We use net reporting for CO 2, which 
reflects our ownership interest in a power plant,  
and therefore includes the net MW of joint ventures  
and associates.
Corporate responsibility 69
Business impact
Our aim is to ensure that International Power is 
known throughout the world as a responsible, 
efficient and successful company. Our stakeholders 
– our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, 
regulators and host communities – expect nothing  
less of us, and we aim to deliver on this commitment. 
Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that  
has the power to enhance quality of life. As an 
international company we must demonstrate 
responsible and ethical working practices. For  
a global wholesale generating company like 
International Power, this equates to following fair 
and ethical principles to govern the way we manage 
and conduct our business. It means working in 
a smart and integrated way – by ensuring our  
key competencies, technical expertise and best 
practices are properly implemented over a widely 
dispersed and diverse range of assets to produce 
power, water and process heat safely and cleanly.  
It also means that corporate responsibility (CR) forms 
an integral part of our business decision process  
and contributes to our global competitiveness  
and reputation.
Our CR performance includes our management  
of the impact of emissions to air and water,  
other environmental impacts, health and safety, 
employment, human rights and community 
development. A reputation for good CR performance 
is essential to our business since it influences our 
relations and standing with all our stakeholders, 
together with our ability to recruit the best people.
The measures necessary to combat global climate 
change represent one of the biggest challenges to 
our business. Government actions across the world 
to meet the Kyoto Protocol and other climate 
change initiatives to reduce Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) 
emissions will, over time, increase the cost of 
emitting carbon. These measures will alter the 
economic balance between different fuels, 
favouring low carbon and renewable technologies. 
New business opportunities may be created to 
exploit renewable energy technologies and, 
potentially, carbon capture and storage technologies. 
Our strategy is to generate energy in an efficient way, 
to develop low carbon technology and to expand 
our renewables portfolio. 
To track our performance in implementing this 
strategy we measure the carbon intensity of each 
unit of electricity generated across our portfolio. 
The average carbon intensity of International Power’s 
global portfolio has fallen considerably in recent years 
from 0.736 kg/kWh in 2005 to 0.636 kg/kWh  
in 2008. We use net reporting for CO 2, which 
reflects our ownership interest in a power plant,  
and therefore includes the net MW of joint ventures  
and associates.
Corporate responsibility 69 CO 2 by region 
 
The figures above show how CO 2 emissions 
intensity varies across our five core regions. 
Emissions from thermal power stations depend  
on the fuel they burn, the thermal efficiency of the 
units and the operating regime they work under. 
Hydrocarbon fuels, such as natural gas, inherently 
produce less CO 2 per unit of energy compared to 
coal. Modern plants tend to be more efficient due  
to improvements in technology.
The independent think tank, Centre for Global 
Development, has sourced a figure of 0.6 kg/kWh 
for the intensity of worldwide power station  
CO 2 emissions from its ‘Carbon Monitoring for 
Action’ (CARMA) database (http: //carma.org). The 
figure has been calculated from a global database  
of over 50,000 power plants, including nuclear and 
renewable plants, and provides a useful benchmark 
(although it should be noted that International 
Power has no nuclear assets in its portfolio).  
The CARMA database also shows that emission 
intensities vary significantly across the regions of  
the world, often reflecting the use of indigenous 
local fuel. For example, the data shows that 
Australia has a much higher carbon intensity due  
to the high proportion of coal-fired power stations 
compared to Europe, which has a large nuclear  
fleet, or the Middle East, which has predominantly 
gas-fired generation. 
In general our portfolio mirrors the global trends 
shown by the CARMA data. Our emissions intensity 
in North America is particularly low because our  
US fleet consists of mostly modern, highly efficient 
gas-fired plants and this helps offset the higher 
emissions intensity of the Coleto Creek coal-fired 
plant. In Europe there is a variety of fuels and 
technologies in the portfolio, however our pumped 
storage plant, First Hydro, and the European 
renewables portfolio, with 1,179MW of wind 
generation in operation, contribute to the low 
emissions intensity for the region. The Middle East 
portfolio comprises largely modern and efficient 
gas-fired plants, and the majority of our assets in  
the region make effective use of fuel by using waste 
heat from generation to produce desalinated water, 
which further reduces the emissions intensity. Our 
Asian power stations burn a range of fuels including 
gas, coal and oil and the emissions intensities in Asia 
reflect this fuel mix.
Australia relies heavily on coal-fired power stations, 
which account for some 85% of the national 
electricity generation. Our Hazelwood and 
Loy Yang B assets in Victoria were built to burn 
the abundant local brown coal, which produces 
higher CO 2 emissions (due to its higher moisture 
content) and results in a relatively high emission 
intensity. However, emission intensities from these 
plants are similar to those of the other major 
power generators in Victoria. Initiatives that 
we are taking to reduce these emissions are 
described on page 73.
Whilst we measure the carbon intensity of our 
output, and seek to reduce it, we do not have  
a specific target for reducing total CO 2 emissions. 
There are three principal reasons for this. Firstly,  
we are a growing business and any fossil fuel stations 
we add to our fleet will add to our aggregate CO 2 
emissions level. Secondly, we are a demand-led 
industry. We are obligated to generate electricity  
to meet customer demand and we are committed 
to ‘keeping the lights on’. Finally, the choice of fuel  
is often dependent upon client specifications (which 
for new-build plants are specified during the bidding 
process) and the most economic and secure fuel 
available in the local market. We are fully committed 
to running our business in a responsible manner, 
complying with all relevant legislation and taking 
into account our obligations to our shareholders 
and other stakeholders. 
 2008 2008
 Total CO2* kg/kWh*
 (’000 tonnes) equivalent
North America 11,747 0.513
Europe 13,436 0.490
Middle East 8,354 0.396
Australia 23,379 1.198
Asia 6,960 0.730
* Based on net MW
Regional CO 2 emissions intensity, compared to fuel type by regional net MW 
0.513
6,618
7,282
2,454
3,221
1,767
0.490
1.198
0.396
0.730
Renewables
Pumped storage
Oil
Coal
Gas
net MW
kg/kWh equivalent
North
America
Europe Middle
East
Australia AsiaNorth
America
Europe Middle
East
Australia Asia
Corporate responsibility
International Power Annual Report 2008
70 Developments in climate change legislation
European Union (EU) member states are 
committed to meeting existing EU-wide legislation 
designed to tackle climate change. Under the Kyoto 
Protocol, the EU is planning an 8% reduction (from 
1990 levels) in greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, 
and is seeking to achieve this through a number of 
measures. Firstly, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme 
(EUETS) cap and trade mechanism is designed to 
promote the reduction of CO 2 emissions across 
European industry. In addition, the EU Renewables 
Directive sets individual national targets for the 
amount of electricity to be obtained through 
renewable sources. In December 2008, EU member 
states proposed new, longer-term binding targets:  
a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 
2020 (again from 1990 levels) and 20% of energy 
use to come from renewable sources by 2020. 
These targets are apportioned between member 
states and implemented through new directives. 
From 2013 full auctioning of CO 2 allowances is  
to be implemented for the power sector across the 
EU, although certain central and eastern European 
countries will retain some free allowances (declining 
to zero by 2020), in recognition of their high 
dependency on fossil fuels and low GDPs.
In December 2007, under a new federal 
government, Australia ratified the Kyoto Protocol. 
Carbon dioxide measurement and reporting 
legislation was passed in July 2008 and the 
government is planning to introduce an emissions 
trading scheme across most industrial sectors, 
including the power sector, by mid 2010. 
International Power Australia is engaged with both 
the federal and state governments on the design 
and implementation of the scheme. The current 
proposals are for a minimum 5% reduction in CO 2 
emissions against 2000 levels by 2020, with the 
potential for this target to rise to 15% (pending the 
UN meeting in Copenhagen planned to be held at 
the end of 2009). Under the proposals, there is 
currently a period of five years where, in effect, no 
charge will be applied for a portion of emissions 
from coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood 
and Loy Yang B assets would be eligible for this 
relief. The details of the proposals are yet to be 
finalised, with the government aiming to introduce 
the legislation into Parliament in May 2009. The 
impact of the legislation upon our assets in Australia 
will remain uncertain until some time after 
legislation is finalised.
In the US, the newly elected government is 
progressing fast in developing its carbon emissions 
reduction plans. There are currently state and 
federal programmes in development which would 
establish incentives for low carbon emissions. At the 
state level, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative 
programme is now in effect in the north eastern  
and mid Atlantic states, and aims to reduce CO 2 
emissions by 10% by 2018. The first auction of 
emission allowances was held in September 2008 
and the scheme commenced on 1 January 2009.  
At the federal level, the new administration  
is expected to introduce emissions legislation in 
2009 that will become effective in 2012 or later.  
We expect the legislation to include a combination  
of carbon allocations and auctions. The overall 
efficiency of our US power stations means that the 
US business should be well positioned to meet the 
requirements of this new legislation. International 
Power will be actively engaged in advocating the 
Company’s position during the legislative process.
There is no imminent legislation expected in either 
the Middle East or Asia. Our projects in these 
regions operate under long-term Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs), and these generally have 
change of law protection, which would enable  
us to pass on any carbon costs to the offtaker.
Significant corporate responsibility issues
Our senior management team regularly reviews  
the significant CR issues, and the associated policies, 
relevant to our business.
These are:
—  management of the health, safety and welfare  
of our employees and contractors
—  the consequences of climate change leading  
to national and international regulation of  
CO 2 emissions
—   measures to control our environmental  
impacts, especially emissions to air such as 
oxides of sulphur and nitrogen (SOx, NOx)  
and particulates
—  maintaining high standards of business ethics
—   local community programmes
Corporate responsibility governance
Management of corporate responsibility issues
CR matters relating to International Power’s 
activities are governed by the senior management 
team, and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has 
overall responsibility. The CEO is assisted by the 
company secretary, the head of operations and 
engineering, the corporate environmental manager 
and the health and safety manager. The CEO gives 
CR briefings to the Board at every Board meeting, 
and the Board also receives a summary of Group-
wide CR issues in the annual risk report.
Day-to-day management of CR is performed by our 
Regional Directors, plant managers and employees. 
Their work is overseen by the global and regional 
Health, Safety and Environment (HS&E) 
management committees and the Human 
Resources group, the latter being responsible  
for employee matters and compliance with human 
rights legislation. All employees are expected  
to play a role in maintaining International Power’s 
status as a responsible business.
In 2008 we continued to expand  
our renewables portfolio
Corporate responsibility 71 Health, Safety and Environmental management
The global HS&E management committee reviews 
the overall performance of businesses across the 
Group and defines global environmental standards 
and targets. The global management committee  
is supported by regional HS&E management 
committees, which include representation from  
each plant.
In 2008, we strengthened our CR governance by 
establishing a new Board-level HS&E Committee  
to oversee HS&E policy and the performance of the 
HS&E management committee. It reviews HS&E 
reports as well as any major incidents and issues  
of public concern. It meets at least twice a year at 
different power stations, where the Committee also 
discusses HS&E issues with the plant manager and 
relevant on-site staff. During 2008 the Board HS&E 
Committee met twice, once at Deeside power 
station and the other at Rugeley power station. At 
these meetings the Committee toured the power 
station, reviewed HS&E matters, and met with 
employees. The station manager and Regional 
Director were also invited to the meeting.
Auditing corporate responsibility
Our internal audit team reviews all International 
Power subsidiaries and this includes an audit of key 
CR performance. These power stations receive a 
full internal audit every three years, with an interim 
audit mid-way through the cycle. The internal audit 
department includes a HS&E specialist, and technical 
support is externally sourced where necessary. We 
also work with partners to try to ensure that joint 
ventures and associates receive an equally rigorous 
audit regime. The Audit Committee and CEO receive 
all audit reports.
Third party auditors assess our plants against the 
certification criteria required for ISO 14001 and 
OHSAS 18001 management systems. In 2008 
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA)  
were engaged to carry out an initial verification 
assessment of our corporate HS&E data. Following 
this review, we are preparing for formal external 
verification of our HS&E data by LRQA for 2009.
Standards
All our power stations, where we have operational 
control, have ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 
certification, except those that have recently been 
acquired/constructed and are in the process of 
applying for certification. At businesses where 
International Power is not the majority shareholder, 
we seek to agree with our partners that we will 
jointly obtain the above standards.
We continue to be listed amongst the top 100 
companies for CR performance in the Business  
in the Community (BITC) CR Index. In May 2008 
we were awarded silver ranking overall, with gold 
in the Environment Index and a bronze in the 
Community Index.
In addition to our BITC ratings, we are a member of 
the FTSE4GOOD index, which identifies companies 
that meet globally recognised corporate 
responsibility standards. The selection criteria for 
this index includes environmental sustainability, 
stakeholder relationships and upholding and 
supporting universal human rights.
Human rights and Code of Business Conduct
We endorse the United Nations’ Universal 
Declaration on Human Rights. This is supported by 
our own Code of Business Conduct (the Code) and 
human resources policies. We apply human rights 
principles rigorously for our own employees, and 
we seek to influence our partners, contractors  
and suppliers to apply the same standards. 
The Code, which applies to all International Power 
employees, includes clauses on complying with our 
ethical, environment and health and safety policies. 
It also covers competitive practices, conduct in the 
community and charitable donations. We distribute 
copies of the Code to all employees, and make it 
publicly available on our website. All plant managers 
are responsible for overseeing implementation of 
the Code.
Corporate responsibility communication  
and training
Effective internal communication is essential to 
ensure employees receive accurate information  
on International Power’s strategic agenda, major 
initiatives, corporate developments and position  
on industrial issues. 
Being well informed is a key driver in ensuring that 
employees feel respected, valued and become 
engaged in any Group initiatives. To communicate 
key issues effectively, a variety of communication 
channels have been developed. Management 
briefings and functional forums are good examples  
of these. 
We produce an internal International Power 
magazine ‘interconnect’ that is distributed globally  
to all International Power sites and offices. The 
publication contains details on major Group news, 
industry developments that directly affect the Group, 
updates on regional progress and features on CR. 
Information on International Power’s CR initiatives  
is also available on the Company’s website.
In 2008, International Power launched ‘IPR 
Connect’, an intranet-based knowledge platform 
which provides corporate employees with access 
to key information, services and policies, including 
information on the Group’s CR aims and 
achievements.
All Executive Directors of International Power and 
the directors of our subsidiaries receive training  
in corporate governance and CR. We give all new 
employees basic HS&E inductions and comprehensive 
safety training relevant to their work area.
We have invested in our ﬁrst solar power  
project at Juneda PV in Spain
Corporate responsibility
International Power Annual Report 2008
72 Progress in corporate responsibility
Environment and climate change
As a global power company, we recognise the 
importance of developing and implementing  
a low carbon strategy over both the medium  
and long-term.
It is incumbent on us to operate our business in a 
manner which is sustainable. This means we need  
to both retain our competitiveness today and ensure 
we are taking steps now, so that our business is well 
positioned for the future. In this regard, the control 
and limitation of CO 2 emissions is a critical issue and 
one which has a high priority within our business.
The Board has endorsed a low carbon strategy  
with three key strands: to generate electricity  
more efficiently, to invest in low carbon fossil  
fuel generation, and to expand our renewables 
portfolio. 
We have dedicated resources within our Operations 
and Engineering teams to review technology trends 
and advances to ensure we are best positioned to 
participate in the drive towards a lower carbon 
environment internationally.
Generating electricity efficiently
We use high efficiency turbines with proven 
environmental technology at our newly built plants. 
For example, at Fujairah F2 in Abu Dhabi, we are 
constructing a new 2,000MW, 130MIGD power 
and desalination plant. The desalination process is 
able to make use of waste heat from the power 
station and the combined process is very efficient. 
We are using Alstom gas turbine GT26B technology 
with a combination of condensing extraction and 
back pressure steam turbines. When taking into 
account the power it produces and the heat 
generated for the desalination process, this process 
has a very high thermal efficiency of over 65%.
We are reviewing the thermal efficiency at our 
power stations and implementing improvement 
programmes. These range from steam turbine 
upgrades to reducing works power and improving 
combustion conditions. For example, in Australia  
at the Kwinana plant, we have invested in new 
technology to increase the efficiency of the plant  
by cooling the air drawn into the power station.  
The process results in a cost-effective power boost 
which, in hot weather, can increase output by 
approximately 7% and improve efficiency by up  
to 1.5%. Similar technology has also been installed 
at our Bellingham plant in the US.
In addition, at Deeside in the UK, we upgraded gas 
turbine GT2 with new design vanes and blades in 
2007. This has resulted in increased output of 4MW 
and an improvement in efficiency of up to 0.4%. 
Following a post-implementation review in 2008, 
similar upgrades will be made to gas turbine GT1 in 
2009 and the compressor of this turbine will also be 
upgraded. We expect the compressor upgrades to 
generate an additional 6MW of output and produce 
further improvements in efficiency.
Investing in low carbon fossil fuel generation
In 2008, we continued to invest in the development 
of low carbon initiatives, including carbon capture 
and storage. Hazelwood, in Australia, burns brown 
coal which is low in SOx emissions, but produces 
higher CO
2
 emissions due to its high moisture 
content. As a result, there are a number of initiatives 
underway at Hazelwood aimed at reducing the 
plant’s CO
2
 emissions. In association with the 
Co-operative Research Centre for Greenhouse  
Gas Technologies (CO
2
CRC), International Power  
is building a pilot carbon capture and storage 
scheme which will be one of the world’s foremost 
demonstrations of post-combustion capture of 
CO
2
. The first phase of the project has been 
designed to capture 25 tonnes of CO
2
 per day. 
In addition, we are working on projects with the 
potential to decrease CO
2
 emissions at Hazelwood 
using microalgae production. The process extracts 
combustion gases from the flue stacks and uses the 
CO
2
 rich gases to enhance the photosynthesis and 
growth rates of microalgae. Trials have successfully 
processed these microalgae into biodiesel which 
can then be used for vehicle fuel. 
Expanding renewables
Our expansion strategy focuses on countries where 
wind energy operates within favourable regulatory 
regimes, many of which are in Europe. In 2008 we 
continued to expand our renewables portfolio, 
which now has an aggregate capacity of 1,225MW. 
We are seeking to further expand our renewables 
portfolio by acquisition and organically through 
working with local developers.
Our first investment in solar power was completed 
in July 2008 with three projects comprising 90kW, 
200kW and 1MW (peak output) installations of 
photovoltaic panels. Located in northern Spain, 
close to our existing Spanish Hydro assets, the 
Juneda PV project was developed through our 
Spanish Hydro business, which is part of our 
partnership with Mitsui. Operating under the 
Spanish renewables framework, the plants have 
secured a long-term, index-linked, feed-in tariff  
for their output.
We are also making good progress in our work with 
Tidal Generation Ltd and Rolls-Royce plc to develop 
a tidal generation business. The grid connection 
required to develop a 10MW tidal farm in the 
Pentland Firth, Scotland, was secured in 2008.
Using CO2 from flue gas to grow algae for biofuel 
production at Hazelwood in Australia
Corporate responsibility 73 Reducing sulphur dioxide emissions 
We are investing significant capital in Flue Gas 
Desulphurisation (FGD), a process that is fitted to 
coal-fired power stations to remove sulphur from 
emissions. FGD is already fitted at our coal plant in 
the Czech Republic, at the Paiton plant in Indonesia 
and at Pego in Portugal, and we are installing it at 
Rugeley in the UK. At Rugeley we expect the FGD 
plant to commence operating in the second quarter 
of 2009. The use of FGD at Rugeley and Pego will 
enable these two power stations to comply with  
the revised EU Large Combustion Plant Directive’s 
restrictions on Sulphur Dioxide (SO 2) emissions.  
We have chosen the limestone/gypsum FGD 
process for Rugeley and Pego, in line with all  
other existing or planned FGD retrofits to  
power stations in England and Portugal. 
Health and safety 
We are committed to the best possible health and 
safety performance. 2008 was the third successive 
year in which the Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
was reduced. The majority of the reported incidents 
were minor slips, trips, falls, or manual handling 
injuries, with the individual returning to work within 
a day or two. A major review of the global safety 
management system was carried out involving 
external benchmarking to ensure the best possible 
systems are in place for managing safety globally, 
and that the systems are appropriate for the level  
of identified risks and to ensure legal compliance.
In 2007 OHSAS 18001 was adopted as the 
Group’s global standard for health and safety 
management systems, giving a common 
framework for continuously improving health and 
safety performance. All power stations at which 
International Power has operational control are 
expected to achieve accreditation to this standard. 
The majority have already met this standard,  
whilst the remaining few are working towards 
accreditation. Those that are working towards 
OHSAS 18001 will have accreditation as a target  
in their 2009 business plans.
The behavioural safety programme ‘Fresh Eyes’, 
which applies to all of our operating plants,  
is delivering good results in identifying and 
changing ‘at risk’ behaviours. This is reflected  
in the headline Key Performance Indicator (KPI). 
A review of the programme was carried out in 
2008 to share learning experience across the  
regions and to identify global best practice. 
Social investment
Electricity, fresh water and heating, the core 
elements of our business, are fundamental 
requirements of modern life – this gives us 
considerable reach and a global impact on people’s 
lives. We therefore have a responsibility to conduct 
our business with a genuine concern for the world 
around us, and in particular where our business  
has a direct impact.
Community investment
We support the communities in which we operate 
by acting as a responsible employer and neighbour, 
and contributing towards the improvement of local 
amenities such as health and education services. 
Employees also give their time freely within their 
communities, offering support for many activities. 
We encourage our staff to participate wherever 
possible and support them fully in their endeavours. 
The following are just some examples of the 
community investment projects in which we 
participate. More information about our 
community investments can be found on  
our website.
In Thailand, Thai National Power (TNP) has 
continued to support the Baan Sapan Si School,  
by building an extension for the kindergarten  
and primary school, together with a canteen and 
computer centre and also by making donations  
to student lunches.
During 2008 International Power sponsored two 
schools in Wales and three in the Czech Republic  
to participate in a carbon footprint project.  
Children held after-school clubs to learn about 
carbon emissions, calculate their individual  
carbon footprint and discover ways to offset  
their emissions. These children were then given  
the opportunity to take part in an exchange visit, 
during which they enjoyed tours of the local power 
plants, Deeside and International Power Opatovice.
Donations are also made by our businesses to 
alleviate hardship and support relief efforts in 
response to natural disasters. In October 2008  
a strong earthquake struck Pakistan, killing over 
250 people and injuring around 500 others. Our 
Uch power station, which was only 250 km from  
the epicentre, contributed to the relief effort  
by dispatching goods in the form of life-saving 
medicines, 100 tents, 500 blankets, and 1,000 
standard food packs – each containing enough 
supplies to provide for one family for one week. 
Additionally, in early 2009 the state of Victoria, 
Australia, suffered a severe heatwave resulting  
in fierce bushfires, which caused many deaths and 
widespread devastation. Our Australian business 
contributed to the relief efforts, donating monies  
to the emergency relief fund and providing capital 
to assist with the rebuilding of infrastructure in  
the region.
Corporate responsibility
International Power Annual Report 2008
74 Charitable giving
The Company’s charities and donations committee 
oversees the award of charitable and other 
donations. In addition to assessing requests and 
making awards in response to applications for 
assistance from a variety of charities and good 
causes, the committee is also responsible for 
selecting the Company’s community-based 
nominated charities and annual Flagship projects. 
International Power supports four major charities 
from our corporate centre. During 2008, these 
were Crisis, The Queen Elizabeth Foundation,  
Sight Savers and Wellchild. At the end of 2008 our 
Wellchild sponsorship of a children’s nurse in a local 
London borough came to an end. The sponsorship 
International Power provided has guaranteed 
government funding for the nurse going forward, 
and so it was felt that our funds should be  
re-allocated. Following a review by the charities  
and donations committee it was decided that our 
new corporate charity will be the Koru Foundation, 
a relatively new charity dedicated to developing 
community-managed, small-scale renewable 
energy projects to tackle energy poverty and 
climate change in developing countries.
Each of our corporate charities is supported on a 
three-year rolling programme with an annual sum 
of £20,000, allowing us to build a longer-term 
relationship at the same time as giving the charity 
the security of funding for a defined timeframe. 
Further information about our relationship with 
these charities is available on our website.
The Company operates a ‘Give As You Earn’ scheme 
to facilitate personal charity donations by our staff. 
We also match monies that our employees raise  
for charity. In 2008 International Power and its 
subsidiaries contributed £1,031,000 to charitable 
causes and other community projects. Companies 
in which we have a minority shareholding (joint 
ventures and associates) contributed a further 
£879,000.
Flagship projects
Our Flagship project programme has been running 
for five years. These are community projects, 
selected each year from staff nominations, 
corporately funded annually by International Power. 
Flagship projects can range in size and scope, but 
they all have a common goal; to improve the quality 
of life in the community.
Each year our regional businesses propose projects 
of special note for corporate Flagship status. This 
entitles the chosen charity to around £100,000  
of funding. In 2008 the Flagship award was divided 
between two fire station projects, each receiving 
£57,500. One award was made to The Fannin 
Volunteer Fire Department (FVFD) in North 
America. The FVFD had already secured the 
necessary land and raised sufficient funds to lay  
the foundations for the new fire station. Our  
award allowed them to complete their building 
programme and the new fire house was officially 
opened in January 2009. 
The village of Fannin is two miles from our Coleto 
Creek plant, making the FVFD the closest fire 
department and the first responder to any fire at  
the site. Coleto Creek is proud to have two of their 
employees as members of the FVFD. Coleto Creek 
is a member of the Goliad County community in 
Texas which is a rural area with less than 10,000 
residents. The FVFD has responsibility to respond  
to calls from residents in an area covering 200 
square miles, and without this facility it would  
take an additional 30 critical minutes for another 
fire department to arrive at the scene. 
The second award was made for the construction  
of a fire station and the provision of one fire engine 
in the township of Kot Addu, close to our KAPCO 
plant, in Pakistan. There are currently no fire 
fighting facilities in Kot Addu. In the event of a fire, 
the nearest facility is some 45-50 minutes away. In 
recent years there have been 15 major fire incidents 
in and around the township; the most recent being 
at a shopping centre which was completely 
destroyed. It took around seven hours to bring  
this fire under control and fortunately there were  
no casualties. The importance of this project is 
reinforced by the fact that government land has 
already been made available for it, and the district 
government will be responsible for operating  
costs and training going forward. 
Uch power station provided relief to the victims  
of the Pakistani earthquake in 2008
The Fannin Volunteer Fire Department in the US was 
one of our 2008 Flagship projects
Corporate responsibility 75 Notes: 
(1)  The emissions intensity figures shown above take into account the significant quantities of energy used to produce desalinated water, steam, and district  
heating at various assets. Figures for equivalent electricity output at these assets have been calculated to take this into account and provide a more  
accurate representation of our emissions intensity. This adjustment has the overall effect of reducing the emissions intensity figures for CO2, SO2, NOx  
and particulates by approximately 11%. 
(2)  Includes results from all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, irrespective of our ownership percentage.
Corporate responsibility performance indicators
Our CR performance indicators can be found in the table below. 
Global data 
 2008  2007 2006  2005
Total electricity output (GWh) 89,065  89,628 80,653  67,581
Environment      
CO2 emissions
(1)
      
Total (’000 tonnes) 63,876  65,695 61,206  52,294
kg/kWh equivalent 0.636 0.694 0.715 0.736
SO2 emissions
(1)
      
Total (’000 tonnes) 87 93 87  77
kg/kWh equivalent 0.00087  0.00098  0.00101  0.00109
NOx emissions
(1)
      
Total (’000 tonnes)  68 73 75  74
kg/kWh equivalent 0.00068  0.00077  0.00088  0.00104
Particulate emissions
(1)
      
Total (’000 tonnes)  7 7 7  6
kg/kWh equivalent 0.00007 0.00007 0.00008  0.00009
Number of reportable environmental incidents (KPI)
(2)
  6 13 16 16
Number of environmental prosecutions
(2)
 – 1 –  –
Health and safety      
AFR for employees and contractors (KPI)
(2)
  0.09 0.12 0.16  0.23
Fatalities
(2)
 – 1 1  –
Social investment      
Community investment from International Power  
 and its subsidiaries  £1,031,000 £1,196,000  £1,050,000  £1,174,000
Community investment from our joint ventures 
 and associates  £879,000  £251,000 £346,000  £662,000 
Corporate responsibility
International Power Annual Report 2008
76 Case study
Acquisition of 1,857MW of  
peaking plants in North America
In July 2008, International Power acquired  
a portfolio of 1,857MW peaking generation 
facilities from a subsidiary of Tenaska  
Power Fund, L.P. and an affiliate of Warburg 
Pincus LLC.
Purchased for US$864 million, and located in the 
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland (PJM) and 
the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) 
power pools, all four sites provide potential growth 
opportunities to meet future demand. The option 
exists for converting the low load factor, open cycle, 
peaking plants to base load, combined cycle 
operation in the future, increasing both the output 
and efficiency of the plants.
Peaking plants generally run only when there is high 
demand, known as peak demand, for electricity. 
This acquisition of modern peaking plants, in 
attractive power markets, covering multiple states, 
complements our existing portfolio of power 
stations and further improves our ability to benefit 
from tightening reserve margins in the region.
The assets have been designed to perform to the 
highest environmental standards. The primary 
means of air pollution control at each of the facilities 
is a combustion turbine, using low sulphur fuel (oil 
and gas) using Dry-Low-NOx burners. The Calumet 
site utilises two Siemens V84 gas turbines firing 
natural gas exclusively.
Armstrong, Pleasants and Troy utilise GE 7FA 
combustion turbines, with dual fuel capability for 
either gas or oil. The environmental impacts from 
these assets are minimal as they run at relatively low 
capacity factors and burn primarily natural gas. 
The projects began commercial operation in 2002, 
and Troy, the MISO asset, has a capacity contract 
through to 2012, whilst the remaining three PJM 
plants receive capacity payments under PJM’s 
Reliability Pricing Model, which have already 
been determined through to mid 2012. 
The portfolio comprises the following assets:
Plant   Capacity Fuel type Location
Armstrong   625MW  Gas/oil Pennsylvania, PJM 
Pleasants  313MW  Gas/oil West Virginia, PJM 
Calumet  303MW  Gas Illinois, PJM 
Troy    616MW Gas/oil Ohio, MISO 
Calumet is one of the four peaking plants  
within the acquired portfolio
Case study 77 We are committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and in this section set out how we 
comply with the principles in the Combined Code, 
and explain our reasons for any areas of non-
compliance. 
The Board
In 2008 the effectiveness of the Board was 
underpinned by a balance between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors. The Board believes that  
it has the skills and experience necessary to provide 
effective leadership and control of the Company.
On 15 May 2008, Ranald Spiers was appointed 
Executive Director with responsibility for the 
Middle East and Asia. There were no other changes 
to the Board during the year. At the end of the year 
the Board comprised of the Chairman (Sir Neville 
Simms), Executive Directors (Philip Cox, Mark 
Williamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley, Bruce 
Levy and Ranald Spiers) and four Non-Executive 
Directors (Tony Isaac, Alan Murray, John Roberts 
and Struan Robertson). Sir Neville Simms was 
considered independent on his appointment as 
Chairman and the four Non-Executive Directors  
are also considered to be independent. Tony Isaac  
is the Senior Independent Director.
The structure of the Board is not in strict compliance 
with the Combined Code in that the number of 
Non-Executive Directors is less than the number  
of Executive Directors. However, the Directors 
consider that the Board currently works effectively 
and that the Non-Executive Directors have a 
sufficiently strong and independent presence at 
Board meetings to provide an effective counter 
balance to the Executive Directors. The size and 
structure of the Board is kept under review annually.
The full Board met seven times during 2008. 
Attendance by Directors at these and the Board 
committee meetings held during the year are 
detailed in the table below.
In addition to the Board and committee meetings,  
a meeting of the Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors was held without the Executive Directors 
being present. The Non-Executive Directors also 
met without the Chairman being present. This 
meeting was chaired by Tony Isaac, the Senior 
Independent Director, and included a review  
of the Chairman’s performance.
Board membership
In accordance with the Combined Code and the 
Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors 
submit themselves for re-election every three years 
and newly appointed Directors are subject to 
election by shareholders at the first Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) after their appointment. In addition, 
the Board seeks to maintain a balance between 
continuity and new blood amongst the Non-
Executive Directors. In accordance with this policy, 
Ranald Spiers will submit himself for election at the 
2009 AGM and John Roberts, Mark Williamson and 
Steve Riley will submit themselves for re-election at 
this meeting, in accordance with the three-year 
re-election policy.
Tony Isaac is also subject to re-election under the 
terms of the Articles of Association. Tony was first 
appointed to the Board in October 2000 and 
continues to be effective and demonstrates 
commitment to the role. The Board wishes Tony  
to continue in his role through 2009 and until a 
suitable successor is appointed. In accordance with 
the terms of the Combined Code he will be subject 
to annual re-election if the Board wishes him to 
continue beyond the AGM in 2010.
Corporate governance
The Board has established business values and standards  
for the Group, which provide a framework for the Group  
to balance the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct  
of its business.
(1)  The members of the Health, Safety and Environment (HS&E) Committee are the Chairman (Struan Robertson), the CEO (Philip Cox) and one other Non-
Executive Director. In addition the relevant Regional Director attends HS&E Committee meetings held at assets in their region. In 2008, meetings took place  
at Deeside and Rugeley, so Steve Riley attended these meetings.
(2)  Tony Isaac missed one Board meeting during 2008 due to a pre-existing business commitment. He passed comments on each of the relevant papers to the 
Chairman, prior to the meeting.
(3)  Ranald Spiers joined the Board in May 2008. He has attended all Board meetings since that date.
  Board Audit Remuneration Appointments HS&E
  (seven  Committee  Committee  Committee Committee
(1)
  meetings) (three meetings) (five meetings) (one meeting) (two meetings)
Sir Neville Simms  7 n/a 5 1 –
Philip Cox  7 n/a n/a n/a 2
Tony Concannon  7 n/a n/a n/a –
Tony Isaac
(2)
  6 3 4 – –
Bruce Levy  7 n/a n/a n/a –
Alan Murray  7 3 5 1 –
Steve Riley  7 n/a n/a n/a 2
John Roberts  7 3 5 1 2
Struan Robertson  7 3 5 1 2
Ranald Spiers
(3)
  4 n/a n/a n/a –
Mark Williamson  7 n/a n/a n/a –
Corporate governance
International Power Annual Report 2008
78 Board training
Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly 
appointed Directors receive a comprehensive 
briefing on the Company, and training is provided  
for Directors on their roles and their legal obligations 
to ensure that they are fully conversant with their 
responsibilities as Directors. In accordance with  
this policy, Ranald Spiers underwent a training 
programme on his obligations as a director of  
a public limited company. A programme of 
continuous training is also provided for the Directors. 
Periodically, the Board meets at the site of one of the 
Group’s power stations and briefings are also given  
at Board meetings on particular parts of the business, 
including regional and functional reviews. In January 
2009 the Board visited the Group’s business in 
Australia where it toured certain plants, met the 
regional management team and received a briefing 
about the local business operations. Directors are 
also kept informed of changes to the regulatory 
regime such as the new Companies Act. All of the 
Directors have access to the advice and services  
of the company secretary and also to external 
independent advice should they so wish.
Insurance
The Company has in place appropriate insurance 
cover in respect of legal action against its Directors. 
Operation of the Board
The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, 
ensuring the successful implementation of 
approved projects/proposals and for the financial 
policies of the Group. It also reviews the risk policies 
and profile of the Group and it maintains a schedule 
of all matters requiring specific Board approval. 
Throughout 2008 this included all strategy 
decisions and significant capital investment 
proposals and acquisitions. The Board receives 
information on capital expenditure projects  
and investment proposals in advance of Board 
meetings, as well as management reports on  
the operational and financial performance of the 
business. Financial performance is monitored on  
a monthly basis and the overall performance of  
the Group is reviewed against approved budgets.  
At least once a year, the Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) presents a corporate strategy plan to the 
Board for review and approval. Each investment 
decision is made in the context of this plan.
The Board has established business values and 
standards for the Group, which provide a 
framework for the Group to balance the interests  
of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its business. 
The business values (FIRST) are set out on pages  
8 and 9 of this Annual Report. The Company’s Code 
of Business Conduct has been formally adopted by 
the Board and is set out on the Company’s website. 
This Code includes a whistle-blowing procedure. 
The Board has also reviewed potential conflicts  
of the Directors in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
In respect of Board performance for 2008, 
following an external assessment of its performance 
in 2007 (carried out by Professor Rob Goffee of  
the London Business School), the Board conducted 
an internal performance assessment. The results  
of the review demonstrated that the Board 
members were satisfied with the performance  
and commitment of each of the Directors and the 
operation of the Board and its committees. The 
contribution by individual Directors to Board and 
committee meetings was considered to be high.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head 
of the Company between the roles of the Chairman 
and the CEO. The Chairman is responsible for the 
leadership and effective operation of the Board,  
in terms of its agenda, decision making and  
the utilisation of the skills and experience of the 
Directors. He monitors, with the assistance of  
the company secretary, the information provided  
to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, 
timely and clear. The Chairman is also responsible  
for ensuring that there is effective engagement  
and communication with shareholders. The CEO  
is responsible for the overall management of the 
Company, and leading the executive and operational 
teams in implementing the strategies approved by 
the Board.
Non-Executive Directors and their function
Through membership of the Board committees, the 
Non-Executive Directors have responsibilities for:
—  overseeing that systems of internal control and 
risk management are appropriate and effective
—  managing the relationship with the external 
auditor
—  evaluating the performance of management  
in meeting targets and objectives
—  setting the remuneration of Executive Directors
—  appointing Executive Directors
—  planning senior management succession
Executive Directors holding  
non-executive directorships
The Company has a policy of encouraging its 
Executive Directors to hold a non-executive 
directorship in another company. This broadens 
their experience and helps improve their 
contributions to the Group. Philip Cox is a  
Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc. His 
remuneration from this role is retained by him and 
for the year ended 31 March 2008 was £49,000. 
Similarly, Steve Riley and Mark Williamson are 
respectively Non-Executive Directors of Shanks 
Group plc and Imperial Tobacco Group plc. They are 
each entitled to retain their remuneration for their 
roles which was, in 2008, £35,000 for Steve Riley 
and £70,000 for Mark Williamson, who is Chairman 
of the Audit Committee at Imperial Tobacco.
Oyster Creek, US
Governance 79 Board committees
The Company has established the following 
committees: the Audit Committee; the 
Remuneration Committee; the Appointments 
Committee and the HS&E Committee. No person 
other than a Committee member is entitled to 
attend the meetings of these committees, except  
at the invitation of the Committee. The full terms  
of reference for each Committee are available on 
the Company’s website.
Audit Committee
The Committee manages the relationship with  
the external auditor. The Committee annually 
reviews and approves the terms of the appointment 
of the external auditor and its engagement. It fixes 
the level of the auditor’s remuneration (ensuring  
it is appropriate and does not compromise the 
effectiveness of the audit) and reviews the scope 
and adequacy of the audit. The Committee also  
puts in place policies and procedures to ensure  
that the external auditor remains independent  
and reviews them and the auditor’s independence 
and objectivity each year. This review includes the 
overall relationship between the auditor and the 
Company, including the safeguards established by 
the external auditor for maintaining independence, 
the rotation of partners and staff who work on the 
audit and the level and nature of non-audit services 
provided by the auditor.
The Committee reviews all financial reports  
(which for 2008 consisted of the preliminary 
announcement, Annual Report and the Interim 
Report) including consideration of the Group’s 
accounting policies and major judgemental areas. 
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems of internal control, and reviews  
the scope (and the annual plan) of the internal  
audit function and satisfies itself of its adequacy, 
particularly in terms of resources and performance 
against its annual plan. In addition it reviews the 
report prepared by the Risk Committee to ensure 
all relevant risks are addressed in these external  
and internal audit processes.
During 2008 the Company replaced its quarterly 
financial results report with Interim Management 
Statements (IMS). Each IMS is approved by a 
committee of the Board comprising the Chairman, 
the chair of the Audit Committee, the CEO and 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
During 2008 the Audit Committee comprised all 
the independent Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company. The Audit Committee Chairman was, 
until March 2008, Tony Isaac, who is a Fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 
and, before becoming Chief Executive of The BOC 
Group plc, was its Group Finance Director. Tony 
Isaac was replaced by Alan Murray as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee in April 2008. Alan Murray is 
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants and was previously Chief Financial 
Officer of Hanson PLC. The company secretary  
acts as secretary to the Committee. 
Time was set aside for the Committee to meet  
the external auditor and the head of internal  
audit without executive management present.  
In addition to the members of the Committee, 
regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings 
included representatives of the external auditor,  
the Chairman, the CEO, the CFO, other Executive 
Directors, the Group controller and the head of 
internal audit.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible  
for ensuring that the overall remuneration of 
Executive Directors is maintained on a sensible  
and comparable basis and enables the Company  
to compete effectively for good calibre executives. 
It monitors the performance of Executive Directors 
against targets, it sets the performance conditions 
for long-term incentive plan awards and reviews the 
remuneration levels and other conditions of service 
of senior managers immediately below Board level.
The Committee comprises the independent 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company and  
the Chairman. The Chairman of the Committee  
for 2008 was John Roberts. The company secretary 
acts as secretary to the Committee and the  
director of global resources acts as advisor to  
the Committee. In 2008, Towers Perrin acted  
as external advisor to the Committee.
Appointments Committee
The Appointments Committee is responsible for 
matters of management succession and the 
identification and appointment of Directors. It also 
reviews the Board structure, size and composition, 
and makes recommendations to the Board with 
regard to changes that are deemed desirable. The 
Committee comprises the Chairman and all of  
the independent Non-Executive Directors of  
the Company. The Chairman of the Committee  
is Sir Neville Simms. The company secretary acts  
as secretary to the Committee. 
Health, Safety and Environment Committee
The HS&E Committee was established with effect 
from 1 January 2008. It is responsible for reviewing 
the Group’s HS&E policies, objectives and 
performance. The Committee is chaired by Struan 
Robertson and also comprises one other Non-
Executive Director and the CEO. In addition the 
director of operations and engineering attends 
meetings of the Committee. During 2008 the HS&E 
Committee met twice, once at Deeside Power 
Station and the other at Rugeley Power Station.  
At these meetings the Committee toured the 
power station, reviewing HS&E matters and  
met with employees. The station manager and 
Regional Director, Steve Riley, were also invited  
to the meetings. The company secretary acts  
as secretary to the Committee.
Corporate governance
International Power Annual Report 2008
80 Relations with shareholders 
The Board is accountable to shareholders for  
the performance and activities of the Group. 
International Power ensures that its AGM provides 
shareholders with an opportunity to receive 
comprehensive information on all aspects of the 
Group’s business activities and to question senior 
management about business issues and prospects.
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy 
votes lodged for each resolution is reported at the 
AGM and on the Company’s website. In line with 
best practice, the Company aims to ensure that  
the notice of AGM and the Annual Report are sent 
to shareholders at least 20 working days before  
the AGM.
International Power also runs, within the terms  
of the regulatory framework, frequent contact 
programmes with industry analysts and institutional 
investors to discuss matters of strategy and financial 
performance. Contact is made principally by the 
CEO and the CFO. On issues of major importance 
the Chairman communicates with major 
shareholders. The Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director (Tony Isaac) is also available  
as an alternative point of contact if shareholders 
have concerns over the Chairman’s performance,  
or where contact with the Chairman or the use  
of other communication channels would be 
inappropriate. All results presentations and  
Stock Exchange announcements are available  
to shareholders on the Company’s website. 
At each Board meeting, an update is given on 
movements in major shareholdings and on contact 
programmes between the Executive Directors and 
institutional shareholders. Reports on the Company 
issued by financial analysts are circulated to Board 
members. These reports enable the Directors to 
gain an understanding of the views and opinions  
of those with an interest in the Company. 
During 2007 the Company implemented the 
provisions approved by shareholders at the 2007 
AGM that allow for all shareholder documents to be 
provided electronically (unless otherwise requested 
by the shareholder). To ensure all shareholders are 
kept informed of the Company’s performance for 
2008, all the shareholders who did not elect to 
receive a hard copy of the Annual Report will receive 
the Results Brief. This balances the Company’s desire 
to reduce its costs and impact on the environment 
with keeping shareholders informed of the Group’s 
progress. In addition, during 2008, the Company’s 
CEO and CFO met with representatives of the 
United Kingdom Shareholders’ Association.
Accountability and audit
The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present  
a balanced and understandable assessment  
of International Power’s financial position and 
prospects, both to investors and regulatory 
authorities. The preliminary announcement,  
Annual Report, Interim Report and IMSs are  
the principal means of achieving this objective.
An explanation of the respective responsibilities  
of the Directors and external auditor in connection 
with the financial statements is set out in the 
statement of Directors’ responsibilities. The 
Directors confirm in the Directors’ report their  
view that the Group is a going concern.
The Audit Committee has a process in place to 
approve all non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor to ensure that the objectivity  
and independence of the external auditor are not 
compromised. Our procedures specify the services 
from which the external auditor is excluded and  
the approval process for all other services.
Internal control
The Board has responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for monitoring and reviewing 
its effectiveness.
Systems are in place to meet the requirements  
of the Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance. 
Following the Company deregistering from its 
registration with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission in the US, it is no longer required to 
comply with the terms of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
However, it has implemented procedures and 
systems deriving from that compliance programme 
to ensure key controls are embedded into the 
internal control framework.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage, 
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives. The system can only provide 
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against 
material financial misstatement or loss. The Board 
reviewed the effectiveness of internal control 
procedures during 2008. The principal features  
of the Group’s systems of internal control are:
Control environment
The Board encourages a culture of integrity  
and openness. The Group has an organisational 
structure with clear lines of accountability  
and authority across its worldwide operations, 
supported by appropriate reporting procedures. 
Each of the regional businesses is accountable  
to the CEO and is managed within the strategic 
guidelines and delegated authorities adopted by  
the Board. An executive management team, chaired 
by the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors 
and functional heads, meets regularly to discuss 
issues facing the Group.
Control procedures
Control procedures have been established in  
each of the Group’s operations to safeguard the 
Group’s assets from loss or misuse and to ensure 
appropriate authorisation and recording of financial 
transactions. All acquisition and investment 
decisions are subject to disciplined investment 
appraisal processes. Risk management procedures 
are in place for the Group’s operations, including  
its energy marketing and trading activities, which 
are overseen by the Global Commodities Risk 
Committee, which comprises Executive Directors 
and senior management, and is chaired by the  
CFO. The Group treasury function operates under 
defined policies and the oversight of the Treasury 
Committee, chaired by the CFO. 
Saltend, UK
Ras Laffan B, Qatar
Governance 81 Performance reporting and information
Corporate plan Executive management submits  
an annual corporate plan to the Board for approval. 
The plan for each business unit is the quantified 
assessment of its planned operating and financial 
performance for the next financial year, together 
with strategic reviews for the following four years. 
Group management reviews the plans with each 
operational team. The individual plans are based  
on key economic and financial assumptions and 
incorporate an assessment of the risk and 
sensitivities underlying the projections.
Performance monitoring Monthly performance 
and financial reports are produced for each business 
unit, with comparisons to budget. Reports are 
consolidated for overall review by executive 
management, together with forecasts for the 
income statement and cash flow. Detailed reports 
are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Performance review Each business unit is subject 
to regular performance reviews with Group 
management during the year. Actual results and 
forecasts for the year are compared to budget.  
Key operational and financial results are reviewed 
together with the risk profile and business 
environment of the reporting unit.
Investment projects These are subject to formal 
review and authorisation procedures with 
designated levels of authority, including a review  
by an Investment Committee (ICOM) chaired by 
the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors 
and senior managers. Major projects are subject 
to Board review and approval. Further information 
on our investment process is available in our Group 
overview on pages 10 to 16.
Corporate reporting The Company has a 
Disclosure Committee which is chaired by  
the company secretary and is comprised of 
members from the Internal Audit, Corporate 
Communications, Global Resources, Operations 
and Engineering, Company Secretariat and  
Group Reporting departments. It reviews  
the Annual Report, the Summary Annual Report  
and the Results Brief.
Risk identification and management
As outlined in the section ‘Our approach to risk and 
risk management’ there is a continuous process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks 
faced by the Group. Activities are co-ordinated by 
the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, 
and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for 
ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying 
and assessing significant risks, that appropriate 
control systems and other mitigating actions are  
in place, and that residual exposures are consistent 
with the Group strategy and objectives.
Monitoring
The Board reviews the effectiveness of established 
internal controls through the Audit Committee, 
which receives reports from management, the 
Group’s Internal Audit function and the external 
auditor on the systems of internal control and risk 
management arrangements.
The Internal Audit department reviews the 
effectiveness of internal controls and risk 
management through a work programme, which is 
based on the Group’s objectives and risk profile and 
is agreed with the Audit Committee. Findings are 
reported to operational and executive management 
and the Audit Committee.
Business unit managers provide annual self-
certification statements of compliance with 
procedures. These statements give assurance  
that controls are in operation and confirm  
that programmes are in place to address any 
weaknesses in internal control. The certification 
process embraces all areas of material risk. The 
Internal Audit department reviews the statements 
on behalf of the Disclosure Committee and reports 
any significant issues to the Audit Committee.
Compliance with the Combined Code
There were two areas where the Board was not  
fully compliant with the requirements of the revised 
Combined Code throughout 2008. During 2008, 
there were more Executive Directors than Non-
Executive Directors on the Board. The Board  
has reviewed the structure of the Board and has 
concluded that there is no need to change the 
current structure.
The Senior Independent Director does not have  
a contact programme to communicate with 
institutional investors, primarily to avoid potential 
confusion over channels of communication and 
because the Board considers this unnecessary. 
During 2008 no institutional shareholder has 
requested such communication. 
In all other respects, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Combined Code 
throughout the period of the review. 
KAPCO, Pakistan
Ras Tanura, Tihama, Saudi Arabia
Corporate governance
International Power Annual Report 2008
82  Case study
 Fujairah F2 
–
 2,000MW, 
1 30MIGD greenfield project
In late 2007, International Power further 
expanded its asset base in the Middle East  
with the financing of the Fujairah F2 
Independent Water and Power Project  
(IWPP) greenfield project.
With capacity for generating 2,000MW of power 
and 130MIGD of water, Fujairah F2 will become  
the second largest plant (after Umm Al Nar) within 
the International Power portfolio. When completed 
in 2010 it will represent about 18% of the UAE’s 
installed power capacity and about 16% of the 
UAE’s water capacity, providing power and water 
through a 20-year Power and Water Purchase 
Agreement (PWPA) with the Abu Dhabi Water  
and Electricity Company.
The project is owned by the Fujairah Asia Power 
Company, in which International Power has a 20% 
equity interest, with 60% held by Abu Dhabi Water 
and Electricity Authority and 20% by Marubeni. It is 
being constructed by an Engineering, Procurement 
and Construction (EPC) consortium of Alstom  
and SIDEM, and is expected to be fully operational 
by the end of 2010. For electricity generation it will 
utilise five Alstom GT26B gas turbines and for water 
production, both thermal and reverse osmosis 
technologies (100MIGD and 30MIGD respectively) 
will be used. This combination provides the best and 
most efficient solution for the operating conditions 
that we expect to see at the Fujairah F2 plant.
The total project cost is estimated to be  
US$2,800 million, and is being funded by  
a mix of debt and equity in an 80:20 ratio. 
The construction activities across the whole site 
have progressed well and the foundations for  
two gas turbines, and the support structures for 
two heat recovery steam generators are nearly 
complete. Offsite, the suppliers are focused on  
the production of the major equipment such as 
turbines, generators, transformers and steam 
generators. 
The operations and maintenance company  
for Fujairah F2 will directly employ just over  
100 people. The key management personnel  
are already in place and the first 50 employees  
are undertaking training.
A computer-generated image of Fujairah F2 which, 
when completed, will become the second largest 
plant within our portfolio
Source: Alstom
Case study 83 Directors’ remuneration report
This report to shareholders by the Remuneration 
Committee contains all relevant information 
required to be disclosed by the Company 
regarding the remuneration of Directors.
Specifically, the following subject areas are covered:
—  the role of the Remuneration Committee
—  advice to the Remuneration Committee and 
some of the key topics discussed during 2008
—  the principles of the Executive Director 
remuneration policy, followed by detailed 
information on the various components  
of Executive Director reward
—  information on Directors’ service contracts  
and shareholding requirements
—  Non-Executive Director contracts and fees
—  audited information relating to the Directors’ 
aggregate remuneration and compensation  
and Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares
The Remuneration Committee is guided by the strategic 
priorities of the Group and the measures used to monitor 
financial performance. The Committee also takes account  
of the changing nature of the business and its markets.
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee is responsible for:
—  the establishment of the remuneration policy  
for Executive Directors
—  the determination of the compensation  
and terms of employment (including any 
termination arrangements) of Executive 
Directors and other senior executives of  
the Company
—  approving all Company share plan and pension 
plan arrangements including the establishment 
and measurement of all performance conditions
—  monitoring the total compensation of  
Executive Directors in light of Group and 
individual performance
Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
84
Directors’ remuneration report
This report to shareholders by the Remuneration 
Committee contains all relevant information 
required to be disclosed by the Company 
regarding the remuneration of Directors.
Specifically, the following subject areas are covered:
—  the role of the Remuneration Committee
—  advice to the Remuneration Committee and 
some of the key topics discussed during 2008
—  the principles of the Executive Director 
remuneration policy, followed by detailed 
information on the various components  
of Executive Director reward
—  information on Directors’ service contracts  
and shareholding requirements
—  Non-Executive Director contracts and fees
—  audited information relating to the Directors’ 
aggregate remuneration and compensation  
and Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares
The Remuneration Committee is guided by the strategic 
priorities of the Group and the measures used to monitor 
financial performance. The Committee also takes account  
of the changing nature of the business and its markets.
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee is responsible for:
—  the establishment of the remuneration policy  
for Executive Directors
—  the determination of the compensation  
and terms of employment (including any 
termination arrangements) of Executive 
Directors and other senior executives of  
the Company
—  approving all Company share plan and pension 
plan arrangements including the establishment 
and measurement of all performance conditions
—  monitoring the total compensation of  
Executive Directors in light of Group and 
individual performance
Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
84 In undertaking its responsibilities, the Remuneration 
Committee is guided by the strategic priorities  
of the Group and the measures used to monitor 
financial performance. The Committee also takes 
account of the changing nature of the business and 
its markets both in the UK and internationally.
The Committee has reviewed compliance with  
the Combined Code on reward-related matters  
and confirms that the Company has complied  
with all aspects.
In addition to Sir Neville Simms, the following 
independent Non-Executive Directors are members 
of the Remuneration Committee: John Roberts 
(Committee Chairman), Tony Isaac, Alan Murray 
and Struan Robertson. The Committee met five 
times during the year.
Advice to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has access to external 
independent remuneration advice. Towers Perrin 
provides specialist advice on Executive Director and 
senior management remuneration to the Committee. 
Towers Perrin undertook no other services  
on behalf of the Company during the year ended  
31 December 2008.
In addition, the Committee received advice from  
the director of global resources on all aspects of 
remuneration. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
attended Committee meetings to report on 
Executive Directors’ performance (other than  
his own).
Governance 85
The 628MW coal-ﬁred power station 
at Pego in Portugal is now ﬁtted  
with Flue Gas Desulphurisation  
and Selective Catalytic Reduction 
equipment
In undertaking its responsibilities, the Remuneration 
Committee is guided by the strategic priorities  
of the Group and the measures used to monitor 
financial performance. The Committee also takes 
account of the changing nature of the business and 
its markets both in the UK and internationally.
The Committee has reviewed compliance with  
the Combined Code on reward-related matters  
and confirms that the Company has complied  
with all aspects.
In addition to Sir Neville Simms, the following 
independent Non-Executive Directors are members 
of the Remuneration Committee: John Roberts 
(Committee Chairman), Tony Isaac, Alan Murray 
and Struan Robertson. The Committee met five 
times during the year.
Advice to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has access to external 
independent remuneration advice. Towers Perrin 
provides specialist advice on Executive Director and 
senior management remuneration to the Committee. 
Towers Perrin undertook no other services  
on behalf of the Company during the year ended  
31 December 2008.
In addition, the Committee received advice from  
the director of global resources on all aspects of 
remuneration. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
attended Committee meetings to report on 
Executive Directors’ performance (other than  
his own).
Governance 85
The 628MW coal-ﬁred power station 
at Pego in Portugal is now ﬁtted  
with Flue Gas Desulphurisation  
and Selective Catalytic Reduction 
equipment Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
86
The principles of the remuneration policy  
for Executive Directors
The Committee has based its Executive Director 
remuneration policy on the following principles to 
ensure that it remains relevant to business needs:
Competitive:  
Total remuneration levels in comparison to  
our chosen comparator group are reviewed  
on an annual basis in order to ensure they  
are competitive and thereby to ensure that 
International Power can retain and motivate 
top calibre executives.
In determining the salaries and benefits of the 
Executive Directors, the Committee has regard 
to the treatment of staff and management 
generally within the Group, to ensure that  
an appropriate balance is maintained.
Balanced and performance related:  
The remuneration of the Executive Directors 
incorporates both fixed and variable elements.
Fixed elements – including salary, pension and 
benefits – are provided as part of a competitive 
employment package.
Variable elements are based upon the 
achievement of specific and measurable 
shared and individual performance objectives 
over both the short and long-term that align 
the Executives’ rewards with the creation of 
value for shareholders.
Shareholder aligned:  
Remuneration packages include significant 
opportunities to acquire, and obligations to 
retain, International Power shares, consistent 
with our strategy of building a strong share 
ownership culture.
At the Remuneration Committee meeting in 
December 2008, the policy requirement for a 
minimum shareholding was reviewed and clarified. 
All Executive Directors, with the exception of the 
CEO, have a requirement to hold shares equivalent 
to 100% of their salary. The requirement for the 
CEO is 150%.
The Committee intends to maintain these principles 
of remuneration for 2009, as the Committee 
believes they are delivering fair and proportionate 
rewards to the Executive Directors based on the 
Group’s performance, and it will continue to 
monitor and consider changes in light of developing 
market practice.
Comparator group:  
Our pay policy for the Executive Directors  
is to be competitive around the median of the 
FTSE 41-80 group of companies, excluding 
financial services companies.
The components of remuneration packages
The table opposite sets out the various components 
of the remuneration package for the Executive 
Directors, which reflect a mix of fixed elements  
and variable, performance-related elements 
relating to financial and personal targets over  
the short and long-term.
The package comprises a market competitive base 
salary, performance related annual cash bonus,  
a long-term share-related incentive, pension 
benefits and other benefits including a healthcare 
programme and a company car allowance.
During 2008, Committee meetings covered a number of areas including the following topics:
January —  Establishment of 2008 annual bonus performance targets
March —  Approval of 2007 performance bonus payments
—  Performance Share Plans and Share Options – new awards
—  Performance Share Plans and Share Options – vesting of 2005 awards
—  Directors’ remuneration report
May — Approval of the remuneration for Ranald Spiers, upon appointment to the Board
November —  Review of Executive Director total compensation
—  Update on Executive Director pay trends in UK and US
—  Review of share plan rules for compliance with legislation
December —  Executive Director annual salary review
—  Executive Director annual bonus structure
—  Directors’ shareholding guidelines Governance 87
Element Purpose Fixed/variable Criteria for award Performance conditions
Base salary To recognise skills, 
experience and 
responsibility.
Fixed Increases to base salary  
are considered upon 
changes to responsibilities 
and reflect inflation and 
market movements.
The Committee reserves 
the right to award nil 
annual increases in light  
of Group and individual 
performance.
Pension and 
other 
contractual 
benefits
Pension and other 
contractual benefits  
(e.g. car allowance and 
healthcare) are provided  
as part of a competitive 
overall package.
Fixed Pension and other 
contractual benefits 
provision are reviewed 
periodically in light of 
market changes.
Not applicable.
Annual bonus Annual bonus is provided  
to reward success against 
the Group’s annual 
performance targets.
Variable A mix of Group and 
regional financial 
measures apply along 
with personal objectives 
appropriate to each 
Director, including 
health, safety, risk and 
environmental targets.
Threshold, target and 
maximum levels of 
performance exist for 
financial measures which 
include our financial Key 
Performance Indicators 
(KPIs): Earnings Per Share 
(EPS), free cash flow and 
Profit From Operations 
(PFO); and appropriate 
personal objectives are 
established for each 
Director.
Performance 
Share Plan
Shares are awarded 
conditionally on an  
annual basis and released 
after a period of three 
years to reward Group 
performance over  
this period.
Variable The extent to which 
shares awarded 
conditionally are released 
is dependent upon Group 
performance in respect of 
absolute EPS and relative 
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) targets (weighted 
on a 50:50 basis).
In respect of EPS, vesting 
of 25% of this element is 
permitted if the threshold 
EPS target is achieved, 
with full vesting if the EPS 
stretch target is achieved.
In respect of TSR, vesting 
of 25% of this element is 
permitted for median TSR 
performance against the 
Company’s selected 
comparator group.  
Full vesting is permitted 
for upper quartile 
performance.
EPS and regional PFO exclude exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and, in respect of annual bonus, is adjusted for the impact of 
actual foreign exchange rates against budget. All further references to EPS and regional PFO in the Directors’ remuneration report are made on the same basis.
Bellingham, US
Total remuneration summary for Executive Directors
The relationship between fixed  
and variable elements
The adjacent chart demonstrates the approximate 
value of both the fixed and variable elements of  
the overall package over a range of performance 
outcomes for International Power Executive 
Directors, with the exception of the CEO who  
is eligible for Performance Share Plan awards at 
200% of salary compared with 150% of salary  
for the other five Executive Directors.
As can be seen in the diagram, the remuneration 
packages for all Executive Directors are structured 
to provide significant rewards for superior 
performance. 
0
300
250
200
150
100
50
350
400
%
Minimum Threshold Target Maximum
PSP
Bonus
Benefits
Base salary
050 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
88
Base salary
The Committee has determined that, other than in the event of role changes, salary increases will be made 
on the basis of inflation and market movements only. This approach was followed in setting salaries for the 
Executive Directors from 1 January 2009, as set out below, where 2008 salaries are also shown for 
comparison.
    Salary at Salary at 2009
Executive Directors    1 January 2008 1 January 2009 Increase (%)
Philip Cox    £700,000 £721,000 3
Mark Williamson    £405,000 £417,000 3
Tony Concannon    £370,000 £381,000 3
Steve Riley    £370,000 £381,000 3
Bruce Levy    US$795,000 US$819,000 3
Ranald Spiers
(1)
    £320,000 £348,000 9
(1)  Ranald Spiers was appointed to the Board on 15 May 2008 at a salary of £320,000. This was set initially at a lower level than the other Executive Directors with 
regional responsibilities as he was new to the role. A higher increase was applied to Ranald Spiers in January 2009 to reflect his increasing experience in the role.
Maximum 2008 and 2009 bonus achievable (% of salary)
 Performance measures
 Group Group Regional Regional Personal Total
 earnings free cash profit from free cash objectives
Executive Directors per share flow operations flow
Philip Cox 60% 30% n/a n/a 10% 100%
Mark Williamson 60% 30% n/a n/a 10% 100%
Tony Concannon 30% 15% 30% 15% 10% 100%
Steve Riley 30% 15% 30% 15% 10% 100%
Bruce Levy 30% 15% 30% 15% 10% 100%
Ranald Spiers 30% 15% 30% 15% 10% 100%
All awards under the bonus plan are non-pensionable.
The details of these payments are set out in the Directors’ aggregate remuneration table on page 95.
The 3% increase awarded to all Directors, with the exception of Ranald Spiers, is in line with average 
increases for our UK employees.
Annual bonus
International Power’s Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an annual performance bonus plan, 
which is awarded for the achievement of stretching individual and collective, financial and non-financial 
targets over the financial year.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors is 100% of base salary. The target  
level of payout for each of the financial measures is set at 67% of the maximum and this becomes payable 
typically upon achieving budgeted levels of performance.
The table below sets out for each Executive Director the performance measures, which reflect the extent 
to which the Remuneration Committee believes they are both relevant to the Executive Director’s role  
and open to influence by the individual. The Committee undertakes an annual review into whether the 
most appropriate measures are used for the Executive Directors’ bonus arrangements. These measures  
of EPS, free cash flow and PFO are the KPIs used to monitor the financial performance of the business.  
In addition, all Regional Directors have a common personal, non-financial objective relating to health, 
safety and the environment.
The Remuneration Committee always maintains discretion to ensure that bonus awards are appropriate  
in the context of both the economic environment and the Company’s performance. Despite the strong 
overall financial performance of the Group, Directors’ bonuses are lower than in 2007, reflecting a lower 
than expected Group free cash flow performance.
Indian Queens, UK Governance 89
Share Plans for Executive Directors
Performance Share Plan
Eligibility for conditional awards
Under the International Power 2002 Performance 
Share Plan, Executive Directors are eligible annually 
for the following conditional award of shares:
—  The equivalent of 200% of base salary  
for the CEO.
—  The equivalent of 150% of base salary  
for the other Executive Directors.
Performance conditions
Awards made conditionally under this Plan vest 
subject to a performance assessment at the end of a 
three-year performance period against the targets 
put in place at the commencement of each cycle.
Awards made conditionally between 2002 and 
2005 inclusive incorporated a single performance 
condition that reflected EPS, before exceptional 
items and specific IAS 39 mark to market 
movements. 
For awards made since 2006, the performance 
conditions reflect both an EPS target (before 
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark  
to market movements) and a relative TSR 
performance measure. The link to EPS, at 50% of 
the potential value to participants, ensures vesting is 
aligned with a key underlying performance measure 
as presented in the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements. The use of TSR, also weighted at  
50%, provides a market-based measure when 
assessing performance.
The graph below shows the TSR performance  
of International Power’s shares relative to the  
FTSE 100 index between 2004 and 2008.
Given that the principal performance measures  
for the Company’s share plans are based on EPS 
(before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark 
to market movements) performance and TSR,  
the Committee reserves the right to also take  
into account, and adjust appropriately for, the 
enhancement effects of any purchase and 
subsequent cancellation of shares, or placing  
of shares into treasury, by the Company.
Before releasing any award in respect of the  
TSR element, the Remuneration Committee  
will also seek to satisfy itself that the Group’s  
TSR performance is a genuine reflection of the  
true underlying performance of the Group.
For the conditional awards made in 2006 and 2007, 
the TSR performance condition is measured against 
companies in the FTSE 51-100. Following a review 
in 2007, in respect of the awards made conditionally 
in 2008 and 2009, the comparator group comprises 
FTSE 41-80 companies.
Benefits on vesting
The method of calculating an Executive Director’s 
entitlement to shares upon vesting is as follows:
—  In respect of the TSR element, 25% of the 
maximum vests for median TSR performance 
and the maximum vests for upper quartile 
performance.
—  In respect of the EPS element, 25% of  
the maximum vests for performance at  
the threshold target established by the 
Remuneration Committee and the maximum 
vests when the stretch target is achieved.
—  Straight line pro-rating will apply for 
performance between the threshold  
and maximum data points for both the  
TSR and EPS elements.
Historical TSR performance
2004 2005 2006
International
Power total
return index
FTSE 100
total return index
Source: Datastream
2007 2008
300
400
100
200
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
250
275
300
325
350
375
400
425
450
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over five years.  
FTSE 100 index comparison based on 30-trading day average values. Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
90
Performance Share Plan awards
The specific performance and vesting arrangements for all conditional Performance Share Plan awards 
made between 2005 and 2008 are set out in the following table.
Date of award Performance 
period
Threshold performance 
condition
Maximum performance 
condition
Vesting rate
11 March 2005 1 January 2005  
to 31 December 
2007
30% of the award if EPS 
performance for the year 
ended 31 December 2007 
had been 13.7p or higher.
100% of the award if EPS 
performance for the year 
ended 31 December 2007 
had been equal to or 
greater than 15.0p.
Vesting pro-rated for EPS 
performance between 
these two points.
2007 EPS 27.1p. Performance condition exceeded. 100% of the award vested on 
11 March 2008.
8 March 2006 1 January 2006  
to 31 December 
2008
12.5% of the award if EPS 
performance for the year 
ended 31 December 2008 
was not less than 21.0p.
50% of the award if EPS 
performance for the year 
ended 31 December 2008 
was equal to or greater 
than 24.0p.
Vesting pro-rated for EPS 
performance between 
these two points.
12.5% of the award at the 
median of FTSE 51-100 
companies’ TSR 
performance for the  
three years ended  
31 December 2008.
50% of the award at the 
upper quartile of FTSE 
51-100 companies’ TSR 
performance for the  
three years ended  
31 December 2008.
Vesting pro-rated for TSR 
performance between 
these two points.
2008 EPS 32.4p and the Company’s TSR ranking was close to the upper  
quartile position. Consequently vesting at 97.15% will be permitted on  
16 March 2009. See details of Directors’ awards in the table on the next page.
12 March 2007 1 January 2007  
to 31 December 
2009
12.5% of the award  
if EPS performance  
for the year ending  
31 December 2009  
is not less than 27.0p.
50% of the award  
if EPS performance  
for the year ending  
31 December 2009  
is equal to or greater  
than 34.0p.
Vesting pro-rated for EPS 
performance between 
these two points.
12.5% of the award at the 
median of FTSE 51-100 
companies’ TSR 
performance for the  
three years ending  
31 December 2009.
50% of the award at the 
upper quartile of FTSE 
51-100 companies’ TSR 
performance for the  
three years ending  
31 December 2009.
Vesting pro-rated for TSR 
performance between 
these two points.
11 March 2008 1 January 2008  
to 31 December 
2010
12.5% of the award  
if cumulative EPS 
performance over  
the three years to  
31 December 2010  
is not less than 87.0p.
50% of the award  
if cumulative EPS 
performance over the 
three-year period ending 
31 December 2010 is 
equal to or greater  
than 94.0p.
Vesting pro-rated for EPS 
performance between 
these two points.
12.5% of the award at the 
median of FTSE 41-80 
companies’ TSR 
performance for the  
three years ending  
31 December 2010.
50% of the award at the 
upper quartile of FTSE 
41-80 companies’ TSR 
performance for the  
three years ending  
31 December 2010.
Vesting pro-rated for TSR 
performance between 
these two points. Governance 91
Synergen, Australia
Performance Share Plan vesting in 2009
As a consequence of the result of the three-year performance period for the March 2006 conditional 
awards, the following shares under the 2002 Performance Share Plan will be released to the Executive 
Directors on 16 March 2009.
2009 conditional awards
After the release of its preliminary results,  
the Company will make Performance Share Plan 
conditional awards to Philip Cox equivalent to 
200% of his base salary and to Mark Williamson, 
Tony Concannon, Steve Riley, Bruce Levy and 
Ranald Spiers equivalent to 150% of their  
base salaries.
For the 2009 Performance Share Plan awards, 
covering the three-year performance period  
2009 – 2011, the Remuneration Committee has 
determined that 50% of the award will be linked  
to TSR performance and 50% of the award will be 
linked to EPS performance. In respect of the TSR 
element, 25% of the maximum vests for median 
FTSE 41-80 TSR performance and the maximum 
vests for upper quartile performance. EPS (before 
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to 
market movements) performance targets have 
been set on a cumulative basis over three years:
—  The threshold EPS performance condition 
remains at 87 pence.
—  The maximum EPS performance condition  
has been set at 100 pence (compared with a  
94 pence maximum EPS target for the 2008  
Performance Share Plan award).
Executive Share Option Plans
Eligibility for awards
International Power operates a range of Approved, 
Unapproved and Global Executive Share Option 
Plans for the benefit of senior management and 
other employees. With effect from 1 January 2006, 
the Executive Directors have no longer been eligible 
to participate in new awards under any of the 
Company’s Executive Share Option Schemes.
Performance conditions
In respect of all awards made to the Executive 
Directors under the Approved, Unapproved  
and Global Executive Share Option Plans, the 
performance conditions were based exclusively  
on EPS growth.
No retesting has been permitted in respect  
of any share option grant.
Given that the principal performance measures  
for the Company’s share option plans are based  
on growth in EPS, the Committee has reserved the 
right to take into account, and adjust appropriately 
for, the enhancement effects of any purchase and 
subsequent cancellation of shares, or placing of 
shares into treasury, by the Company.
In accordance with the rules at the time, 
performance conditions were not attached to 
National Power ‘Legacy’ Unapproved Options 
granted to Tony Concannon, Steve Riley and Ranald 
Spiers prior to the demerger from National Power. 
These options lapsed in December 2008.
   Number of shares released
Philip Cox      421,789
Mark Williamson      186,693
Tony Concannon      171,136
Steve Riley      171,136
Bruce Levy      179,176
Ranald Spiers      71,220 Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
92
Executive Share Options still subject to exercise
The following table comprises a summary of the performance periods and performance conditions 
relating to those Executive Share Option grants made under International Power Executive Share Option 
Plans which may still be exercised by one or more of the Executive Directors.
Date of award Performance 
period
Performance conditions and vesting rate
3 October 2000 1 January 2001 
to 31 December 
2003
These options are fully exercisable, as average annual growth in normalised 
earnings per International Power share for the financial reporting period ended 
on 31 December 2000 to the reporting period ended on 31 December 2003 
exceeded 7%.
22 March 2001 1 January 2001 
to 31 December 
2003
The options are fully exercisable, as average annual growth in normalised 
earnings per International Power share for the financial reporting period ended 
on 31 December 2000 to the reporting period ended on 31 December 2003 
exceeded 7%.
24 May 2002 1 January 2002 
to 31 December 
2004
These options would have been exercisable if average annual EPS growth over the 
performance period had equalled or exceeded RPI+4%. Whilst the performance 
condition was not achieved, the options may still be exercised on grounds of ill 
health retirement or redundancy only.
11 March 2005 1 January 2005 
to 31 December 
2007
These options became fully exercisable from 11 March 2008 as EPS performance 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 27.1p, which exceeded the maximum 
performance condition of 14.5p. The threshold performance condition was 13.7p.
Pension benefits
The pension arrangements for Philip Cox, Mark Williamson and Ranald Spiers are provided through the 
Senior Section of the International Power Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS), which  
is an Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC) registered scheme. The scheme provides for:
—  a normal retirement age of 60
—  an accrual rate that targets two-thirds of pensionable salary at normal retirement age
—  death-in-service benefit of four times (capped) salary
—  a spouse’s pension on death in retirement of two-thirds of the Executive’s (pre-commutation) pension
The member pension contribution is the lower of 6% of uncapped salary and 15% of the notional earnings 
cap, which is based on the limits previously imposed by HMRC. 
The benefits provided through the scheme are also restricted by an earnings cap based on that previously 
imposed by HMRC. To compensate for this, the scheme benefits are supplemented by additional life 
assurance cover and the provision of a non-pensionable cash allowance. The cash allowance comprises  
the balance of 33% of salary (which is the limit that the Committee has established to provide all pension 
benefits) less the employer contribution and the cost of the additional life assurance. Governance 93
The pension arrangements for Tony Concannon and Steve Riley are also provided through the Senior 
Section of the International Power Group of the ESPS, but they are not restricted by the HMRC earnings 
cap as they joined the scheme prior to 1 June 1989. The scheme provides for:
—  a normal retirement age of 60
—  an accrual rate that targets two-thirds of pensionable salary at normal retirement age
—  death-in-service benefit of four times salary 
—  a spouse’s pension on death in retirement of two-thirds of the Executive’s (pre-commutation) pension
The Executive’s pension contribution is 6% of uncapped salary. The Company does not supplement  
this arrangement. 
The pension arrangements for Bruce Levy are provided through a 401k Savings Plan, a Retirement Plan 
and a Supplemental Retirement Plan, which are money-purchase schemes operated by International 
Power America, up to a total cost to the Company of 33% of salary.
Further information on the Executive Directors’ pension benefits for 2008 can be found within the audited 
section of this Report, on pages 95 to 99.
Directors’ service contracts
Philip Cox
Philip Cox has a service contract subject to 12-months’ notice by the Company. For termination other than 
for cause, he may receive a payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which includes the 12-months’ notice) 
to take account of the value of contractual benefits. The date upon which this contract was entered into 
was 25 February 2003.
Mark Williamson, Steve Riley, Tony Concannon and Ranald Spiers
Mark Williamson, Steve Riley, Tony Concannon and Ranald Spiers have service contracts which are subject 
to 12-months’ notice by the Company. For termination other than for cause, these Executive Directors  
may receive a payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which includes the 12-months’ notice), which will be 
paid on a monthly basis until the Executive Director secures alternative employment, up to a maximum of 
12 monthly payments. The dates upon which these contracts were entered into were 23 February 2004 
for Mark Williamson, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon and 23 September 2008 for Ranald Spiers.
Bruce Levy
Bruce Levy has a US-appointment agreement which is subject to 12-months’ notice by the Company.  
For termination other than for cause, he may receive a payment of 125% of annual basic salary (which 
includes the 12-months’ notice), which will be paid in semi-monthly instalments, plus benefit continuation. 
If the Company elects to release Bruce Levy from the restrictive covenants in his contract, he can be 
required to account for any salary received to reduce the amount of these semi-monthly payments,  
to a maximum of 24 semi-monthly payments. The date upon which his agreement was entered into  
was 21 December 2005.
Executive Director service contracts terminate automatically on the date they reach normal retirement 
age which is 22 September 2011 for Philip Cox, 16 December 2015 for Bruce Levy, 29 December 2017 for 
Mark Williamson, 10 June 2020 for Ranald Spiers, 16 August 2021 for Steve Riley and 17 December 2023 
for Tony Concannon.
Executive Directors Date of commencement Notice period
Philip Cox 25 February 2003 12 months
Mark Williamson 23 February 2004 12 months
Tony Concannon 23 February 2004 12 months
Steve Riley 23 February 2004 12 months
Bruce Levy 21 December 2005 12 months
Ranald Spiers 23 September 2008 12 months
Hays, US Section
International Power Annual Report 2008
94 Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
94
Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman of International Power plc, Sir Neville Simms, has a letter of appointment with a 12-month 
notice period. The other Non- Executive Directors are appointed on a three-year fixed-term, annual 
fixed-fee basis. Their appointment is reviewed at the end of each three-year period and extended for a 
period of one to three years if both parties agree. Sir Neville Simms’ contract will expire at the 2010 AGM, 
following his 65th birthday, or earlier, subject to the above notice period. 
Non-Executive Directors Date contract commenced Contract expiry
Sir Neville Simms 22 February 2000 12-months’ notice
Tony Isaac 2 October 2000 AGM May 2010
Struan Robertson 27 September 2004 April 2010
John Roberts 18 May 2006 18 May 2012
Alan Murray 1 July 2007  AGM May 2010
  Fees
  year to
  31 December 2008
  £
Sir Neville Simms 285,000
Tony Isaac 60,000
Struan Robertson 65,000
John Roberts 65,000
Alan Murray 65,000
Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
The annual fees for the Non-Executive Directors at the end of 2008 are set out below:
The fee structure for the Non-Executive Directors was revised with effect from 1 January 2008. At this 
time, the Chairman’s fees were increased to £285,000 from £250,000 to reflect the growing size and 
complexity of the Group. For the other Non-Executive Directors, the fee structure was also reviewed  
and now comprises the following:
—  a basic fee of £50,000 (£45,000 previously), which is in respect of Board membership duties  
(i.e. attendance at Board meetings, general duties as Directors and their membership of Board 
committees)
—  a new £5,000 fee for Committee participation in the Audit, Remuneration, Appointments and Health, 
Safety and Environment (HS&E) Committees. Non-Executive Directors only receive one fee 
irrespective of how many committees they participate in
—  a fee of £10,000 per annum for chairing each of the Audit, Remuneration and HS&E Committees  
(this remained unchanged following the review) 
—  a fee of £5,000 per annum for acting as Senior Independent Director, which also remained unchanged 
Audited content
The detail of the Directors’ remuneration, pensions and interests in share options and long-term incentive 
plans as disclosed on pages 95 to 99 have been audited by the Company’s external auditor.
Hartwell, US
Rugeley, UK 95 Governance 95
2008 Directors’ remuneration and interests
Directors’ aggregate remuneration
The table below shows the aggregate remuneration of the Directors of International Power plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Notes:
1.   For Philip Cox, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension 
cash allowance (£144,000) and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap (£12,100).  
He also received a car allowance (£15,000) and private medical insurance (£1,350), which are included in ‘Other benefits’.
2.   For Mark Williamson, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of  
a pension cash allowance (£92,940) and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 
(£3,460). He also received a car allowance (£12,000) and private medical insurance (£1,750), which are included in ‘Other benefits’.
3.   The ‘Other benefits’ entry of £517,100 for Tony Concannon comprises elements delivered from the UK (£51,550), in Australia 
(£15,850) and to cover taxes paid under the Company’s expatriate policy (£449,700). The UK total comprises a car allowance 
(£12,000), private medical insurance (£2,850 in respect of both UK and international cover), relocation support (£1,200, which  
is tapering off from a previous relocation) and certain elements of the expatriate package provided (£35,500). The balance  
of the expatriate package (medical costs and children’s schooling fees at £15,850) is provided locally in Australia.
  The taxes paid by the Company in the UK and Australia are net of UK hypothetical tax paid by Tony Concannon in 2008,  
under the Company’s expatriate policy. The net tax liability for 2008 has been estimated by the Company’s taxation specialists  
to be £449,700. 
4.   The ‘Other benefits’ entry for Steve Riley incorporates a company car allowance (£12,000), private medical insurance (£1,750), 
the payment of school fees (£51,708) and the value of relocation support (£18,151).
5.   Bruce Levy’s payment in lieu of pension figure comprises contributions to a 401k Savings Plan (US$7,244), a Retirement Plan 
(US$23,000) and a Supplemental Retirement Plan (US$232,106). He also received a car allowance (US$21,600), medical and 
dental insurance (US$5,705), disability and life insurance (US$3,315) and relocation support (US$28,000), the total of which is 
included under ‘Other benefits’. The values shown in the above table, including for bonus, have been converted from US dollars 
to sterling using the average annual exchange rate of 1.8521.
6.   For Ranald Spiers, all figures provided are on the basis of time since his appointment to the Board on 15 May 2008. The payment 
in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance (£43,700) 
and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap (£2,650). He also received a car 
allowance (£7,500), private medical insurance (£1,600 in respect of both UK and international cover), an overseas allowance 
(£31,500) and other benefits paid locally in the Middle East relating to his expatriate status (£22,950). These elements are 
included in ‘Other benefits’, pro-rated since his appointment to the Board on 15 May 2008. As with Tony Concannon, the Group 
is committed to funding Ranald Spiers’ worldwide employment tax and social security liability in excess of what would be due  
if he were resident for tax purposes in the UK, and had not triggered an overseas tax liability. As Ranald Spiers is primarily based 
in the UAE, however, such taxes and social security are typically expected to be less than or equivalent to the hypothetical taxes 
and social security deductions that are withheld from his UK income. 
7.   Tony Isaac received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation, £5,000 in respect of his role as  
Senior Independent Director and £2,500 for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee to the end of March 2008.
8.   Struan Robertson received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation and £10,000 for his role  
as Chairman of the HS&E Committee.
9.   John Roberts received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation and £10,000 for his role  
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
10.   Alan Murray received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation and £7,500 for his role  
as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 April 2008.
11.   Adri Baan’s total fee of £55,000 for 2007 is shown to enable a more useful year-on-year comparison. He retired  
as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2007.
 Salary Fees Performance related Payment in lieu Other Aggregate Aggregate
   bonus – cash of pension benefits remuneration remuneration
      year to year to
      31 December 2008 31 December 2007
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Sir Neville Simms – 285,000 – – – 285,000 250,000
Philip Cox 700,000 – 384,300 156,100 16,350 1,256,750 1,331,154
Mark Williamson 405,000 – 222,345 96,400 13,750 737,495 811,181
Tony Concannon 370,000 – 149,850 – 517,100 1,036,950 651,001
Steve Riley 370,000 – 217,190 – 83,609 670,799 696,850
Bruce Levy 429,242 – 226,640 141,650 31,651 829,183 769,722
Ranald Spiers 201,290 – 120,661 46,350 63,550 431,851 –
Tony Isaac – 62,500 – – – 62,500 60,000
Struan Robertson – 65,000 – – – 65,000 45,000
John Roberts – 65,000 – – – 65,000 45,000
Alan Murray – 62,500 – – – 62,500 22,500
Adri Baan – – – – – – 55,000
Total 2,475,532 540,000 1,320,986 440,500 726,010 5,503,028 4,737,408 96 Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
Directors’ pension benefits
Notes:
1.  The accrued benefit, as at 31 December 2008, is the pension entitlement which would be paid annually on retirement based on 
service to the end of 2008. In addition to the pension shown above, Mark Williamson has an entitlement to an accrued lump sum  
of £375, Steve Riley has an entitlement to an accrued lump sum of £208,467, Tony Concannon has an entitlement to an accrued 
lump sum of £197,823 and Ranald Spiers has an entitlement to an accrued lump sum of £34,060, payable on retirement in each 
case. The normal retirement age of all Directors is 60, except Ranald Spiers, whose retirement age under the pension scheme is 
60, but who has a contractual retirement age of 65.
2.  Dependants’ pensions on death are 58% of members’ pension in respect of service prior to 2 October 2000 and two-thirds of 
members’ pension in respect of service thereafter. On death-in-service a lump sum of four times salary is payable. On death within 
the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is payable equal to the balance outstanding of the first five years’ pension payments.
3.  Post-retirement increases are expected to be in line with inflation (guaranteed up to the level of 5% p.a. and discretionary above 
that level).
4.  The transfer values as at 31 December 2008 have been calculated in accordance with the assumptions used by the Trustees to 
calculate cash equivalent transfer values in accordance with the legislation which came into force with effect from 1 October 2008. 
The transfer values as at 31 December 2007 were calculated in accordance with version 9.2 of Guidance Note GN11 issued by  
the actuarial profession. For Steve Riley, Tony Concannon and Ranald Spiers this, in combination with movements in investment 
markets, has resulted in the disclosed transfer value decreasing over the year.
5.  Members of the pension scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither the contributions,  
nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
6.  In addition to the above entitlements, cash allowances of £144,000, £92,940 and £43,700 were paid to Philip Cox,  
Mark Williamson and Ranald Spiers respectively during 2008. These allowances are explained in the notes to the Directors’ 
aggregate remuneration table on page 95, alongside an explanation of the £141,650 in pension contributions payable in  
2008 to three arrangements in respect of Bruce Levy.
7.  Although Ranald Spiers was a Director for only part of the financial year, a comparative transfer value calculated as at the end  
of the last financial year (using the assumptions applying at that time) has been included. His increase in accrued pension has  
also been shown relative to his benefits at the end of the previous year.
  Increase in year Transfer value of accrued benefit
  Accrued benefit Including inflation Excluding inflation At 31 December At 31 December Increase/ Transfer value of
  at 31 December   2008 2007 (decrease) less increase in accrued
  2008     Directors’ pension excluding
       contributions inflation less Directors’
        contributions
  £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Philip Cox 	 25,000	 5,000	 4,200	 464,800	 382,900	 64,400	 61,200
Mark Williamson 	 32,900	 5,400	 4,300	 461,700	 441,200	 3,000	 43,200
Steve Riley 	 133,900	 14,600	 9,900	 1,698,600	 1,768,300	 (91,900)	 102,200
Tony Concannon 	 125,300	 13,500	 9,100	 1,433,200	 1,489,200	 (78,200)	 81,400
Ranald Spiers 	 32,900	 3,900	 2,700	 539,000	 529,300	 (7,600)	 26,300
96 97 Governance
Directors’ interests
The following information shows the interests of the Directors as at the end of the financial year in the Company’s Performance Share 
Plans, Executive Share Option Plans and the Sharesave Plan.
Long-term incentive plans
i) 2002 Performance Share Plan
Conditional rights awarded over International Power plc Ordinary Shares under the 2002 Performance Share Plan held by Directors  
at 1 January 2008 (or date of appointment if later) and 31 December 2008 together with details of awards made and vested during 
the period were as follows:
  As at Awards made
(1)
 Market value as at End of performance Awards vested
(2)
 Market value As at
  1 January 2008  date of award period  on vesting date 31 December 2008
    (pence)   (pence)
Philip Cox 292,887  179.25 31 December 2007 (292,887) 381.25 –
  434,163  281.00 31 December 2008   434,163 
  334,835  388.25 31 December 2009   334,835
   378,378 381.25 31 December 2010   378,378
Total 1,061,885 378,378   (292,887)  1,147,376
Mark Williamson 172,942  179.25 31 December 2007 (172,942) 381.25 –
  192,170  281.00 31 December 2008   192,170 
  147,385  388.25 31 December 2009   147,385
   164,189 381.25 31 December 2010   164,189
Total 512,497 164,189   (172,942)  503,744
Tony Concannon 158,995  179.25 31 December 2007 (158,995) 381.25 –
  176,156  281.00 31 December 2008   176,156 
  135,222  388.25 31 December 2009   135,222
   150,000 381.25 31 December 2010   150,000
Total 470,373 150,000   (158,995)  461,378
Bruce Levy 158,995  179.25 31 December 2007 (158,995) 381.25 –
  184,432  281.00 31 December 2008   184,432 
  149,918  388.25 31 December 2009   149,918
   164,437 381.25 31 December 2010   164,437
Total 493,345 164,437   (158,995)  498,787
Steve Riley 158,995  179.25 31 December 2007 (158,995) 381.25 –
  176,156  281.00 31 December 2008   176,156 
  135,222  388.25 31 December 2009   135,222
   150,000 381.25 31 December 2010   150,000
Total 470,373 150,000   (158,995)  461,378
Ranald Spiers
(3)
 73,309  281.00 31 December 2008   73,309
  56,242  388.25 31 December 2009   56,242 
   62,557 381.25 31 December 2010   62,557
   58,035
(4)
 432.00 31 December 2010   58,035
Total 129,551 120,592   –  250,143
(1)  Awards made on 11 March 2008. The performance conditions that must be satisfied for the vesting of awards are provided earlier 
in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 90.
(2)  Awards vested on 11 March 2008. The aggregate of the theoretical gain made by Directors on the vesting of the Performance 
Share Plan awards during the year was £3,594,475 (2007:£3,605,957). This is calculated by reference to the closing mid-market 
price of the shares on the date of vesting, disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained and is stated before tax.
(3)  Date of appointment as a Director: 15 May 2008.
(4)  Date of award: 15 May 2008 (special award made upon appointment as a Director). 98 Directors’ remuneration report
International Power Annual Report 2008
ii) Executive Share Options
Options over International Power plc Ordinary Shares granted under the National Power Legacy Executive Share Option Scheme,  
the International Power UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan held 
by Directors at 1 January 2008 (or as at the date of appointment, if later) and 31 December 2008, together with details of options 
exercised during the period, were as follows:
  As at Exercise price Lapsed/exercised Date of Market value on Exercise Exercise As at
  1 January per share during the exercise date of exercise period from period to 31 December
  2008 (pence) year  (pence)   2008
Philip Cox 17,191 174.50    24.05.2005 24.05.2012 17,191
  149,859 174.50    24.05.2005 24.05.2012 149,859
  292,887 179.25 (292,887) 07.04.2008 430.50 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 –
Total 459,937  (292,887)     167,050
Mark Williamson 5,403 277.55    02.10.2003 02.10.2010 5,403
  7,168 209.22    22.03.2004 22.03.2011 7,168
  35,415 174.50    24.05.2005 24.05.2012 35,415
  172,942 179.25 (172,942) 07.04.2008 430.50 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 –
Total 220,928  (172,942)     47,986
Tony Concannon 7,873 313.92 (7,873) 11.03.2008 381.25 01.12.2001 01.12.2008 –
  3,377 277.55    02.10.2003 02.10.2010 3,377
  19,139 277.55    02.10.2003 02.10.2010 19,139
  4,480 209.22    22.03.2004 22.03.2011 4,480
  10,455 209.22    22.03.2004 22.03.2011 10,455
  6,447 174.50    24.05.2005 24.05.2012 6,447
  17,835 174.50    24.05.2005 24.05.2012 17,835
  158,995 179.25 (158,995) 07.04.2008 430.50 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 –
Total 228,601  (166,868)     61,733
Bruce Levy 	 158,995 179.25    11.03.2008 11.03.2015 158,99 5
Total 158,995  –     158,995
Steve Riley 31,608 174.50    24.05.2005 24.05.2012 31,608
  158,995 179.25 (158,995) 07.04.2008 430.50 11.03.2008 11.03.2015 –
Total 190,603  (158,995)     31,608
Ranald Spiers
(1)
 17,996
(2)
 313.92
(2)
 (17,996) n/a n/a 01.12.2001 01.12.2008 –
  5,674 277.55    02.10.2003 02.10.2010 5,674
  32,155 277.55    02.10.2003 02.10.2010 32,155
  6,810 209.22    22.03.2004 22.03.2011 6,810
  18,282 209.22    22.03.2004 22.03.2011 18,282
  31,608 174.50    24.05.2005 24.05.2012 31,608
  47,419 179.25    11.03.2008 11.03.2015 47,419
Total 159,944  (17,996)     141,948
(1)  Date of appointment as a Director: 15 May 2008.
(2)  Option lapsed 1 December 2008 on expiry of option exercise period.
Notes:
1.  Options exercisable prior to October 2003 were granted under the National Power Legacy Executive Share Option Scheme  
(Tony Concannon, Steve Riley and Ranald Spiers) to which no performance conditions applied.
2.  Options exercisable from October 2003 were granted under the International Power Approved and Unapproved Executive Share 
Option Plans (Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley and Ranald Spiers) and the Global Executive Share Option 
Plan (Bruce Levy).
3.  Details of the performance conditions attaching to options capable of exercise from October 2003 are set out on page 92  
of the Directors’ remuneration report.
4.  Options that became exercisable from May 2005 did not meet their performance criteria.
5.  The aggregate of the theoretical gain made by Directors on the exercise of Executive Share Options during the year was 
£1,974,646.13 (2007: £2,591,633). This is calculated by reference to the difference between the mid-market closing price  
of an International Power Ordinary Share on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the options, disregarding whether  
such shares were sold or retained on exercise, and is stated before taxation. 99 Governance
iii) Sharesave Options
Options over International Power plc Ordinary Shares granted under the International Power Sharesave Plan and Global Sharesave 
Plan held by Directors at 1 January 2008 (or as at the date of appointment as a Director, if later) and 31 December 2008 together  
with details of options exercised or lapsed during the period, were as follows:
  As at Granted Exercised/ Market value Option price Exercise Exercise As at
  1 January  cancelled (pence) (pence) period from period to 31 December
  2008       2008
Philip Cox
(1) (2)
 2,467  (2,467) n/a 389.00 01.01.2011 30.06.2011 –
   3,664   262.00 01.01.2012 30.06.2012 3,664
Mark Williamson
(2)
 8,050    200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Tony Concannon
(2)
 8,050    200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Bruce Levy
(3)
 8,050    200.00 01.03.2011 31.08.2011 8,050
Steve Riley
(2)
 4,675    200.00 01.03.2009 31.08.2009 4,675
Ranald Spiers
(2) (4)
 4,318    389.00 01.01.2013 30.06.2013 4,318
    
  At 31 December 2008 At 31 December 2007
Sir Neville Simms 200,000 178,220
Philip Cox 775,504 775,504
Mark Williamson 227,132 125,097
Tony Concannon 172,093 153,518
Bruce Levy 155,364 90,364
Steve Riley 283,805 189,902
Ranald Spiers
(1)
 223,315 n/a
Tony Isaac 25,501 25,501
Alan Murray 10,000 –
Struan Robertson 10,663 3,163
John Roberts 25,000 25,000
(1)  On 17 October 2008, Philip Cox was granted a Sharesave Option at an option price of 262 pence per share. Consequent to this,  
he cancelled the Sharesave Option granted to him on 6 December 2007 at an option price of 389 pence per share. 
(2)  Options held under the UK Approved Sharesave Scheme. 
(3)  Options held under the Global Sharesave Scheme. 
(4)  Date of appointment as a Director: 15 May 2008.
Shares held in trust
As at 31 December 2008, no shares were held in trust (31 December 2007: 253,990). During the year, 1,621,671 shares were 
acquired and placed into trust. The total cost of the acquisition was £6,000,182. Any remaining shares held in trust were utilised 
during the year for the benefit of participants in the 2002 Performance Share Plan. Being potential beneficiaries of these shares,  
the Directors had an interest in these shares.
Directors’ beneficial interests as at 31 December 2008
The beneficial interest of the Directors in office at 31 December 2008 in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are shown in the  
table below:
(1)  Date of appointment as a Director 15 May 2008. Ranald Spiers held 223,315 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 15 May 2008.
No Director had, at any time during the financial year, any beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking.
The middle market quotation of an International Power plc Ordinary Share as at the close of business on 31 December 2008  
was 240.25 pence (2007: 453.50 pence) and the daily quotations during the year ranged from 182.00 pence to 463.00 pence.
No changes to Directors’ share interests have taken place between 31 December 2008 and 10 March 2009.
John Roberts
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Board of Directors of International Power plc
10 March 2009 100 Directors’ report
International Power Annual Report 2008
The Directors submit their report and the International Power plc 
Group and parent company audited financial statements for  
the year ended 31 December 2008. The principal activity of 
International Power plc (the Company) is to act as the holding 
company for a group of companies and a number of associated 
companies and joint ventures (the Group). The principal activities 
of the Group are the generation and sale of electricity, and closely 
related activities such as district heating and desalination.
Business review
The Company is required to present a fair review of the business 
and the Group during the year ended 31 December 2008 and  
of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and  
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group (known as a ‘Business review’). The information that fulfils 
the requirements of the Business review can be found in the 
following sections of the Annual Report:
—  Business and financial review: pages 10 to 61
—  Current Directors’ biographical details: pages 62 and 63
—  Corporate governance: pages 78 to 82
—  Employees: pages 65 and 66
—  Directors’ remuneration: pages 84 to 99 
Which are incorporated in this review by reference.
Dividend
Following the payment of the 2008 interim dividend of 
3.56 pence per Ordinary Share, paid on 31 October 2008, 
the Directors propose to pay a final dividend of 8.59 pence 
per Ordinary Share in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2008, making a total dividend for 2008 of 12.15 pence 
(2007: 10.16 pence). 
Charitable and political donations
The Group does not make political donations. Details of 
charitable donations are set out in the corporate responsibility 
section on pages 68 to 76.
Directors’ report
Research and development
Research and development is not a core element of the business 
of the Company. For the period under review, the Company  
did not undertake significant expenditure on research and 
development. 
The Company will look to take advantage of technical advances  
as they arise and will continue to seek to develop power stations 
in the regions in which the Group operates, making effective use 
of current and new technology as and when available.
Share capital
The Company’s share capital consists of Ordinary Shares of 
50 pence each, which rank pari passu with each other in respect 
of all rights, including dividend, voting and return of capital. 
The Company has an unclassified share of £1.00 and 
21 deferred shares of one pence each, which carry no rights.
During the period 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2008,  
the Company did not purchase any of its Ordinary Shares.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) to increase the authorised share capital of the 
Company and renew for a further year the Directors’ general 
authority to allot Ordinary Shares; to renew for a year the partial 
disapplication of shareholders’ statutory pre-emption rights  
over Ordinary Shares; and to renew the authority to purchase  
a proportion of the Company’s Ordinary Shares.
An explanation of these and other resolutions being proposed  
at the 2009 AGM will be provided in the Notice of AGM, which 
will be sent to shareholders during April 2009.
Shares held in trust
As at 31 December 2008 there were no Ordinary Shares of the 
Company held in trust. During 2008 remaining shares held in 
trust were utilised during the year for the benefit of participants  
in the 2002 Performance Share Plan. 
Employee share schemes
No employee share schemes have any rights regarding control  
of the Company. 101 Financial statements
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of 
the following direct and indirect interests in voting rights equal  
to or exceeding 3% of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company 
held on behalf of the organisations as shown in the table below:
Substantial shareholdings  Number of shares 
Black Rock Inc.  82,840,595
Invesco Ltd.  123,286,077
Legal & General Group Plc  62,003,966
Standard Life Investments  55,451,801
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely  
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out on pages 10 to 35 of the Business and financial review.  
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described in pages 52 to 57 
of the Business and financial review. In addition, notes 22 to 25 
and 31 of the consolidated financial statements include the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for financial risk 
management, details of its cash and cash equivalents, 
indebtedness, and borrowing facilities, and its financial 
instruments, hedging activities and its exposure to credit  
risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing risk. 
As described on pages 56 to 57, the Group meets its funding 
requirements through a combination of non-recourse project 
finance debt at its assets together with convertible debt, and  
a corporate revolver facility at the parent Company. The Group  
has no material debt requiring refinancing at its assets in 2009  
but an amount of A$445 million is due for refinancing by  
February 2010 on its Hazelwood facility and an amount  
of US$769 million is due for refinancing by July 2010 on  
its US CCGT fleet. The US$850 million corporate revolver  
facility is due for refinancing in October 2010. The Group  
is taking early steps to open refinancing negotiations with  
lenders and expects to be able to achieve sufficient refinancing  
to meet its future requirements. 
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking into account 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show  
that the Group has sufficient financial resources, together with  
assets that are expected to generate free cash flow to the Group 
due to the relatively inelastic demand for the Group’s primary 
product, electricity. As a consequence the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group are  
well placed to manage their business risks and to continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable future, despite  
the current uncertain global economic outlook. Accordingly,  
the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware,  
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps  
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself  
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditor is aware of this information.
Auditor
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the 
Company and to authorise the Directors to agree the auditor’s 
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
Amendments to the Company’s Articles  
of Association
Any amendment to the Company’s Articles of Association 
requires a special resolution (75% majority) to be passed  
at a duly held meeting of the shareholders.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The Board has the power to appoint and replace any Director.  
Any Director appointed by the Board has to offer him/her self  
for re-election at the Company’s next AGM. The Company’s 
shareholders may by ordinary resolution (simple majority) 
appoint or remove any person as Director. All Directors offer 
themselves for re-election every three years. There is no 
agreement in place between the Company and any of the 
Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Restrictions and transfers of securities
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the 
Company or on voting rights except in the circumstances set  
out in the Articles of Association of the Company (for example, 
failure to disclose interest in shares and non-payment of calls).
Significant agreements
There are no significant agreements to which the Company  
is a party which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control.
Prompt payment policy
The Company aims to observe the highest standard of business 
practice as both a buyer and seller of products and services.  
The Company’s average number of days outstanding in respect  
of trade creditors for the year ended 31 December 2008 was  
35 days.
By order of the Board
Stephen Ramsay
Company Secretary
10 March 2009
Governance 102 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
Responsibility statement of the Directors
in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements
Responsibility statement of the Directors
International Power Annual Report 2008
Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the  
Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company financial statements, in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs  
as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and 
performance of the Group. The Companies Act 1985 provides,  
in relation to such financial statements, that references in the 
relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and 
fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required  
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs  
of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
—  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
—  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
—  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
—  for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the parent company financial statements; 
—  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are  
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ 
remuneration report and corporate governance statement  
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and  
integrity of the corporate and financial information included  
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing  
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements  
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect  
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
—  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  
by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
—  the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
	 	 	 Ph ilip	 C ox	
   Chief Executive Officer
   10 March 2009
	 	 	 M a r k	 W i l l i a m s o n
   Chief Financial Officer
   10 March 2009 103 Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
  Year ended 31 December 2008  Year ended 31 December 2007
  Results  Exceptional Results for Results Exceptional Results for
  excluding  items and the year excluding items and the year
  exceptional  specific   exceptional specific  
  items and IAS 39  items and IAS 39 
  specific IAS 39 mark to  specific IAS 39 mark to 
  mark to market  mark to market 
  market  movements
(i)
  market movements
(i)
 
  movements
(i)
   movements
(i)
 
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
2 Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 4,891 339 5,230 3,872 (387) 3,485
15 Less: share of joint ventures’ revenue (417) – (417) (340) – (340)
15 Less: share of associates’ revenue (992) – (992) (820) – (820)
2 G r o u p	 r eve n u e 3,482 339 3,821 2,712 (387) 2,325
 Cost of sales (2,552) (204) (2,756) (1,927) (2) (1,929)
 G ro s s	 p ro f i t 930 135 1,065 785 (389) 396
3 Other operating income 112 – 112 96 – 96
3 Other operating expenses (221) (20) (241) (163) (9) (172)
2/15 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 229 (9) 220 186 12 198
 P r o f i t	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i o n s 1,050 106 1,156 904 (386) 518
8 Disposal of interests in businesses – – – – 289 289
4 Finance income 104 – 104 77 – 77
5 Finance expenses  (472) 127 (345) (385) (16) (401)
 Net finance costs (368) 127 (241) (308) (16) (324)
 P r o f i t	 b e f o r e	 t a x 682 233 915 596 (113) 483
9 Taxation (123) (33) (156) (113) 159 46
3	 P r o f i t	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r	 559 200 759	 4 8 3	 4 6	 5 2 9
 Attributable to:      
 Minority interests 69 23 92 77 (51) 26
 Equity holders of the parent 490 177 667 406 97 503
11 E a r n in g s	 pe r	 s h a r e :
 Basic 32.4p  44.2p 27.1p  33.6p
 Diluted 30.6p  34.7p 25.7p  31.8p
All results are from continuing operations.
(i)  The Group separately presents certain items as exceptional. These are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.  
In addition, in order to assist the reader to understand the underlying business performance, the Group separately discloses within  
the income statement specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (refer to notes 1 and 8). 104 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 December 2008
		 					 3 1	 D ece m b er	 	 3 1	 D ece m b er
		 					 2 0 0 8	 	 20 07
N o t e	 	 	 	 	 	 £m	 	 £m
	 Non-current assets	 		 		 		 	
1 2	 G o o d w i l l	 	 	 	 	 	 941	 	 7 33
1 3	 O t h e r	 i n t a n g i b l e	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	 	 	 196	 	 168
1 4	 P r o p e r t y ,	 p l a n t	 a n d	 e q u i p m e n t	 	 	 	 	 	 7 ,318	 	 5,721
1 5	 I n v e s t m e n t s	 i n	 j o i n t	 v e n t u r e s	 a n d	 a s s o c i a t e s	 	 	 	 	 	 1,756	 	 1, 2 79
1 6	 O t h e r	 i n v e s t m e n t s	 	 	 	 	 	 47	 	 13
1 7	 F i n a n c e	 l e a s e	 r e c e i v a b l e s	 	 	 	 	 	 1,66 9	 	 1, 25 2
1 8	 O t h e r	 l o n g - t e r m	 r e c e i v a b l e s	 	 	 	 	 	 124	 	 91
1 9	 D e f e r r e d	 t a x	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	 	 	 120	 	 142
2 2	 D e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	 	 	 3 0	 	 45
	 Total non-current assets	 		 		 	 12,20 1	 	 9,444
	 Current assets	 		 		 		 	
2 0	 I n v e n t o r i e s	 	 	 	 	 	 27 5	 	 150
2 1	 T r a d e	 a n d	 o t h e r	 r e c e i v a b l e s	 	 	 	 	 	 9 49	 	 7 13
1 7	 F i n a n c e	 l e a s e	 r e c e i v a b l e s	 	 	 	 	 	 58	 	 41
2 2	 D e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	 	 	 477	 	 223
2 3	 C a s h	 a n d	 c a s h	 e q u i v a l e n t s	 	 	 	 	 	 1, 129	 	 1 ,16 1
	 Total current assets	 		 		 	 2 , 888 	 	 2 , 28 8
	 Total assets	 		 		 	 15,089	 	 1 1 , 732
	 Current liabilities	 		 		 		 	
2 4	 L o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s	 	 	 	 	 	 421	 	 539
2 2	 D e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 	 	 	 	 	 5 4 4	 	 50 8
2 6	 T r a d e	 a n d	 o t h e r	 p a y a b l e s	 	 	 	 	 	 89 4	 	 720
	 C u r r e n t	 t a x	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 	 	 	 	 	 3 89	 	 203
2 7	 P r o v i s i o n s	 	 	 	 	 	 69	 	 83
	 Total current liabilities	 		 		 	 2,3 17	 	 2 ,053
	 Non-current liabilities	 		 		 		 	
2 4	 L o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s	 	 	 	 	 	 7,026 	 	 5 , 28 4
2 2	 D e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 	 	 	 	 	 4 53	 	 32 6
	 O t h e r	 p a y a b l e s	 	 	 	 	 	 57	 	 3 0
7	 R e t i r e m e n t	 b e n e f i t	 o b l i g a t i o n s	 	 	 	 	 	 20	 	 2 2
2 7	 P r o v i s i o n s	 	 	 	 	 	 72	 	 98
1 9	 D e f e r r e d	 t a x	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 	 	 	 	 	 1,0 09	 	 9 12
 Total non-current liabilities	 		 		 	 8 , 63 7	 	 6 , 672
	 Total liabilities	 		 		 	 1 0,954	 	 8 ,725
	 Net assets	 		 		 	 4, 135	 	 3 , 0 07
	 Equity	 		 		 		 	
2 9	 S h a r e	 c a p i t a l	 	 	 	 	 	 7 59	 	 751
2 9	 S h a r e	 p r e m i u m	 a c c o u n t	 	 	 	 	 	 4 31	 	 4 11
2 9	 C a p i t a l	 r e d e m p t i o n	 r e s e r v e	 	 	 	 	 	 145	 	 145
2 9	 C a p i t a l	 r e s e r v e	 	 	 	 	 	 422	 	 422
2 9	 R e v a l u a t i o n	 r e s e r v e	 	 	 	 	 	 (2)	 	 (9 )
2 9	 H e d g i n g	 r e s e r v e	 	 	 	 	 	 (376)	 	 (8 4 )
2 9	 T r a n s l a t i o n	 r e s e r v e	 	 	 	 	 	 859	 	 35
2 9	 R e t a i n e d	 e a r n i n g s	 	 	 	 	 	 1,660	 	 1, 173
	 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent		 		 	 3 , 89 8	 	 2 , 84 4
	 M i n o r i t y	 i n t e r e s t s	 	 	 	 	 	 237	 	 163
	 Total equity	 		 		 	 4, 135	 	 3 , 0 07
T h e	 f i n a n c i a l	 s t a t e m e n t s	 w e r e	 a p p r o v e d	 b y	 t h e	 B o a r d	 o f	 D i r e c t o r s	 a n d	 a u t h o r i s e d	 f o r	 i s s u e	 o n	 1 0	 M a r c h	 2 0 0 9	 a n d	 s i g n e d	 o n	 i t s	 b e h a l f	 b y
  Philip Cox Mark Williamson
  Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 105 Financial statements
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 December 2008
       Year ended  Year ended
       31 December  31 December
       2008  2007
       £m  £m
Net loss on cash flow hedges      (270)  (122)
Revaluation deficit on step acquisition      –  (12)
Exchange losses recognised on net investment hedges      (155)  (17)
Exchange gains arising on translation of foreign operations      947  137
Tax on items taken directly to equity      18  23
N e t	 i n c o m e	 r e c o g n i s e d	 d i r e c t l y	 i n	 e q u i t y      540  9
Profit for the year      759  529
T o t a l	 r e c o g n i s e d	 i n c o m e	 a n d	 e x p e n s e	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r	 	 	 	 	 	 1,299  538
Attributable to:
Minority interests      100  21
Equity holders of the parent      1,199  517 106 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
       Year ended  Year ended
       31 December  31 December
       2008  2007
Note      £m  £m
 C a s h	 f l o w s	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i n g	 a c t i v i t i e s        
 Profit for the year      759  529
 Adjustments for:    
9  Tax expense/(credit)      156  (46)
4/5  Net finance costs      241  324
15  Share of profit of joint ventures and associates      (220)  (198)
13/14  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets   298  320
3  Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment     2   (2)
  Profit on sale of intangible assets      (14)   –
8  Exceptional losses/(gains) before tax       57  (233)
8  Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements      (172)  342
  Other non-cash movements      22  (5)
  Decrease in provisions      (81)  (38)
  Decrease in finance lease receivables      45  35
  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment     –  7
 Other cash movements      (38)  9
 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates      135  145
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment – maintenance     (108)  (71)
 Purchase of intangible assets      (47)  (58)
 Sale of intangible assets      72  10
 O p e r a t i n g	 c a s h	 f l o w	 b e f o r e	 m o v e m e n t s	 i n	 w o r k i n g	 c a p i t a l     1,107  1,070
 Increase in inventories      (76)  (2)
 Increase in trade and other receivables      (109)  (88)
 Increase in trade and other payables      76  42
 Decrease in assets held for trading      –  44
 C a s h	 g e n e r a t e d	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i o n s      998  1,066
 Taxes paid      (86)  (101)
 Interest paid      (457)  (374)
 Interest received      58  62
 F r e e	 c a s h	 f l o w      513  653
 Cash flows relating to exceptional items:
  Payment of Australian stamp duty – exceptional      (7)  –
 N e t	 c a s h	 i n f l o w	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i n g	 a c t i v i t i e s      506  653
 C a s h	 f l o w s	 f r o m	 i n v e s t i n g	 a c t i v i t i e s        
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment – growth      (156)  (160)
 Government grants received      –  1
 Purchase of intangible assets – growth      (8)  –
30 Acquisitions (net of cash acquired), and increase in stake, of subsidiaries    (539)  (778)
 Acquisitions of joint ventures, associates and investments     (75)  (13)
 Investments in (net of returns from) joint ventures, associates and investments   (58)  (1)
 Proceeds from partial disposal of UK subsidiaries      –  168
 Proceeds from disposal of investments      –  250
 N e t	 c a s h	 o u t f l o w	 f r o m	 i n v e s t i n g	 a c t i v i t i e s      (836)  (533)
 C a s h	 f l o w s	 f r o m	 f i n a n c i n g	 a c t i v i t i e s        
10 Dividends paid      (166)  (160)
 Proceeds from share issue      10  13
 Proceeds from new loans and bonds      2,065  616
 Repayment of loans and bonds      (1,577)  (423)
 Funding from minority interests      49  63
 Funding repaid to minority interests      (199)  (29)
 Distributions paid to minority interests      (21)  (35)
 N e t	 c a s h	 i n f l o w	 f r o m	 f i n a n c i n g	 a c t i v i t i e s      161  45
 N e t	 ( d e c r e a s e ) / i n c r e a s e	 i n	 c a s h	 a n d	 c a s h	 e q u i v a l e n t s     (169)  165
 C a s h	 a n d	 c a s h	 e q u i v a l e n t s	 a t	 b e g i n n i n g	 o f	 t h e	 y e a r     1,161  980
 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes thereon      137  16
23 C a s h	 a n d	 c a s h	 e q u i v a l e n t s	 a t	 e n d	 o f	 t h e	 y e a r       1,129  1,161 107 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2008
1 Accounting policies
a) General information
International Power plc (the Company) is a public limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its 
registered office is disclosed on the last page of this Annual Report. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 31 December 2008 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the Group) and the Group’s interest in joint 
ventures and associates. The parent company financial statements 
present information about the Company as a separate entity  
and not about its Group. The principal activities of the Group  
are described in note 2.
b) Statement of compliance
European Union (EU) law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) requires 
that the consolidated financial statements, for the year ended  
31 December 2008, be prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU (Adopted 
IFRSs). These Group financial statements have been prepared and 
approved by the Directors in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (GAAP). The parent company financial statements are 
presented on pages 166 to 175.
c) Adoption of new and revised Standards
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing 
standards, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (IFRIC), are applicable to the Group for the first time  
in the current year and future periods:
The following Adopted IFRS was available for early application  
and has been applied by the Group in these financial statements:
—  IAS 23 (Borrowing Costs – Revised), effective for annual accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The revised standard 
requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs, to the extent 
they are directly attributable to the acquisition, production or 
construction of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. 
Previously there was an option to expense all borrowing costs  
as incurred. Because the Group always capitalises borrowing  
costs incurred on qualifying assets, the revisions to IAS 23 have  
no impact on either the Group’s accounting policies or its results  
or net assets.
The following Adopted IFRSs were available for early adoption but 
have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements:
—  IFRS 8 (Operating Segments) is applicable for years commencing 
on or after 1 January 2009. The new standard replaces IAS 14 
(Segment Reporting) and requires an entity to report segment 
information on the same basis as that reported to management 
for decision making purposes. The application of IFRS 8 in 2007 
would not have affected the results or net assets as the standard 
is concerned only with disclosure. The adoption of this standard 
is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group’s 
disclosures as management identify and measure the results  
of reportable operating segments on a regional basis as set  
out in these consolidated financial statements;
—  IAS 1 (Presentation of Financial Statements – Revised), effective 
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The 
revised standard aims to enhance the usefulness of information 
presented in the financial statements including the introduction 
of a new statement of comprehensive income that combines all 
items of income and expense recognised in profit or loss together 
with ‘other comprehensive income’. The application of the revised 
standard will not affect the results or net assets of the Group as  
it is only concerned with presentation and disclosures.
No impact is expected from any other standards that are available  
for early adoption but that have not been early adopted.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued by 
the IASB and IFRIC, but have not been adopted by the European 
Commission (and published in the EU Official Journal) for their 
application to become mandatory:
—  IFRIC 12 (Service Concession Arrangements) is effective  
for annual accounting periods of the Group beginning on  
1 January 2010. This interpretation sets out general principles  
on recognising and measuring the obligations and related rights  
in service concession arrangements. As the Group’s long-term 
power purchase agreements which are affected by the adoption  
of IFRIC 12 are already determined to be or to contain finance 
leases, and the consideration receivable by the operator in  
each case gives rise to financial assets, the impact of adopting  
IFRIC 12 is not expected to have a material impact on the Group;
— IFRIC 18 (Transfers of Assets from Customers) is applicable 
prospectively to transfers of assets from customers received on  
or after 1 July 2009. The interpretation considers the accounting 
for transfers of property, plant and equipment by entities that 
receive such transfers from their customers. Agreements within  
its scope are those in which an entity receives from a customer  
an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must  
then use either to connect the customer to a network or to 
provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods 
and services, or to do both; and in which an entity receives cash 
from a customer when the amount of cash must be used only  
to construct or acquire an item of property, plant and equipment 
and the entity must then use the item of property, plant and 
equipment either to connect the customer to a network or to 
provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods 
and services, or to do both. As the interpretation is to be applied 
prospectively it is not possible to quantify its likely impact.
d) Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared  
on the going concern basis and using the historical cost convention, 
modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated in these 
accounting policies.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information 
presented, and specifically the Group’s underlying business 
performance, the Group presents its income statement in three 
columns such that it identifies (i) results excluding exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, (ii) the effect of 
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements  
and (iii) results for the year. For the purposes of clarity, in the 
explanation of the basis of preparation applied in these consolidated 
financial statements, these columns are described as the ‘left hand 
column’, the ‘middle column’ and the ‘right hand column’ respectively.
Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are 
items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain  
a proper understanding of the financial information. The Group 
discloses exceptional items in the middle column.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically  
hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures. In relation  
to commodities trading, the Group considers economic hedges  
to be those which are asset backed, i.e. where the Group is either 
forward selling electricity from its own generation capacity or  
forward buying fuel for its own generation capacity. In respect  
of interest rate swaps and other treasury-related derivatives  
the Group considers economic hedges to be those which hedge 
existing assets, liabilities and firm commitments. 108 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
1 Accounting policies continued
Some of these economic hedges achieve own use treatment  
under IAS 39 and are accounted for on an accruals basis. Some 
are accounted for as cash flow hedges under IAS 39 with fair value 
gains and losses recorded in the hedging reserve. Where derivative 
contracts do not achieve own use treatment and the Group could 
not, or has not sought to, apply cash flow hedge accounting, IAS 39 
requires the derivative contract to be measured at fair value (marked 
to market) with fair value gains and losses recognised in the income 
statement. The Group separately presents these mark to market 
movements on economic hedges, in the middle column, to assist  
the reader’s understanding of underlying business performance  
and to provide a more meaningful presentation.
For economic hedges, where fair value gains and losses are recorded 
in the income statement, in the period in which the economically 
hedged transaction settles, the settlement amount of the derivative, 
being the cumulative fair value gains and losses recognised in the 
current and prior periods, is presented in the left hand column so that 
the transaction is measured at its contracted price (i.e. the spot price 
less the fair value gain or loss on the derivative contract at that date).
As the cumulative mark to market movements have already been 
recognised in the middle column in the current and prior periods,  
an equal but opposite amount is presented in the middle column  
so that cumulatively the amount recognised in the middle column  
in respect of such economic hedges is zero.
By presenting fair value gains and losses in this manner, the left hand 
column is not affected by mark to market movements and therefore 
reflects the underlying business performance at contracted prices.
The amortisation of derivatives, which are acquired with a fair value 
other than zero, is always recorded in the left hand column. This is 
achieved by presenting an equal but opposite amount in the middle 
column, such that specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 
presented in the middle column are shown net of the amortisation 
during the period.
Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges under IAS 39 can arise 
from business combinations, where the fair value of the derivatives at 
acquisition is not equal to zero, or as a result of the difference between 
the contractual profile of the economic hedge and the profile of 
transactions defined as the hedged item. IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness 
in qualifying cash flow hedges to be recorded in the income statement, 
and therefore the Group records this ineffectiveness in the middle 
column when it relates to an economic hedge.
Mark to market movements of the fair value of embedded derivatives 
in convertible bonds, which relate to conversion features where 
the functional currency of the issuer and other factors preclude the 
conversion feature being treated as equity in the consolidated financial 
statements, are treated as specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 
and as such are presented in the middle column. The Directors 
consider the fair value gains and losses of these embedded derivatives 
should be appropriately disclosed within specific IAS 39 mark to 
market movements, in the middle column, so as to separately identify 
a non-cash movement which, if the conversion option is exercised,  
will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity.
Mark to market movements relating to proprietary trading activities, 
the revaluation of assets held for trading and amortisation of 
derivatives which are acquired with a fair value other than zero 
comprise part of the Group’s underlying business performance  
and are appropriately, in the judgement of the Directors, included 
within the left hand column.
The right hand column presents the results for the year, showing  
all gains and losses recorded in the consolidated income statement.
To the extent that exceptional items are separately identified in the 
income statement, they are also separately identified in the cash flow 
statement under the respective heading to which they relate.
The fair values of certain assets and liabilities acquired as part  
of the Maestrale wind farm portfolio in August 2007 have been 
revised following the completion of an independent third party 
valuation exercise during 2008 (refer to note 30f)). In accordance  
with IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) the 2007 balance sheet has  
been re-presented.
e) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved 
where the Company has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits  
from its activities. In assessing control, the potential voting rights  
that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a 
subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. 
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any 
deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited 
to the income statement in the period of acquisition. 
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s 
proportion of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities recognised. Subsequently, any losses applicable to the 
minority interest in excess of the minority interest in the subsidiary’s 
equity are allocated against the interests of the parent, except when 
there is a binding obligation to fund those losses and the minority  
is in a position to do so.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year  
are included in the consolidated income statement from when  
control commences or up to when control ceases, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements  
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses  
are eliminated on consolidation.
f) Revenue recognition
Certain power plants sell their output in merchant markets, 
where electricity is sold through existing power exchanges, pool 
arrangements or through bilateral contracts with third parties.  
In these markets, revenue from energy sales is either recorded  
at the spot price obtained through pool or spot mechanisms when 
the electrical output is delivered, or as set out below, when electricity 
is delivered in accordance with the terms of any related hedging or 
forward contracts.
(i)  Because power is a non-financial item, forward contracts entered 
into and which continue to be held for the purpose of delivery  
(and sale) of power generated by our own power plants (known 
as ‘own use’ contracts) can be accounted for under accruals 
accounting, i.e. revenue for energy sales is recognised as output  
is delivered in accordance with the forward contract;
(ii)  All other forward contracts, which are considered to be derivatives 
and do not qualify for ‘own use’, are recognised at fair value with 
changes in fair value recorded in the income statement. Where 
the Group applies cash flow hedge accounting changes in fair 
values are deferred in a hedging reserve within equity and only 
reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects 
earnings. In addition, to the extent that there is ineffectiveness 
in the cash flow hedge accounting of forward contracts, changes 
in fair values of the forward contracts are taken to the income 
statement in the period. 109 Financial statements
Other power plants sell their output under power purchase 
agreements (PPAs). Under such arrangements it is usual for the Group 
to receive payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether 
or not the offtaker requests the electrical output (capacity payments) 
and for the variable costs of production (energy payments). In such 
situations, revenue is recognised in respect of capacity payments as:
(i)  finance income (in accordance with note 1r)) where the PPA  
is considered to be or to contain a finance lease;
(ii)  operating lease minimum lease payments, on a straight-line  
basis (in accordance with note 1r)) where the PPA is considered  
to be or to contain an operating lease; or
(iii)  service income in accordance with the contractual terms, to the 
extent that the capacity has been made available to the contracted 
offtaker during the period. Where the PPAs extend over more 
than one accounting period, service income is recognised in each 
accounting period at the fair value of the Group’s performance 
under the contract in each period.
Under lease arrangements, those payments which are not included 
within minimum lease payments are accounted for as service income 
(outlined in (iii) above).
Energy payments under PPAs are recognised in revenue in all cases  
as the contracted output is delivered.
Liquidated damages (LDs), in respect of late commissioning, are 
included in other operating income.
Proprietary trading income is recognised on the basis of completed 
contracts and the mark to market value of outstanding contracts  
at the period end.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net 
carrying amount.
g) Foreign currencies
These Group financial statements are presented in sterling, which is 
also the functional currency of the Company. The functional currencies 
of Group entities are principally determined by the primary economic 
environment in which the respective entity operates. Transactions 
entered into by Group entities are translated into the functional 
currencies of those entities at the exchange rate ruling at the date 
of transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from 
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the 
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets  
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised  
in the income statement.
Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in terms of  
historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date  
of the transaction. Exchange differences on non-monetary items are 
recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non-monetary 
item itself is recognised in the income statement or in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the 
Group enters into forward contracts and options (refer to note 1q))  
for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such 
derivative financial instruments).
The net assets of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance 
sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period which approximate to actual rates. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. 
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the Group’s translation 
reserve, which is a component of equity. Such translation differences 
are recognised as income or as expenses in the income statement  
in the period of disposal of the net investment in foreign operations.
In respect of foreign operations, any differences that have arisen 
before 1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs,  
are presented as part of retained earnings.
h) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture 
or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of joint ventures and associates  
is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment 
annually and when there are indications of impairment. Any 
impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement  
and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable 
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or 
loss on disposal.
i) Other intangible assets
E m i ss ion	 a llow a nc e s An intangible asset is recognised on receipt 
of allocated emission allowances and recorded at the fair value on 
allocation. The fair value of the grant is also recognised on receipt  
and deducted from the value of the intangible asset. As a result no  
net asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet at initial recognition. 
Emission allowances are recognised at cost when purchased. As 
emission allowances are utilised they are charged to the income 
statement within cost of sales. To the extent that these allowances 
were received by way of grant there is nil charge to the income 
statement for their utilisation. At the balance sheet date the net 
carrying amount of emission allowances held is compared with  
the fair value to assess for impairment.
Forward contracts for sales and purchases of emission allowances  
are measured at fair value.
A provision is made for the estimated shortfall between emission 
allowances held and the anticipated requirement and is charged  
to the income statement on a pro-rata basis according to current  
and expected future emissions throughout the accounting period 
based on the market value of those allowances.
C o n tr a c ts	 a n d	 r i g h ts ‘Contracts and rights’ is the term we use 
to describe intangible assets, acquired in business combinations 
separately from goodwill, arising from identifiable contractual or  
other legal rights where their fair values can be measured reliably. 
These include beneficial (‘in the money’) commodity contracts, which 
qualify as ‘own use’ contracts in accordance with the requirements  
of IAS 39. These contracts and rights are classified as intangible assets 
and carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses (refer to accounting policy note 1o)) where cost represents  
fair value at the acquisition date. The intangible asset is then  
amortised on a systematic basis in accordance with the pattern  
in which the future economic benefit of the contract is expected  
to be consumed by the entity. Intangible assets with indefinite  
useful lives are not amortised. An intangible asset with an indefinite 
useful life is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable 
amount with its carrying amount annually, and whenever there  
is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.  110 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
1 Accounting policies continued
j) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment  
in value. In the case of assets constructed by the Group, related 
works, commissioning and borrowing costs as defined under IAS 23 
(Borrowing Costs) (refer to note 1w)) are included in cost. Assets 
in the course of construction are included in property, plant and 
equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet 
date. Costs relating to major inspections and overhauls are recognised 
in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant and equipment 
as a replacement if it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the entity; and the cost  
of the item can be measured reliably.
Depreciation is calculated on a component part basis so as to write-
down the cost of property, plant and equipment to its residual value 
systematically over its estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives, 
residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed annually,  
taking into account commercial and technological obsolescence  
as well as normal wear and tear, provision being made where  
the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount. 
The depreciation charge is based on the following estimates  
of useful lives:
   Years
Civil works 25-80
Power stations and wind farms 20-60
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10
Computer equipment and software 3-5
Combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT)  
 hot gas path parts, on average 2-4
Leasehold improvements Life of lease
Freehold land is not depreciated.
k) Government grants
Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and 
equipment are recognised at fair value. The grant is deducted from 
the cost of the related property, plant and equipment to derive the 
carrying amount of the asset. The grant is recognised as income over 
the life of a depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
l) Project development costs
Project development costs are principally incurred in identifying and 
developing investment opportunities and typically include feasibility 
studies, pre-bid costs, legal, professional and other related advisory 
costs. These costs (including appropriate direct internal costs) are 
recognised as expenses as incurred, except that directly attributable 
costs are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the project will 
proceed to completion and income will be realised. Such capitalised 
costs are amortised over the life of the related property, plant and 
equipment or contract. 
m) Investments in joint ventures and associates
A joint venture is an entity over whose activities the Group  
has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to 
exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through 
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the 
investee. Significant influence is the power to participate in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not 
control or joint control over these policies.
The results, assets and liabilities of jointly controlled entities (‘joint 
ventures’) and associates are incorporated in these financial statements 
using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held 
for sale. The results are presented after interest, tax and minority 
interests. Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried  
in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes  
in the Group’s share of the net assets of the joint venture or associate, 
less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses 
of the joint ventures and associates in excess of the Group’s interest 
in those joint ventures and associates are not recognised unless the 
Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair 
values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of 
the joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition is recognised 
as goodwill within the carrying amount. Any deficiency of the cost 
of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the joint venture or associate at the date 
of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the income 
statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with a joint venture or associate 
of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the relevant joint venture or associate. Losses may 
provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which 
case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
n) Other investments 
Other investments consist of available for sale investments in debt 
and equity instruments which are measured at market prices where 
available. Where quoted market prices in an active market are not 
available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted 
equity instruments are measured at cost less impairment.
o) Impairment of assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts 
of its property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and those 
other investments measured at cost, to determine whether there is  
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any 
such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash 
flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
At each balance sheet date, an assessment is made to determine 
whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised  
in prior periods may no longer exist or has decreased. Where such  
an indication exists, an impairment loss is reversed to the extent that 
the asset’s carrying value does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation,  
if no impairment loss had been recognised.
p) Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the 
lower of the asset’s previous carrying amount and fair value less costs 
to sell. No depreciation is charged on assets classified as held for sale.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying 
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when 
the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale 
in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale, 
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed 
sale within one year from the date of classification.
q) Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s operating activities expose it to price risks associated  
with selling its generation output. The Group is also exposed to  
price risks associated with the purchase of its fuel requirements  
and to financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates 
and interest rates. The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, 
including energy-based futures and forward contracts, swaps and 
options to hedge its risk to changes in power prices, fuel costs,  
foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Derivative financial 
instruments are principally used for hedging purposes although some 
are used for proprietary trading purposes within defined risk limits.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s risk 
management policies approved by the Board of Directors, which 
provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent 
with the Group’s risk management strategy.  111 Financial statements
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at  
the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The gain 
or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in the 
income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting 
when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature 
of the item being hedged. Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair 
values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted 
in an active market are based on bid prices for assets held and offer 
prices for liabilities held. If the market for a financial instrument is not 
active, its fair value is established by using valuation techniques. These 
valuation techniques include comparison with similar instruments 
where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, 
option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly  
used by market participants.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised 
on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase 
or sell the assets. Regular way transactions require delivery of assets 
within the time frame generally established by regulation  
or convention in the market place.
C a s h	 f l o w	 h e d g e s Changes in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments that are designated and are effective as hedges of future 
cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion 
is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement 
in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income 
statement. However, if the hedged item results in the recognition  
of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts accumulated in equity 
on the hedging instrument are transferred from equity and included  
in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, for forecast transactions, any 
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in 
equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.  
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the 
income statement. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that  
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise.
Fa i r	 v a lue	 he d g e s For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes 
in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm 
commitment, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value 
attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry 
in net income. Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative, or 
for non-derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying 
amount, are recognised in net income.
H e d g e	 o f	 a	 n e t	 i n v e s t m e n t	 i n	 a	 f o r e i g n	 o p e r a t i o n Hedges of 
net investments in foreign operations are accounted for on a similar 
basis to cash flow hedges. Effective gains or losses on the hedging 
instrument are recognised in the translation reserve, with ineffective 
gains or losses recognised in finance costs in the income statement. 
Cumulative gains or losses in equity are taken to the income 
statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
E m b e dde d	 de r iv a t ive s Derivatives embedded in other financial 
instruments or other non-financial host contracts are treated as 
separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not  
closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts  
are not carried at fair value.
Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives  
are reported in the income statement. 
r) Leasing
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the 
lessee, in return for a payment or a series of payments, the right to 
use a specific asset for an agreed period of time. The definition can 
include arrangements such as long-term PPAs, where power plants  
are specifically designated to fulfil the requirements of an agreement.
F i n a n c e	 l e a s e s	 –	 G r o u p	 a s	 l e s s o r Where the Group determines  
a long-term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the offtaker 
has the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the power 
plant through its contractual arrangements with the Group, the 
arrangement is considered a finance lease. As discussed in note 1f), 
capacity payments are apportioned between capital repayments 
relating to the provision of the plant, finance income and service 
income. The finance income element of the capacity payment is 
recognised as revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant  
to give a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in 
each period. The service income element of the capacity payment  
is the difference between the total capacity payment and the amount 
recognised as finance income and capital repayments and recognised 
as revenue as it is earned.
Arrangements that do not convey the right to use a specific asset 
through the term of the agreement result in the continued recognition 
of property, plant and equipment, rather than a finance lease 
receivable, which is depreciated over its economic life.
The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded 
in the balance sheet as financial assets, classified as finance lease 
receivables, at the amount of the net investment in the lease after 
making provision for bad and doubtful debts.
O p e r a t i n g	 l e a s e s	 –	 G r o u p	 a s	 l e s s o r An operating lease is any lease 
other than a finance lease. Thus where the Group determines a long-
term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the Group retains  
the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant,  
the arrangement is considered an operating lease.
For operating leases, the power plant is capitalised as property,  
plant and equipment and depreciated over its economic life.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the arrangement.
O p e r a t i n g	 l e a s e s	 –	 G r o u p	 a s	 l e s s e e Rentals payable under 
operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-
line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into  
an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over  
the lease term.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such  
that the rental income is less than the head-lease rental cost, provision 
is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease payments during 
the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall of sub-lease income 
compared with the head-lease expense.
s) Inventories
Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and consumables are valued 
at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct 
materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories  
to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated using  
the weighted average method.
t) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held  
by the Group and short-term deposits with an original maturity of 
three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand 
and form part of the Group’s cash management are included  
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose  
of the cash flow statement. 112 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
1 Accounting policies continued
u) Loans and bonds
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value 
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings  
on an effective interest basis.
v) Convertible bonds
Convertible bonds are regarded as compound instruments, consisting 
of a liability component and either an equity component or an 
embedded derivative component. 
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component  
is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar 
non-convertible debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue 
of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability 
component represents the value of either an equity component  
or an embedded derivative component attributable to the  
embedded option to convert the bonds into equity of the Group. 
IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be settled by the 
entity receiving or delivering a fixed number of its own equity 
instruments in exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another 
financial asset is an equity instrument. It also states that a contract  
that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving a fixed number 
of its own equity instruments in exchange for a variable amount 
of cash or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial 
liability. For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, 
when making the assessment of whether a convertible bond, when 
exercised, gives rise to the exchange of a fixed or variable amount  
of cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency of the issuing 
company relative to the currency denomination of the bonds is 
considered in addition to other features within the bond. 
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where there is a difference 
between the currency of the bond and the functional currency of 
the issuing company, the embedded option to convert the bonds 
is recorded as a derivative liability because it is not a contract to 
exchange a fixed number of shares for a fixed amount of bonds.  
The embedded derivative liability component is separately identified 
and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
For convertible bonds issued by the Group where the currency  
of the bond and the functional currency of the issuing company  
are the same, i.e. where on conversion of the bonds a fixed number  
of shares is exchanged for a fixed amount of bonds, the value  
of the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded within 
equity on initial recognition.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and embedded 
option components of the convertible bonds (recorded as equity  
or as a derivative liability) based on their relative carrying amounts  
at the date of issue.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by 
applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible 
debt to the liability component of the instrument. This interest 
expense, recognised in the income statement, is calculated using  
the effective interest method, i.e. the difference between the interest 
expense on the liability component and the interest paid is added  
to the carrying amount of the convertible bond. 
w) Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to be prepared for their intended 
use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as 
the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. As 
referred to in note 1q), to the extent that variable rate borrowings are 
used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash 
flow hedge of interest rate risk, the hedging gain or loss relating to 
the effective portion of the derivative is removed from the hedging 
reserve and recognised as part of the initial carrying amount of the 
asset. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of 
specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets  
is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period 
in which they are incurred.
x) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation  
as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of 
the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Provisions are made for onerous contracts. Provisions for onerous 
contracts are also made on acquisition as part of the fair valuing of 
assets and liabilities in a business combination where such contracts 
relate to non-financial items, which qualify for ‘own use’ treatment 
in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39. Provisions are 
initially carried at cost, which for those acquired through business 
combinations represents their fair value at the acquisition date.  
The provision is then utilised in accordance with the pattern  
in which the value of the onerous contract was determined.
y) Decommissioning costs
Provision is made for reliably estimated decommissioning costs  
at the end of the useful economic life of the Group’s power stations 
and generating assets, if and when a legal or constructive obligation 
arises, on a discounted basis. The amount provided represents the 
present value of the expected costs. An amount equivalent to the 
initial provision is capitalised within property, plant and equipment 
and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. The 
unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs. 
Where there is a subsequent change in estimate of decommissioning 
costs, the present value of the change is recognised in the cost of 
property, plant and equipment.
z) Environmental liabilities
Provision for environmental liabilities is made when expenditure  
on remedial work is probable, the Group is obliged, either legally  
or constructively through its environmental policies, to undertake  
such work and the amount can be reliably estimated. Where the 
amount is expected to be incurred over the long-term, the amount 
recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure 
and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs. 113 Financial statements
aa) Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the expected tax payable on 
taxable income for the year, including adjustments in respect of prior 
periods and deferred tax. Taxable profit differs from accounting profit, 
as reported in the income statement, because it excludes items of 
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and 
it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The 
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the 
computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will 
be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes,  
or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination)  
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither  
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures  
and associates. Where the Group is able to control the reversal  
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, no deferred  
tax liability is recognised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow  
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply  
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except 
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity,  
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset  
to the extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset  
current tax assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes  
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends  
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis  
or to realise an asset and settle a liability simultaneously.
ab) Pension schemes
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as 
an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state managed 
defined benefit pension plans are dealt with as payments to defined 
contribution plans where the Group’s obligations under the plans are 
equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution pension plan.
For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of providing benefits  
is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The corridor method is applied in recognising actuarial gains and 
losses. Gains and losses in an individual scheme are recognised to the 
extent they exceed the greater of 10% of the gross assets or gross 
liabilities of the scheme. The amount recognised in the following year 
is the excess amortised over the remaining average service lives of the 
employees in the scheme and is recognised in the income statement.
The net defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses and unrecognised 
service costs and as reduced by the fair value of the plan assets. Any 
asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised actuarial 
losses and past service cost plus the present value of available refunds 
and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
ac) Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured  
at fair value (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the  
date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and where applicable, 
adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions 
including service conditions.
For the Group’s Executive Share Option Plans the fair values are 
measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected lives 
used in these models have been adjusted, based on management’s 
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, any exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share 
Plan, without a market-related performance condition, the fair values 
have been calculated as the face value of the award, discounted for  
the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share 
Plan, contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values 
are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method. 114 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
2 Segment reporting
The Group is a global energy business that operates solely in one business segment, that of electricity generation. The international operations 
are managed on a geographical basis, reflecting the different characteristics within each geographical market. The Group reports its primary 
segment information by geographic segment as this reflects how results are reported for management purposes in the day-to-day management 
of the business. In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenues and segment assets are based in the 
geographical location of both customers and assets. There is no inter-segmental revenue. Refer to notes 36 and 37 for a list of significant 
entities within each region.
   Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007
    Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total 
     ventures and   ventures and  
     associates    associates  
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
a )	 R e v e n u e	 ( e x c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	
a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s )
North America   864 210 1,074 705 172 877
Europe   1,798 532 2,330 1,462 399 1,861
Middle East   79 135 214 72 113 185
Australia   701 11 712 439 84 523
Asia    40 521 561 34 392 426
    3,482 1,409 4,891 2,712 1,160 3,872
R e v e n u e	 ( i n c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	
a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s )
North America   939 210 1,149 677 172 849
Europe   1,975 532 2,507 1,300 399 1,699
Middle East   79 135 214 72 113 185
Australia   788 11 799 242 84 326
Asia    40 521 561 34 392 426
    3,821 1,409 5,230 2,325 1,160 3,485
b )	 P r o f i t	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i o n s	 ( e x c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 	
a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s )
North America   148 29 177 108 28 136
Europe   500 81 581 521 53 574
Middle East   43 26 69 44 24 68
Australia   164 4 168 83 (1) 82
Asia    15 89 104 14 82 96
    870 229 1,099 770 186 956
Corporate   (49) – (49) (52) – (52)
    821 229 1,050 718 186 904
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market 
movements included within profit from operations     106   (386)
Profit from operations (including exceptional items   
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)     1,156   518
 
P r o f i t	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i o n s	 ( i n c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 	
a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s )
North America   135 21 156 91 24 115
Europe   577 81 658 329 54 383
Middle East   43 25 68 44 24 68
Australia   215 4 219 (106) 15 (91)
Asia    15 89 104 14 81 95
    985 220 1,205 372 198 570
Corporate   (49) – (49) (52) – (52)
Profit from operations (including exceptional items
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements)   936 220 1,156 320 198 518 115 Financial statements
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
P r o f i t	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i o n s	 ( i n c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s )  1,156 518
Disposal of interests in businesses – exceptional       – 289
Net finance costs – excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements    (368) (308)
Net finance costs – exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements    127 (16)
P r o f i t	 b e f o r e	 t a x       915 483
Tax expense – excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements    (123) (11 3)
Tax expense – exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements      (33) 159
Profit for the year       759 529
An analysis of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is included in note 8.
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
c )	 D e p r e c i a t i o n	 a n d	 a m o r t i s a t i o n	 e x p e n s e s	 ( e x c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s )
North America        77 60
Europe       135 187
Middle East       4 3
Australia       77 66
Asia        4 3
        297 319
Corporate       1 1
        298 320
Depreciation and amortisation expenses are included within profit from operations. In 2008 an impairment charge of £37 million relating  
to the Milford plant was recorded in the income statement. This charge is not included within the North America total in the above table.  
In 2007 the intangible asset relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply agreement acquired with Saltend in 2005 was impaired. 
The charge of £47 million is not included within the Europe total in the above table (refer to note 8).
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
d )	 A d d i t i o n s	 t o	 p r o p e r t y ,	 p l a n t	 a n d	 e q u i p m e n t
North America       510 29
Europe       142 1,205
Middle East       2 3
Australia       83 57
Asia        1 1
        738 1,295
Corporate       5 –
        743 1,295
The table above includes property, plant and equipment recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition to 
expenditure incurred during the year. 116 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
2 Segment reporting continued
   Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007
    Goodwill Contracts  Emission Goodwill Contracts Emission
     and rights  allowances  and rights  allowances
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
e )	 E x p e n d i t u r e	 o n	 g o o d w i l l	 a n d	 o t h e r	 i n t a n g i b l e	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	
North America   – – 1 – –  2
Europe   41 5 44 393 69  67 
Middle East   – – – – 1  –
Australia   – – – 71 –  –
Asia    – 8 – – –  –
    41 13 45 464 70 69
The table above includes purchased goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition  
to expenditure incurred on other intangible assets.
   31 December 2008 31 December 2007
    Segment Investments  Total Segment Investments Total 
    assets in joint   assets in joint   
      ventures and    ventures and 
     associates    associates  
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
f )	 S e g m e n t	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	
North America   2,699 246 2,945 1,445 180 1,625
Europe   6,977 558 7,535 5,604 390  5,994
Middle East   531 41 572 355 88  443
Australia   2,373 1 2,374 2,262 10  2,272
Asia    105 910 1,015 68 611  679
    12,685 1,756 14,441 9,734 1,279  11,013
Corporate   528 – 528 577 – 577
Segment assets excluding current and deferred tax assets   13,213 1,756 14,969 10,311 1,279 11,590
Current and deferred tax assets     120   142
T o t a l	 a s s e t s     15,089   11,732
   31 December 2008 31 December 2007
    Segment Investments  Total Segment Investments Total 
    liabilities in joint   liabilities in joint   
      ventures and    ventures and 
     associates     associates  
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
g )	 S e g m e n t	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 	 	
North America   1,722 – 1,722 1,070 – 1,070
Europe   4,050 – 4,050 3,367 – 3,367
Middle East   488 – 488 342  – 342
Australia   1,757 – 1,757 1,783  – 1,783
Asia    64 – 64 55  – 55 
    8,081 – 8,081 6,617 –  6,617
Corporate   1,475 – 1,475 993  – 993
Segment liabilities excluding current and deferred tax liabilities  9,556 – 9,556 7,610 –  7,610
Current and deferred tax liabilities     1,398   1,115
T o t a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s     10,954    8,725
The analysis of total assets and liabilities includes all attributable goodwill and excludes intercompany balances, which have been eliminated 
on consolidation. Corporate assets and liabilities include cash held at the corporate level, included in cash and cash equivalents; corporate 
borrowings, included in loans and bonds; and provisions.  117 Financial statements
3 Profit for the year
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
Amortisation of other intangible assets (excluding exceptional items)      23 115
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (excluding exceptional items)     275 205
Exceptional items before tax (note 8)       57 (233)
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements before tax (note 8)      (290) 346
Development costs, net of recoveries and amounts capitalised      11 5
Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment     (7) (9)
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year    10 6
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment       2 (2)
Amount removed from translation reserve on disposal of a foreign operation     – (2)
Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of joint ventures and associates but before disposal of interests in businesses, finance 
income, finance expenses and tax. Other operating income includes compensation for the late commissioning of plants, billings in respect of 
operations and maintenance services and profit on sale of development sites. Other operating expenses comprise corporate costs, Group-wide 
general administrative overheads and project development expenses.
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Auditors’ remuneration
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements   0.5 0.5
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services:
 Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation       3.3 2.0
 Other services pursuant to legislation       – 0.1
 Tax services       – 0.1
  Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into  
 by or on behalf of the Company or the Group       – 0.2
        3.8 2.9
‘Services relating to corporate finance transactions’ incorporate due diligence assistance on potential and completed acquisitions and reviews  
of financial models for funding purposes.
The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity  
and independence could be compromised. These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor  
for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of 
the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved 
by the Audit Committee. Examples of pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of certain taxation and 
regulatory advice, and the completion of certain financial due diligence work. All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.  
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee. 118 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
4 Finance income
        Year ended Year ended  
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
G r ou p	 f ina nc e	 inc om e	 	
Interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss on:  
– available-for-sale financial assets       1 1
– loans to joint ventures and associates       18 14
– cash and cash equivalents       56 61
G r o u p	 i n t e r e s t	 i n c o m e	 c a l c u l a t e d	 u s i n g	 t h e	 e f f e c t i v e	 i n t e r e s t	 m e t h o d	 f o r	 f i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s	 t h a t
	 a r e	 n o t	 a t	 f a i r	 v a l u e	 t h r o u g h	 p r o f i t	 o r	 l o s s       75 76
Foreign exchange gains       29 –
T o t a l	 i n t e r e s t	 i n c o m e	 o n	 f i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s	 n o t	 a t	 f a i r	 v a l u e	 t h r o u g h	 p r o f i t	 o r	 l o s s    104 76
Group finance income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – net gain  
 on remeasurement of assets held for trading       – 1
T o t a l	 G r o u p	 f i n a n c e	 i n c o m e       104 77
The net gain on remeasurement of assets held for trading includes interest and dividend income.
Interest income comprises interest earned from bank deposits and other financial assets. Included within share of results of joint ventures  
and associates is interest income of £34 million (2007: £23 million).
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 24 and 31.
5 Finance expenses
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
G r o u p	 f i n a n c e	 e x p e n s e s	 e x c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s
Interest on:  
– bank loans and overdrafts       351 283
– other loans and bonds       118 91
– unwinding discount on provisions       2 1
– other payables       8 8
T o t a l	 i n t e r e s t	 e x p e n s e	 c a l c u l a t e d	 u s i n g	 t h e	 e f f e c t i v e	 i n t e r e s t	 m e t h o d	 f o r	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 t h a t
 a r e	 n o t	 a t	 f a i r	 v a l u e	 t h r o u g h	 p r o f i t	 o r	 l o s s       479 383
Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets       (7) (5)
Foreign exchange losses       – 7
T o t a l	 i n t e r e s t	 e x p e n s e	 o n	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 n o t	 a t	 f a i r	 v a l u e	 t h r o u g h	 p r o f i t	 o r	 l o s s
	 e x c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s    472 385
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on derivative financial instruments – (gains)/losses    (127) 16
T o t a l	 G r o u p	 f i n a n c e	 e x p e n s e s       345 401
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 24 and 31.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest expense of £143 million (2007: £118 million). Specific IAS 39  
mark to market movements included within interest expense of joint ventures and associates amount to an expense of £10 million  
(2007: £4 million).
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses include a credit of £76 million in respect of the fair value gains and losses 
on the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 (2007: charge of £17 million) and a credit of £74 million in respect of the 4.75% convertible euro 
bonds 2015 (2007: £nil) (refer to note 8). 119 Financial statements
6 Employee benefit costs and employee numbers
Employee benefit costs, including Directors’ remuneration, were as follows:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Wages and salaries       165 139
Social security costs       11 10
Contributions to defined contribution plans       5 4
Charge for defined benefit plans (note 7)       5 8
Share-based payments – equity settled        6 7
        192 168 
Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment      (3) (3)
T o t a l	 e m p l o y e e	 b e n e f i t	 c o s t s       189 165
Remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate. Further details of 
Directors’ remuneration along with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part  
of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 84 to 99. There are no personnel, other than the Directors, who as key management have 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities, directly or indirectly, of International Power plc. No member  
of key management had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance (other than a service contract) with the Company  
or any of its subsidiaries.
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Short-term employee benefits       6 5
Post-employment benefits       1 1
Share-based payments       2 2
T o t a l	 e m p l o y e e	 b e n e f i t	 c o s t s	 o f	 k e y	 m a n a g e m e n t	 p e r s o n n e l      9 8
The average number of employees during the financial year, analysed by geographic segment was:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        Number Number
North America       363 338
Europe       1,355 1,252
Middle East       537 566
Australia       844 783
Asia        608 599
Corporate and development       205 183
Aver a g e	 n u m b er	 o f	 e m p l oye es        3,912 3,721
7 Retirement benefit obligations
Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees. Benefits granted have been developed 
to reflect local practice and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK and Australia:
UK : The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS), 
which is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds. The ESPS is divided into sections and the 
International Power Group of the ESPS was opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees’ past service rights were transferred into  
the Group later that year.
The majority of employees taken on in First Hydro, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, are members of another section of the ESPS, 
the First Hydro Group.
Following a strategic review of the Group’s exposure to pension risk over the long-term and a period of consultation with employees and their 
representatives, both the International Power Group of the ESPS and the First Hydro Group of the ESPS in the UK were closed to new members 
effective from 1 June 2008. Existing members will continue to accrue future service benefits under these plans. From 1 June 2008 all new UK 
employees are eligible to become members of a defined contribution pension plan. 
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2007.  
The results of these valuations have been updated to 31 December 2008 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the 
requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2008, 54% of the pension liability of the First Hydro Group and 87% of the International Power Group of the ESPS related  
to members in service. 120 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
7 Retirement benefit obligations continued
A U S TR A LI A : Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper. This plan 
provides benefits primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State 
Electricity Commission of Victoria. Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 30 June 2008 
and 1 July 2008 for Equipsuper and the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme respectively. The results of these valuations have been 
updated to 31 December 2008 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2008, 95% of the pension liability in respect of the Australian schemes relates to members in service.
The liabilities and costs for IAS 19 were determined using the projected unit credit method. The Group has decided to recognise gains and losses 
through the income statement over the expected working lifetime of active employees to the extent that gains or losses are in excess of the 
‘corridor’ (10% of the greater of the defined benefit obligation and the plan assets).
The charge for 2008 in respect of defined contribution plans was £5 million (2007: £4 million).
The Group used the following financial assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19:
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
	 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia
  % % % % % % % % % %
Discount rate 5.7 3.7 5.8 5.3 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.6 5.3 4.5
Rate of increase in salaries 4.4 4.5 4.9 4.3 4.6 4.3 4.4 4.0 4.4 4.0
Inflation rate 2.9 3.0 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 3.0
Increase to deferred benefits   
 during deferment 2.9 n/a 3.4 n/a 3.1 n/a 2.9 n/a 3.0 n/a
Increases to pensions payments 2.9 n/a 3.4 n/a 3.1 n/a 2.9 n/a 2.9 n/a
The mortality assumptions used have a significant impact on scheme liabilities for the UK plans.
The UK mortality assumptions at 31 December 2008 are based on a standard table derived from 1999-2002 census data. The mortality tables 
allow for additional longevity improvements reflecting specific trends in the UK population regarding certain age groups. The following table  
of average life expectancies illustrates the mortality assumptions used:
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
	  UK  UK  UK  UK  UK
   years  years  years  years  years
Life expectancy for a member  
 aged 60 at year-end
  Men  26.0  25.9  22.8  22.8  22.8
  Women  28.6  28.5  26.1  26.1  26.1
Life expectancy for a member 
 aged 60 in 20 years’ time
  Men  27.4  27.3  23.7  23.7  23.7
  Women  29.6  29.5  27.2  27.2  27.2
The plans in Australia provide lump sums at retirement and therefore the mortality assumption is much less important.
The amounts charged to profit from operations, recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plans  
for the year ended 31 December 2008 were as follows:
         Year ended  Year ended
         31 December  31 December
         2008  2007
         £m  £m
Current service cost        10  11
Expected return on schemes’ assets        (19)  (16)
Interest on schemes’ liabilities        15  12
Amortisation of past service cost        –  1
Amortisation of actuarial gains and losses        (1)  –
T o t a l	 o p e r a t i n g	 c h a r g e        5  8 121 Financial statements
The expected rates of return (weighted averages) on the assets in the schemes were as follows: 
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
  UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia
  % % % % % % % % % %
Equities 7.4 7.8 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.8 7.1 7.5 7.5 7.3
Bonds  5.4 5.1 5.2 5.1 4.7 4.6 4.4 5.0 4.9 4.8
Other  6.7 6.0 6.7 6.0 6.2 5.9 6.0 5.9 6.0 5.5
T o t a l	 l o n g - t e r m	 r a t e	 o f	 r e t u r n	 e x p e c t e d 6.9 7.0 7.5 7.0 7.1 6.7 6.6 6.7 7.0 6.5
The expected rates of return reflect the Group’s best estimate of the investment returns that will be earned on each asset class. These returns 
are based on advice provided by independent qualified actuaries.
The expected rates of return on bonds reflect the plans’ mix between index-linked, government and corporate bonds. An equity risk premium  
is added to long-term government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities.
Other assets principally comprise cash and property. The expected return on cash is derived from short-term interest rates and the return on 
cash instruments. The expected return on other assets such as property is determined by adding an appropriate risk premium to government 
bonds in the relevant country.
Assets in the scheme were as follows:
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
  UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total
	 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 80 57 137 116 68 184 108 55 163 84 52 136 66 44 110
Bonds  19 16 35 20 18 38 17 15 32 14 17 31 11 16 27
Other  29 18 47 19 23 42 10 21 31 16 15 31 12 10 22
T o t a l	 m a r k e t	 v a l u e	 o f	 a s s e t s 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159
The reconciliation of the schemes’ (deficits)/surpluses to the balance sheet amount is:
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004
  UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total market value of assets 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159
Present value of scheme liabilities (177) (124) (301) (176) (93) (269) (158) (83) (241) (151) (79) (230) (114) (70) (184)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme (49) (33) (82) (21) 16 (5) (23) 8 (15) (37) 5 (32) (25) – (25)
Unrecognised actuarial losses/(gains) 31 31 62 1 (18) (17) – (10) (10) 12 (7) 5 – (4) (4)
P e n s ion 	 lia b ili t y 	 bef o r e d efe r r e d 	 t a x (18) (2) (20) (20) (2) (22) (23) (2) (25) (25) (2) (27) (25) (4) (29)
Movements in fair value of assets:
           Year ended  Year ended 
           31 December 31 December 
           2008 2007
              £m  £m
At 1 January              264  226
Expected return on assets             19  16
Actuarial (losses)/gains             (73)  4
Employer contributions             7  11
Scheme participants’ contributions             3  3
Benefits paid, net of transfers in             (10)  (5)
Exchange differences             9  9
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	             219  264 122 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
7 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movements in defined benefit obligations:
        Year ended  Year ended 
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
At 1 January        269 241
Service cost       10 11
Interest cost       15 12
Actuarial losses/(gains)       3 (2)
Scheme participants’ contributions       3 3
Benefits paid, net of transfers in       (10) (5)
Settlements, curtailments and amendments       – 1
Exchange differences       11 8
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	       301 269
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are:
Assumption  Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        Increase Increase
        effect effect
Discount rate     Decrease by 0.5% 8.5% 7.5%
Rate of increase in salaries     Increase by 0.5% 3.3% 3.0%
Inflation     Increase by 0.5% 11.7% 7.4%
Rate of mortality (UK plans only)   Pensioners live one year longer 3.0% 3.0%
A history of experience gains and losses is as follows:
     Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
     2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes’ assets:
 Amount (£m)    (73) 4 9 16 9
 Percentage of schemes’ assets    33% 2% 4% 8% 6%
Experience gains/(losses) on schemes’ liabilities*:
 Amount (£m)    3 5 (2) 11 7
 Percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities    1% 2% 1% 5% 4%
*Does not include the effect of changes in assumptions.
Contributions in 2009
The Group expects to make contributions of approximately £15 million to its defined benefit pension arrangements in 2009. 123 Financial statements
8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
In accordance with the basis of preparation outlined in note 1, the Group separately presents exceptional items and specific IAS 39  
mark to market movements to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Group’s underlying 
business performance.
Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures. Where these contracts do not 
achieve own use treatment, hedge accounting or wholly effective hedge effectiveness under IAS 39, the Group separately presents the mark to 
market movements on these contracts, recorded within the income statement to allow an understanding of underlying business performance.
Mark to market movements on convertible bonds, where the conversion option, if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue  
of equity are also separately presented to allow an understanding of the underlying business performance.
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Mark to market movements       339 (387)
A m o u n t s	 r e c o g n i s e d	 i n	 r e v e n u e       339 (387)
Impairment of Milford plant       (37) –
Impairment of Saltend gas contract       – (47)
Mark to market movements       (167) 45
A m o u n t s	 r e c o g n i s e d	 i n	 c o s t	 o f	 s a l e s       (204) (2)
Australian stamp duty       (20) –
Provision against investment in BioX       – (9)
A m o u n t s	 r e c o g n i s e d	 i n	 o t h e r	 o p e r a t i n g	 e x p e n s e s       (20) (9)
Mark to market movements       (9) 12
A m o u n t s	 r e c o g n i s e d	 i n	 s h a r e	 o f	 r e s u l t s	 o f	 j o i n t	 v e n t u r e s	 a n d	 a s s o c i a t e s     (9) 12
Disposal of investment in Malakoff       – 115
Partial disposal of UK subsidiaries       – 174
A m o u n t s	 r e c o g n i s e d	 i n	 d i s p o s a l	 o f	 i n t e r e s t s	 i n	 b u s i n e s s e s      – 289
Mark to market movements       127 (16)
A m o u n t s	 r e c o g n i s e d	 i n	 f i n a n c e	 e x p e n s e s       127 (16)
Recognition of US tax losses       59 –
Taxation on impairment of Saltend gas contract       – 14
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities associated with acquisition of Maestrale    – 49
Taxation on mark to market movements       (92) 96
E x c e p t i o n a l	 t a x a t i o n	 a n d	 t a x a t i o n	 o n	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s  (33) 159
T o t a l	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s	 a f t e r	 a t t r i b u t a b l e	 t a x a t i o n  200 46
Exceptional items recognised in cost of sales 
On 31 December 2008 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Milford power plant based on its estimated value in 
use. Principally as a result of its long-term power purchase agreement coming to an end, and the projections of forward capacity and energy 
prices, the carrying amount of plant was impaired by £37 million (refer to note 14). There was no tax credit associated with this impairment.
On 31 December 2007 the intangible asset relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply contract, acquired with Saltend in 2005,  
was impaired following a reduction in the gas forward price curve. A charge of £47 million and associated tax credit of £14 million were 
classified as exceptional items.
Exceptional items recognised in other operating expenses 
In 2004, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, International Power (through our IPM Eagle partnership with Mitsui) acquired the  
Loy Yang B and Valley Power plants in Victoria, Australia. Although at the time we did not consider any Australian stamp duty would be 
payable, the Victorian State Revenue Office (‘VSRO’) has challenged that position. In 2008 we signed a settlement agreement with the VSRO, 
under which we agreed to make payments for stamp duty on the transaction spread over 5 years. The £20 million charged as an exceptional 
item represents the present value of those payments.
On 30 June 2007 the Group made a full provision against its investment in BioX. The investment has substantially ceased trading during 2008.
Exceptional items recognised in disposals of interests in businesses 
On 30 April 2007 the Group completed the sale of its interests in the Malakoff wholesale power generation business to MMC Corporation 
resulting in a profit on disposal of £115 million.
On 20 June 2007 the Group completed the formation of a new partnership with Mitsui & Co., Ltd. The partnership created a common 
ownership platform for the UK assets, excluding Derwent, and equalised returns from Paiton. A profit on disposal of £174 million was recorded 
on the partial disposal of Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens. 124 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements continued
Exceptional taxation 
As a result of the acquisition in 2008 of the portfolio of North American peaking plants, the recoverability of certain International Power US tax 
losses for which no deferred tax asset had previously been recognised was re-assessed. The acquisition created significant deferred tax liabilities, 
against which the tax losses can be offset in future, and hence a deferred tax asset for those losses has been recognised.
On 28 December 2007 a change in the standard rate of Italian corporation tax from 37.5% to 31.4%, effective 1 January 2008, was approved 
by the Italian government. Consequently all relevant deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007 were remeasured at 31.4%. 
The resulting net credit of £49 million relating to reducing the net deferred tax liabilities of the Maestrale acquisition was presented as an 
exceptional item due to its magnitude and proximity of the date of change in standard rate of tax to the date of acquisition.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are separately identified within the preceding table, described as ‘mark to market movements’.  
For the year ended 31 December 2008 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is a profit of £290 million (2007: loss of  
£346 million) and on tax expense a charge of £92 million (2007: credit of £96 million).
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses includes a credit of £76 million in respect of the fair value gains and  
losses on the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 (2007: charge of £17 million) and a credit of £74 million in respect of the 4.75% convertible  
euro bonds 2015.
9 Tax
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
a )	 T a x	 e x p e n s e	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r
C u r r e n t	 t a x	 c h a r g e
UK corporation tax charge       55 68
Foreign tax       69 52
Adjustments in respect of prior years       18 4
T o t a l	 c u r r e n t	 t a x	 c h a r g e	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r       142 124
D efe r r e d	 t a x	 c h a r g e
Origination and reversal of temporary differences       102 (168)
Benefits of tax losses recognised       (88) (2)
T o t a l	 d e f e r r e d	 t a x	 c h a r g e / ( c r e d i t )	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r       14 (170)
Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements    123 11 3
Exceptional tax credit       (59) (49)
Tax expense/(credit) on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements     92 (110)
T o t a l	 i n c o m e	 t a x	 e x p e n s e / ( c r e d i t )	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r       156 (46)
Included in the tax expense are the following amounts relating to exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, included in:
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Revenue (deferred tax)       75 (101)
Cost of sales (deferred tax)       (34) (4)
Finance expenses (deferred tax)       51 (5)
T a x	 e x p e n s e / ( c r e d i t )	 o n	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s	    92 (110)
The deferred tax charge is derived as follows: £22 million from UK operations (2007: credit of £54 million) and credit of £8 million from foreign 
operations (2007: credit of £116 million).
Tax is charged/(credited) to:
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Income statement       156 (46)
Equity        2 (25)
        158 (71) 125 Financial statements
  Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007
  Results excluding Results including Results excluding Results including
  exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items
  and specific and specific and specific and specific
  IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark
  to market to market to market to market
  movements movements movements movements
  £m £m £m £m
b )	 R e c o n c i l i a t i o n	 o f	 t a x	 e x p e n s e	 t o	 a c c o u n t i n g	 p r o f i t
Profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific  
 IAS 39 mark to market movements  682  682  596   596
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39  
 mark to market movements  –  233  –   (113)
Profit before tax  682  915  596   483
Tax at domestic tax rate of 28.5% (2007: 30%)  194  261  179   145
Tax effect of:
Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in  
 other jurisdictions  12  23  4   4
Share of results of joint ventures and associates  (22)  (21)  (42)   (42)
Tax holidays  (8)  (8)  (8)   (8)
Expenses not deductible/(income not taxable) in  
 determining taxable profit  28  34  10   (63)
Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised  (16)  (9)  (4)   (7)
Change in tax rate  (24)  (24)  (31)   (80)
Adjustment to prior year provisions  (41)  (41)  5   5
Recognition of US tax losses (note 8)  –  (59)  –   –
T a x	 e x p e n s e	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r  123  156  11 3   (46)
Included in profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of £31 million  
(2007: £60 million) relating to the Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates. The £22 million shown above (2007: £42 million) 
represents 71.5% of this tax charge (2007: 70%). The remaining 28.5% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic  
tax rate.
Included in profit before tax including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of £30 million  
(2007: £60 million) relating to the Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates. The £21 million shown above (2007: £42 million) 
represents 71.5% of this tax charge (2007: 70%). The remaining 28.5% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic  
tax rate.
The statutory tax rate in the UK was reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. Tax rate reductions have also occurred  
in Indonesia and tax rate increases have occurred in Italy for profits from non-renewable generation. The effect of these rate changes is included 
in the above amounts.
10 Dividends
An interim dividend of 3.56p (2007: 2.77p) per Ordinary Share, proposed by the Directors, was paid on 31 October 2008. This dividend 
amounted to £54 million (2007: £42 million).
In respect of the current year, the Directors also propose a final dividend of 8.59p (2007: 7.39p) per Ordinary Share. This dividend equates 
to £130 million (2007: £112 million) and will be paid on 9 July 2009, subject to approval by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting. This dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2008. There are no tax consequences to the Company arising  
from these dividends. 126 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
11 Earnings per share
Earnings Per Share (EPS) is presented both before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and after exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically 
the Group’s underlying business performance. Further details of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements can be 
found in note 8 to these consolidated financial statements.
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        pence pence
a )	 E a r n i n g s	 p e r	 s h a r e	 ( b a s i c )
Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements      32.4 27.1
After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements       44.2 33.6
b )	 E a r n i n g s	 p e r	 s h a r e	 ( d i l u t e d )
Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements     30.6 25.7
After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements      34.7 31.8
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
c )	 B a s i s	 o f	 c a l c u l a t i o n	 ( b a s i c )	 –	 e a r n i n g s
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
 and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements       490 406
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (net of tax and minority interests)   177 97
P r o f i t	 a t t r i b u t a b l e	 t o	 e q u i t y	 h o l d e r s	 o f	 t h e	 p a r e n t	 a f t e r	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s
	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s       667 503
d )	 B a s i s	 o f	 c a l c u l a t i o n	 ( d i l u t e d )	 –	 e a r n i n g s
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
 and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements       490 406
After tax dilutive effect of interest on convertible bonds       31 6
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items
 and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS     521 412
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements (net of tax and minority interests)   177 97 
After tax dilutive effect of mark to market movements on convertible bonds     (108) –
P r o f i t	 a t t r i b u t a b l e	 t o	 e q u i t y	 h o l d e r s	 o f	 t h e	 p a r e n t	 a f t e r	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s
	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s	 f o r	 t h e	 p u r p o s e s	 o f	 d i l u t e d	 E P S     590 509
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        Million Million
e )	 B a s i s	 o f	 c a l c u l a t i o n	 ( b a s i c )	 –	 n u m b e r	 o f	 O r d i n a r y	 S h a r e s
Weighted average number of issued Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS     1,510.3 1,498.5
Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts     (0.1) (0.5)
Wei g h t e d	 aver a g e	 n u m b er	 o f	 s h a r es        1,510.2 1,498.0
f )	 B a s i s	 o f	 c a l c u l a t i o n	 ( d i l u t e d )	 –	 n u m b e r	 o f	 O r d i n a r y	 S h a r e s
Weighted average number of shares – basic       1,510.2 1,498.0
Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares:
 Employee share schemes       8.7 10.8
 Convertible bond       183.2 92.8
W e i g h t e d	 a v e r a g e	 n u m b e r	 o f	 O r d i n a r y	 S h a r e s	 f o r	 t h e	 p u r p o s e s	 o f	 d i l u t e d	 E P S    1,702.1 1,601.6
The Group’s three convertible bonds are dilutive when calculating diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39  
mark to market movements (2007: the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 were anti-dilutive and were excluded from the diluted earnings  
per share calculation).
The treatment of whether potential Ordinary Shares are dilutive or anti-dilutive in the calculation of diluted earnings per share before 
exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is applied consistently with their determination in the calculation  
of diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements. 127 Financial statements
12 Goodwill
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
C a r r yi ng	 amo u n t
At 1 January       733 226
Acquired through business combinations       41 464
Exchange differences       167 43
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r       941 733
The £41 million acquired through business combinations in 2008 relates to the acquisition of an additional 40% shareholding in Turbogás  
and an additional 27% shareholding in Portugen. The £464 million acquired through business combinations in 2007 relates to Maestrale  
(£360 million), Simply Energy (£71 million), Saltend (£23 million) and First Hydro (£10 million). Refer to note 30b) for further details  
of the 2008 acquisitions.
Given the geographical diversity of the Group’s power plants and the nature of their operations, for impairment testing purposes the  
Directors consider that each power plant owning subsidiary is a separate cash generating unit. The following cash generating units have 
significant carrying amounts of goodwill:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Maestrale (Europe)       515 391
First Hydro (Europe)       163 163
Simply Energy (Australia)        87 80
Turbogás (Europe)       87 28
Coleto Creek (North America)       52 37
Saltend (Europe)       23 23
International Power Opatovice (Europe)       11 9
Others       3 2
        941 733
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or when there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired. The cash generating units’ 
recoverable amounts are determined from value in use calculations. These are based on projected cash flows from individual project whole life 
asset models. The projected cash flows extend over the whole of the assets’ expected lives as this best reflects the long-term nature of the 
returns generated by the long-life assets. Key assumptions include the discount rates and market prices for electricity and fuel costs over the 
lives of the assets. To test for impairment these cash flows have been discounted using rates in the range of 8% to 13% (2007: 6% to 13%) on 
a pre-tax basis. Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates take into account current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific 
to the respective cash generating unit. Generally, the lower end of the discount rate range is applied to entities where demand risk is borne  
by the offtaker, while the upper end of the discount rate range is applied to merchant businesses, reflecting the increased demand risk and the 
possible variability of future cash flows. Increasing the pre-tax discount rate to a range between 9% and 17% would be required for the cash 
generating units’ recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts.
Market price assumptions are considered in the light of forward price curves (which represent the Group’s view as to prices at which customers 
would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates) and forecast demand and supply 
growth over the lives of the assets. Electricity prices beyond the period of an observable market are determined by reference to long-term 
market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power 
plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity (‘new entrant pricing’).  
For merchant businesses a decrease in the forward price curves over the lives of the asset in the range of 10% to 23% would be required  
for the cash generating units’ recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts. 128 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
13 Other intangible assets
       Contracts Emission Total
       and rights allowances 
       £m £m £m
Co st
At 1 January 2007      282 61 343
Additions      1 57 58
Acquisition of subsidiaries      69 12 81
Disposals      – (10) (10)
Exchange differences      2 1 3
At 31 December 2007      354 121 475
Additions      10 45 55
Acquisition of subsidiaries      3 – 3
Disposals      – (58) (58)
Exchange differences      42 25 67
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8      409 133 542
A m o r t i s a t i o n	 a n d	 i m p a i r m e n t s   
At 1 January 2007      141 3 144
Amortisation charge for the year      66 49 115
Impairments      47 – 47
Exchange differences      1 – 1
At 31 December 2007      255 52 307
Amortisation charge for the year      17 6 23
Exchange differences      13 3 16
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8      285 61 346
C a r r yi ng	 amo u n t        
At 1 January 2007      141 58 199
At 31 December 2007      99 69 168
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8      124 72 196
There are no intangible assets, other than goodwill, with indefinite useful lives.
Contracts and rights are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise. The contracts and rights acquired in 2008 principally 
relate to development rights for European wind farms and other renewables projects. The amortisation of these contracts is included in cost 
of sales. The acquired contracts and rights in 2007 relate to fixed price offtake agreements and favourable contracts acquired as part of the 
Maestrale acquisition and our other European wind farm acquisitions. The amortisation of these contracts is included in revenue. In 2007  
the carrying amount of the Saltend gas contract was impaired in full.
The Group has recognised any emission allowances, allocated to the Group for no consideration, net of the fair value of the grant. As a result, 
no net asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet at initial recognition. The amortisation of any emission allowances purchased or acquired 
through business combinations is charged to cost of sales in the income statement over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
As part of the European Union (EU) Emissions Trading Scheme (EUETS), designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the EU over  
the medium-term, the Group was granted emission allowances amounting to £130 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008  
(2007: £62 million).
Intangible assets with a carrying amount of £62 million (2007: £81 million) are subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing 
borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company. 129 Financial statements
14 Property, plant and equipment
   Land and  Plant, machinery  Assets in course Total
   buildings  and equipment of construction
   £m £m £m £m
Co st 
At 1 January 2007  164  5,076  94  5,334
Additions  4  60  167  231
Government grants received   –  –  (1)  (1)
Acquisition of subsidiaries  2  977  85  1,064
Disposals  (11)  (12)  –  (23)
Reclassifications and transfers  1  91  (136)  (44)
Exchange differences  10  275  20  305
At 31 December 2007  170  6,467  229  6,866
Additions  2  141  114  257
Acquisition of subsidiaries  1  485  –  486
Disposals  –  (24)  –  (24)
Reclassifications and transfers  –  99  (154)  (55)
Exchange differences  33   1,412  20  1,465
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8  206   8,580  209  8,995
A c c u m u la t e d	 d e p r e c ia t ion
At 1 January 2007  36  863  –  899
Depreciation charge for the year  10   195   –   205 
Disposals   (6)   (12)   –   (18)
Exchange differences  3   56  –   59
At 31 December 2007  43   1,102  –   1,145
Depreciation charge for the year  6  269  –  275
Impairment  –  37  –  37
Disposals   –  (22)  –  (22)
Exchange differences  7   235  –  242
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8  56   1,621  –  1,677
C a r r yi ng	 amo u n t        
At 1 January 2007  128  4,213  94  4,435
At 31 December 2007  127   5,365   229   5,721
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8  150   6,959  209  7,318
At the end of the year the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Milford plant following its long-term power purchase 
agreement coming to an end and changes in prices in the forward capacity and energy markets. This resulted in an impairment of £37 million. 
A pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate of 15% was used for the calculation. The impairment charge is included in cost of sales.
Interest capitalised in the year was £7 million (2007: £5 million), at an average capitalisation rate of 6%. On a cumulative basis, after taking  
into account exchange differences and depreciation, the carrying amount of interest capitalised is £79 million (2007: £64 million).
The total value of land, included within land and buildings, that is not depreciated is £53 million (2007: £41 million).
In both 2008 and 2007 reclassifications and transfers consist of amounts moved from assets in course of construction to plant, machinery  
and equipment and to finance lease receivables and inventories.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of £6,930 million (2007: £5,377 million) is subject to fixed and floating charges  
from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of £1 million (2007: £1 million) is subject to finance lease arrangements. 130 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates 
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s joint ventures and associates is set out below:
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
a )	 J o i n t	 v e n t u r e s ’	 n e t	 a s s e t s	 ( i n c l u d i n g	 g o o d w i l l )
Non-current assets       2,010 1,173
Current assets       539 225
T o t a l	 a s s e t s       2,549 1,398
Current liabilities       (343) (123)
Non-current liabilities       (1,084) (565)
T o t a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s       (1,427) (688)
N e t	 a s s e t s       1,122 710
G r o u p ’ s	 s h a r e	 o f	 j o i n t	 v e n t u r e s ’	 n e t	 a s s e t s       577 346
b )	 A s s o c i a t e s ’	 n e t	 a s s e t s	 ( i n c l u d i n g	 g o o d w i l l )
Non-current assets       8,245 5,847
Current assets       2,277 1,298
T o t a l	 a s s e t s       10,522 7,145
Current liabilities       (1,779) (724)
Non-current liabilities       (5,862) (3,975)
T o t a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s       (7,641) (4,699)
N e t	 a s s e t s       2,881 2,446
G r o u p ’ s	 s h a r e	 o f	 a s s o c i a t e s ’	 n e t	 a s s e t s       1,179 933
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
c )	 R e s u l t s	 o f	 j o i n t	 v e n t u r e s
T o t a l	 r e s u l t s	 o f	 j o i n t	 v e n t u r e s
Revenue       825 693
Profit for the year       135 122
G r o u p ’ s	 s h a r e	 o f	 r e s u l t s	 o f	 j o i n t	 v e n t u r e s
Share of revenue       417 340
Share of profit for the year       67 59
d )	 R e s u l t s	 o f	 a s s o c i a t e s
T o t a l	 r e s u l t s	 o f	 a s s o c i a t e s	
Revenue       2,966 2,501
Profit for the year       426 426
G r o u p ’ s	 s h a r e	 o f	 r e s u l t s	 o f	 a s s o c i a t e s        
Share of revenue       992 820
Share of profit for the year       153 139
At 31 December 2008 the Group’s investments that are listed on a recognised stock market are those in The Hub Power Company Limited 
(HUBCO) and Kot Addu Power Company Limited (KAPCO). HUBCO and KAPCO are considered associates and International Power continues 
to apply the equity method of accounting to HUBCO despite its shareholding being less than 20% (refer to note 37). The Group’s share of 
HUBCO and KAPCO was valued at £25 million (2007: £50 million) and £88 million (2007: £125 million), respectively, on the major Pakistan 
stock markets. Market values for Group shareholdings in these investments were £49 million below the carrying value of these investments  
at 31 December 2008. However, due to the contracted nature of the income earned by these investments, the Directors do not consider  
there has been any permanent diminution in value.
Included within the Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is net debt of £1,820 million (2007: £1,297 million). These 
obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International 
Power plc or any other Group company. 
A full list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 37. 131 Financial statements
16 Other investments
        31 December 31 December 
        2008 2007
        £m £m
C a r r yi ng	 amo u n t
At 1 January       13 26
Additions       34 –
Disposals       – (2)
Provisions       – (9)
Repayments       (2) (1)
Exchange differences       2 (1)
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r       47 13
Other investments comprise investments ‘available-for-sale’ including both debt and equity instruments in a number of businesses related 
to power generation. The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of their discounted cash flows. The equity 
instruments are not quoted but are shares in privately owned companies. There is no market for these investments. Therefore the fair 
value of the equity instruments cannot be measured reliably and the carrying amount has been determined by using the cost of acquiring 
the shares in these companies.
It is not currently the intention of the Company to dispose of these investments, although circumstances may change. 
On 30 June 2007 the Group made a full provision against its investment in BioX (refer to note 8). The investment has substantially ceased 
trading during 2008.
17 Finance lease receivables
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
M i n i m u m	 l e a s e	 p a y m e n t s :	 	 	 	
Not later than one year       174 127
Later than one year and not later than five years        687 500
Later than five years        1,937 1,529
         2,798 2,156
Add: unguaranteed residual value       204 129
G r o s s	 i n v e s t m e n t	 i n	 t h e	 l e a s e       3,002 2,285 
Less: unearned finance income       (1,275) (992) 
T o t a l	 f i n a n c e	 l e a s e	 r e c e i v a b l e s       1,727 1,293 
A n a l y s e d	 a s :	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
P r e s e n t	 v a l u e	 o f	 m i n i m u m	 l e a s e	 p a y m e n t s :        
Not later than one year       58 41
Later than one year and not later than five years       262 184
Later than five years       1,203 939
         1,523 1,164
Add: unguaranteed residual value        204 129
T o t a l	 f i n a n c e	 l e a s e	 r e c e i v a b l e s       1,727 1,293
Non-current assets       1,669 1,252 
Current assets        58 41 
T o t a l	 f i n a n c e	 l e a s e	 r e c e i v a b l e s       1,727 1,293 
        
International Power’s business is primarily the generation of electricity and provision of electrical capacity. The Group enters into arrangements 
such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time. Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain 
finance leases. The tenors of the finance leases are usually a substantial portion of the assets’ useful economic lives.
The interest rate inherent in the lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average effective interest rate contracted is 
approximately 7% per annum (2007: 7% per annum).
The fair value of the Group’s finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2008 is estimated at £1,724 million (2007: £1,226 million) based on 
discounting estimated cash flows at the market rate.
Excluding assets which are constructed by the Group, the cost of assets acquired by the Group during the year for onward finance leasing was 
£nil (2007: £126 million).
There are no finance lease receivables past due. Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the 
Portuguese and German governments. 132 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
18 Other long-term receivables
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
T o t a l	 o t h e r	 l o n g - t e r m	 r e c e i v a b l e s       124 91
At 31 December 2008 receivables with a carrying amount of £10 million (2007: £7 million) were past due for more than six months  
for which an impairment loss has not been recognised. Offsetting liabilities are held against these receivables with a strong investment  
grade counterparty.
19 Deferred tax
Deferred tax accounted for in the consolidated balance sheet and the potential amounts of deferred tax are:
         31 December   31 December 
         2008   2007
         £m   £m
Total gross deferred tax assets        597   459
Less: deferred tax assets not recognised        (63) (144)
Total deferred tax assets        534   315
Total deferred tax liabilities        (1,423) (1,085)
N e t	 d e f e r r e d	 t a x	 l i a b i l i t i e s        (889) (770)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance sheet purposes.
         31 December   31 December 
         2008   2007
         £m   £m
Deferred tax assets        120   142
Deferred tax liabilities        (1,009) (912)
N e t	 d e f e r r e d	 t a x	 l i a b i l i t i e s       (889) (770)
Deferred tax assets will be offset against suitable taxable profits when they arise.
The Group has £267 million (2007: £202 million) potential deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses. Of this amount £174 million  
(2007: £158 million) can be carried forward for a period of between 14 and 20 years. The balance can be carried forward indefinitely.  
Of the £267 million (2007: £202 million) of losses, £253 million has been recognised (2007: £107 million).
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates was £2,513 million (2007: £1,154 million). At 31 December 2008 a deferred tax provision of £80 million (2007: £59 million)  
has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable  
to control the reversal of the timing difference.
Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability for the total aggregate undistributed earnings has not been undertaken as the Group  
is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse  
in the foreseeable future. If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable that the majority of the potential tax  
liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally.
As outlined in note 9, changes to the tax rates in certain jurisdictions were enacted or substantively enacted during 2008 and 2007. 133 Financial statements
Movement in temporary differences during the year:
    1 January   Recognised   Recognised   Acquisition of   Other   Exchange   31 December
    2008   in income   in equity   subsidiaries   movements   differences   2008 
     statement
    £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
Intangible assets   (23)  6   –   –   –   (6) (23)
Property, plant and equipment, and finance lease receivables (1,030)  (38)  –   (67)  83   (199) (1,251)
Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (59)  (15)  –   –   –   (6) (80)
Derivative financial instruments   155   (90)  27   –   –   5   97
Employee benefits   24   1   (12)  –   –   –   13
Provisions   18   (8)  –   1   3   1   15
Tax losses   107   88   –   –   (3)  61   253
Other temporary differences   38   42   (4)  (1)  4   8   87
    (770)  (14)  11   (67)  87   (136) (889)
    1 January   Recognised   Recognised   Acquisition of   Other   Exchange   31 December
    2007   in income   in equity   subsidiaries   movements   differences   2007
     statement
    £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
Intangible assets   (34)  33   –   (22)  –   –  (23)
Property, plant and equipment, and finance lease receivables  (372)  80   –   (337)  (345)  (56) (1,030)
Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (57)  (5)  –   –   3  –  (59)
Derivative financial instruments   43   88   24   (12)  –   12   155
Employee benefits   25   2   (3)  –   –   –   24
Provisions   7   3   –   8   –   –   18
Tax losses   101   2   –   –   –   4   107
Other temporary differences   (322)  (33)  –   40   354   (1)  38
    (609)  170   21   (323)  12   (41) (770)
20 Inventories
        31 December 31 December 
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Plant spares       37 27
Fuel inventories       142 47
Consumables       96 76
T o t a l	 i n v e n t o r i e s       275 150
Inventories with a carrying amount of £128 million (2007: £95 million) are subject to fixed and floating charges of project finance facilities  
at various power plant subsidiaries. These project finance facilities are non-recourse to International Power plc. Included within cost of sales  
are £181 million (2007: £211 million) of inventories recognised as an expense in the year. Inventories with a carrying amount of £1 million 
(2007: £2 million) were written down during the year and recorded as an expense in the income statement.
21 Trade and other receivables
        31 December 31 December 
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Trade receivables       264 221
Other receivables       243 198
Accrued income       352 213
Prepayments       90 81
T o t a l	 t r a d e	 a n d	 o t h e r	 r e c e i v a b l e s       949 713
Included in trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of £218 million (2007: £81 million).
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value.  134 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
21 Trade and other receivables continued
Financial assets included in trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income are analysed as follows:
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007
  Retail Corporate Government Total Retail Corporate Government Total
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Not overdue 25 580 83 688 35  397 172  604
Up to 1 month past due 6 1 – 7 3  – – 3 
Between 1 and 3 months past due 5 2 12 19 2  – – 2
Between 3 and 6 months past due 2 – – 2 4  – – 4
More than 6 months past due 4 9 2 15 –  19 – 19
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r 42 592 97 731 44  416  172  632 
Retail energy sales are those to residential, commercial, and industrial customers to cover end-use purposes. This mostly comprises sales 
to customers of Simply Energy in South Australia and Victoria in Australia. Corporate energy sales are principally to merchant trading 
counterparties in the wholesale power market and comprise electricity utility companies, who require energy to meet retail sales requirements, 
and market makers such as large investment banks. In the preceding table, the term ‘Government‘ is used to describe customers who are either 
owned directly by government or the state, or are institutions backed by guarantees from government. Sales to these customers are typically 
administered under long-term power purchase agreements. Examples of such customers will include water and electricity authorities located  
in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
The majority of the trade receivables, which are not overdue, relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the  
form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security. Corporate receivables more than six months overdue relate  
to contractual disputes where we have significant counter claims or offsetting liabilities.
The preceding table shows £43 million (6%) of debtors are overdue and, of these, £36 million (5%) relates to outstanding amounts greater 
than one month past due. In respect of subsidiaries, for the year ended 31 December 2008, merchant trading and PPA counterparties have 
demonstrated a consistent payment history. 
Trade receivables of £3 million were written off in 2008 relating to commodity receivables from Lehman Brothers (2007: £nil). Management 
maintain a bad debt provision appropriate to the limited likelihood of retail, merchant and PPA payment defaults.
Total trade and other receivables are stated net of the following provisions for irrecoverable amounts.
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
At 1 January       23 23
Amounts provided for during the year       4 –
Amounts recovered during the year       (3) –
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r       24 23
Concentrations of credit risk relating to the Group’s wholesale power sales are limited due to the diversity of unrelated customers  
for our power plants located worldwide. For the Group’s retail business in Australia, Simply Energy, concentration of credit risk is limited  
due to the customer base being both large and unrelated. PPAs and tolling agreements with major institutions can potentially have high 
concentration risk but this risk is mitigated by the diversity of similar arrangements within our worldwide portfolio. 135 Financial statements
22 Derivative financial instruments
   31 December 2008 31 December 2007
      Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
      £m £m £m £m
Energy derivatives     475 747 208  734
Interest rate swaps     – 226 30  24
Other derivatives     32 24 30  76
      507 997 268 834
A n a ly s e d	 a s:
Derivative financial instruments not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship   507 790 236 729
Derivative financial instruments designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments  – 207 32 105
      507 997 268 834
Current     477 544 223  508
Non-current     30 453 45  326
      507 997 268 834
The description ‘Energy derivatives’ pertains to commodity contracts which are used to fix the prices we achieve for electrical output from  
our power stations and the cost of fuel inputs to our power stations. 
The Group utilises interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate exposures by swapping an element of its borrowings from floating rates  
to fixed rates. As at 31 December 2008, the total notional value of interest rate swaps was £3,350 million (2007: £2,289 million). 
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses. The Group already has an equity interest  
in some of these businesses. The Group has also issued convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc. 
The conversion features in the 3.25% convertible euro bonds and the 4.75% convertible euro bonds are accounted for as embedded  
derivatives (refer to note 24).
The Group sometimes utilises foreign currency exchange contracts to manage its foreign exchange rate exposures. As at 31 December 2008, 
the total notional value of these contracts was £63 million (2007: £15 million) and the mark to market was £nil (2007: £nil).
23 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Cash at bank       790 672
Short-term deposits       339 489
C a s h	 a n d	 c a s h	 e q u i v a l e n t s	 i n	 t h e	 c a s h	 f l o w	 s t a t e m e n t       1,129 1,161
The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes £417 million (2007: £377 million) of cash which is considered to be ‘restricted’ as it is 
primarily to fund maintenance and debt service reserves required by project finance agreements, and for letters of credit. Cash equivalents 
include an amount of £154 million (2007: £189 million) held by counterparties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the 
Group’s undrawn letter of credit facilities. 136 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
24 Loans and bonds
An analysis of the interest-bearing loans and bonds, which are measured at amortised cost, is as follows:
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007
      Face value Carrying Face value Carrying 
        amount   amount
      £m £m £m £m
a )	 S e c u r e d	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	 l o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s	
C u r r e n t	 l i a b i l i t i e s    
Secured bank loans
(1)
     378 372 353 348
Secured bonds
(1)
      17 17 12 12
      395 389 365 360
N o n - c u r r e n t	 l i a b i l i t i e s    
Secured bank loans
(1)
     5,201 5,132 4,164 4,125
Secured bonds
(1)
     691 738 634 682
      5,892 5,870 4,798 4,807
T o t a l	 s e c u r e d	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	 l o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s     6,287 6,259 5,163 5,167
b )	 U n s e c u r e d	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	 l o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s	 	 	 	
C u r r e n t	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Unsecured bank loans     29 29 4 4
Loans from minority interests
(2)
     3 3 24 24
Preferred equity facility
(3)
     – – 151 151
      32 32 179 179
N o n - c u r r e n t	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Unsecured bank loans     173 172 132 131
Loans from minority interests
(2)
     84 84 91 91
3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023
(4)
     159 149 127 115
3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013
(5)
     222 191 169 140
4.75% Convertible euro bonds 2015
(6)
     677 560 – –
      1,315 1,156 519 477
T o t a l	 u n s e c u r e d	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	 l o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s     1,347 1,188 698 656
c )	 T o t a l	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	 l o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s
Current liabilities     427 421 544 539
Non-current liabilities     7,207 7,026 5,317 5,284
T o t a l	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	 l o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s     7,634 7,447 5,861 5,823
A description of the foregoing items is as follows:
( 1 )	 S e c u r e d	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	 l o a n s	 a n d	 b o n d s
Secured bank loans comprise amounts borrowed from commercial banks. Secured bonds comprise those relating to the financing of First Hydro 
and the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
The bank loans and bonds with a carrying amount of £6,259 million (2007: £5,167 million) are secured by fixed and floating charges over the 
assets of certain subsidiaries. With the exception of the convertible bonds, which are recourse, substantially all of the Group’s power stations, 
generating assets and other operating assets are financed under facilities which are non-recourse to International Power plc and secured solely 
on the assets of the subsidiary concerned.
The Group had no significant borrowings in default as at 31 December 2008. Although not in default of principal or interest payment terms,  
at 31 December 2007 the Group had borrowings of £62 million in technical default which could have allowed the lender to demand accelerated 
repayment of the loan. At 31 December 2007 the loan was classified as a current liability on the balance sheet. The technical defaults were 
cured during the first quarter of 2008.
( 2 )	 L o a n s	 f r o m	 m i n o r i t y	 i n t e r e s t s
Loans from minority interests comprise both term loans and working capital facilities provided by minority shareholders in subsidiaries.  
These loans and working capital facilities are provided on an unsecured basis for various maturity periods and have interest terms based  
on fixed or floating rates as specified in each individual agreement. 137 Financial statements
( 3 )	 P r e f e r r e d	 e q u i t y	 f a c i l i t y
The preferred equity facility comprised US$300 million in preference shares which were issued by Impala Magpie Limited to Mitsui Power 
Ventures Limited for the purposes of financing the acquisition of the EME portfolio which was completed in December 2004.
Impala Magpie Limited is a 70% owned subsidiary of International Power plc and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of Mitsui & Co of Japan. Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is International Power’s partner in IPM Eagle LLP, which is the owner of assets formerly 
owned by Edison Mission Energy, and IPM (UK) Power Holdings Limited, which is the owner of certain UK generating assets.
The preference shares entitled the holder to a preferred dividend coupon of US dollar LIBOR plus 2%. The preference shares were redeemed  
in September 2008.
( 4 )	 3 . 7 5 %	 C o n v e r t i b l e	 U S	 d o l l a r	 b o n d s	 2 0 2 3
On 22 August 2003, International Power (Jersey) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 
3.75% convertible bonds due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power (Jersey) Limited at the holder’s option, immediately 
exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 163p at any time up to 12 August 2023. 
Each US$1,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International 
Power (Jersey) Limited. The bonds may be redeemed at the holder’s option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the 
date fixed for redemption.
During 2008, 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 with a par value of £12 million (US$24 million) were redeemed through the issue  
of preference shares in International Power (Jersey) Limited and the subsequent issue of Ordinary Shares in International Power plc. 
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010,  
2013 and 2018.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price 
equivalent to their principal amount.
Following the extinguishment of a cash settlement option on 17 January 2005, the remaining conversion feature, being an equity call option 
held by the bondholders was recognised in equity. The remaining debt element of the convertible bond accretes to par value over the life  
of the bond at a constant periodic rate based on its carrying amount.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 7.4%. This includes a coupon interest rate  
of 3.75% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 at 31 December 2008  
to be approximately £146 million (31 December 2007: £122 million). This fair value has been determined by reference to the market  
price at 31 December 2008.
( 5 )	 3 . 2 5 %	 C o n v e r t i b l e	 e u r o	 b o n d s	 2 0 1 3
On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued  
€230 million 3.25% convertible bonds due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited  
at the holder’s option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 370p at any time up to 20 July 2013. Each  
€50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a €50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power  
Finance (Jersey) II Limited. The bonds may be redeemed at the holder’s option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the  
date fixed for redemption.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent  
to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond have been split between the debt element and an embedded derivative 
component. This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 6.64%. This includes a coupon interest rate  
of 3.25% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 at 31 December 2008  
to be approximately £147 million (31 December 2007: £137 million). This fair value has been determined by reference to the market  
price at 31 December 2008. 138 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
24 Loans and bonds continued
( 6 )	 4 . 7 5 %	 C o n v e r t i b l e	 e u r o	 b o n d s	 2 0 1 5
On 5 June 2008, International Power Finance (Jersey) III Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued  
e700 million 4.75% convertible bonds due 2015, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance (Jersey) III Limited  
at the holder’s option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 561p with effect from 16 July 2008 up  
to 26 May 2015. Each e50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a e50,000 paid-up value of preference shares  
of International Power Finance (Jersey) III Limited. The bonds may be redeemed at the holder’s option at their principal amount, together  
with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption. If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be 
redeemed on 5 June 2015 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bonds have been split between the debt component and an embedded derivative 
component. This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.  
The debt component is presented as a liability on the balance sheet as part of loans and bonds.
         31 December
         2008
         £m
Net proceeds of convertible euro bonds issued        550
Embedded derivative component at date of issue        (96)
Debt component at date of issue        454
Accretion included in interest payable to 31 December 2008       6
Exchange differences        100
D e b t	 c o m p o n e n t	 a t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8        560
The interest charged during the year comprises two components: a coupon of 4.75% and accretion on the debt component set out above.  
The overall effective interest rate is 8.44%. The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 4.75% convertible euro  
bonds 2015 at 31 December 2008 to be approximately £400 million. This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price  
at 31 December 2008.
H e d g e	 o f	 n e t	 i n v e s t m e n t	 i n	 o v e r s e a s	 o p e r a t i o n s
The Group has loans denominated in foreign currencies that have been designated as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations  
in Europe and Australia. The value of these non-derivative financial liabilities, used as hedging instruments, at the balance sheet date was:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Euro        773 165
Australian dollar       38 38
        811 203
The foreign exchange loss of £155 million (2007: £17 million) on retranslation of these loans has been recognised directly in equity  
on consolidation. 139 Financial statements
M a t u r i t y	 o f	 b o r r o w i n g s
The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest coupons, relating to loans and bonds  
and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts:
      31 December 2008
  Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 
  1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount 
      cash flows non-cash coupons/  
       items discounting 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Secured bank loans 672 1,392 2,659 2,306 7,029 (75) (1,450) 5,504
Unsecured bank loans 38 34 152 3 227 (1) (25) 201
Secured bonds 69 69 202 969 1,309 – (554) 755
Loans from minority interests 10 7 96 1 114 – (27) 87
3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 6 6 18 218 248 (1) (98) 149
3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 7 7 244 – 258 (2) (65) 191
4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 32 32 96 726 886 (8) (318) 560
  834 1,547 3,467 4,223 10,071 (87) (2,537) 7,447
       31 December 2007
  Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 
  1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount 
      cash flows non-cash coupons/  
       items discounting 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Secured bank loans 517  591  2,480  2,220  5,808  (49)  (1,286)  4,473
Unsecured bank loans 11 12 143 2 168 (1) (32) 135
Secured bonds 73  61  180  995  1,309  (2)   (613) 694
Loans from minority interests 41  17  150  –  208  –   (93) 115
Preferred equity facility 167  –  –  –  167  –  (16)  151
3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 6  5  14  178  203  (1)  (87)  115 
3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 8  5  17  172  202  (2)  (60)  140
  823 691  2,984  3,567  8,065  (55)  (2,187)  5,823
Other non-cash items represent debt issue costs. The above tables assume the convertible bonds are redeemed by the payment of cash  
at maturity. 140 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
25 Net debt
    1 January On acquisition  Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December
    2008 of subsidiaries non-cash  differences 2008 
     (excluding cash) movements  
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents   1,161 – – (169) 137 1,129
Loans due within one year   (376) – (4) 46 (70) (404)
Loans due after more than one year   (4,347) (2) (8) 42 (1,073) (5,388)
Secured bonds due within one year   (12) – – (1) (4) (17)
Secured bonds due after more than one year   (682) – 4 14 (74) (738)
Preferred equity facility   (151) – – 162 (11) –
Convertible bonds   (255) – (4) (454) (187) (900)
Total debt    (5,823) (2) (12) (191) (1,419) (7,447)
Net debt   (4,662) (2) (12) (360) (1,282) (6,318)
    1 January On acquisition Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December
    2007 of subsidiaries non-cash  differences 2007
     (excluding cash) movements   
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents   980 – – 165 16 1,161
Assets held for trading   42 – 1 (44) 1 –
Total funds   1,022 – 1  121 17 1,161
Loans due within one year   (231) (68) – (67) (10) (376)
Loans due after more than one year   (3,290) (693) (11) (167) (186) (4,347)
Secured bonds due within one year   (10) – – (1) (1) (12)
Secured bonds due after more than one year   (677) – 2 12 (19) (682)
Preferred equity facility   (152) – (1) – 2 (151)
Convertible bonds   (237) – (9) – (9) (255)
Total debt    (4,597) (761) (19) (223) (223) (5,823)
Net debt   (3,575) (761) (18) (102) (206) (4,662)
Included within other non-cash movements is the accretion of the carrying amount of the convertible bonds and amortisation of debt issue 
costs and fair value adjustments. In 2008 they also include the issue of shares on redemption of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023.
26 Trade and other payables
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Trade payables       160 184
Other payables       268 252
Accruals       443 249
Deferred income       23 35
T o t a l	 t r a d e	 a n d	 o t h e r	 p a y a b l e s       894 720
Included in trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of £62 million (2007: £71 million). The Directors consider the carrying amounts  
of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value. All trade and other payables above are expected to fall due within one year. 141 Financial statements
27 Provisions
     Commodity Leave Site Other Total
     contracts provisions restoration  
     £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2008    99 19 21 42 181
Acquisitions    3 – – – 3
Provisions made during the year    – 7 7 10 24
Provisions utilised during the year     (71) (4) (1) (21) (97)
Unwinding discount    – 1 1 – 2
Exchange differences    18 2 4 4 28
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8    49 25 32 35 141
A n a ly s e d	 a s:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Current liabilities       69 83
Non-current liabilities       72 98
T o t a l	 p r o v i s i o n s       141 181
Financial liabilities       48 70
Non-financial liabilities       93 111
T o t a l	 p r o v i s i o n s       141 181
 
The carrying amount of existing commodity contracts brought forward from 2007 relate to ‘out of the money’ power sales contracts acquired 
as part of the acquisition of Coleto Creek in 2006. When the provision is utilised it is credited to revenue in the income statement. This 
provision is expected to be mostly utilised by 2010.
Commodity contracts added in 2008 relate to ‘out of the money’ capacity contracts acquired as part of the portfolio of North American 
peaking plants (refer to note 30a)). Most of this provision will unwind during 2009 and will be credited to revenue in the income statement.
The ‘other’ provisions made during the year principally relate to payments received and booked as revenue, subsequently against which a claim 
has been made. 
In 2007, the ‘other’ provisions principally related to onerous property leases and disputed contractual amounts and penalties. £9 million has 
been utilised during the year in order to extinguish the liability relating to the expected vacancy period for leased premises at Senator House. 
The remaining provisions are not expected to require settlement in the short-term. The Directors are uncertain as to the timing of when these 
provisions will be utilised.
28 Share-based payments
a) Number of shares and exercise prices under Share Option Plans
The Group operates the following employee share plans for which shares may be issued by the Group out of authorised but unissued share 
capital upon exercise of employee share options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan; the UK Approved and 
Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans, the Global Executive Share Option Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan. The total number  
of options and conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company outstanding at the end of the year was as follows:
   Option price range Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares
      31 December 31 December
      2008 2007
Sharesave Plans  97.93p-389.00p  2007-2014 5,852,924 6,429,720
Executive Share Option Plans  62.32p-388.25p 2001-2018 13,145,095 14,695,753
Total options outstanding     18,998,019 21,125,473
2002 Performance Share Plan    6,274,801 6,273,444
T o t a l	 O r d i n a r y	 S h a r e s	 s u b j e c t	 t o	 e m p l o y e e	 s h a r e	 p l a n s     25,272,820 27,398,917
Details of each plan are set out on the following pages. 142 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
28 Share-based payments continued
i )	 S h a r e s a v e	 P l a n s
The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other 
jurisdictions to invest up to a maximum of £250 (or foreign currency equivalent) per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group. 
The option prices are fixed at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares as at the date of grant of the option. 
Options are exercisable at the prices set out below. The option exercise period commences either three or five years after the option has been 
granted (determined at the time that the employee enters into the savings agreement) and if the options remain unexercised after a period of 
six months following the beginning of the option exercise period, the options expire. Except for certain specific circumstances (e.g. redundancy) 
options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences. Details of the share options outstanding at the 
end of the year are as follows:
    Option price Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares
    
       31 December 31 December
       2008 2007
    80.12p 2007-2008 – 1,985,637
    97.93p 2008-2009 55,020 69,582
    70.33p 2008 – 570,644
    97.93p 2009 83,163 99,331
    200.00p 2009 1,235,737 1,314,025
    200.00p 2011 1,008,657 1,035,019
    389.00p 2011 369,742 606,225
    389.00p 2013 496,149 749,257
    262.00p 2012 1,151,556 –
    262.00p 2014 1,452,900 –
     5,852,924 6,429,720
The number and weighted average exercise prices of the Sharesave Plan share options are as follows:
    Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007
   Number of Weighted Number of Weighted 
   Ordinary average Ordinary average
    Shares exercise price Shares exercise price
      in pence  in pence
Options outstanding at beginning of the year  6,429,720 188.63  6,021,436 129.15
Granted during the year  2,626,582  262.00 1,365,425 389.00
Exercised during the year  (2,551,389)  78.88 (830,476) 87.10
Expired during the year  (34,708)  70.78 – –
Forfeited during the year  (617,281) 349.41 (126,665) 186.68
Options outstanding at end of the year   5,852,924 253.14 6,429,720 188.63
Options exercisable at end of the year  55,020   1,985,637
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Sharesave Plan share options exercised during the year was 422.07 pence  
(2007: 435.21 pence). The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 97.93 pence to 389.00 pence 
as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3.2 years (2007: 2.2 years). 143 Financial statements
i i )	 E x e c u t i v e	 S h a r e	 O p t i o n	 P l a n s
The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan are discretionary employee share 
option plans. Options are granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company.  
The exercise price of the options is fixed at the market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares as at the date that the options are granted.  
The option exercise period is between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised 
before the expiry of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse. Except for certain specific circumstances (e.g. redundancy) 
options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee resigns from the Company. 
Details of the share options outstanding at the end of the year are as follows:
    Option price Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares
    
       31 December 31 December
       2008 2007
    313.92p 2001-2008 – 210,568 
    277.55p 2003-2010 544,315 667,968
    209.22p 2004-2011 299,812 342,766
    174.50p 2005-2012 2,764,000 2,968,750
    62.32p 2006-2013 297,040 297,040
    123.53p 2007-2014 508,261 644,297
    179.25p 2008-2015 1,892,338 5,000,370
    281.00p 2009-2016 2,397,941 2,502,846
    388.25p 2010-2017 1,990,208 2,061,148
    370.00p 2011-2018 2,451,180 –
      13,145,095 14,695,753
The number and weighted average exercise prices of Executive Share Options are as follows:
  Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007
    Number of Weighted Number of Weighted 
    Ordinary average Ordinary average
    Shares exercise price Shares exercise price
      in pence  in pence
Options outstanding at beginning of the year  14,695,753 227.22  21,294,173 186.60
Granted during the year  2,510,316 370.00 2,095,124 388.25
Exercised during the year  (3,400,824) 183.31 (7,826,019) 162.29
Expired during the year  (149,810) 313.92 (26,044) 343.73
Forfeited during the year  (510,340) 249.86 (841,481) 200.50
Options outstanding at end of the year  13,145,095 263.98 14,695,753 227.22
Options exercisable at end of the year  6,305,766  5,131,389
‘Options exercisable at the end of the year’ include 2,764,000 (2007: 2,968,750) options which are only exercisable in certain specific 
circumstances such as redundancy or ill-health retirement.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Executive Share Options exercised during the year was 417.67 pence  
(2007: 407.32 pence). The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 62.32 pence to 388.25 pence 
as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.3 years (2007: 6.6 years). 144 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
28 Share-based payments continued
i i i )	 2 0 0 2	 P e r f o r m a n c e	 S h a r e	 P l a n
The 2002 Performance Share Plan is a discretionary employee share plan. Under this plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group 
are awarded conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company. These conditional awards may vest three years after the awards have 
been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition (determined at the time that the conditional awards are made) 
which relates to growth in normalised earnings per share and total shareholder return.
Details of the conditional awards over Ordinary Shares arising from the 2002 Performance Share Plan at the end of the year are as follows:
     Vesting year Number of Ordinary Shares
      
      31 December 31 December
       2008 2007
     2008 – 1,912,237 
     2009 2,172,504 2,342,787
     2010 1,878,772 2,018,420
     2011 2,223,525 –
      6,274,801 6,273,444
The number of conditional rights over Ordinary Shares are as follows:
      Number of Ordinary Shares
      
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
Awards outstanding at the beginning of the year  6,273,444  6,472,594
Conditional awards made during the year  2,327,229 2,039,669
Released during the year  (1,875,661) (2,217,570)
Forfeited during the year  (450,211) (21,249)
Awards outstanding at end of the year  6,274,801 6,273,444
i v )	 2 0 0 2	 P e r f o r m a n c e	 S h a r e	 P l a n	 –	 E m p l o y e e	 S h a r e	 O w n e r s h i p	 T r u s t	 O p t i o n
In 2003 the Group granted to the Trustee of the International Power Employee Share Ownership Trust an option to acquire 3,807,057 Ordinary 
Shares in the Company at an option price of 84 pence per share. Following a rights issue in 2004, the number of shares under option was 
increased to 4,276,215 and the option exercise price was adjusted to 74.79 pence per share. This option could only be exercised to the extent 
required to satisfy conditional awards made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan. These conditional awards can only vest after the end of 
the relevant performance period and only to the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied.
During 2006 the Trustee exercised this option to the extent of 3,046,107 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in 
March 2006. During 2007 the Trustee exercised this option over the remaining 1,230,108 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards 
released in March 2007.
b) Fair value of options under Share Option Plans
i )	 S h a r e s a v e	 P l a n s
The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 39 pence per share (2007: 136 pence per share). 
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
Weighted average share price       220p 473p
Weighted average exercise price       262p 389p
Expected volatility       30% 25%
Expected life       5 years 4 years
Risk free rate       4.28% 4.44%
Expected dividend yield       3.13% 2.70%
i i )	 E x e c u t i v e	 S h a r e	 O p t i o n	 P l a n s
The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 71 pence per share (2007: 76 pence per share).
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
Weighted average share price       381p 384p
Weighted average exercise price       370p 388p
Expected volatility       25% 25%
Expected life       4 years 4 years
Risk free rate       3.87% 5.11%
Expected dividend yield       3.13% 2.70% 145 Financial statements
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous six years. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
i i i )	 2 0 0 2	 P e r f o r m a n c e	 S h a r e	 P l a n
For conditional awards made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, without market-related performance condition, the fair values have been 
calculated as the face values of the award, discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period. Where conditional awards 
contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method. Inputs into the model 
were as follows:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
Risk free rate       3.89% 5.18%
Expected dividend yield       3.13% 2.70%
The estimated fair value of conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company granted during the year was 247 pence per share  
(2007: 275 pence per share).
29 Share capital and reserves
a) Share capital
   Authorised Issued and fully paid
   Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
    Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2008  2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan   – – 3,400,824 2
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan   – – 2,551,389 1
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan  – – 1,621,671 1
Issue of shares under 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023  – – 9,219,227 4
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8  2,266,000,000 1,133 1,518,732,624 759
   Authorised Issued and fully paid
   Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p
    Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2007  2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan  – – 7,826,019 4
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan  – – 830,476 –
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan  – – 1,230,108 1
At 31 December 2007  2,266,000,000  1,133  1,501,939,513 751
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to voting rights, the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets 
on the winding up of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder who (being an individual) is present in person or (being a corporation) is present by a duly authorised 
representative shall have one vote, and on a poll, every shareholder present in person or proxy has one vote in respect of every share held.
Deferred Shares
The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 penny each in issue. These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and 
Innogy in 2000 was effected as efficiently as possible. The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote  
at any general meeting. 
Unclassified share
Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Company’s authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of £1. 146 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
29 Share capital and reserves continued
b) Consolidated statement of changes in equity
          Attributable
   Share Capital      to equity
  Share premium redemption Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained holders of Minority
  capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings the parent interests Total
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net loss on cash flow hedges – – – – – (251) – – (251) (19) (270) 
Exchange losses recognised  
 on net investment hedges – – – – – – (152) – (152) (3) (155)
Exchange (losses)/gains arising  
 on translation of foreign  
 operations – – – – – (76) 994 – 918 29 947
Revaluation reserve transfer – – – – 7 – – (7) – – –
Tax on items taken directly  
 to equity – – – – – 35 (18) – 17 1 18
Net income/(loss) recognised       
 directly in equity – – – – 7 (292) 824 (7) 532 8 540
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 667 667 92 759
Total recognised income and  
 expense for the year – – – – 7 (292) 824 660 1,199 100 1,299
Issue of shares 8 20 – – – – – – 28 – 28
Acquisition of minority interests – – – – – – – – – (54) (54)
Equity investment by  
 minority interest – – – – – – – – – 49 49
Distributions – – – – – – – (166) (166) (21) (187)
Other movements – – – – – – – (7) (7) – (7)
Total movements during the year 8 20 – – 7 (292) 824 487 1,054 74 1,128
At 1 January 2008 751 411 145 422 (9) (84) 35 1,173 2,844 163 3,007
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8	 7 5 9	 4 3 1	 1 4 5	 4 2 2	 ( 2 )	 ( 3 7 6 )	 8 5 9	 1 , 6 6 0	 3 , 8 9 8	 2 37	 4, 135
          Attributable
   Share Capital      to equity
  Share premium redemption Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained holders of Minority
  capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings the parent interests Total
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net loss on cash flow hedges – – – – – (111) – – (111) (11) (122)
Revaluation deficit on  
 step acquisition – – – – (12) – – – (12) – (12)
Exchange losses recognised 
 on net investment hedges – – – – – – (15) – (15) (2) (17)
Exchange (losses)/gains arising  
 on translation of foreign  
 operations – – – – (1) (3) 132 – 128 9 137
Tax on items taken directly  
 to equity – – – – 4 24 (4) – 24 (1) 23
Net (loss)/income recognised  
 directly in equity – – – – (9) (90) 113 – 14 (5) 9
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 503 503 26 529
Total recognised income and  
 expense for the year – – – – (9) (90) 113 503 517 21 538
Issue of shares 5 9 – – – – – – 14 – 14
Acquisitions and disposals of  
 minority interests  – – – – – – – – – (101) (101)
Distributions – – – – – – – (160) (160) (35) (195)
Other movements – – – – – – – 11 11 – 11
Total movements during the year 5 9 – – (9) (90) 113 354 382 (115) 267
At 1 January 2007 746 402 145 422 – 6 (78) 819 2,462 278 2,740
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 7	 7 5 1	 4 1 1	 1 4 5	 4 2 2	 ( 9 )	 ( 8 4 )	 3 5	 1 , 1 7 3	 2 , 8 4 4	 163	 3 , 0 07 147 Financial statements
The share capital represents the authorised Ordinary Shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution  
of dividends or capital of the Company.
The Company operates two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) in which shares may be held for the purpose of satisfying 
awards made under the Company’s 2002 Performance Share Plan. During the year 1,621,671 shares (2007: 1,230,108 shares) were issued  
and placed into trust. The total cost of the acquisition was £6,000,182 (2007: £919,998).
At 31 December 2008, these ESOTs held nil shares (2007: 253,990). The market value of shares held in trust at 31 December 2008  
is £nil (2007: £1,151,845).
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued. 
The capital redemption reserve was created in March 1995 when the Company purchased and then cancelled approximately 98 million of  
its Ordinary Shares in conjunction with HM Treasury’s sale of its remaining 40% shareholding in the Company. The reserve was subsequently 
increased in the years ended 31 March 1996, 31 March 2000 and 31 December 2003 when further share purchases were made and these 
shares were cancelled. The capital redemption reserve is not distributable.
The capital reserve was vested in the Company at 31 March 1990 under the Transfer Scheme whereby the net assets of the Central Electricity 
Generating Board (CEGB) were divided among the CEGB successor companies. It is not distributable.
The revaluation reserve comprises the deficit arising from the revaluation of certain intangible assets as part of the step acquisition of Simply 
Energy on 16 August 2007.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related  
to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred and to cumulative gains and losses on hedging instruments that no longer meet the criteria 
for hedge accounting, until the forecast transaction occurs.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations 
that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment  
in foreign operations (refer to note 31d).
Retained earnings represent total income and expense in the current and prior years attributable to equity holders of the parent,  
less cumulative dividends to shareholders, and other movements relating to, for example, share based payments and transfers from  
the revaluation reserve. £599 million (2007: £424 million) of the Group’s retained earnings is not distributable as it arose from unrealised  
gains on intra-group transactions.
30 Acquisitions and disposals
a) Portfolio of North American Peaking Plants
On 29 July 2008, IPA Central LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed the purchase of 100% of the voting 
partnership capital of Armstrong Energy Limited Partnership LLLP, and 100% of the voting share capital of Pleasants Energy LLC,  
Troy Energy LLC and Calumet Energy Team LLC. These entities between them own a 1,857MW portfolio of peaking generation facilities, 
located in the US in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland, and Midwest Independent System Operator power pools. The purchase price  
was US$864 million (£436 million). The results of these entities have been consolidated as subsidiaries with effect from 29 July 2008  
using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and provisional fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below:
       Acquiree’s Fair value Fair value
       carrying adjustments to the
       amount  Group
       £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment      134 346 480
Inventories      12 5 17
Trade and other receivables      4 – 4
Derivative financial assets      6 – 6
Trade and other payables      – (1) (1)
Provisions      – (3) (3)
Deferred tax liabilities      – (67) (67)
Net assets acquired      156 280 436
 
Satisfied by:        
Cash consideration paid        434
Acquisition costs        2
Net cash outflow to the Group        436 148 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued
In the period from 29 July 2008 to 31 December 2008 the portfolio of peaking plants contributed £19 million of revenue and £5 million  
to the Group’s profit from operations (excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements). Including exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements it contributed to the Group £17 million of revenue and £2 million of profit from operations.
The portfolio of peaking plants also contributed £10 million to the Group’s net operating cash flows and paid £7 million in respect of net 
interest and £nil in respect of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of net assets acquired. These principally represent the fair valuation of property, 
plant and equipment based on an analysis of depreciated replacement costs and discounted cash flows pertaining to the power plants; the 
revaluation of fuel stocks to market prices, and the creation of an onerous contract provision relating to ‘out of the money’ capacity contracts. 
Deferred tax is also recognised for the temporary difference created by the fair value adjustments. The Group employed a professional firm  
of valuers to perform the fair valuation exercise.
Due to the complexity of the acquisition the fair values attributed to the acquired assets and liabilities are provisional and may be revised.
If the acquisition of the portfolio of peaking plants had taken place on 1 January 2008 the portfolio would have contributed £37 million  
of revenue (and Group revenue would have been £3,500 million) and £7 million of profit from operations (and Group profit from operations 
would have been £1,052 million), both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements. Including exceptional items 
and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements the portfolio would have contributed £35 million of revenue (and Group revenue would have 
been £3,839 million) and £4 million of profit from operations (and Group profit from operations would have been £1,158 million).
b) Turbogás – Produtora Energética SA
On 5 June 2008, International Power acquired an additional 40% shareholding in Turbogás – Produtora Energética SA and an additional  
27% shareholding in the associated operations and maintenance company Portugen Energia SA for total cash consideration of €127 million 
(£101 million). International Power now owns 100% of both Turbogás – Produtora Energética SA and Portugen Energia SA.
c) Small European wind farms and solar projects
International Power has acquired the following voting equity share capital for £2 million:
— In July 2008, 100% of the equity share capital of a business which owns 1.6MW of operational solar panels, located in Spain;
— In August 2008, 75% of the equity share capital of the PEG 30MW wind farm under construction, located in Italy.
d) Uch Power
On 19 March 2008, International Power acquired an additional 31% shareholding in the Uch Power project and rights to related service fee 
income payable by the project company. Following receipts out of the project and consequential deferred consideration, total cash consideration 
was US$93 million (£47 million). The acquisition takes the Group’s total holding in the Uch Power project to 71%. International Power accounts 
for its interest in Uch Power (Pvt) Limited as a jointly controlled entity, using the equity method, due to the joint control of its activities exerted 
by its shareholders.
e) T-Power
On 16 December 2008, International Power acquired a third of the equity of Tessenderlo Power (‘T-Power’), a 420MW CCGT greenfield project 
in Tessenderlo, Belgium. International Power purchased its equity in the project from Advanced Power AG who were a co-developer in the 
T-Power project until financial close, which was achieved on 18 December 2008. The plant will be constructed by Siemens under a full turnkey 
EPC contract. Once operational in 2011, the output from the new plant will be sold under a 15-year tolling agreement with a 5-year extension 
option. T-Power is accounted for using the equity method.
f) Acquisitions during 2007 – Maestrale fair value hindsight adjustments
The fair values of certain assets and liabilities associated with the purchase of the Maestrale portfolio of onshore wind farms, predominantly 
located in Italy and Germany, which took place in August 2007 have been revised. This follows the conclusion of an independent third party  
fair valuation exercise commissioned during 2007 and finalised during 2008. As a result of the finalisation of the valuation, the following 
changes have been made to the acquired assets and liabilities. The fair value of inventories and trade and other receivables have been reduced 
from €16 million and €213 million to €9 million and €192 million respectively. The fair value of trade and other payables and provisions have 
increased from €125 million and €5 million to €140 million and €15 million respectively. Changes to deferred tax adjustments have also been 
applied. There has been no change in goodwill arising from these adjustments. 149 Financial statements
31 Financial instruments
a) Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at  
31 December 2008:
      31 December 2008 31 December 2007
      Carrying  Fair value Carrying  Fair value
      amount  amount 
      £m £m £m £m
F i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s
Cash and cash equivalents     1,129 1,129 1,161 1,161
Av a i l abl e - f or- s a l e:
Other investments
(1)
     47 47 13 13
L o an s	 an d	 r ec e iv abl e s:        
Finance lease receivables
(2)
     1,727 1,724 1,293 1,226
Other long-term receivables     124 124 69 69
Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income
(3)
     731 731 632 632
A t	 f a i r	 v a l u e	 t h r o u g h	 p r o f i t	 o r	 l o s s :   
Derivative financial assets not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship
(4)
   507 507 236 236
D e s i g n a t e d	 c a s h	 f l o w	 h e d g e	 r e l a t i o n s h i p s :
Derivative financial assets designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments
(4)
  – – 32 32 
T o t a l	 f i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s     4,265 4,262 3,436 3,369
F i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s
F i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 a t	 a m o r t i s e d	 c o s t :
Trade payables, other payables and accruals (current)
(5)
     832 832 649 649
Other payables (non-current)
(6)
     44 44 30 30
Secured bank loans
(7)
     5,504 5,464 4,473 4,473
Unsecured bank loans
(7)
     201 201 135 135
Secured bonds
(7)
     755 638 694 749
Preferred equity facility
(7)
     – – 151 151
Convertible bonds
(7)
     900 693 255 259
Loans from minority interests
(7)
     87 87 115 115
Provisions
(8)
     48 48 70 70
A t	 f a i r	 v a l u e	 t h r o u g h	 p r o f i t	 o r	 l o s s :
Derivative financial liabilities not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship
(4)
   790 790 729 729 
D e s i g n a t e d	 c a s h	 f l o w	 h e d g e	 r e l a t i o n s h i p s :        
Derivative financial liabilities designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments
(4)
  207 207 105 105 
T o t a l	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s     9,368 9,004 7,406 7,465
The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities which have been designated at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition.
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
(1)   Other investments comprise minority shareholdings held in privately owned, unquoted companies as well as debt instruments where  
there is no active market available to value them. Where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, the fair  
value shown is recorded at cost. The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows.
(2)   The fair value of finance lease receivables and other long-term receivables have been calculated by discounting estimated future  
cash flows. Discount rates in the range of 6% to 8% (2007: 4% to 10%) have been applied.
(3)   Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income have been stated at their  
book values.
(4)   Fair values of derivative financial instruments:
   Energy derivatives are measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification 
techniques. A forward price curve represents the Group’s view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery  
or settlement of commodities at future dates. An electricity price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market,  
over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period. Discount rates in the range 
of 6% to 9% (2007: 7% to 10%) have been applied. The prices in the distant horizon period are determined by reference to long-term 
market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new 
power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity  
(‘new entrant pricing’).
   Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to both third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves  
and spot rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
   The fair value of the Group’s foreign currency and equity conversion options have also been measured by reference to third party  
bank confirmations and through calculations using market rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
(5)   Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade payables, other payables and accruals have been stated at their book values.
(6)   The fair value of other payables (non-current) have been calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows. 150 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
31 Financial instruments continued
(7)     The fair values of all bank loans, bonds, convertible bonds, the preferred equity facility and loans from minority interests have been 
calculated using market prices where available or the present value of estimated future cash flows. Discount rates in the range of 5%  
to 15% (2007: 4% to 15%) have been applied.
(8)    Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date,  
and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. Consequently the fair value has been presented as book value. Discount 
rates in the range of 5% to 9% (2007: 5% to 6%) have been applied.
As explained in (4) on the previous page, prices for valuing energy derivatives outside of an active market are derived from long-term 
assumptions. Changes to these long-term assumptions could have a significant impact on the modelled price. For example, reasonable increases 
in the assumed cost of construction could increase modelled long-term power prices in the order of 10%, while reasonable variations in the 
assumed long-term cost of oil could have an impact in the order of 30% on modelled long-term power prices.
Most of our energy derivatives settle within the period covered by an active market and hence these variations in long-term price assumptions 
have a limited impact on our derivative valuations. We have one long-term derivative contract for power, which was acquired with the  
Loy Yang B plant in Australia. The contract is open until 2016. Reasonable changes in assumed construction costs could affect the value  
of this derivative in the order of A$30 million. Changes in the long-term cost of oil are less significant, since energy prices in Australia  
are currently not closely linked to world oil prices.
Refer to note 31f)(i) for sensitivity analysis and note 38, ‘Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty’, for further 
information on the valuation techniques used and the assumptions applied in determining the fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
b) Derivative financial instruments
The following table discloses the carrying amount of financial instruments, which are carried at fair value in the balance sheet, that have been 
valued using a technique based on market observable inputs and those that have been valued using non-market observable inputs:
   31 December 2008 31 December 2007
      Valuation Valuation Valuation Valuation 
      technique technique technique technique
      – market  – non-market – market – non-market
      observable observable observable observable
      inputs inputs inputs inputs
Derivative financial assets
 Carrying amount (£m)     444 63 234 34
 Percentage of total carrying amount     88% 12% 87% 13%
Derivative financial liabilities
 Carrying amount (£m)     (766) (231) (681) (153)
 Percentage of total carrying amount     77% 23% 82% 18%
      (322) (168) (447) (119)
In the merchant markets of Australia, the US and the UK, market observable inputs are usually defined as published forward curves. Typically, 
observable market data for forward power prices is available in the US and the UK for two years. Due to uncertainties surrounding the impact 
of the introduction of the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme, observable market data in Australia is available for 18 months. For interest rate 
swaps all forward rates are deemed to be from observable markets.
Non-market observable inputs are typically defined as price forecasts for a particular commodity, which are derived from the Group’s in-house 
modelling. Non-market observable inputs are not published and often form part of a valuation technique when a forward curve is deemed 
illiquid. A number of modelling techniques exist to generate these forecasts, but a standard approach that the Group follows for valuing forward 
power sales is to look at the economics of a new-entrant power plant.
When a new-entrant is believed to be required in a particular market, the long-term power price assumed will cover the new-entrant’s cost  
and target return. That is, power prices reflect the ‘new-entrant cost’ level from this particular point.
As explained on pages 18 to 27 of the business and financial review, the Group’s policy is to hedge various exposures.
Energy price risk: We use commodity contracts to fix the prices we achieve for the electrical output from our power stations and the cost  
of fuel inputs to our power stations. In the presentation which follows, we group the financial products and commodity contracts used for this 
purpose, which are classified as derivatives, under the heading ‘Energy derivatives’.
Interest rate risk: Principally we use pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps. We also use options and forward rate agreements.  
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading ‘Interest rate swaps’.
Foreign currency risk: For structural and transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use foreign 
currency borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps. For the purposes of presentation which follows,  
we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading ‘Other derivatives’. This category also encompasses options over equity.  
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses. The Group already has an equity interest in some 
of these businesses. The Group has convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc. The conversion feature 
in the 3.25% convertible euro bond and the 4.75% convertible euro bond are accounted for as embedded derivatives (refer to note 24). 151 Financial statements
The carrying amount of these derivative financial instruments at the reporting date and whether these derivatives are designated in a formal 
hedging relationship is analysed as follows:
     31 December 2008 31 December 2007
      Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
      £m £m £m £m
C a s h	 f l o w	 h e d g e s
Energy derivatives     – – 8 81
Interest rate swaps     – 207 24 24
      – 207 32 105
N o t	 d e s i g n a t e d	 i n	 a	 q u a l i f y i n g	 h e d g e	 r e l a t i o n s h i p
Energy derivatives     475 747 200 653
Interest rate swaps     – 19 6 –
Other derivatives     32 24 30 76
      507 790 236 729 
      507 997 268 834 
A n a ly s e d	 a s:
Current     477 544 223 508
Non-current     30 453 45 326
      507 997 268 834
On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchases of fuel. For existing  
cash flow hedges at that time, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall 
remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs (or is no longer expected to occur). Fair value gains and losses  
after the date of de-designation as cash flow hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The following table shows the carrying amounts, net gains and losses, cash flows and other movements relating to the Group’s derivative 
financial instruments and where the movements in the income statement are recorded.
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007
  Energy  Interest rate  Other  Total Energy  Interest rate  Other  Total
  derivatives swaps derivatives  derivatives swaps derivatives 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January (526) 6 (46) (566) (126) 6 (29) (149) 
Specific IAS 39 mark to market
 movements recognised in:
  – revenue 339 – – 339 (387) – – (387)
  – cost of sales (167) – – (167) 45 – – 45 
  – interest – (23) 150 127 – 1 (17) (16) 
Other movements in the income statement (3) – – (3) 24 3 – 27 
Movement in the hedging reserve 71 (174) – (103) (85) (10) – (95) 
Cash flow 37 – (96) (59) (8) – – (8)
Acquisitions 6 – – 6 40 4 – 44
Exchange differences (29) (35) – (64) (29) 2 – (27) 
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r (272) (226) 8 (490)  (526) 6 (46) (566)
‘Other movements in the income statement’ comprise mark to market movements on proprietary trading activities, i.e. on non-asset backed 
trades, and the amortisation of derivatives acquired with a fair value other than zero. Mark to market movements on asset backed hedges  
are included within ‘specific IAS 39 mark to market movements’ (refer to note 1d)). 152 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
31 Financial instruments continued
c) Cash flow hedging reserve movements
The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year, including where gains and losses have been 
recognised in the income statement.
   31 December 2008 31 December 2007
    Energy  Interest rate  Total Energy  Interest rate  Total
    derivatives swaps  derivatives swaps 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January    (56) (28) (84) 3 3 6
Gains/(losses) recognised in the hedging reserve during the year  4 (267) (263) (32) (35) (67)
Gains/(losses) arising in previous years that reversed during the year  44 3 47 (22) 1 (21)
Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within the  
 income statement during the year due to settlement of contracts.  
 Recognised in:
  Group revenue   6 – 6 95 – 95
  Share of joint ventures and associates   – 9 9 – 2 2
  Net finance costs   – (3) (3) – (3) (3)
Cash settlement of derivatives during the year   (6) (6) (12) (95) 1 (94)
Ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss   – – – 1 – 1
Exchange differences   (4) (72) (76) (6) 3 (3)
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r    (12) (364) (376) (56) (28) (84)
The cash flow hedging reserve balance and the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur are as follows:
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007
    Energy  Interest rate Total Energy  Interest rate  Total
    derivatives swaps  derivatives swaps 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flows expected in:
Less than 12 months   (10) (83) (93) (42) (2) (44)
1-2 years   (2) (72) (74) (1 1) (12) (23)
2-5 years   – (94) (94) (3) (1 1) (14)
More than 5 years   – (115) (115) – (3) (3)
U n r e c o g n i s e d	 l o s s e s	 a t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r   (12) (364) (376) (56) (28) (84)
The amounts shown in the preceding table are expected to affect profit or loss in the same period as the cash flows.
d) Hedge of a net investment
An economic net investment exposure arises from foreign currency movements when the functional currency of a subsidiary differs from  
the parent’s. Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency of the net investment and that of its parent will cause the amount  
of the net investment to vary.
In the absence of hedge accounting, foreign exchange gains and losses on retranslating the net assets of a foreign operation would be taken  
to reserves, whilst those on the loan would be recognised in the income statement. This creates a mismatch in foreign currency translation. 
When net investment hedging is applied, this mismatch is eliminated.
The Group, as part of its hedging strategy, has therefore chosen to borrow some debt denominated in foreign currencies in order to hedge  
the net investments in certain foreign operations within its portfolio. As the hedging instruments are foreign currency borrowings rather  
than derivatives, no fair values for these instruments are included within the fair value of derivatives disclosed on the balance sheet.
Gains and losses recognised in the translation reserve for hedges of net investments are shown in notes 24 and 29. 153 Financial statements
e) Risk identification and risk management
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group. Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk 
Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. It has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for 
identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures 
are consistent with the Group’s strategy and objectives. Assessments are conducted for all material entities.
The Group owns power plants in various locations around the world including merchant markets in the US, Australia and Europe. Plant 
ownership in the merchant markets exposes the Group to highly volatile and unpredictable commodity prices (including those relating to power 
and gas) and trading and risk management teams exist in each region to manage the exposure by trading a range of products including physical 
and financial forwards and futures. A Global Commodities Risk Committee together with the regional risk management teams are responsible 
for ensuring an adequate risk framework is in place in each region. Local risk committees operate in each region and they are responsible for 
ensuring that the risk framework is applied and that they manage their respective positions in compliance with these Board approved limits. 
Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the management and development of the Group’s business 
whilst managing its market risks and credit risks. The Group’s treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions. Group treasury acts 
within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board.
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the balance sheet. Note 29 provides details on equity, note 24 on loans and bonds and 
note 31i) on borrowing facilities. Short and medium-term funding requirements are provided by a variety of loan facilities with a range of 
counterparties and maturities. Longer term funding or funding for a particularly large transaction may be sourced from a combination of these 
facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by raising additional equity. Identification of total funding and phasing is achieved 
via a detailed cash flow forecast which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis. 
Project development activities can, on occasion, require credit support in the normal course of business. This is provided by established funding 
facilities or via additional bilateral facilities with related project banks. At the individual business level we finance our projects with non-recourse 
debt in order to insulate the Group from adverse events at the project level, limiting our balance sheet exposure to a given project to the loss  
of the equity in that project.
Credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties is managed within clearly defined limits, policies and procedures. Financial counterparty 
risk is restricted to arrangements with relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with investment grade ratings. In addition 
to credit assessments from rating agencies, the Group utilises local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and independent financial 
reviews to monitor counterparty credit risk and, if considered necessary, take proactive measures to reduce credit exposure in specific situations. 
All credit exposures are monitored daily by local regional management and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
f) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. The 
Group is exposed to changes in: commodity prices in the merchant markets in which it operates; interest rates; and foreign currency exchange 
rates. A significant number of the Group’s projects operate without power purchase agreements and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces 
which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel purchased. In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK (within our Europe 
region), North America, and Australia, operate on a merchant basis.
( i )	 E n e r g y	 t r a d i n g	 a n d	 m a r k e t	 r i s k
The Group hedges exposures that arise from the ownership and operation of power plants and related sales/purchases of electricity and fuel 
by using derivatives to optimise the return achieved from these assets. The Group uses commodity derivative financial instruments to convert 
floating or indexed electricity and fuel prices to fixed prices. This lessens the Group’s vulnerability to movements in prices for the electricity it 
generates and for the fuel it consumes in its power plants. Commodity derivative financial instruments also provide a way to meet customers’ 
pricing requirements while achieving a price structure consistent with the Group’s overall pricing strategy.
The Group’s trading operations are carried out subject to global and local policies and procedures. A similar structure is in place in each  
region covering monetary, volumetric and term limits. Metrics and limits applied to the trading books include Value-at-Risk (VaR), stop/loss, 
credit, fuel mismatch, term, volume, approved traders and approved products. Position reports are produced on a regular basis for both the 
trading and plant books.
As the Group no longer applies cash flow hedge accounting to its power and fuel derivative contracts, all fair value gains and losses are 
recorded in the income statement. The Group’s coal purchase contracts are typically treated as ‘own use’ because they are both entered  
into and continue to be held for the purpose of the Group’s electricity production requirements and they are not net settled.  154 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
31 Financial instruments continued
S e n s i t i v i t y	 a n a l y s i s	
As stated earlier, when hedging the output of our generation assets it is our policy to both forward sell the power and forward buy the 
corresponding fuel contemporaneously in order to lock in the ‘spread’. The spread is the difference between the cost of fuel to generate a unit 
of electricity and the price at which that unit of electricity is sold. Spreads are usually expressed in terms of price per MWh. When gas is used  
as fuel the difference is called ‘spark spread’ and when coal is used as the fuel it is called ‘dark spread’.
From a management perspective, once the spread relating to the future output from a generation asset is forward contracted, the asset is 
considered hedged. To the extent that future output has not been forward contracted in this manner it is considered unhedged. Management 
review on an ongoing basis the extent to which generation output is unhedged.
However, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) the following sensitivity analysis shows the impact 
on the Group’s results of changes in market prices as a result of entering into financial instruments including derivatives. Specifically, this 
sensitivity shows the impact on the Group’s results arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts which are entered into to hedge 
the future output of our generation assets following a change in forward market prices.
The table below shows the impact on equity and profits of a 20% increase in the forward curves for both electricity sales prices and gas 
purchase prices as if they had occurred on 31 December 2008. This could be viewed as the opportunity cost of our forward contracting if prices 
had changed in this manner. It should also be noted that if there were to be a 20% decrease in forward prices, the results of the sensitivity 
analysis would produce an opposite impact on profits and equity to that shown below.
The movement of forward price curves by 20% is believed to be a reasonable approximation of how much markets can move, on average,  
over any given year. In some years markets will be less volatile and in other years they may be more volatile. No sensitivity is applied to coal 
purchase prices given that such contracts are typically treated as ‘own use’.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of these sensitivities:
—  All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December 2007 would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting.  
At 31 December 2008, the Group has no energy-related cash flow hedges and therefore all fair value gains and losses would be recorded  
in the income statement;
—  Commodity contracts that qualify for own use treatment continue to do so, and thus this sensitivity has no impact for these contracts.  
These typically include coal purchase contracts.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests, and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude  
the impact at joint ventures and associates.
       Impact on Impact Impact on Impact
      profit for on total profit for on total
      the year ended equity at the year ended equity at
      31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
      2008 2008 2007 2007
      £m £m £m £m
20% change in forward price curves for electricity     259 283 296 357
20% change in forward price curves for gas     53 48 52 52
Because we hedge the spark spread, i.e. the sales price of electricity and the cost of gas contemporaneously, there is little net impact on the 
fair value of our derivative contracts to changes in the forward price curves to sell electricity and to purchase gas. However, for the dark spread, 
where the cost of coal is contracted in advance but is accounted for as ‘own use’, only the electricity sales contracts are exposed to fair value 
gains and losses arising from changes in the forward curves because these are considered commodity derivative financial instruments. This 
mismatch in accounting treatment predominantly gives rise to the significant net impact on profit and equity arising from increases in forward 
prices for electricity. Therefore, from an accounting perspective, forward contracting of dark spread at coal plants potentially gives rise to more 
volatility in earnings. However, to the extent that fair value gains and losses are recorded in any period within either the income statement  
or the hedging reserve (when applying cash flow hedge accounting) ultimately they will reverse by the time of delivery.
It should be noted that changes in the fair value of derivatives, which are entered into for economic hedging purposes (refer to basis of 
preparation in note 1), are recorded in the ‘middle column’ in the Group’s income statement and therefore the fair value gains and losses  
have no impact on underlying business performance.
To the extent that our power plants are not already contracted, and spreads increase, it is likely that the future profitability of our coal plants 
would also improve, because they would contract into the higher dark spreads.
It also means that if plants are unavailable at the point in time at which power should be delivered under the contract, the mark to market 
position represents the anticipated net cost of purchasing power and selling fuel in the markets to fulfil the contractual obligations and in  
that instance the unrealised fair value gains and losses would become realised. 155 Financial statements
( i i )	 I n t e r e s t	 r a t e	 r i s k
Variability in interest payments can introduce volatility into project returns and corporate funding costs. We mitigate this risk by fixing 
borrowing rates, principally by using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements. A limited number of our PPAs also have interest rate pass 
through mechanisms. Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require the specific approval of the Board.
The Group’s policy is to fix interest rates for up to 75% of its debt portfolio over the medium to long-term. At individual project company level, 
it is usually a condition of the non-recourse debt funding that project companies maintain a certain minimum level of fixed rate debt, typically 
70%. This complements the Group’s policy. The overall level of the Group’s fixed rate debt is monitored and reported to senior management 
on a monthly basis.
A forward rate agreement is a contract in which one party pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating interest rate equal to a reference 
rate specified at the time of entering into the contract. The payments are calculated over a notional amount over a certain period with the 
differential being settled at the termination date. An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange pre-determined 
interest payments, based on a notional principal amount, over an agreed period of time. 
At 31 December 2008, including the impact of ‘receive variable: pay fixed’ interest rate swaps, £5,467 million (73%) (2007: £3,587 million 
and 62%) of total debt had fixed interest rates. In 2008 the weighted average interest rate of fixed rate debt, taking into account the effect 
of ‘receive variable: pay fixed’ interest rate swaps on floating rate debt, was 7% (2007: 7%). The effect of the Group’s interest rate swaps 
effectively replaced £838 million (2007: £806 million) of floating rate Australian dollar borrowings, £1,337 million (2007: £759 million) of 
floating rate US dollar borrowings, £334 million (2007: £297 million) of floating rate sterling borrowings, £108 million (2007: £83 million)  
of floating rate Czech koruna borrowings and £733 million (2007: £344 million) of floating rate euro borrowings with fixed rate borrowings. 
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance for various time periods up to 12 months 
by reference to official market rates e.g. LIBOR.
When we use project finance in companies with power purchase agreements, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual 
terms of the power purchase agreement.
S e n s i t i v i t y	 a n a l y s i s	
The Group accounts for certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is considered highly probable and  
the hedge is assessed as effective.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a 100 basis point parallel increase in the interest rate yield curve as if it had occurred  
on 31 December.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity:
—  The impact of this sensitivity has only been recorded for changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, which have their fair 
value gains and losses recorded within the financial statements; assets available-for-sale; and assets held for trading as the Group does  
not designate any other financial asset at fair value through profit or loss and these are the only significant financial instruments whose  
carrying amounts change as a result of changes in interest rates. All other financial instruments are carried at amortised cost and hence  
no adjustment has been applied;
—  No impact is recorded from changes in interest rates on employee benefits (including pensions), provisions and other financial assets  
and liabilities;
— All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting;
—  Fair value gains and losses on interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting as at 31 December are reflected solely  
in the income statement.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude  
the impact at joint ventures and associates.
      Impact on Impact Impact on Impact
      profit for on total profit for on total
      the year ended equity at the year ended equity at
      31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
      2008 2008 2007 2007
      +/– +/– +/– +/–
      £m £m £m £m
Increase in yield curve by 100 basis point parallel shift     2 82 8 49
A second sensitivity analysis calculates the impact on profitability of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on unhedged interest-bearing 
loans and bonds, i.e. those which are subject to a floating rate of interest, i.e. where there is no ‘receive variable: pay fixed’ interest rate swap, 
and on cash balances on which variable rates of interest are earned. The calculation is performed as follows. The year end cash balance is 
deducted from the year end unhedged floating rate loans and bonds. The net borrowing is multiplied by 1%. In 2008 the result of this second 
sensitivity equated to £5 million before tax (2007: £8 million).
( i i i )	 F o r e i g n	 c u r r e n c y	 r i s k
International Power operates in 21 countries worldwide which exposes it to foreign currency exchange risks. These relate to translation, 
transaction and economic risks.
Treasury policy is to hedge a reasonable proportion of the Group’s translation exposures by borrowing in the same currency as the underlying 
investment. Any residual translation exposure will result in fluctuating sterling profits and balance sheet asset and liability movements which  
are not related to underlying business performance. In countries with historically weak currencies we aim to have PPA tariffs denominated  
in a major international currency. This protects future returns from large and rapid devaluations. Group translation exposure is monitored  
and reported to senior management on a monthly basis. 156 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
31 Financial instruments continued
For the purposes of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income statement results of the Group’s foreign operations  
are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned. The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated  
into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Currency translation exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency  
of the operating unit involved, other than borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations.
In order to hedge the net assets of foreign operations, borrowings are generally in the same currency as the underlying investment. The Group 
aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way. It is not our policy to hedge currency translation through foreign 
exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Currency transaction exposure arises where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.  
The Group utilises these exposures, where possible, to hedge existing transaction exposures on sales and purchases through matching.  
In line with Group policy any remaining transaction exposures are hedged as soon as they are committed, by using foreign currency contracts 
and similar instruments. Transaction exposure also arises on the remittance of dividends or surplus funds from overseas. All external currency 
instruments used to manage transaction exposure are transacted by Group treasury or under the guidance of Group treasury. Identification of 
potential transaction exposures is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast by local currency which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis. 
As noted in 31b), to hedge our foreign exchange risks for transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales  
we use both non-derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency borrowings, and derivative financial instruments, such as forward 
foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps. When we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposures to foreign 
currency risk, the Group may choose to account for these as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges if they meet the hedge accounting 
criteria set out in IAS 39.
S e n s i t i v i t y	 a n a l y s i s	
The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of currency translation exposures arising from monetary assets and liabilities of the Group 
that are not denominated in the functional currencies of International Power plc or of its subsidiaries. It shows the impact on the Group’s 
consolidated income statement by changing the year end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies. To the extent that there are 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in sterling in subsidiaries with non-sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in the 
year end exchange rate is determined. To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies in 
International Power plc or its subsidiaries with sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in year end exchange rate is determined.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity:
—  The results of foreign exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated loans, that are treated as net 
investment hedges, are not recorded within the impact on the Group income statement, as these foreign exchange gains and losses  
are recorded within the translation reserve;
—  The exposure on translating the financial statements of subsidiaries into the sterling presentation currency of the consolidated financial 
statements are not included in the sensitivity analysis.
The results are presented before tax and minority interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint 
ventures and associates.
        Impact on Impact on
        profit for profit for
        the year ended the year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        +/– +/–
        £m £m
10% strengthening of sterling       21 11
10% weakening of sterling       (25) (15)
g) Credit risk
We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event that counterparties to traded contracts and financial instruments do not perform according 
to the terms of the contract or instrument.
The Group’s policy is to manage its credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits. Energy trading activities 
are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of 
counterparty credit exposures in each of our key regions. Counterparty exposure via customer power purchase agreements (agreements 
to sell power) is monitored and managed by the local asset team with assistance from Group treasury where appropriate. The impact of an 
individual PPA default is minimised by the geographical diversity and large number of projects in which the Group is involved. In addition, the 
non-recourse nature of the funding arrangements, which limits our exposure to our equity commitment in a project, also provides limited credit 
exposure to the Group.
For the majority of the Group’s commodity trading arrangements we have master netting agreements which establish legally enforceable rights 
of set-off that reduce the credit exposure of the Group in the event of counterparty default. Where possible, the Group will also enter into ISDA 
(International Swaps and Derivatives Association) master agreements to mitigate its credit exposure to financial instruments.
In the normal course of business there may be occasions when we have a significant concentration of credit risk with one counterparty in order 
to minimise settlement risk on major transactions. This risk is normally only applicable for a short period of days and is always with an existing 
relationship bank with a strong investment grade rating. 157 Financial statements
Group treasury manages the Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated basis for financial counterparties, with the active  
and close involvement of the global risk manager. Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to relationship banks and commercial paper 
with strong investment grade credit ratings.
With regard to financial instruments subject to credit risk, International Power selects counterparties with appropriate ratings for the size, type 
and duration of the instrument involved. A small proportion of counterparties trading energy are below investment grade. For those energy 
market transactions with counterparties below investment grade, and which are not supported by appropriate collateral, reserves are carried 
against the trading risk. Exposures within this band are restricted and closely monitored within narrow limits.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive fair value by 
counterparty. The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be:
        31 December 31 December  
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents
(1)
       1,129 1,161
Available-for-sale financial assets       47 13
Loans and receivables (refer to note 31a))
(2) (3)
       2,582 1,994
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 – derivative financial assets
(4)
       507 236
Designated cash flow hedge relationships
 – derivative financial assets
(4)
       – 32
T o t a l	 f i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s       4,265 3,436
(1)  The majority of cash balances and short-term deposits are held with strong investment grade banks or financial institutions.
(2) Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
(3)  The majority of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold 
collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
(4)  The Group holds collateral of £179 million at 31 December 2008 (2007: £79 million) as security for the above derivative financial assets. 
Collateral held as security includes parent company guarantees (of appropriate credit worthiness), letters of credit issued by investment 
grade banks and cash margining as set out in the following table:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Parent company guarantee       116 31
Letters of credit       1 –
Cash margining       62 48
        179 79
The Group also holds additional collateral from counterparties, which only becomes enforceable if existing exposures increase or additional 
trading with that counterparty is contracted. This additional undrawn collateral totals £209 million at 31 December 2008 (2007: £180 million) 
and is in the form of letters of credit and parent company guarantees.
During 2008 we have not needed to take possession of collateral available to us in order to settle any outstanding debts owed to us.
If the Group was to take possession of collateral or to call on other credit enhancements (e.g. guarantees), and the assets held as security  
were not readily convertible into cash, we would regularly update our estimates of value and develop a realistic plan for monetisation. We 
would defend rigorously our right to recoup any outstanding amounts from arrangements which ultimately do not fully settle a liability.
Although we have seen no direct evidence of changes to the credit risk of our counterparties, the current focus on financial liquidity in 
all international markets has introduced increased financial volatility. We utilise local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and 
independent financial reviews to identify significant changes to the financial profile of our counterparties.
As at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 there were no significant financial guarantees or third party obligations that increase  
the credit risk of the Group’s financial assets. 
h) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due. 
Reporting entities are responsible for managing their own liquidity. The Group’s treasury function is responsible for managing corporate 
liquidity. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient headroom under both normal and abnormal conditions. 
It manages this through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and a financial headroom analysis which is used to determine funding 
requirements for a rolling five year period, which is reported to senior management on a monthly basis. 158 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
31 Financial instruments continued
i )	 B o r r ow in g	 f a c ili t i e s
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2008 in respect  
of which all conditions precedent have been met amount to £1,054 million (2007: £821 million). This table excludes fully drawn loan facilities 
and at 31 December 2008 £212 million (2007: £323 million) of letters of credit in issue.
Committed facilities
   31 December 2008 31 December 2007
   Currency Expiry Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
C or p or a t e:
Corporate revolving credit facility
(1)
 USD October 2010 591 482 482 427 425 425
IPM UK Power credit support facility
(2)
 GBP June 2012 300 219 219 250 187 187
Subsi d i a rie s :
Rugeley Power working capital and  
 credit support facility GBP July 2014 195 92 92 195 97 32
Rugeley Power FGD construction facility GBP July 2014 145 13 13 145 57 9
IPA Central revolving and letter of credit facility
(3)
 USD July 2015 75 28 28 – – –
IPA Marketing Company revolving and letter  
 of credit facility
(3)
 USD July 2015 56 39 39 – – –
International Power Opatovice revolving  
 credit facility CZK May 2012 36 7 7 138 24 24
ANP Funding 1 working capital and letter  
 of credit facility
(4)
 USD July 2010 47 23 23 55 42 42
Other subsidiary facilities in various currencies Various Various 242 151 151 204 102 102
     1,687 1,054 1,054 1,414 934 821
(1)   The drawn element of the corporate revolving credit facility relates to letters of credit issued of £109 million (2007: £2 million).
(2)   The IPM UK Power facilities include a £200 million (2007: £200 million) letter of credit and parent company guarantee facility  
and £100 million (2007: £50 million) working capital facility, both from Mitsui. 
(3)    The IPA Central and IPA Marketing Company facilities include a working capital facility with capacity to issue letters of credit.  
At 31 December 2008 £53 million of letters of credit and £11 million cash had been drawn from these facilities.
(4)   The ANP Funding 1 facilities include a £47 million (2007: £55 million) committed working capital and letter of credit facility.  
At 31 December 2008, £12 million of cash and £12 million of letters of credit had been issued from this facility (2007: £13 million  
of letters of credit). 
Included in cash and cash equivalents are £154 million (2007: £189 million) of margin deposits placed with trading counter-parties which  
could be made available to the Group by utilising the Group’s undrawn letter of credit facilities. At 31 December 2008, letter of credit facilities 
of £727 million were available to support these trading activities and margin deposit requirements and is included in the total undrawn and 
available facilities above (refer to note 23).
Uncommitted facilities
Uncommitted facilities include bank borrowing and letter of credit facilities which are normally reaffirmed by banks annually, although 
theoretically they may be withdrawn at any time.       
These facilities include the following:       
  31 December 2008 31 December 2007
    Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
C or p or a t e:
Corporate borrowing and overdraft facilities   61 61 61 50 50 50
Corporate letter of credit facilities   23 23 23 39 39 39
Subsi d i a rie s :
Subsidiary working capital and letter of credit facilities   43 40 40 5 2 2
    127 124 124 94 91 91
Uncommitted facilities of £97 million (2007: £94 million) include an undrawn and available cash element of £61 million (2007: £52 million).  
Also included are £63 million (2007: £39 million) of undrawn and available credit lines for the purposes of issuing letters of credit and 
guarantees in the normal course of business.        159 Financial statements
j )	 C o n t r a c t u a l	 c a s h	 f l o w s
The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities at the balance sheet date  
and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts:
       31 December 2008
  Due within Due between  Due between Due after Total Impact of  Impact of Carrying
  1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted  other  interest  amount
       cash flows non-cash  coupons/ 
       items discounting 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
N o n - d e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Loans and bonds (note 24) 834 1,547 3,467 4,223 10,071 (87) (2,537) 7,447
Other financial liabilities 854 28 22 43 947 – (23) 924
D e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Net payments
 – Energy derivatives 359 157 218 192 926 – (179) 747
 – Interest rate swaps 81 64 61 29 235 – (9) 226
 – Other derivatives 2 – – – 2 22 – 24
T o t a l	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s 2,130 1,796 3,768 4,487 12,181 (65) (2,748) 9,368
        31 December 2007
  Due within Due between  Due between Due after Total Impact of  Impact of Carrying
  1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other  interest  amount
      cash flows non-cash coupons/ 
       items discounting 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
N o n - d e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Loans and bonds (note 24) 823 691 2,984 3,567 8 , 0 65 (55) (2,187) 5 , 823 
Other financial liabilities 672 25 23 64 78 4 – (35) 749
D e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Net payments
 – Energy derivatives 388 145 129 249 911 – (177) 73 4
 – Interest rate swaps 7 12 5 1 25 – (1) 24
 – Other derivatives – – – – – 76 – 76
T o t a l	 f i n a n c i a l	 l i a b i l i t i e s 1,890 873 3,141 3,881 9, 785 21 (2,400) 7,406
The net payments relating to interest rate swaps have been calculated based on the yield curves as at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 
2007. Net payments under interest rate swaps represent the projected net settlement amounts under the swaps. The variable interest payments, 
of the loans to which the swaps relate, are included in the maturity of borrowings table in note 24 and included in ‘loans and bonds’ above.
The above tables do not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted at the end of the 
financial year.
Refer to note 33 for a breakdown of the Group’s commitments and to note 34 for a summary of the Group’s bonds and guarantees.  
An assessment of the Group’s current liquidity position is given in the ‘Business and financial review’ section of the Annual Report on  
pages 55 to 57.
The disclosure of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheet has been made in line with management’s view of the Group’s operating cycle. 
This has the effect of presenting certain energy derivative cash flows net of discounting, shown above as due after more than one year, to 
‘current liabilities’ on the balance sheet. 160 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
32 Operating lease arrangements
The	 Group	 as	 lessee
Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, fall due as follows:
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Not later than one year       14 13
Later than one year and not later than five years       49 46
Later than five years       87 84
T o t a l	 o u t s t a n d i n g	 c o m m i t m e n t s       150 143
Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for office properties and wind turbine equipment. These  
payment commitments are offset by future minimum receipts under non-cancellable operating subleases of £1 million (2007: £3 million).
The Group leases office space under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement which expires in 2016. The lease agreement is renewable  
at the end of the lease period at market rate.
The Group also leases land under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The lease terms are between 20 and 70 years, and the majority  
of the lease agreements are renewable at maturity at market rate.
The	 Group	 as	 lessor
International Power’s business is the generation of electricity. The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted 
revenues for a long period of time. Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain operating leases. The Group has contracted 
to receive from offtakers the following minimum lease payments:
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Not later than one year       99 72
Later than one year and not later than five years       227 228
Later than five years       85 78
T o t a l	 m i n i m u m	 l e a s e	 p a y m e n t s       411 378
Operating lease income earned from these arrangements during the year amounted to £78 million (2007: £29 million).
33 Commitments
F u e l	 p u r c h a s e	 a n d	 t r a n s p o r t a t i o n	 c o m m i t m e n t s
At 31 December 2008, the Group’s subsidiaries had contractual commitments to purchase and/or transport fuel. Based on contract provisions, 
which consist of fixed prices, subject to adjustment clauses in some cases, these minimum commitments are currently estimated to aggregate  
to £672 million (2007: £494 million) expiring within one year, £1,965 million (2007: £1,811 million) expiring between one and five years and 
£763 million (2007: £1,063 million) expiring after more than five years.
C a p i t a l	 c o m m i t m e n t s
Capital commitments, contracted but not provided in 2008 amount to £286 million (2007: £90 million).  161 Financial statements
34 Contingent liabilities
a) Legal proceedings
The Company is aware of claims and potential claims, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group, by or on behalf  
of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board (CEGB), and contractors in respect  
of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may 
incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
b) Taxation
The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where  
the Group has operations, including its joint ventures and associates. The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice 
received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c) Collateral, bonds and guarantees
The Group has pledged financial assets with carrying amounts totalling £1,994 million as collateral as at 31 December 2008  
(2007: £1,752 million). These comprise finance lease receivables, cash margining in support of commercial arrangements and trade receivables. 
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling £655 million  
(2007: £475 million). Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group 
totalling £649 million (2007: £430 million). 
d) Joint ventures and associates
B o n d s	 an d	 g u a r an t ee s
The Group’s joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and 
guarantees. The Group’s share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to £103 million (2007: £82 million). These obligations 
are normally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate. Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other 
Group subsidiary are included within bonds and guarantees disclosed in c) above. 
35 Related party transactions
The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.  
The compensation of key management personnel can be found in note 6 and the Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 84 to 99  
of the Annual Report.
a )	 O p e r a t i o n s	 a n d	 m a i n t e n a n c e	 c o n t r a c t s
In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted on an arm’s length basis to provide power station operation and maintenance 
services to joint ventures and associates. During the year the Group derived income of £62 million (2007: £55 million) from these 
arrangements. Included in trade receivables is £6 million (2007: £5 million) in relation to these contracts.
b )	 R e t a i l	 s u p p l y	 c o n t r a c t s
In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted on an arm’s length basis to provide power and gas to joint ventures and associates 
involved in retail supply. During the year the Group derived income of £67 million (2007: £36 million) from these arrangements. Included in 
trade receivables is £1 million (2007: £nil) in relation to these contracts.
c )	 T r a n s p o r t a t i o n	 c o n t r a c t s
In the normal course of business, the Group has contracts in place, in relation to fuel transportation, with one of its jointly controlled entities. 
During the year, the Group incurred costs of £9 million (2007: £8 million) in relation to these contracts. 
d )	 E m i s s i o n s	 a l l o w a n c e	 c e r t i fi c a t e s
In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted on an arm’s length basis to provide emissions allowance certificates to one  
of its associates. During the year the Group derived income of £34 million from these arrangements (2007: £nil). 162 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
36 Subsidiaries
The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries which are all indirectly held by International Power plc, unless  
otherwise stated.
Name and nature of business   Country of   Group
     incorporation and   effective
     registration Type of share shareholding
N o r t h	 A m e r i c a
ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC (power generation)   US Ordinary Shares 100%
ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC (power generation)   US Ordinary Shares 100%
ANP Funding 1 (financing company)   US Ordinary Shares 100%
Armstrong Energy Limited Partnership, LLLP (power generation)   US Partners’ Capital 100%
Calumet Energy Team, LLC (power generation)   US Ordinary Shares 100%
Coleto Creek Power LP (power generation)   US Partners’ Capital 100%
Hays Energy Limited Partnership (power generation)   US Partners’ Capital 100%
Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership (power generation)   US Partners’ Capital 100%
Milford Power Limited Partnership (power generation)   US Partners’ Capital 100%
Pleasants Energy, LLC (power generation)   US Ordinary Shares 100%
Troy Energy, LLC (power generation)   US Ordinary Shares 100%
E u r ope
International Power Opatovice A.S. (power generation)   Czech Republic Ordinary Shares 100%
First Hydro Company (power generation)  England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
First Hydro Finance plc (financing company)  England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Indian Queens Power Limited (power generation)  England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
IPM Energy Trading Limited (energy trading)  England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Rugeley Power Limited (power generation)  England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited (power generation)  England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75%
Deeside Power Limited
(1)
 (power generation)   Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75%
IP Maestrale Investments Limited
(1)
 (investment holding company)   Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 100%
IPM Portfolio Trading Limited
(1)
 (energy trading)   Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75%
Levanto Structured Energy (Lux) S.à.r.l. (investment holding company)   Luxembourg Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power Levanto Holdings BV
(2)
 (investment holding company)  Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100%
Turbogás – Produtora Enérgetica S.A (power generation)   Portugal Ordinary Shares 100%
Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL (power generation)   Spain Ordinary Shares 64%
Ibérica de Enérgías SL (power generation)   Spain Ordinary Shares 70%
M iddl e	 E a s t
Al Kamil Power Company SAOG (power generation)   Oman Ordinary Shares 65%
Tihama Power Generation Company Limited (power generation)   Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60%
A u s t r a lia
Canunda Power Pty Limited (power generation)   Australia Ordinary Shares 100%
Gippsland Power Pty Limited (power generation)   Australia Ordinary Shares 70%
Hazelwood Power Partnership (power generation)   Australia Partners’ Capital 92%
Latrobe Power Partnership (power generation)   Australia Partners’ Capital 70%
Perth Power Partnership (power generation)   Australia Partners’ Capital 49%
Simply Energy (retail supplier)   Australia Partners’ Capital 100%
Synergen Power Pty Limited (power generation)   Australia Ordinary Shares 100%
Pelican Point Power Limited
(3)
 (power generation)  England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
A s ia
Thai National Power Company Limited (power generation)   Thailand Ordinary Shares 100%
C or p or a t e
IPM Eagle LLP (investment holding company)  England and Wales Partners’ Capital 70%
Normanglade 4 LLP (financing company)  England and Wales Partners’ Capital 70%
IPM (UK) Power Holdings Limited
(1)
 (investment holding company)   Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75%
IPR Insurance Company Limited
(4)
 (insurance captive)   Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power (Jersey) Limited
(1)
 (financing company)   Jersey Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power Finance (Jersey) II Limited
(1)
 (financing company)   Jersey Ordinary Shares 100%
International Power Finance (Jersey) III Limited
(1)
 (financing company)   Jersey Ordinary Shares 100%
All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below. The year end for all subsidiaries listed is 31 December.  
The Group also has a number of overseas branch offices. 
(1) Operates in the UK.
(2)  International Power Levanto Holdings BV owns indirectly, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, bonds relating to the Breeze portfolio of the 
Levanto wind farm portfolio. As required, we consolidate 100% of the results of the Breeze wind farm portfolio.
(3) Operates in Australia.
(4) Held directly by International Power plc. 163 Financial statements
37 Joint ventures and associates
The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates which are all indirectly held by International Power plc.
Name and nature of business  Country of    Group
    incorporation and  Accounting  effective
    operation period end Type of share shareholding
Joint ventures
N o r t h	 A m e r i c a
EcoEléctrica LP
(1)
 (power generation)  Bermuda 31 December Partners’ Capital 35%
Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership (power generation)  US 31 December Partners’ Capital 50%
Oyster Creek Limited Partnership (power generation)  US 31 December Partners’ Capital 50%
E u r ope
T-Power N.V. (power generation)  Belgium 31 December Ordinary Shares 33%
Prazská Teplárenská A.S. (power generation)  Czech Republic 31 December Ordinary Shares 49%
Elecgas S.A. (power generation)  Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
A u s t r a lia
South East Australia Gas Pty Limited (gas pipeline)   Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33%
A s ia
Uch Power (Pvt) Limited
(2)
 (power generation)   Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 71%
Associates
E u r ope
Derwent Cogeneration Limited (power generation) England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23%
Opus Energy Limited (retail supplier) England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 30%
ISAB Energy Srl (power generation)  Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34%
Carbopego – Abastecimento de Combustiveis, S.A. (fuel supplier)  Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Pegop – Energia Electrica, S.A. (power station operations)  Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Tejo Energia – Producao e Distribuicao de Energia Electrica, S.A.  
 (power generation)  Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50%
Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A.S. (power generation)  Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33%
M iddl e	 E a s t
Hidd Power Company BSC(c) (power generation and desalination)  Bahrain 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
Q Power QSC (power generation and desalination)  Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40%
Arabian Power Company PJSC (power generation and desalination)  UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
Fujairah Asia Power Company PJSC (power generation and desalination)  UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC  
 (power generation and desalination)  UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20%
A s ia
PT Paiton Energy Company (power generation)   Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 41%
Kot Addu Power Company Limited (power generation)   Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36%
The Hub Power Company Limited
(3)
 (power generation)   Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17%
All joint ventures and associates operate in their country of incorporation except as identified.
(1) Operates in Puerto Rico.
(2)  International Power accounts for its interest in Uch Power (Pvt) Limited as a jointly controlled entity, using the equity method due  
to the joint control of its activities exerted by its shareholders.
(3)  International Power continues to equity account for HUBCO, despite its shareholding being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has 
the power to exert significant influence over the entity. At HUBCO, International Power continues to have significant board representation. 164 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
38 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The Group’s accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these consolidated financial statements. Management is required to exercise significant 
judgement in the application of these policies. Areas which management believe require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows 
(apart from those policies involving estimation which are outlined in b) which follows). 
a) Critical accounting judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
C a s h	 fl o w	 h e d g e	 a c c o u n t i n g
The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity 
and the purchase of fuel for its own power plants. In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial 
instruments and accordingly have to be marked to market. Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedges 
are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to be deferred in equity. In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary 
for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective. 
This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination. On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow 
hedges relating to sales of power and purchase of fuel. For these cash flow hedges, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs (or is no longer 
expected to occur). Fair value gains and losses, after the date of de-designation as cash flow hedges, are recorded in the income statement.
I n c o m e	 r e c o g n i t i o n	 f r o m	 l o n g - t e r m	 P P A s
When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment (known as a 
‘capacity payment’) for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output. In these situations, where there 
is a long-term contract to sell electrical output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements 
and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a service contract. 
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a 
finance or operating lease. This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside. For finance 
leases it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and  
as a fee for service provision. For operating leases it is necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between minimum  
lease payments and fees for service provision. 
E v a l u a t i o n	 o f	 l e v e l s	 o f	 c o n t r o l	 a n d	 i n fl u e n c e
The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that  
can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements. We achieve control or influence 
through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions. We generally treat investments where the Group holds 
less than 20% of the equity as investments available for sale. These investments available for sale are carried at market value where market 
prices are available. Where quoted market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured,  
equity instruments are measured at cost. 
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entity’s 
operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate. Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest (but less than 20%) in  
an entity and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we also treat that entity as an associate. This treatment is applied 
to our interest in The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17% (refer to note 37). Where the Group has the power to control 
the operations of an entity, and it has less than 50% of the equity, we treat the entity as a subsidiary when required. 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control. 
Where we recognise our interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity we use the equity method of accounting. Sometimes we  
may apply the equity method to a joint venture where we do not possess an equal shareholding to the other venturers, because the venturers 
are bound by a contractual arrangement and the contractual arrangement establishes joint control. This treatment is applied to our interest  
in Uch Power (Pvt) Limited of which we own 71% (refer to note 37).
E x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s
The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately 
if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity. The Directors label these items 
collectively as ‘exceptional items’. 
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter. However, circumstances that the 
Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: 
(i)  disposals of interests in businesses;
(ii) discontinued operations;
(iii) impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate. In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure 
is made of all items in one column on the face of the income statement. Exceptional items are also set out in note 8.
T a x a t ion
The income tax expense recorded in the income statement is dependent on the profit for the year and the tax rates in effect at the balance 
sheet date, unless new tax rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is also dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the 
tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates. It is necessary to consider which deferred 
tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.  165 Financial statements
b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
U s e f u l	 e c o n o m i c	 l i v e s	 o f	 p r o p e r t y ,	 p l a n t	 a n d	 e q u i p m e n t
Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective 
estimated useful lives. The Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives and residual values of the assets so that depreciation is 
charged on a systematic basis to the current carrying amount. It is Group policy to depreciate combined cycle gas plant over 30 years to a  
10% residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value. 
Coal plants, hydro plants and wind farms are considered on an individual basis. Our depreciation lives are disclosed in the accounting polices 
(refer to note 1).
I m p a i r m e n t	 a n a l y s i s
Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to the carrying amounts of the Group’s long-life assets, 
including goodwill and other intangible assets and the Group’s power plant and other property, plant and equipment. As a minimum, the 
recoverability of goodwill is tested on an annual basis. This includes a review of market conditions in both the short-term and long-term. 
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the current carrying amount of the asset with the present value of the expected future cash flows 
of the comparable cash generating unit and its fair value less costs to sell. The reviews are generally based on pre-tax risk adjusted discounted 
cash flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets. We benchmark  
the results of this testing against post-tax risk adjusted cash flows, discounted on a post-tax basis. At each balance sheet date, consideration is 
also given as to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods has reversed. 
As disclosed in note 8, during 2008, the Group impaired the carrying amount of its Milford plant following an impairment review. The 
impairment arises principally as a result of Milford’s long-term PPA coming to an end and changes to forward prices for its capacity and output. 
The charge of £37 million was classified as an exceptional item.
The Australian federal government has proposed introducing a Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme (CPRS) by 2010. The introduction of the 
CPRS has the potential to significantly impact the assumptions used to determine the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of 
the Group’s property, plant and equipment for the purpose of value-in-use calculations in impairment testing. The Group has not incorporated 
the impact of CPRS into its assumptions at 31 December 2008 as insufficient market information exists. Uncertainties pertain to: the level of 
emissions the Group is expected to emit in Australia; abatement opportunities; the price of emission permits; the number of permits required 
to be purchased; the ability to pass on the cost of the permits; and the level of government assistance. Due to the preceding factors listed, it is 
considered impracticable to assess CPRS implications on the business at this time.
F a i r	 v a l u e s	 o f	 e n e r g y	 d e r i v a t i v e s
The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the presentation requirements of IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: 
Presentation), the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) and the accounting requirements of IAS 39 (Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement). In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts on its balance sheet at fair 
value (unless they qualify for ‘own use’ treatment). Changes in the value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in the income 
statement unless the required hedge accounting criteria are met which allows the movement in fair value to be recorded within equity. The 
Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price curves. A forward price curve represents the 
Group’s view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, 
at future dates. Generally the forward price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon 
period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period. 
Assumptions which underpin the long-term price curve relate to the prices of commodities such as oil and carbon, the cost of constructing 
and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build 
additional capacity (‘new entrant pricing’). Uncertainties relating to the terms of the CPRS in Australia also have an impact on the determination 
of the shape of forward price curves for electricity in this region. The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will 
directly impact the shape of forward price curves. The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent 
uncertainty and subjectivity. 
As disclosed in note 31, at 31 December 2008 only 12% (2007: 13%) of the carrying amount of derivative assets are based on non-market 
observable inputs and only 23% (2007: 18%) of the carrying amount of derivative financial liabilities are based on non-market observable inputs.
F a i r	 v a l u e s	 o n	 a c q u i s i t i o n
The Group is required to bring acquired assets and liabilities on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value. Power plant and equipment 
usually have long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs. Determination of the fair values  
of these long-life assets and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement. Fair values on our major acquisitions are disclosed in 
note 30. In determining the fair values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as part of the acquisition of the portfolio of North American 
peaking plants we have used the services of a professional firm of valuers. 
R e c o v e r a b i l i t y	 o f	 t r a d e	 a n d	 o t h e r	 r e c e i v a b l e s
Management assesses the recoverability of its trade and other receivables on a periodic basis. Payment delays by the offtaker (the Water and 
Power Development Authority) in Pakistan have occurred at the Group’s joint ventures and associates during 2008. The Group has not made  
a provision against overdue amounts at 31 December 2008 as management consider that all amounts will be fully recovered from the offtaker. 
Pr ov i s ion s
Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions. The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions 
about such items as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs. For example,  
the pensions liability is based on assumptions relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries, expected mortality and future increases 
in pension payments. We review these assumptions regularly, and for pensions annually. However, a change in estimates could have a material 
impact on the carrying amount of these provisions. In relation to pensions liabilities, the result of a sensitivity analysis relating to actuarial 
assumptions is included in note 7.
39 Events after the balance sheet date
There are no events after the balance sheet date to report. 166 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
		 						 3 1	 D ece m b er	 3 1	 D ece m b er
		 						 2 0 0 8	 20 07
		 							(restated)
N o t e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £m	 £m
	 Fixed assets	 		 		 	
5	 T a n g i b l e	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	2
6	 I n v e s t m e n t s :
	 	 S u b s id i ar y	 u n de r t a k i n g s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 ,9 6 4	 4 , 32 6
	 	 O t h e r	 i n v e s t m e n t s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1
	 T o t a l	 f i x e d	 a s s e t	 i n v e s t m e n t s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 ,9 6 5	 4 , 3 27
	 Deferred	tax	 		 		 		 111	 84
	 Total fixed assets	 		 		 		 5 , 0 82	 4,4 13
	 	 		 		
	 Current assets	 		 		 	
7	 D e b t o r s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 252	 125
	 D e r i v a t i v e	 f i n a n c i a l	 a s s e t s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	3
	 C a s h	 a t	 b a n k	 a n d	 i n	 h a n d	 	 	 	 	 	 	 20 0	 24 6
	 Total current assets	 		 		 		 4 59	 374
8	 C r e d i t o r s :	 a m o u n t s	 f a l l i n g	 d u e	 w i t h i n	 o n e	 y e a r	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1 ,465)	 (1 ,409)
	 Net current liabilities	 		 		 	 	 (1 ,006)	 (1 ,035)
	 Total assets less current liabilities	 		 		 		 4 ,076	 3 , 37 8
9	 C r e d i t o r s :	 a m o u n t s	 f a l l i n g	 d u e	 a f t e r	 m o r e	 t h a n	 o n e	 y e a r	 	 	 	 	 	 ( 1, 179)	 ( 6 93 )
4	 R e t i r e m e n t	 b e n e f i t	 o b l i g a t i o n s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 ( 26 )	 ( 12)
1 0	 P r o v i s i o n s	 f o r	 l i a b i l i t i e s	 a n d	 c h a r g e s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1 0)	 (1 9)
	 Net assets	 		 		 		 2,861	 2 , 65 4
	 	 		 		
	 Capital and reserves
1 1 / 1 2	 C a l l e d	 u p	 s h a r e	 c a p i t a l	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7 59	 751
1 2	 S h a r e	 p r e m i u m	 a c c o u n t	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 31	 4 11
1 2	 C a p i t a l	 r e d e m p t i o n	 r e s e r v e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 145	 145
1 2	 C a p i t a l	 r e s e r v e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 15	 4 15
1 2	 P r o f i t	 a n d	 l o s s	 a c c o u n t	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,111	 932
	 Shareholders’ funds – equity	 		 		 		 2,861	 2 , 65 4
T h e	 f i n a n c i a l	 s t a t e m e n t s	 w e r e	 a p p r o v e d	 b y	 t h e	 B o a r d	 o f	 D i r e c t o r s	 a n d	 a u t h o r i s e d	 f o r	 i s s u e	 o n	 1 0	 M a r c h	 2 0 0 9	 a n d	 s i g n e d	 o n	 i t s	 b e h a l f	 b y
		 Philip Cox Mark Williamson
  Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Company balance sheet
at 31 December 2008
Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008 167 Financial statements
1 Accounting policies
a) Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under applicable law 
and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice) on the going concern basis using the historical cost 
convention, modified for certain items carried at fair value,  
as stated in the accounting policies. 
Under section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company  
is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and  
loss account. 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently  
in dealing with items which are considered material in relation  
to the financial statements, except as noted below.
As the results of the Company are being presented together with 
its consolidated financial statements (refer to pages 103 to 165), 
the Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in 
FRS 8 (Related Party Disclosures) and has therefore not disclosed 
transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group  
(or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties). In addition, 
the Company has also taken advantage of the exemption in  
FRS 29 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) not to present Company 
only information as the disclosures provided in the notes to the 
consolidated financial statements comply with the requirements  
of this standard.
The Company has changed its accounting policy for the treatment 
of guarantees to exchange convertible debt issued by its subsidiaries 
into Ordinary Shares of the Company. These guarantees are now 
accounted for as derivative liabilities whereas they had previously 
been accounted for as equity instruments. In view of the fact that 
the preference shares to be received (issuable by subsidiaries on 
redemption of convertible debt) are not for a fixed amount of the 
Company’s functional currency, this is considered to be a more 
appropriate accounting policy and in line with equivalent practice 
under IFRSs. This new accounting policy has been applied consistently 
to the current and comparative period. As a result, the comparative 
period has been restated to reduce profit for that year by £64 million 
and to reduce net assets by £213 million.
b) Income recognition
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised  
in the profit and loss account when the Company’s rights to receive 
payment have been established. 
c) Foreign currencies
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated  
at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date. Foreign currency 
non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost are 
translated at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. 
Exchange differences on monetary items are dealt with in the profit 
and loss account. Exchange differences on non-monetary items are 
recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non-monetary 
item itself is recognised in the profit and loss account or in equity. 
Notes to the Company financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2008
d) Pension schemes
The Company operates a pension scheme (by participating in the 
International Power section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme) 
providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the 
scheme are held separately from those of the Company. 
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. Pension 
scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit credit method 
and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate 
bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. 
The pension scheme surplus (to the extent that it is recoverable) or 
deficit is recognised in full. The movement in the scheme surplus/deficit 
is split between operating charges, finance items and, in the statement 
of total recognised gains and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
For defined contribution arrangements, contributions are charged  
to the profit and loss account as they fall due.
e) Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income  
on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an 
operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the  
lease term.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such  
that the rental income is less than the head lease rental cost, provision 
is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease payments during 
the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall of sub-lease income 
compared with the head-lease expense.
f) Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at original cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any provision for impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write-down the cost of tangible 
fixed assets to their residual value evenly over their estimated  
useful lives. 
The depreciation charge is based on the following estimates  
of useful lives:
 Years
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10
Computer equipment and software 3-5
Leasehold improvements Life of lease
g) Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision 
for impairment. 
h) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences, arising from the 
different treatment for accounts and taxation purposes of transactions 
and events recognised in the financial statements of the current 
year and previous years. Deferred taxation is calculated at the rates 
at which it is estimated that tax will arise. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are not discounted.  168 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
1 Accounting policies continued
i) Loans and bonds
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value 
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings  
on an effective interest method. 
j) Financial guarantees
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to 
guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and 
accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats  
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time  
as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to  
make a payment under the guarantee. 
k) Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions)  
at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the date of grant 
of the equity-settled share-based payments for employees of the 
Company is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Company’s estimate of the shares that will eventually 
vest and where applicable, adjusted for the effect of non-market-based 
vesting conditions.
For the Company’s Executive Share Option Plans the fair values are 
measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected lives 
used in these models have been adjusted, based on management’s 
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, any exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share 
Plan, without a market-related performance condition, the fair values 
have been calculated as the face value of the award discounted for  
the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share 
Plan, contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values 
are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method. 
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled 
share-based payments for employees of subsidiaries of the Company 
is recognised as an increase in investment in subsidiary undertakings 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the same 
estimates.
l) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
m) Derivative financial instruments
The Company has adopted the Group accounting policy for derivatives 
as set out in note 1q) to the consolidated financial statements.
n) Convertible bonds
The Company has adopted the Group accounting policy for convertible 
bonds as set out in note 1v) to the consolidated financial statements.
o) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present  
obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the  
Company will be required to settle that obligation and the amount  
can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation  
at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where 
the impact is material. 169 Financial statements
2 Profit of the Company
The profit of the Company for the financial year amounted to £358 million (2007 (restated): £54 million). By virtue of Section 230(4)  
of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is exempt from presenting a separate profit and loss account.
The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Employees
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        Number Number
Based in UK       232 203
Based overseas       30 27
        262 230
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
        Year ended  Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Wages and salaries       27 25
Share-based payments       4 5
Social security costs       3 3
Other pension costs       6 7
        40 40
For details of the Company’s share-based payments, refer to note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Remuneration of the Directors is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and in the audited section of the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 84 to 99.
4 Retirement benefit obligations
The Company is part of the industry-wide pension scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS), which is a defined benefit scheme 
with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds as described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. There are no defined 
benefit obligations relating to plans which are unfunded. 
Following a strategic review of the Group’s exposure to pension risk over the long-term and a period of consultation with employees and 
their representatives, the International Power section of the ESPS in the UK was closed to new members effective from 1 June 2008. Existing 
members will continue to accrue future service benefits under this plan. From 1 June 2008 all new UK employees are eligible to become 
members of a defined contribution plan.
The valuation used for the FRS 17 disclosure at 31 December 2008 has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the International 
Power section of the ESPS at 31 March 2007 updated by independent qualified actuaries to reflect the requirements of FRS 17.
Movements in defined benefit obligations:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
At 1 January       117 100
Service cost       6 7
Interest cost       7 5
Actuarial (gains)/losses       (12) 4
Scheme participant contributions       2 1
Benefits paid, net of transfers in       (1) –
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r       119 117 170 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
4 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movements in fair value of assets:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
At 1 January       100 88
Expected return on assets       8 6
Actuarial losses       (32) (2)
Employer contributions       6 7
Scheme participant contributions       2 1
Benefits paid, net of transfers in       (1) –
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r       83 100
Funded status:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Funded status – deficit       (36) (17)
Unrecognised past service cost/(benefit)       – –
Effect of surplus cap       – –
        (36) (17)
Related deferred tax asset       10 5
N e t	 a m o u n t	 r e c o g n i s e d       (26) (12)
The amounts charged to operating profit, recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plan were as follows:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Service cost       6 7
Past service cost       – –
Expected return on scheme assets       (8) (6)
Interest on scheme liabilities       7 5
Effect of settlements and curtailments       – –
		      5 6
The amount recognised as pension cost in the statement of total recognised gains and losses was as follows:
        Year ended Year ended
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Actuarial losses immediately recognised       20 6
Effect of surplus cap       – –
		 	 	    20 6
Assets in the scheme were as follows:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Equities       58 78
Bonds        8 11
Other        17 11
Total        83 100
To develop the expected long-term return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on government 
bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations 
for future returns for each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the scheme’s asset allocation 
to develop the expected long-term return on assets assumption. This resulted in the selection of an expected long-term return on assets 
assumption of 7.61% to determine the pension cost for the year ended 31 December 2008 (2007: 7.15%). The expected long-term return  
on assets assumption to determine the pension cost for the year ending 31 December 2009 is 7.14%. 171 Financial statements
Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        % %
Discount rate       5.7 5.8
Rate of increase in salaries       4.4 4.9
Inflation       2.9 3.4
Rate of increase of pensions in payment       2.9 3.4
Rate of increase in deferred pensions       2.9 3.4
Assumptions used to determine pension cost:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        % %
Discount rate       5.8 5.1
Rate of increase in salaries       4.9 4.6
Inflation       3.4 3.1
Rate of increase of pensions in payment       3.4 3.1
Rate of increase in deferred pensions       3.4 3.1
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets       7.6 7.2
Life expectancy assumptions used to determine benefit obligations:
        31 December 31 December
        2008 2007
        years years
Life expectancy for a member aged 60 at the year end
 — Men       26.0 25.9
 — Women       28.6 28.5
Life expectancy for member aged 60 in 20 years’ time
 — Men       27.4 27.3
 — Women       29.6 29.5
History of experience gains and losses:
     Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
     31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
     2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Difference between the actual and expected return on pension scheme assets:
Amount (£m)    (32) (2) 2 9 3
Percentage of scheme assets    39% 2% 2% 12% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains arising on the scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m)    – (6) – (6) 4
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities    – 5% – 7% 6%
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£m)    (20) (6) 7 (6) –
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities    17% 5% 7% 7% –
C on t r ib u t ion s
The Company expects to make contributions of approximately £5 million to the scheme during 2009. 172 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
5 Tangible fixed assets
       Leasehold Plant,  Total
       improvements machinery and 
        equipment 
       £m £m £m
Co st
At 1 January 2008      2 6 8
Additions      3 2 5
Disposals      – (1) (1)
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8      5 7 12
D e p r e c ia t ion
At 1 January 2008      1 5 6
Provided during the year      1 – 1
Disposals      – (1) (1)
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8      2 4 6
N e t	 b o o k	 v a l u e
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8      3 3 6
At 31 December 2007      1 1 2
6 Fixed asset investments
     Subsidiary undertakings
      Investment Loans to Other Total
       investments 
      £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007 (restated)     2,468 1,577 1 4,046
Additions     1,346 183 – 1,529
Distribution and loan repayments     – (1,015) – (1,015)
Disposals     (250) – – (250)
Exchange differences     – 17 – 17
At 31 December 2007     3,564 762 1 4,327
Additions     180 429 – 609
Distribution and loan repayments     – (37) – (37)
Impairments     (7) (5) – (12)
Exchange differences     – 78 – 78
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8     3,737 1,227 1 4,965
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are provided in notes 36 and 37 to the consolidated  
financial statements.
7 Debtors
Amounts falling due within one year:        
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Due from subsidiary undertakings       239 96
Corporation tax       – 16
Other debtors       11 10
Prepayments and accrued income       2 3
T o t a l	 d e b t o r s       252 125 173 Financial statements
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
        31 December 31 December
         2008 2007
         (restated)
        £m £m
Trade creditors       – 1
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings       1,227 1,344
Other creditors       17 21
Corporation tax       97 –
Other taxation and social security       1 –
Derivative financial liabilities       86 –
Accruals and deferred income       37 43
T o t a l	 c r e d i t o r s :	 a m o u n t s	 f a l l i n g	 d u e	 w i t h i n	 o n e	 y e a r       1,465 1,409
9 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
        31 December 31 December
         2008 2007
        £m £m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings       1,088 310
Derivative financial liabilities       91 383
T o t a l	 c r e d i t o r s :	 a m o u n t s	 f a l l i n g	 d u e	 a f t e r	 m o r e	 t h a n	 o n e	 y e a r      1,179 693
10 Provisions
         Total
        
         £m
At 1 January 2007         10
Charged to profit and loss        10
Credited to profit and loss        (1)
At 31 December 2007        19
Utilised during the year        (9)
At 31 December 2008        10
In 2007 provisions comprised onerous property leases and legacy pension commitments relating to other members of the Electricity Supply 
Pension Scheme. £9 million has been utilised during the year in order to extinguish the liability relating to the expected vacancy period for 
leased premises at Senator House. The remaining provisions are not expected to require settlement in the short-term. The Directors are 
uncertain as to the timing of when these provisions will be utilised.
11 Share capital
     Authorised  Issued and fully paid
     Ordinary Shares of 50p  Ordinary Shares of 50p
    Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2008  2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan  – – 3,400,824 2
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan  – – 2,551,389 1
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan  – – 1,621,671 1
Issue of shares under 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023  – – 9,219,227 4
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8	 	 2 , 2 6 6 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0	 1 , 1 3 3	 1 , 5 1 8 , 7 3 2 , 6 2 4	 7 5 9
     Authorised  Issued and fully paid
     Ordinary Shares of 50p  Ordinary Shares of 50p
    Number £m Number £m
At 1 January 2007  2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746
Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan  – – 7,826,019 4
Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan  – – 830,476 –
Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan  – – 1,230,108 1
At 31 December 2007  2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751 174 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
11 Share capital continued
Ordinary Shares
Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the 
winding up of the Company. On a show of hands every shareholder who (being an individual) is present in person or (being a corporation)  
is present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll, every shareholder present in person or proxy has one vote  
in respect of every share held.
Deferred Shares
The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 penny each in issue. These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power  
and Innogy in 2000 was effected as efficiently as possible. The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend  
or vote at any general meeting. 
Unclassified share
Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Company’s authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of £1.
12 Share capital and reserves
    Called up Share Capital Capital Profit Total
    share premium redemption reserve and loss  shareholders’
    capital  account reserve  account funds –
         equity
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2008   751 411 145 415 932 2,654
Profit for the year   – – – – 358 358
Issue of shares   8 20 – – – 28
Dividends   – – – – (166) (166)
Actuarial loss on pension (net of deferred tax)   – – – – (14) (14)
Other movements   – – – – 1 1
A t	 3 1	 D e c e m b e r	 2 0 0 8   759 431 145 415 1,111 2,861
    Called up Share Capital Capital Profit Total
    share premium redemption reserve and loss  shareholders’
    capital  account reserve  account funds –
          equity
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007   746 402 145 415 1,185 2,893
Prior year adjustment   – – – – (149) (149)
At 1 January 2007 (restated)   746 402 145 415 1,036 2,744
Profit for the year (restated)   – – – – 54 54
Issue of shares   5 9 – – – 14
Dividends   – – – – (160) (160)
Actuarial loss on pension (net of deferred tax)   – – – – (4) (4)
Other movements   – – – – 6 6
At 31 December 2007   751 411 145 415 932 2,654
The share premium account, capital redemption reserve and capital reserve are not distributable.
The Company operates two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) in which shares may be held for the purpose of satisfying 
awards made under the Company’s 2002 Performance Share Plan. During the year 1,621,671 shares (2007: 1,230,108 shares) were issued  
and placed into trust. The total cost of the acquisition was £6,000,182 (2007: £919,998).
At 31 December 2008, these ESOTs held nil shares (2007: 253,990). The market value of shares held in trust at 31 December 2008  
was £nil (2007: £1,151,845).
£599 million (2007: £424 million) of the Company’s profit and loss reserve is not distributable as it relates to unrealised gains on intra-group 
transactions.
As stated in note 1a), the Company has changed its accounting policy for the treatment of guarantees to exchange convertible debt issued  
by its subsidiaries into Ordinary Shares of the Company. This has resulted in a reduction in shareholders’ funds at 1 January 2007 of £149 million. 
The impact on the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2007 was a reduction of £64 million. 175 Financial statements
13 Commitments
Lease commitments
        31 December  31 December
        2008 2007
        £m £m
Property leases (annual commitment): 
Expiring within one year       – 1
Expiring after five years       3 5
14 Contingent liabilities
a) Legal proceedings against the Company
Details of legal proceedings against the Company are shown in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. 
b) Taxation
Details of contingent liabilities relating to tax issues are shown in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
c) Bonds and guarantees
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Company totalling  
£622 million (2007: £472 million). Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees  
issued by the Company totalling £383 million (2007: £299 million).
d) Convertible bonds
As set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements International Power plc has unconditionally guaranteed the 3.75% convertible  
US dollar bonds 2023 issued by International Power (Jersey) Limited, the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 issued by International Power 
Finance (Jersey) II Limited and the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 issued by International Power Finance (Jersey) III Limited. 
15 Related party disclosures
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities 
which form part of the Group. 176 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of International Power plc
We have audited the Group and parent company financial 
statements (the ‘financial statements’) of International Power plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated and Company 
balance sheets, the consolidated statement of recognised income 
and expense, the consolidated cash flow statement and the 
related notes to the consolidated and Company financial 
statements. These financial statements have been prepared 
under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also 
audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report 
that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state  
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this  
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report 
and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent 
company financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration 
report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting 
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set 
out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 102. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report  
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report  
to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the 
Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.  
The information given in the Directors’ report includes that 
specific information that is cross-referred in the Business  
Review section of the Directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company  
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received  
all the information and explanations we require for our audit,  
or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ 
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules  
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. 
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements 
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance 
procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report  
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 
statements. We consider the implications for our report if  
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities 
do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,  
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the 
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors  
in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether  
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s  
and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and  
adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary  
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated  
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
—  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view,  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state  
of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit 
for the year then ended; 
—  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation; 
—  the parent company financial statements give a true and fair 
 view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2008;
—  the parent company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have  
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 1985; 
—  the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent 
with the financial statements. 
K P M G	 A u d i t	 P l c 
Chartered accountants 
Registered auditor  
10 March 2009
8 Salisbury Square 
London EC4Y 8BB
Independent auditor’s report
International Power Annual Report 2008 177 Financial statements
Five-year financial summary
The following tables are the consolidated income statements, the consolidated income statements excluding exceptional items and specific  
IAS 39 mark to market movements and the summary balance sheets for the five years ended 31 December 2008.
C on s o li da t e d	 inc om e	 s t a t e m e n t s
     Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
     31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
     2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
     £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates    5,230 3,485 3,783 2,936 1,267
Less: share of joint ventures’ and associates’ revenue    (1,409) (1,160) (1,199) (1,003) (499)
G r o u p	 r eve n u e    3,821 2,325 2,584 1,933 768
Cost of sales    (2,756) (1,929) (1,839) (1,513) (637)
G ro s s	 p ro f i t    1,065 396 745 420 131
Other operating income    112 96 102 122 56
Other operating expenses    (241) (172) (163) (129) (67)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates    220 198 214 198 113
P r o f i t	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i o n s    1,156 518 898 611 233
Disposal of interests in businesses    – 289 – 10 4
Finance income    104 77 53 53 30
Finance expenses    (345) (401) (327) (255) (138)
P r o f i t	 b e f o r e	 t a x    915 483 624 419 129
Taxation    (156) 46 (147) (89) (25)
P r o f i t	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r    759 529 477 330 104
Attributable to:
Minority interests    92 26 67 45 6
Equity holders of the parent    667 503 410 285 98
B a s i c	 e a r n i n g s	 p e r	 s h a r e    44.2p 33.6p 27.6p 19.4p 7.5p
Diluted earnings per share    34.7p 31.8p 26.2p 18.5p 7.4p
Five-year financial summary 178 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
C o n s o l i d a t e d	 i n c o m e	 s t a t e m e n t s	 e x c l u d i n g	 e x c e p t i o n a l	 i t e m s	 a n d	 s p e c i f i c	 I A S	 3 9	 m a r k	 t o	 m a r k e t	 m o v e m e n t s
     Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 
     31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
     2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
     £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates    4,891 3,872 3,645 2,980 1,267
Less: share of joint ventures’ and associates’ revenue    (1,409) (1,160) (1,193) (1,000) (499)
G r o u p	 r eve n u e    3,482 2,712 2,452 1,980 768
Cost of sales     (2,552) (1,927) (1,807) (1,570) (637)
G ro s s	 p ro f i t    930 785 645 410 131
Other operating income     112 96 83 64 56
Other operating expenses     (221) (163) (163) (129) (78)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates     229 186 208 191 113
P r o f i t	 f r o m	 o p e r a t i o n s    1,050 904 773 536 222
Finance income    104 77 53 53 30
Finance expenses    (472) (385) (301) (255) (107)
P r o f i t	 b e f o r e	 t a x    682 596 525 334 145
Taxation    (123) (113) (122) (68) (25)
P r o f i t	 f o r	 t h e	 y e a r    559 483 403 266 120
Attributable to:
Minority interests    69 77 71 52 8
Equity holders of the parent    490 406 332 214 112
B a s i c	 e a r n i n g s	 p e r	 s h a r e    32.4p 27.1p 22.4p 14.6p 8.6p
C on s o li da t e d	 b a la nc e	 s h e e t s
     31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
     2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
     £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets    12,201 9,444 7,420 6,592 5,667
Inventories    275 150 141 110 91
Other current asset receivables and derivatives    1,484 977 806 676 238
Cash and cash equivalents and assets held for trading    1,129 1,161 1,022 672 612
Current assets    2,888 2,288 1,969 1,458 941
Current liabilities    (2,317) (2,053) (1,174) (1,305) (551)
Non-current liabilities    (8,637) (6,672) (5,475) (4,370) (3,999)
Net assets     4,135 3,007 2,740 2,375 2,058
Net debt    6,318 4,662 3,575 3,060 2,752
Gearing    153% 155% 130% 129% 134%
Debt capitalisation    60% 61% 57% 56% 57%
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions)    885 1,072 1,080 847 1,549
Five-year financial summary
International Power Annual Report 2008 179 Financial statements
Shareholder profile
at 31 December 2008
C a t ego r y	 o f	 h o ldi ng s
    Number  Percentage Ordinary Percentage 
    of shareholders  of total  Shares of issued 
     shareholders   share capital
Private individuals  378,562 98.72 171,664,079 11.30
Nominee companies  4,609 1.20 1,326,876,316 87.37
Limited and public companies  207 0.05 3,582,544 0.23
Other organisations  103 0.03 13,908,493 0.92
Pension funds, insurance companies and banks  16 0.00 2,701,192 0.18
Total   383,497 100.00 1,518,732,624 100.00
R ang e	 o f	 h o ldi ng s
    Number  Percentage Ordinary Percentage 
    of shareholders  of total  Shares of issued 
     shareholders   share capital
1 – 199  93,145 24.29 14,110,504 0.93
200 – 499  205,295 53.53 59,399,227 3.91
500 – 999  55,867 14.57 38,183,182 2.51
1,000 – 4,999  25,865 6.75 45,253,804 2.98
5,000 – 9,999  1,815 0.47 12,048,498 0.79
10,000 – 49,999  783 0.20 15,292,160 1.01
50,000 – 99,999  133 0.03 9,644,954 0.64
100,000 – 499,999  301 0.08 70,878,662 4.67
500,000 – 999,999  107 0.03 77,056,555 5.07
1,000,000 – highest  186 0.05 1,176,865,078 77.49
Total   383,497 100.00 1,518,732,624 100.00
Supplementary information 180 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The 2009 AGM will be held on Thursday 21 May 2009.  
Further details are outlined in the Notice of the AGM.
Electronic voting
For the AGM you can register your vote electronically by logging  
on to the following website: w w w . s h a r evo te . co . u k. You will need 
your voting reference numbers (the three 8-digit numbers shown  
on your Proxy Form). Alternatively, if you have already registered  
for a Shareview portfolio with Equiniti, then log on to your portfolio  
at w w w. sh a r ev ie w. c o .u k and click on company meetings.
Receive your Annual Report online
If you have access to the Internet, in future you can receive your copy 
of the Annual Report by registering with w w w. sh a r ev ie w. c o .uk. 
This is a service offered by Equiniti that also enables you to check 
your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to organise your 
investments electronically. Once you have registered for a portfolio, 
you can also use this service to change your address details online 
as well as register your vote for a company’s General Meeting safely, 
securely and privately.
Consolidated tax vouchers
A new system was introduced in 2008 for those shareholders 
receiving direct dividend payments. Following this, single consolidated 
tax vouchers are now issued at the end of March each year, in time  
for the preparation of self-assessment tax returns.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you can choose to 
reinvest your money in the Company’s shares by using a Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (DRIP). The DRIP works by reinvesting your 
dividend money by way of buying shares in the open market.  
If you would like to receive further information and an application 
form for the International Power DRIP, please contact Equiniti on 
0 8 7 1	 3 8 4	 2 2 6 8.
Individual Savings Accounts
Information on the International Power corporate Individual Savings 
Account (ISA), which offers a tax-efficient way of holding shares, 
can be obtained from Equiniti Financial Services Limited, who can 
be contacted on 0 8 4 5	 3 0 0	 0 4 3 0.
Shareholder enquiries
If you have any queries on the following:
—  transfer of shares
—  change of name or address
—  lost share certificates
—  lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of dividends 
directly into a bank or building society account
—  death of the registered holder of shares
—  receiving duplicate copies of this report
—  receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual Report  
in addition to the electronic version of the report
please contact Equiniti on 0 8 7 1	 3 8 4	 2 0 8 2 or write to them  
at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex,  
BN99 6DA, quoting International Power and including your 
shareholder reference number (found on your share certificate).
Additional information can be found on the Equiniti Limited  
website at w w w .e q u i n i t i .c o m.
Shareholder services and information
Share dealing services
Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service for both 
the purchase and sale of shares. This is a postal service only. For 
information on the low-cost dealing service, or to obtain a dealing 
form, please contact Equiniti on 0 8 7 1	 3 8 4	 2 0 8 2.
Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a 
BT landline. Other telephony providers’ costs may vary.
Shareview dealing
Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share dealing service, details 
of which can be found on their website: w w w . sh a r e v ie w . c o .uk / d e a lin g. 
This arrangement is available at any time during market trading hours 
and provides an easy and convenient facility to trade shares offering 
real time prices through a range of market makers, and giving you 
control of when and for how much you wish to trade your shares.  
Full terms and conditions for this service are available on the 
Shareview website. You should note that for sales, the maximum 
online trade size is £25,000 and for purchases £20,000. To trade  
over the telephone, please call 0 8 4 5	 6 0 3	 7 0 3 7.
Share price
Our latest share price information is available on our website at  
w w w. ip p lc . c om / ip r / inve s t o r s / s ha r e inf o. This link will provide you 
with International Power’s latest share price, historical closing prices 
and volumes and an interactive share price graph.
In addition, you can now access the latest share price on your 
Blackberry, PDA or mobile phone at h t t p : / / m ob il e . ip p lc . c om.
Contact details
General enquiries
Please contact:  
Stephen Ramsay 
Company Secretary 
International Power plc 
Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street 
London EC4V 4DP 
Tel: 020 7320 8706 
E-mail: ipr.relations@ipplc.com
Corporate investor and media enquiries
Please contact: 
Aarti Singhal 
Head of Communications 
International Power plc 
Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street 
London EC4V 4DP 
Tel: 020 7320 8600 
E-mail: ipr.relations@ipplc.com
Website
The International Power website: w w w. ip p lc . c om contains the 2008 
Annual Report and Summary Annual Report, along with a wide range 
of other information on the Group. The Annual Report and Summary 
Annual Report can be found at 
w w w . ip p lc . c om / ip r / in v e s t o r s / r e po r t s / r e p 2 0 0 8 /.
The website also hosts an alert service  
w w w. ip p lc . c om / ip r / s i t e s e r v ic e s / a l e r t s, where you can sign up  
for e-mail alerts of news releases, reports, results and presentations  
and events.
Corporate responsibility
Further information on corporate responsibility is available  
on our website: w w w. ip p lc . c om / ip r / e nv i r on m e n t /.
Shareholder services and information
International Power Annual Report 2008
Financial calendar
For updates to the calendar during the year, please see our website: w w w. ip p lc . c om / ip r / inve s t o r s / eve n t s /.
Interim Management Statement 12 May 2009
Annual General Meeting 21 May 2009
2008 final dividend ex-dividend date 3 June 2009
2008 final dividend record date 5 June 2009
2008 final dividend payment date 9 July 2009
Interim Report for the six months ending 30 June 2009 11 August 2009
Interim Management Statement 11 November 2009 181 Financial statements
Glossary
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)  
The number of Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) divided by the number  
of hours worked, multiplied by 100,000. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)  
Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the Company.
Asset-backed trading  
The selling of the electricity generated and fuel used by our power 
stations.
Availability  
A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually 
available to be generated during the period, after taking account  
of both planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage  
of the maximum potential electrical energy generation.
Bond  
Financial instrument that obligates the issuing company (the borrower) 
to make specified payments to the holder (the lender).
Brownfield  
An area of land that has previously been developed, such as the site  
of a demolished building.
Call option  
An option to buy a security at a pre-determined price.
Capacity (installed)  
Generator capacity (measured in megawatts), usually indicated  
on a nameplate physically attached to the generator.
Combined cycle plant  
Combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) – the combination of a gas turbine 
(GT) and steam turbine (ST) in a configuration that enables electricity 
to be generated directly from a generator driven by the GT and,  
by using exhaust gases from the GT to produce steam, a ST coupled 
to the same generator or another generator.
CEO  
Chief Executive Officer.
CFO  
Chief Financial Officer.
CO2  
Carbon dioxide.
Cogeneration  
The simultaneous generation of electricity and heat in the form  
of steam, typically where the need for both arises for industrial  
or commercial purposes and where the steam is generated by  
utilising the waste heat from electricity generation.
Combined Code  
The Code which sets out the expected corporate governance 
standards for companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Corridor approach  
Under this approach to recognising surpluses and deficits in defined 
benefit pension plans, actuarial gains and losses are not recognised 
immediately. Only when the cumulative gains or losses fall outside 
the corridor is a specified portion recognised in the income statement 
from the following year onwards. The corridor is 10% of the present 
value of the pension rights accrued or of the fund assets at market 
value, if greater.
CR  
Corporate responsibility.
CSR  
Corporate social responsibility.
Dark spread  
The difference between the cost of coal to generate electricity  
and the price at which electricity is sold.
Debt capitalisation  
Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and total equity.
Demerger  
The process whereby National Power split its UK and international 
operations (International Power) into separate businesses.
Desalination plant  
Plant which produces drinking water from sea water.
Due diligence  
A process undertaken before the acquisition of a business to ensure 
all significant risks, rewards and issues are identified and considered 
before any offer is made to the vendor or an acquisition takes place.
Emission allowances  
Under various environmental schemes, emission allowances are 
required to cover the amount of relevant emissions made by a power 
station. Cap and trade schemes are a common type of scheme. Under 
a cap and trade scheme, operators are required to purchase sufficient 
emission allowances to cover their actual emissions, and the operator 
may or may not be granted an initial volume of allowances. Examples 
of such schemes include the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EUETS) 
which covers emissions of CO2, based on a cap and trade system. 
Other examples include the Clean Air Act in the US which covers 
emissions of NOx and SOx.
EPC contract  
Engineering, procurement and construction contract, used principally 
for the building of power stations by a turnkey provider. 
EPS  
Earnings per share. It is calculated by dividing the profit after interest, 
tax and minority interests by the weighted average number of 
Ordinary Shares in issue.
ERCOT  
Electric Reliability Council of Texas – responsible for managing the 
Texas generating and transmission systems.
ETS  
Emissions trading scheme – programme for the trading of emissions 
permits relating to CO2 output. 
EUETS  
European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
FGD  
Flue gas desulphurisation – a process which removes sulphur from  
the flue gas emissions of a coal plant. 
Forced outage rate  
A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually 
unavailable for generation during the period, after taking account  
of planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of  
the maximum potential electrical energy generation.
Supplementary information 182 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
Glossary continued
Fossil fuel  
It is generally accepted that fossil fuels are formed from the fossilised 
remains of dead plants and animals by exposure to heat and pressure 
in the Earth’s crust over hundreds of millions of years. They are found 
within the top layer of the earth’s crust and range from very volatile 
materials with low carbon to hydrogen ratios like methane, to those 
with high carbon to hydrogen ratios like liquid petroleum. They also 
include non-volatile materials composed of almost pure carbon, like 
anthracite coal. Fossil fuels are non-renewable resources because they 
take millions of years to form.
Functional currency  
The currency of the primary economic environment in which  
the entity operates.
Gearing  
Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
Generator nameplate capacity  
The maximum output of a generator, under specific conditions 
designated by the manufacturer.
Greenfield land  
A piece of undeveloped land, either currently used for agriculture  
or just left to nature.
Grid (the)  
The electricity transmission network.
GSA  
Gas supply agreement.
GT  
Gas turbine.
GW  
Gigawatt, one thousand million watts.
Gigawatt hour (GWh)  
A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such 
as a small light bulb, drawing power for one hour. The kilowatt-hour 
(kWh) is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour and is a useful size for 
measuring the energy use of households and small businesses and 
also for the production of energy by small power plants. A typical 
household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month. The 
gigawatt-hour (GWh) is 1,000,000 times larger than the kilowatt-hour 
and is used for measuring the energy output of large power plants.
Hedge contracts  
A contract that gives protection against risks of future price 
movements.
Heat recovery steam generator (HRSG)  
Used in Combined Cycle Plants.
HS&E  
Health, safety and environment.
HUBCO  
The Hub Power Company.
IASs  
International Accounting Standards.
IASB  
International Accounting Standards Board.
ICOM  
Investment Committee.
IFRSs  
International Financial Reporting Standards.
IPO  
International Power Opatovice A.S. (a subsidiary in the Czech Republic 
which provides power and district heating to the city of Prague).
IPP  
Independent power producer.
ISO 14001  
The international standard of environment management systems.
Joule  
A measure of energy (work done), the ability to generate one watt  
for one second.
KAPCO  
The Kot Addu Power Company.
KPI  
Key performance indicator.
kW  
Kilowatt – 1,000 watts.
Kilowatt hour (kWh)  
A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such 
as a small light bulb, drawing power for one hour. The kilowatt-hour 
(kWh) is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour and is a useful size for 
measuring the energy use of households and small businesses and 
also for the production of energy by small power plants. A typical 
household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month. 
Kyoto Protocol  
A protocol to the International Framework Convention on Climate 
Change with the objective of reducing greenhouse gases in an effort 
to prevent anthropogenic climate change.
LCPD  
Large Combustion Plant Directive.
LDs  
Liquidated damages, being a reasonable pre-estimate of loss specified 
in a contract, payable if one party breaches one part of a contract.
LNG  
Liquefied natural gas.
Load factor  
The proportion of electricity actually sold, compared with the 
maximum possible sales of electricity at maximum net capacity.
Lost Time Accident (LTA)  
24-hour absence from work.
Letter of Credit (LoC)  
A credit facility provided by a bank.
Glossary
International Power Annual Report 2008 183 Financial statements
M&A  
Mergers and acquisitions.
Mark to market  
The act of attributing a fair or market value to a financial instrument 
rather than its historical cost. Marking to market is required under 
accounting rules for certain derivatives and financial instruments.
Merchant market  
A merchant market is a deregulated market. It is a market in which 
electricity is bought and sold competitively by multiple market 
participants.
Merchant plant  
Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets selling 
power into the traded market without long-term Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs).
MIGD  
Millions of imperial gallons per day.
MISO  
Midwest Independent System Operator.
Mitsui  
Mitsui & Co. of Japan.
Mothball  
To temporarily suspend operation at a project in such a way that  
it can be returned to service in the future.
MoU  
Memorandum of understanding.
MW  
Megawatt; one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts or one million watts.
Megawatt hour (MWh)  
A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such 
as a small light bulb, drawing power for one hour. The kilowatt-hour 
(kWh) is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour and is a useful size for 
measuring the energy use of households and small businesses and 
also for the production of energy by small power plants. A typical 
household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month. The 
megawatt-hour (MWh) is 1,000 times larger than the kilowatt-hour 
and is used for measuring the energy output of large power plants.
MWth  
One megawatt of thermal power, which is used to measure heat.
National Allocation Plan  
The Plan issued under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme that sets out 
how greenhouse gas emission allowances will be allocated to affected 
industry sectors and the carbon-producing assets within the relevant 
sector.
NEPOOL  
New England power pool.
Non-recourse debt  
Debt secured on an asset, and where the lender has no recourse  
to the shareholder.
NOx  
Oxides of nitrogen.
NPV  
Net present value, being the value of an asset calculated by reference 
to its future cash flows.
O&E  
Operations and Engineering.
O&M  
Operations and maintenance, usually used in the context of operating 
and maintaining a power station.
OCGT  
Open cycle gas turbine – turbines, typically fuelled by gas or diesel oil, 
are used to drive the generators to produce electricity, with no use of 
the waste heat for subsequent power generation.
Offtake agreement  
Power purchase agreement between a company owning a power 
station and its customer (the offtaker) whereby the customer takes 
the electricity generated by a power station.
OHSAS 18001  
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18001. A 
management system specification, developed by British Standards 
Institute which is now an accepted international standard, for health 
and safety which is compatible with ISO 9001:1994 (Quality) and  
ISO 14001:1996 (Environmental) management.
OPERA  
Operating plant engineering risk assessment, an internally developed 
tool for assessing engineering risk at assets.
OSA  
Oil supply agreement.
Outage  
When a generating unit is removed from service to perform 
maintenance work. This can either be planned or unplanned.
Peak load  
The maximum demand for electricity during a specified high demand 
period. This may require use of plant (for example pumped storage) 
that is kept in reserve for peak periods.
Peaking plant  
Plant that runs only in times of short supply (normally during peak 
demand), when prices are high.
PJM  
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland power pool.
Supplementary information 184 Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008
International Power Annual Report 2008
Glossary
International Power Annual Report 2008
Glossary continued
Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)  
See also Offtake agreement. A PPA is generally a long-term contract 
between an electricity generator and a purchaser of energy or capacity 
(power or ancillary services). 
Proprietary trading  
The trading of commodities for the purposes of making a profit, when 
the commodity, such as electricity, is not generated by our own power 
stations or purchased for use by our own power stations, also known 
as non-asset backed trading.
Pumped storage  
A method of energy generation that involves moving water between 
reservoirs at different elevations. When electricity prices are low, 
typically overnight, electricity from the grid system is used to pump 
water into a raised reservoir and then at times of peak demand, when 
electricity prices are higher, the water is released back into the lower 
reservoir through a turbine. 
Put option  
An option to sell a security back to the issuer at a pre-determined 
price.
PWPA  
Power and water purchase agreements.
Recourse debt  
Debt where the lender has recourse to parties other than the 
borrower, usually a parent company or shareholder.
Reserve margin  
The amount of available plant reserve capacity above the system’s 
peak electricity requirements.
RGGI  
Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a US regulation towards  
carbon emission reduction in ten north eastern states.
RPI  
Retail Price Index.
SCR  
Selective catalytic reduction – equipment to reduce the content  
of oxides of nitrogen in flue gases.
SO2  
Sulphur dioxide.
SOx  
Oxides of sulphur.
Spark spread  
The difference between the gas cost to generate electricity  
and the price at which electricity is sold.
Spot price  
Market price at a particular point in time.
Spread  
The difference between the fuel costs to generate electricity  
and the price at which electricity is sold.
Technical availability  
A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually 
available to be generated during the period, after taking account  
of both planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage  
of the maximum potential electrical energy generation.
Tolling agreement  
A form of long-term electricity contract where the buyer of electricity 
also supplies the fuel and the generator provides plant and operational 
services.
TSR  
Total shareholder return.
Turnkey contract  
A contract where one party takes full responsibility for the 
construction and commissioning of a plant, delivering the plant  
in full working order to the owner.
Turnbull Guidance  
The Turnbull Guidance expands upon the Combined Code 
requirements for the Directors’ review of the effectiveness  
of the Group’s system of internal controls.
UAE  
United Arab Emirates.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act  
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in reaction to the highly 
publicised bankruptcies of Enron and WorldCom and is concerned  
with strictly enforcing corporate governance and financial disclosure.
Watt  
Unit of power, which is the rate at which energy is delivered  
(i.e. work is done at a rate of one watt when one ampere flows 
through a potential difference of one volt). Our Company 
Learn more about International Power’s assets  
and global reach
Shareholder information 
Visit the dedicated site for International Power 
shareholders and investors
Environment and society 
The International Power 
website has a wealth of 
detailed and up-to-date 
information about  
the Company and its 
business activities
w w w . i p p l c.c o m
Our Company 
Learn more about International Power’s assets  
and global reach
Shareholder information 
Visit the dedicated site for International Power 
shareholders and investors
Environment and society 
Get the full picture about International Power,  
the environment and corporate responsibility
The International Power 
website has a wealth of 
detailed and up-to-date 
information about  
the Company and its 
business activities
w w w . i p p l c.c o m Registered Office  
International Power plc  
Senator House 
85 Queen Victoria Street  
London EC4V 4DP
Registered in England  
and Wales No: 2366963
Published by  
International Power plc
www.ipplc.com
Designed 	 and 	 produced 	 by 	 Roundel	
www.roundel.com
Photography: front cover – Frank 
Bauer, Getty Images; Board and senior 
management – Orla Deevy; power 
station double page images – Jeff Jones
It is important to us that our Annual 
Report is produced in an environmentally 
responsible manner, including the 
sourcing of materials. This Annual 
Report is printed in the UK by Royle 
Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral company, 
on Revive Pure White Silk (cover) and 
Revive 75 Matt (text pages), recycled 
papers with Forest Stewardship 
Council certification, using vegetable-
based inks and water-based sealants. 
The printer and paper-manufacturing 
mill both have ISO 14001 accreditation 
for environmental management.
When you have finished with this item, 
please dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste.
Registered Office  
International Power plc  
Senator House 
85 Queen Victoria Street  
London EC4V 4DP
Registered in England  
and Wales No: 2366963
Published by  
International Power plc
www.ipplc.com
Designed 	 and 	 produced 	 by 	 Roundel	
www.roundel.com
Photography: front cover – Frank 
Bauer, Getty Images; Board and senior 
management – Orla Deevy; power 
station double page images – Jeff Jones
It is important to us that our Annual 
Report is produced in an environmentally 
responsible manner, including the 
sourcing of materials. This Annual 
Report is printed in the UK by Royle 
Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral company, 
on Revive Pure White Silk (cover) and 
Revive 75 Matt (text pages), recycled 
papers with Forest Stewardship 
Council certification, using vegetable-
based inks and water-based sealants. 
The printer and paper-manufacturing 
mill both have ISO 14001 accreditation 
for environmental management.
When you have finished with this item, 
please dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste. Overall section 1
Electricity 
–
 essential day and night
Summary Annual Report 2008 Chairman’s statement 2
I am pleased to report a strong performance from 
the Group in 2008 where Profit From Operations* 
(PFO) rose 16% to £1,050 million and Earnings Per 
Share* (EPS) increased 20% to 32.4 pence from 
27.1 pence in 2007.
2008 again demonstrated the strength of our 
portfolio. PFO was up in all regions with particularly 
strong growth in Australia and North America. 
Good performance from the European assets, 
principally First Hydro, helped to offset the impact 
of the unplanned outage at Rugeley. Our plants in 
the Middle East and Asia operated well delivering  
a consistent performance.
We also achieved further growth across the 
portfolio with the acquisition of 2,437MW (net)  
of capacity in the US, Europe and Asia and the 
announcement of future greenfield capacity 
additions in Europe of 555MW (net). Four out of  
the five of these new investment opportunities 
arose from our existing assets and these four all 
have long-term power offtake contracts. These 
developments are particularly noteworthy as  
they were achieved against a backdrop of the  
credit crisis and a tight equipment supply market.
The turmoil in global financial markets and 
economic slowdown in major economies has, in  
one way or another, impacted the demand for many 
products and affected many businesses around the 
world. At International Power we deliver a service 
that remains key to the normal functioning of every 
economy and every household. Electricity is and will 
remain essential day and night. The need for our 
service, together with our international footprint, 
diversified fuel base and the balance of contract 
types (long-term and short-term), across developed 
and developing markets, offers good security for 
our business and its future in these uncertain times.
International Power’s financial position remains 
strong, with good liquidity, committed corporate 
bank facilities and strong free cash flow generation. 
Our business is capital-intensive but we have a 
robust capital structure and one that, through the 
use of non-recourse debt, allows us to maintain 
appropriate levels of debt in a relatively low risk 
manner. Through our broad geographic spread and 
our regional knowledge, we continue to have access 
to good growth opportunities. However, the value 
of financial prudence in the current economic 
environment is clear and accordingly we will invest 
our capital very carefully.
During 2008 we welcomed Ranald Spiers to  
the Board as the Executive Director responsible  
for the Middle East and Asia. Ranald has led the 
growth that has been achieved in our Middle East 
region over the last eight years, and his project 
development skills will be important as we seek  
to grow our business further, particularly in Asia.
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
established a Health, Safety and Environment 
(HS&E) Committee under the Chairmanship of 
Non-Executive Director, Struan Robertson. The 
Committee meets at least twice a year, at different 
power stations across the portfolio and, through its 
advisory role, reinforces the fact that these matters 
are as important to the Board as they are to our staff 
at power plants, development sites and offices 
around the world.
Staff commitment to our in-house behavioural 
safety programme, known as ‘Fresh Eyes’, along 
with improved management of health and safety 
issues, particularly during maintenance outages  
at our plants, delivered a further 25% reduction  
in the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR).
2
At International Power , we deliver a service that remains  
key to the normal functioning of every economy and every 
household. Electricity is and will remain essential day and night.
Chairman’s statement
* All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairman’s 
statement are before exceptional items and specific 
IAS 39 mark to market movements. Chairman’s statement 3
We were able to deliver growth in earnings and 
generating capacity around the world in 2008, 
despite some challenges. The dedication displayed 
by our teams across the business was a key factor  
in our success, which would not have been possible 
without their commitment. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all our staff for the vital role  
that they play in the growth of our Company.
Looking forward to 2009, we have a well established 
portfolio of long-term contracted assets which 
continues to perform well. We are also well positioned 
in our key merchant markets, although forward 
pricing in the UK and the US does not reflect  
the attractive long-term market fundamentals.  
In the absence of a significant improvement in  
pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group 
profitability in 2009 will be lower than in 2008. 
However, our assets are well placed to capture 
value, from both market recovery and short-term 
pricing volatility.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, 
with good corporate liquidity and no material 
refinancings in 2009. We expect to continue  
to deliver strong free cash flow in 2009.
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
On the environmental front we track very carefully 
proposed legislation which targets reduced  
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) emissions in our markets.  
We support these initiatives in principle, and we are 
actively involved in dialogue with governments and 
regulators to ensure a balanced outcome for our 
business. We will apply the experience gained from 
operating within the European Union Emissions 
Trading Scheme (EUETS) to any new scheme in our  
other markets, and will invest in renewables and  
other economically viable opportunities aimed  
at reducing carbon emissions from our plants.
Aside from managing carbon emissions, the 
installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) 
equipment at Rugeley in the UK, and at our Pego 
plant in Portugal, where Selective Catalytic 
Reduction (SCR) technology has also been fitted, 
will make a significant contribution to reducing 
atmospheric emissions.
In August last year, the Board announced an interim 
dividend of 3.56 pence per share (35% of the 
previous year’s full-year dividend). The Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share 
for the year which, including the interim dividend, 
will take the total for 2008 to 12.15 pence per share. 
This represents an increase of 20% on 2007 and  
an EPS* pay-out ratio of 37.5%.
3 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 4 4
2008 was certainly an unprecedented year across  
all markets, as the severity of the credit and banking 
crisis, and its dramatic impact on the global 
economy, really started to become apparent. 
Clearly, no sector or company is immune from these 
wider market conditions, but electricity remains a 
domestic, industrial, and commercial necessity. Our 
geographic spread across North America, Europe, 
the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be  
a major strength, ensuring no over-concentration  
of risk in any one market and allowing us to focus our 
growth initiatives where we see the most potential.
In these market conditions, strong free cash flow 
generation, good liquidity, and an absence of major 
near-term refinancings are all very good indicators 
of financial position, and I am pleased to report that 
we score well on all these criteria. We generated 
free cash flow (after maintenance capital 
expenditure, interest, and tax) of £513 million in 
2008, retained good liquidity at the corporate 
centre, have minimal project refinancings in 2009, 
and the vast majority of our debt is non-recourse  
to the parent company.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
We have a strong balance sheet with good free cash flow and 
liquidity, and our international spread across North America, 
Europe, the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be a 
major strength.
Regional reviews
The regional reviews, on pages 12 to 14, give  
you an in-depth analysis of the business, but let me 
give you an overview of some of the highlights and 
key issues.
In North America, our Profit From Operations 
(PFO) increased, principally through an improved 
performance from our gas and coal-fired plants in 
Texas. Hays benefited from a higher achieved spark 
spread and load factor, as a result of higher demand 
and transmission constraints while Coleto Creek 
operated at a significantly higher load factor of 90% 
compared to 75% in 2007. We also successfully 
concluded the acquisition of four peaking plants  
in the north eastern and mid western US markets 
(PJM and MISO regions) that we have targeted for 
some time. These are high quality, modern, and 
efficient plants which have been quickly integrated 
into our US portfolio. Forward power prices have 
reduced principally on the back of lower oil and  
gas prices, and on expectations of lower demand 
growth. Forward margins in the power market do 
not yet reflect the strong fundamentals across our 
major US merchant markets, and for this reason,  
we are relatively lightly forward contracted for 
2009. Our contracted assets in the region  
continue to perform well.
Our European portfolio performed well during 
2008, particularly in the UK where our gas-fired  
and pumped storage assets delivered excellent 
results, which helped to offset the extended  
outage at our Rugeley coal-fired plant. The fitting  
of Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) at Rugeley will 
continue into 2009, and will ensure a longer life for 
this important asset. Overall, our UK portfolio is 
very well positioned to benefit from the attractive 
fundamentals of this market, and we have forward 
contracted output from selected plants for 2009 
where we have seen particular value. We acquired a 
further 40% of the Turbogás 1,008MW Combined 
Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) plant in Portugal during 
the year, and this plant continued to perform well, 
contributing to a strong performance from our 
long-term contracted assets across the region. 
Similarly, our European wind portfolio of 1,179MW 
operated well, although wind levels and resulting 
load factors were lower than long-term averages.  Chief Executive Officer’s statement 5 5
At ISAB, where there was a major incident in 
October, one of the two units returned to service  
in mid December, with the second one expected  
to be back online in the middle of 2010. The Czech 
Republic power and district heating businesses  
had another excellent year, improving on a very 
strong 2007 performance. On the growth front, 
construction of the 830MW Elecgas CCGT plant 
in Portugal is making good progress and we 
were very pleased to announce the development 
and successful financing of the 420MW T-Power  
project in Belgium, in challenging financial market 
conditions, demonstrating the availability of 
non-recourse finance for high quality projects.
The Middle East is a good example of a market  
that continues to grow strongly despite the wider 
financial turmoil. The market is driven by strong 
fundamentals, even in a lower oil price environment, 
and we continue to see a range of near and 
longer-term growth opportunities that reflect the 
expansion and diversification of the economies in 
which we operate. Our existing portfolio continues 
to operate well with consistently high availability 
factors. We have established a strong presence  
in this important market and we are focused on 
growing and adding value for the long-term,  
with the construction of the Fujairah F2 plant 
(2,000MW and 130MIGD) in the UAE on schedule.
Australia had a much improved performance in 
2008, driven by better overall plant availability  
and by improved achieved market prices. The  
major issue for the power sector in Australia is 
the planned introduction of a Carbon Pollution 
Reduction Scheme, in this market where coal 
(a relatively high emitter of carbon dioxide) 
represents the dominant share (some 85%) of total 
power generation. A government White Paper was 
published in December, followed by draft legislation 
in March 2009, and this provided some insight into 
the proposed scheme, but many more details need 
to be clarified before the full impact on our portfolio 
can be properly evaluated. The scheme is still 
planned for implementation in mid 2010, and the 
draft terms include assistance for brown coal-fired 
generation – which is the cornerstone of our 
Australian generation portfolio.
Our Asian portfolio comprises long-term 
contracted assets, where high plant availability is 
the key driver of value. We continue to deliver high 
operational standards, and therefore profitability 
has been consistently good. Demand for power 
continues to be strong, and is reflected in the 
growth opportunities across the region, and in 
Indonesia in particular. The planned expansion  
of our plant at Paiton in Indonesia, where we are 
seeking to add a further 815MW by 2012, is an 
excellent example of this growth. Payments from 
our government owned offtaker in Pakistan (Water 
and Power Development Authority) were delayed 
in 2008, as its cash flow was negatively impacted  
by the high price of oil. Various measures, including 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) assistance, give 
us confidence that this issue will be satisfactorily 
resolved. We continue to look carefully at selected 
new markets in this region, with Vietnam a clear 
focus, given its high growth rate and its desire  
to attract inward investment in the power sector.
Delivering maximum value
Operational excellence is core to our ability to 
deliver maximum value, and although we had some 
unplanned outages in 2008 – Rugeley and ISAB in 
particular – we always strive to learn the maximum 
possible from these events to ensure that we 
maintain the highest standards of plant safety  
and operations. We have a number of initiatives 
underway to constantly drive improved operational 
performance across the portfolio.
Our approach to environmental management  
has three major building blocks – improved 
environmental performance at our existing assets, 
the building of high efficiency plants where we 
develop greenfield growth opportunities, and the 
expansion of our significant renewables portfolio. 
Examples include the installation of FGD equipment 
in the UK and Portugal, the development of lower 
emission technology for brown coal generation in 
Australia, incorporation of high efficiency turbines 
in our new-build projects in the Middle East, 
Portugal, and Belgium, and the further 
development of our European onshore wind 
portfolio. All these initiatives make very sound 
environmental and commercial sense.
The growth and development of our business 
would not be possible without a committed team  
of employees, and I am always impressed by the 
enthusiasm displayed by our teams around the 
world. I would like to thank all our employees  
for their contribution during 2008.
As outlined in the Chairman’s statement, it is  
likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower 
than in 2008. However our assets are well placed  
to capture value, from both market recovery  
and short-term pricing volatility. Our focus is on 
maintaining a strong balance sheet with good free 
cash flow and liquidity, together with achieving the 
highest operational standards across our portfolio. 
Growth remains on our agenda, but we will 
continue to use our capital very selectively and 
carefully in light of the constrained capital markets. 
Our regional spread and market knowledge are key 
advantages, and enable us to allocate capital where 
we see the best returns.
Philip Cox
Chief Executive Officer Our portfolio 6 6
The following tables set out details in relation to our operating plants, assets under construction and other significant business interests  
as at 10 March 2009.
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
       steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
North America
Hartwell Georgia Gas (OCGT) 318 50 159  
Calumet Illinois Gas (OCGT) 303 100 303  
Bellingham Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 539 100 539  
Blackstone Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 488 100 488  
Milford Massachusetts Gas (CCGT) 160 100 160  
Troy Ohio Gas/oil (OCGT) 616 100 616  
Armstrong Pennsylvania Gas/oil (OCGT) 625 100 625  
Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 100 667  
Hays Texas Gas (CCGT) 913 100 913  
Midlothian Texas Gas (CCGT) 1,423 100 1,423  
Oyster Creek Texas Gas (Cogen/CCGT) 440 50 220 100MWth 50MWth
Pleasants West Virginia Gas/oil (OCGT) 313 100 313  
EcoEléctrica Puerto Rico LNG (CCGT) 548 35 192  
North America total in operation   7,353   6,618
Europe
International Power Opatovice
(1)
 Czech Republic Coal/gas (Cogen) 585 100 585 2,040MWth 2,040MWth
IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy, Wind 1,179 100 1,179
  France, Netherlands 
ISAB Italy  Gas (IGCC) 562 34 193
Tejo Energia (Pego) Portugal  Coal 628 50 314
Turbogás Portugal Gas (CCGT) 1,008 100 1,008
Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro/solar 88 67 58
Uni-Mar (Marmara) Turkey Gas (CCGT) 488 33 162
Deeside UK Gas (CCGT) 500 75 375
Derwent UK Gas (CCGT) 214 23 49
First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566
Indian Queens UK Oil (OCGT) 140 75 105
Rugeley UK  Coal (50MW of OCGT) 1,050 75 788
Saltend UK  Gas (CCGT/Cogen) 1,200 75 900 0.30m lbs/hr 0.23m lbs/hr
Europe total in operation   9,730    7,282
Middle East
Hidd Bahrain Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,006 40 402 90MIGD 36MIGD
Al Kamil Oman Gas (OCGT) 276 65 180
Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,055 40 422 60MIGD 24MIGD
Tihama Saudi Arabia Gas (Cogen) 1,076 60 646 4.5m lbs/hr 2.7m lbs/hr
Shuweihat S1 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 1,572 20 314 100MIGD 20MIGD
Umm Al Nar UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,450 20 490 143MIGD 29MIGD
Middle East total in operation   7,435   2,454
Our portfolio Our portfolio 7 7
  Location Fuel/type Gross IPR Net Gross Net
    capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity
    power  %  power  heat (MWth) heat (MWth)
    MW  MW desal (MIGD) desal (MIGD)
       steam (m lbs/hr) steam (m lbs/hr)
Assets in operation
Australia
Canunda South Australia Wind 46 100 46
Pelican Point South Australia Gas (CCGT) 487 100 487
Synergen South Australia Gas/distillate 371 100 371
Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 92 1,541
Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 70 718
Kwinana Western Australia Gas (CCGT) 118 49 58
Australia total in operation   3,723   3,221
Asia
Paiton
(2)
 Indonesia Coal 1,365 31 423  
HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219  
KAPCO Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 1,600 36 576  
Uch Pakistan Gas/oil (CCGT) 572 71 406  
TNP (Pluak Daeng) Thailand Gas (Cogen) 143 100 143 7.7MWth
(3)
 7.7MWth
(3)
Asia total in operation   4,970  1,767
Total in operation around the world  33,21 1  21,342
Assets under construction
IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy  Wind 30 75 23
Elecgas Portugal Gas (CCGT) 830 50 415
T-Power Belgium Gas (CCGT) 420 33 140
Fujairah F2 UAE Gas (CCGT)/desalination 2,000 20 400 130MIGD 26MIGD
Total under construction around the world   3,280  978
  Region IPR  Description
   ownership
   %  
Other businesses
Opus Energy UK 30  Independent supplier of electricity to small and  
medium-sized businesses
Simply Energy Victoria & South Australia 100 Electricity and gas retailer
SEA Gas pipeline Victoria & South Australia 33 687 km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia
Notes:  
Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
(1) Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
(2) In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distributions.
(3) District cooling system capacity. Strategy and Group overviewview 8 8
Strategy and Group overview
Our strategy is to deliver growth in 
shareholder value through power generation, 
ensuring a balanced international portfolio  
in terms of markets, fuel, contract type and 
technology. We create value by the efficient 
operation, financing, and trading of output 
from our power generation fleet, whilst 
maintaining the highest levels of safety and 
environmental performance. We exercise 
rigorous financial control in all our investment 
decisions, and invest in the development of  
our people for the long-term.
A portfolio approach
We manage our business through a portfolio 
management approach, which involves maintaining 
a balance in the portfolio in terms of geographical 
spread, fuel diversity, technology and contract  
type. This approach gives us access to multiple 
opportunities to create value whilst mitigating  
the risks associated with over exposure to any 
particular market, fuel, technology or contract type.
Our geographic spread gives us access to growth 
opportunities whilst reducing the potential impact, 
on the overall business, of adverse performance in 
any particular market. The portfolio approach also 
extends through to our operational capabilities.  
We are able to operate a range of power plant 
technologies, including thermal, hydro, pumped 
storage and renewables. These technologies 
produce electricity using different fuel types that 
include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such  
as wind, water and solar. This multi-technology 
expertise allows us to capture opportunities that 
are best suited to the market in question.
As electricity is critical for any economy, 
governments carefully decide whether or not  
they wish to liberalise this key sector. Several 
governments have retained full control of the  
sector while others have fully liberalised both the 
production and supply of electricity. The skills 
required for operating in liberalised (merchant)  
or non-liberalised (contracted) markets are very 
different – and we have both.
Note:
All charts presented based on net MW, excluding assets under construction,  
as at 10 March 2009.
Portfolio by geography
Europe 34%
Middle East 12%
Australia 15%
Asia 8%
North America 31%
Portfolio by fuel type
Gas 60%
Hydro 0.5%
Oil 3%
Pumped storage 7%
Coal 23.5%
Wind 6%
Portfolio by contract type*
Long-term 
contracted 34%
Wind 6%
Pumped storage 7%
Short-term
contracted 24%
* Rolling one-year average
Uncontracted 29%
International Power is a leading independent power 
generation company with interests in 33,21 1MW (gross)  
of power generating capacity, located in 2 1 countries across 
five core regions – North America, Europe, Middle East, 
Australia and Asia.
TNP (Pluak Daeng), Thailand
Oyster Creek, US Strategy and Group overview 9 9
Our growth
Portfolio growth
(Net GW)
2000
8.3
8.9
10.6 10.5
15.3
15.9
18.5
18.8
21.3
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Asia
Australia
Middle East
Europe
North America
Note: Chart presented based on net MW, excluding
assets under construction, as at 31 December.
The government-controlled, contracted markets 
typically offer opportunities to sell power to 
government bodies via long-term Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs) that offer stable returns. Assets 
in the merchant markets are subject to the forces of 
supply and demand, and these markets are generally 
more volatile. Both these markets offer attractive 
risk/reward environments for investments.
International Power maintains a balanced presence 
in both types of markets, providing the business 
with a stable platform of long-term contracted 
earnings and cash flow, overlaid by merchant 
generation which offers greater potential for 
superior returns when market conditions are 
favourable. We also ensure that lessons learnt in  
any particular market – for example, experience  
of the environmental legislation in Europe relating 
to Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) emissions trading – are 
shared across the business. 
Maximising the value of our existing portfolio
Our specific strategies for value enhancement in 
each country and for each individual plant are 
tailored to local requirements, but generally we 
seek to achieve the following:
—  Optimise the operations of our power plants 
We optimise the operation of our power plants 
through several means including: managing 
all of our sites to high standards of safety and 
operating performance; managing our business 
on a portfolio basis; closely co-ordinating plant 
operations with trading to maximise the value  
of our output; standardising management 
reporting for all investments; and investing in 
improved plant efficiency.
—  Maximise the return from our portfolio  
We optimise operations as described above and 
we leverage our investments, particularly by using 
non-recourse finance at the project company level. 
We sell businesses if this generates a higher rate  
of return.
Growth in 2008
Project Location MW 
(net)
Acquisition/
greenfield
Contract type
Uch (additional %) Pakistan 177 Acquisition PPA to 2023
Elecgas Portugal 415 Greenfield/under 
construction
25-year tolling agreement
Portfolio of peaking plants North America 1,857 Acquisition Merchant
Turbogás (additional %) Portugal 403 Acquisition PPA to 2024
IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy/Germany/
France
104
(1)
Greenfield/under 
construction
Various
T-Power Belgium 140 Greenfield/under 
construction
15-year tolling agreement
(1)   81MW in operation and 23MW under construction.
Canunda, Australia  Our approach to risk and risk managementview 10 10
Our approach to risk and risk management
International Power’s principal activities are the 
development, acquisition and operation of power 
generation plants together with closely related 
activities, such as desalination, retail and district 
heating. These principal activities are supported by 
our network of local, regional and corporate offices 
which carry out activities such as trading, financial 
management and treasury operations. All of these 
activities have inherent risks.
Our general approach to risk management is set  
out below. This is followed by a description of the 
principal risks and exposures faced by the business.
Risk management framework
International Power owns, or has equity interests in, 
over 45 plants and some closely linked businesses 
located in 21 countries. Our portfolio contains  
all major technologies and fuel types with the 
exception of nuclear power. Overall, around 70%  
of the portfolio entered service less than 15 years 
ago. Geographically the portfolio is diverse, having 
a presence in developed and developing countries 
with a variety of cultural, political and legal systems. 
Our risk management philosophy is designed  
to deal with the diverse set of risks faced by our 
business. To reflect the profile of our business  
we have developed a system that contains both 
bottom-up and top-down elements to support the 
identification, reporting and management of risks.
Corporate level 
Policy, delegations and exposure limits are  
set at the corporate level, with the Board of 
Directors taking ultimate responsibility. 
Acceptable business practices and engineering 
and operational standards are set centrally.
Regional businesses  
Market and trading risks are managed 
regionally within the framework set at  
the corporate level. Political risks are also  
managed regionally with support from the 
corporate centre.
Business units  
Risk assessments and mitigation action plans 
are mainly originated in business units. Health, 
safety and environmental (HS&E) compliance 
activities are also managed locally, within  
a central policy framework. Local business 
managers are accountable for managing the 
risks within their areas of responsibility. This 
principle also applies to the managers of our 
regional and corporate functions. 
There is a process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the key risks faced by the Group. 
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, 
which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer  
(CFO) and comprises Executive Directors and  
senior managers. 
The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf  
of the Board, for ensuring:
—  the adequacy of systems for identifying  
and assessing significant risks
—  that appropriate control systems and other 
mitigating processes are in place
—  that residual exposures are consistent with  
the Group’s strategy and objectives
During the business planning process, each significant 
business unit and functional group identifies and 
assesses the key risks associated with the achievement 
of its principal business objectives and their potential 
impact. During the year, significant changes in the risk 
profile are highlighted through the business 
performance reporting process.
Each year, the business carries out a Group-wide, 
risk review. This is based on the outcome of the 
business planning exercise, updated as necessary  
to take account of ‘post business plan’ events. The 
assessments are synthesised into a risk report, that 
identifies all the principal risks, which is reviewed by 
the Risk Committee. Where risks are considered  
to exceed the Group’s risk appetite, the Risk 
Committee directs which actions are to be taken. 
The risk report is reviewed by the full Board. 
Schematically the annual risk report system 
functions as follows:
In order to compare risks across the Group on  
a systematic basis, we segment our activities as 
shown below. In reality, certain risk exposures 
interact and other exposures apply to more than 
one ‘risk area’ (for example, regulatory risk applies 
to all of our activities). Such cross-segment risks  
are assessed in each of the areas in which they occur.
Financial risks
Market and trading risks
Fuel supply risks
Country and political risks
Construction and operational risks
Health, safety and environmental risks
Staffing and human resources risks
Review by full Board 
Review by Risk
Committee
Actions
Synthesis by risk report
working group
Risk assessment by business 
units and functions Our approach to risk and risk management 11 11
Principal risks and exposures
Risk Impacts Mitigating factors
Adverse conditions in 
our electricity sales or 
fuel purchase markets 
and/or counterparty 
default risk
— 
 
financial volatility
— 
 
 reduction in profitability  
and cash flow
— 
 
 potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 application of Group policies and procedures 
setting limits on trading counterparty 
exposures and maintenance of financial 
headroom at the corporate level
— 
 
structuring of project companies as stand-
alone businesses and use of non-recourse 
project finance to limit Group impact
Price volatility or 
changes in market 
conditions result in 
exceptional trading 
credit support 
requirements
— 
 
 reduction in financial resources 
available for growth
— 
 
reduced ability to forward  
sell output
— 
 
 maintenance of financial headroom at the 
corporate level
— 
 
 trading through investment grade financial 
institutions
— 
 
for specific projects additional support is 
provided, for example Mitsui provides a credit 
support facility for International Power Mitsui 
(IPM) trading in the UK
Market spreads outturn 
below expectation
— 
 
reduction in profitability and  
cash flow
— 
 
potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 a rolling forward contracting programme 
typically aims to lock in margins 
—  34% of our net capacity has long-term 
contractual arrangements shielding our 
annual profitability from significant volatility
Capital market access
— 
 
 reduced availability and increased 
cost of non-recourse project  
and corporate financing
— 
 
reduced availability and increased  
cost for refinancings
— 
 
 maintenance of strong liquidity
— 
 
 high credibility and experience in delivering 
bankable solutions
— 
 
 strong banking relationships with major 
project financing banks worldwide
— 
 
maintenance of stringent project evaluation 
criteria 
Unplanned availability 
losses
— 
 
reduction in profitability and  
cash flow
— 
 
potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 structured approach to the management  
of engineering risk
— 
 
 appropriate budgeted spend on plant 
maintenance
— 
 
strong corporate and asset Operations  
and Engineering teams 
Challenging 
Engineering, 
Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) 
market conditions
— 
 
delays and increases in the price of 
greenfield development impacts 
growth rate
— 
 
long-standing relationships with all major  
EPC contractors
— 
 
ongoing review of contracting strategies  
to meet changing market conditions
— 
 
 new entrant pricing should reflect the  
cost of building new plant
Changes in 
environmental 
regulatory regimes 
limit our ability to 
profitably operate our 
fossil fuel plants
— 
 
reduction in profitability and  
cash flow
— 
 
potential impact on loan covenants
— 
 
 increased potential capital 
expenditure to ensure longer asset 
lives under tighter legislation
— 
 
increased trading risk
— 
 
plant upgrades and carbon trading processes 
to meet new environmental legislation in our 
developed markets
— 
 
new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines 
with proven environmental technology
— 
 
approximately 6% of net operating capacity 
made up of wind generation
— 
 
senior representation in industry groups  
and ongoing advocacy
Eco Eléctrica, Puerto Rico
Hidd, Bahrain Regional reviews 12
Regional reviews
Results – North America 
Profit From Operations (PFO) in North America 
was up at £177 million, from £136 million last year, 
primarily due to much improved contributions  
from the Hays and Coleto Creek plants in Texas.  
Our contracted assets, EcoEléctrica, Hartwell and 
Oyster Creek, all performed well and delivered  
a consistent financial performance.
Hays, in south Texas, benefited from a significantly 
higher achieved spark spread, which increased from 
$10/MWh in 2007 to $21/MWh in 2008, as a result 
of higher demand and transmission constraints, 
particularly during the second quarter of the  
year. The plant continued to deliver a strong 
performance in the second half of the year reflecting 
a high zonal premium, driven by supply constraints. 
The load factor increased to 65%, from 45% in 
2007. At Midlothian, in north Texas, the load factor 
fell from 55% to 40%, at a slightly reduced spark 
spread of $13/MWh (2007: $14/MWh), due to  
a relatively cool summer and additional supply  
from wind generators.
Coleto Creek achieved a dark spread of $30/MWh  
at a significantly higher load factor of 90% compared 
to 75% in 2007, when the plant had a two-month 
planned outage to install dust emission control 
equipment. The output at Coleto Creek is heavily 
forward contracted (75%) for 2009.
In New England, the average achieved spark spread 
for Blackstone and Bellingham increased from  
$16/MWh to $19/MWh but at a reduced load factor 
of 45% (2007: 60%), mainly due to lower running  
in the first quarter, and cooler weather during the 
summer. Earnings in New England continue to  
be underpinned by capacity payments under the 
Forward Capacity Market (FCM) where prices have 
been determined through to May 2012. In 2008, 
capacity payments accounted for some 50% of  
PFO at Blackstone and Bellingham.
The New England states are now participating 
 in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI),  
a cap and trade Carbon Dioxide (CO
2
) reduction 
programme which commenced in January 2009. 
The first two CO 2 auctions, held in September 2008 
and December 2008, cleared at $3.07/ton and 
$3.38/ton of CO 2 respectively.
In July 2008, we successfully completed the 
acquisition of the 1,857MW portfolio of four 
modern peaking generation facilities, located in 
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland (PJM) and 
Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO) 
power pools, for a total consideration of  
$864 million (£436 million). In PJM, where three  
of the plants are located, the capacity price has  
been established through to May 2012 under  
the Reliability Pricing Mechanism, with the next 
capacity auction (for the period June 2012 to  
May 2013) planned for May 2009. The 616MW 
peaking plant located in MISO has a capacity  
tolling agreement until the end of 2012. We  
expect this acquisition to provide an attractive 
return on investment, largely underpinned by 
capacity payments.
Whilst long-term fundamentals in Texas and  
New England remain attractive, both markets  
face near-term challenges. Since the second half  
of 2008, power prices in both markets have seen  
a material decline, primarily driven by a significant 
reduction in gas prices, expectations that demand 
growth will slow on the back of the poor economic 
outlook, and reduced trading liquidity. Assuming  
no significant improvement in forward prices, PFO 
in the current year from these markets would be 
lower than that achieved in 2008. We have forward 
contracted 45% of our expected merchant 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) output 
in Texas and 30% in New England for 2009.
Results – Europe
PFO in Europe increased to £581 million in 2008 
(2007: £574 million). In the UK, First Hydro 
performed particularly well. The region also 
benefited from a first time full-year contribution 
from the Maestrale wind farm portfolio and a 
strong performance at International Power 
Opatovice, in the Czech Republic. Together these 
factors helped offset the impact of the extended 
outage at Rugeley. Our contracted assets in Iberia 
and Turkey also delivered good financial and 
operational performance.
In 2008, the UK power market was impacted by 
high levels of plant unavailability which was driven 
by unplanned plant outages at nuclear plants and by 
extended outages at coal-fired power stations that 
were undergoing Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) 
installation. These factors, together with a 
particularly high gas price environment in the 
middle of 2008, resulted in a tight market with 
increased prices which benefited our plants, 
particularly First Hydro and Deeside. 
First Hydro performed very strongly, benefiting 
from volatile prices and increased spreads in the 
short-term market. Deeside was able to benefit 
from its largely uncontracted position, which 
enabled it to capture higher short-term spreads at  
a higher load factor. Saltend continued to operate  
at a high load factor benefiting from its lower cost  
of gas, supplied under an indexed gas contract 
which expires in 2015.
Rugeley had a major extended outage during 2008 
and the units returned to service in late September 
and early October. 
The FGD equipment installation at Rugeley has 
experienced a further delay and is now anticipated 
to be completed in the second quarter of 2009. 
Primarily due to this delay, we now expect Rugeley 
to achieve a lower than previously forecast spread in 
2009. Rugeley has been able to maintain generation 
levels through the use of ultra-low sulphur coal, 
despite the delay, but this alternative coal is more 
expensive than Rugeley’s normal intake and has 
resulted in some re-scheduling of original deliveries 
to 2010. In addition, part of Rugeley’s output had 
been forward sold via gas hedges (a proxy for  
power sales) to facilitate sales during periods where 
liquidity in the forward power market was low. 
These gas hedges have been adversely impacted by 
the gradual decline in 2009 market spark spreads. 
International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic
Troy, US
* All references to PFO in the regional reviews 
are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 
mark to market movements. Regional reviews 13
As a result we now expect Rugeley to achieve a 
clean spread of £15/MWh, down from £18/MWh, 
and a pre-carbon spread of £20/MWh at a load 
factor of 75% in 2009. For 2010, which will benefit 
from the re-scheduled coal, we expect a clean 
spread of £21/MWh and a pre-carbon spread  
of £27/MWh.
Looking forward, we expect relatively less tension 
in the supply/demand position in the UK in 2009,  
as plants previously on outage return to service and 
new capacity is brought online. For 2009 we have 
forward contracted 90% of our expected output  
at Rugeley, 90% at Saltend, and 30% at Deeside.
In the Czech Republic, PFO increased from 2007  
as the business benefited from rising power prices. 
During 2008, Czech power prices continued to 
follow German prices which were driven up by 
strong prices for coal, oil and gas. In addition, 
reported profits benefited from a significant 
strengthening of the Czech koruna.
At ISAB in Italy, PFO in 2008 benefited from a rise  
in oil prices. This strong performance helped to 
offset the impact of the major incident in October. 
Both units at ISAB were offline until 15 December, 
when one unit was returned to service. Work on  
the second unit is underway and it is expected to  
be back online in the middle of 2010. Discussions 
with insurance providers are continuing, and we 
expect the impact of this outage to be largely 
covered by business interruption insurance.
The Maestrale wind farm portfolio delivered a first 
time full-year contribution, following its acquisition 
in the second half of 2007. Operational availability  
of the portfolio has been good, however wind levels 
and resulting load factors in 2008 were lower than 
long-term averages. In November, the Italian 
government announced a new Decree which set a 
price of E98/MWh for the sale of Green Certificates 
(from 2007 and 2008), which are a significant 
source of income for wind farms in Italy, 
demonstrating the government’s commitment  
to ensuring an attractive economic environment  
for renewable generation.
We have continued to build on our European wind 
portfolio with a further 81MW coming online.  
In addition, construction is underway on the new 
30MW PEG project in Italy, in which International 
Power has a 75% share, and this is expected to be 
completed in 2009. International Power’s European 
wind portfolio now comprises 1,179MW of 
operational capacity.
In Portugal both our plants, Pego and Turbogás, 
continue to operate well. Construction of FGD  
and Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) equipment 
at Pego has now been completed. The Elecgas 
830MW (gross) CCGT project, which is located 
adjacent to Pego, reached financial close in March 
2008 and is on track to become operational in 2011. 
In addition, we completed the acquisition of an 
additional 40% shareholding in Turbogás, the 
1,008MW gas-fired plant located in Portugal, 
and an additional 27% shareholding in the 
associated operations and maintenance company 
Portugen, for a total cash consideration of 
E127 million (£101 million). International Power 
now owns 100% of Turbogás and Portugen.
In December 2008, the T-Power project in Belgium 
was successfully financed at attractive terms. The 
project, located at Tessenderlo in eastern Belgium, 
is co-owned by International Power, Siemens 
Project Ventures and Tessenderlo Chemie, and will 
be constructed by Siemens under a full turnkey 
Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) 
contract. Once operational in 2011, the output from 
T-Power will be sold to Essent Trading International 
S.A. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Essent NV,  
the largest energy supplier in the Netherlands) 
under a 15-year tolling agreement with a five-year 
extension option. Natural gas will be supplied  
by Essent under the tolling agreement.
Results – Middle East
In the Middle East, PFO was £69 million in 2008 
(2007: £68 million). The region benefited from the 
completion of the Ras Laffan B project in Qatar and 
additional desalination capacity at Hidd in Bahrain. 
However, profit in 2007 included a development  
fee for the Fujairah F2 project.
Construction at Ras Laffan B was completed in  
June 2008 with the final 1 35MW and 1 5MIGD being 
finished ahead of schedule. The plant now has an 
overall capacity of 1,055MW and 60MIGD, and  
is operating under the first full-year of its 25-year 
Power and Water Purchase Agreement (PWPA).
In Bahrain, the final phase (48MIGD) of the 
desalination extension at Hidd achieved commercial 
operation in May. The plant is now fully operational 
with a capacity of 1,006MW and 90MIGD. 
In the UAE, the construction programme for the 
Fujairah F2 project (2,000MW, 130MIGD) is well 
underway. Activities across the whole site have 
progressed well during the year; a large number of 
the underground foundations and other civil works 
have been completed and the first gas turbine has 
arrived on site. 
First Hydro, UK
Shuweihat S1, UAE Regional reviews 14
Results – Australia
PFO increased significantly to £168 million 
from £82 million in 2007, principally reflecting 
significantly improved contributions from 
Hazelwood and Loy Yang B. The region also 
benefited from a strong performance at Synergen, 
which captured high spot prices during the summer 
months. The rest of the portfolio performed well 
and delivered a good financial performance.
Hazelwood, in Victoria, achieved a significantly 
higher average price of A$43/MWh (2007:  
A$32/MWh), at a slightly lower load factor of 75%.  
A strong forward contracted position and good 
operational performance in the second half of  
the year helped deliver these results. For 2009  
we have forward contracted 80% of the expected 
output at Hazelwood.
During the first two months of 2009, Victoria and 
South Australia experienced a major heat wave, 
causing the most severe bush fires in Victoria in 
recorded history and all-time record levels of 
demand and price volatility in the electricity market. 
The transmission network was under significant 
strain, and there were two instances of load 
shedding. Good levels of availability across our 
portfolio ensured the impact of these events  
was financially neutral on our business.
Details of the proposed emissions trading scheme 
(due to start from July 2010) were announced  
in a White Paper in mid December. The current 
proposals are for a minimum 5% reduction in CO 2 
emissions against 2000 levels by 2020, with the 
potential for this target to rise to 15% (pending  
the UN meeting in Copenhagen, planned to be held 
at the end of 2009). Under the proposals, there is 
currently a period of five years where, in effect, no 
charge will be applied for a portion of emissions 
from coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood 
and Loy Yang B assets would be eligible for this 
relief. The details of the proposals are yet to be 
finalised, with the government aiming to introduce 
the legislation into Parliament in May 2009. Draft 
legislation was released in March 2009. Overall,  
it is too early to draw firm conclusions at this stage.
Results – Asia
PFO in Asia increased from £96 million in 2007 
 to £104 million, primarily as a result of a strong 
performance from Paiton and an increased 
contribution from Uch, where an additional 31% 
stake was acquired in March 2008. These factors 
more than offset the sale of Malakoff in May 2007. 
All our contracted assets in the region continue  
to deliver good operational performance and our 
plants in Indonesia and Thailand have maintained 
strong payment records.
In Pakistan, payments from the state-owned 
customer, the Water and Power Development 
Authority (WAPDA), were delayed in 2008. 
However, our plants are continuing to receive 
payments for the majority of current output  
and have also been receiving interest on overdue 
amounts. Our share of the overdue receivable,  
in March 2009, was US$149 million (£108 million). 
There are a number of initiatives currently 
underway to resolve the cash flow issue in Pakistan, 
including an International Monetary Fund (IMF) 
US$7.6 billion loan package. A key condition of  
the IMF loan is that the government of Pakistan  
has to implement a plan to clear the overdue 
receivables in the energy sector. We remain 
confident of a satisfactory outcome.
In August, PT Paiton Energy, the project company  
in which International Power has a 40.5%* interest, 
signed a 30-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) 
with PT PLN, the Indonesian state utility, for the 
proposed 815MW coal-fired Paiton 3 plant in 
Indonesia. The project is covered by a fixed-price 
contract and the main equipment will be supplied by 
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. The project will be 
located within the existing Paiton complex and is 
expected to be fully operational by the end of 2012. 
Financial close is now expected in the second 
quarter of 2009.
In March, International Power completed the 
acquisition of an additional 31% shareholding in Uch, 
the 572MW gas-fired plant located in Pakistan. Total 
consideration was US$93 million (£47 million). The 
acquisition, from affiliates of Tenaska Holdings (L) 
Corp, takes International Power’s total holding in  
Uch to 71%.
*  The ownership percentage includes interests held via IPM Eagle LLP,  
a 70/30 partnership between International Power and Mitsui. 
International Power’s 40.5% interest in PT Paiton Energy also  
includes a 9.2% economic interest.
Paiton, Indonesia
Loy Yang B, Australia Corporate responsibility 15
Corporate responsibility
Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that  
has the power to enhance quality of life. As an 
international company we must demonstrate 
responsible and ethical working practices. For  
a global wholesale generating company like 
International Power, this equates to following fair 
and ethical principles to govern the way we manage 
and conduct our business. It means working in 
 a smart and integrated way – by ensuring our  
key competencies, technical expertise and best 
practices are properly implemented over a widely 
dispersed and diverse range of assets to produce 
power, water and process heat safely and cleanly.  
It also means that corporate responsibility (CR) 
forms an integral part of our business decision 
process and contributes to our global 
competitiveness and reputation.
Our strategy is to generate energy in an efficient 
way, to develop low carbon technology and expand 
our renewables portfolio. To track our performance 
in implementing this strategy we measure the 
carbon intensity of each unit of electricity generated 
across our portfolio. The average carbon intensity 
of International Power’s global portfolio has fallen 
considerably in recent years from 0.736 kg/kWh 
in 2005 to 0.636 kg/kWh in 2008. We use net 
reporting for Carbon Dioxide (CO 2), which 
reflects our ownership interest in a power plant, 
and therefore includes the net MW of joint ventures 
and associates.
Health, safety and environmental management
The global Health, Safety and Environment (HS&E) 
management committee reviews the overall 
performance of businesses across the Group and 
defines global environmental standards and targets. 
The global management committee is supported 
by regional HS&E management committees, 
which include representation from each plant.
In 2008, we strengthened our CR governance by 
establishing a new Board-level HS&E Committee  
to oversee HS&E policy and the performance of the 
HS&E management committee. It reviews HS&E 
reports as well as any major incidents and issues  
of public concern. It meets at least twice a year at 
different power stations, where the Committee  
also discusses HS&E issues with the plant manager 
and relevant on-site staff. 
Human rights and Code of Business Conduct
We endorse the United Nations’ Universal 
Declaration on Human Rights. This is supported by 
our own Code of Business Conduct (the Code) and 
human resources policies. We apply human rights 
principles rigorously for our own employees, and 
we seek to influence our partners, contractors and 
suppliers to apply the same standards. 
The Code, which applies to all International Power 
employees, includes clauses on complying with our 
ethical, environment and health and safety policies. 
It also covers competitive practices, conduct in the 
community and charitable donations. 
Progress in corporate responsibility
Environment and climate change
As a global power company, we recognise the 
importance of developing and implementing  
a low carbon strategy over both the medium  
and long-term.
It is incumbent on us to operate our business in a 
manner which is sustainable. This means we need  
to both retain our competitiveness today and ensure 
we are taking steps now, so that our business is well 
positioned for the future. In this regard, the control 
and limitation of CO 2 emissions is a critical issue and 
one which has a high priority within our business.
Generating electricity efficiently
We use high efficiency turbines with proven 
environmental technology at our newly built plants. 
For example, at Fujairah F2 in Abu Dhabi, we are 
constructing a new 2,000MW, 130MIGD power 
and desalination plant. The desalination process  
is able to make use of waste heat from the power 
station and the combined process is very efficient. 
When taking into account the power it produces 
and the heat generated for the desalination process, 
this process has a very high thermal efficiency of 
over 65%.
We are reviewing the thermal efficiency at our 
power stations and implementing improvement 
programmes. These range from steam turbine 
upgrades to reducing works power and improving 
combustion conditions. For example, in Australia  
at the Kwinana plant, we have invested in new 
technology to increase the efficiency of the plant  
by cooling the air drawn into the power station.  
Similar technology has also been installed at our 
Bellingham plant in the US.
Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that has the power 
to enhance quality of life. As an international company we 
must demonstrate responsible and ethical working practices.
In 2008 we continued to expand  
our renewables portfolio Corporate responsibility 16
Investing in low carbon fossil fuel generation
In 2008, we continued to invest in the development 
of low carbon initiatives, including carbon capture 
and storage. Hazelwood, in Australia, burns brown 
coal which is low in Oxides of Sulphur (SOx) 
emissions, but produces higher CO
2
 emissions 
due to its high moisture content. As a result, 
there are a number of initiatives underway at 
Hazelwood aimed at reducing the plant’s CO
2
 
emissions. In association with the Co-operative 
Research Centre for Greenhouse Gas Technologies 
(CO
2
CRC), International Power is building a pilot 
carbon capture and storage scheme which will be 
one of the world’s foremost demonstrations of 
post-combustion capture of CO
2
.  
Expanding renewables
Our expansion strategy focuses on countries where 
wind energy operates within favourable regulatory 
regimes, many of which are in Europe. In 2008 we 
continued to expand our renewables portfolio, 
which now has an aggregate capacity of 1,225MW. 
We are seeking to further expand our renewables 
portfolio by acquisition and organically through 
working with local developers.
Our first investment in solar power was completed 
in July 2008 with three projects comprising 90kW, 
200kW and 1MW (peak output) installations of 
photovoltaic panels. Located in northern Spain, 
close to our existing Spanish Hydro assets, the 
Juneda PV project was developed through our 
Spanish Hydro business, which is part of our 
partnership with Mitsui.
We are also making good progress in our work with 
Tidal Generation Ltd and Rolls-Royce plc to develop 
a tidal generation business. The grid connection 
required to develop a 10MW tidal farm in the 
Pentland Firth, Scotland, was secured in 2008.
Reducing sulphur dioxide emissions 
We are investing significant capital in Flue Gas 
Desulphurisation (FGD), a process that is fitted to 
coal-fired power stations to remove sulphur from 
emissions. FGD is already fitted at our coal plant in 
the Czech Republic, at the Paiton plant in Indonesia 
and at Pego in Portugal, and we are installing it at 
Rugeley in the UK. At Rugeley we expect the FGD 
plant to commence operating in the second quarter 
of 2009. The use of FGD at Rugeley and Pego will 
enable these two power stations to comply with  
the revised EU Large Combustion Plant Directive’s 
restrictions on Sulphur Dioxide (SO 2) emissions. 
Health and safety 
We are committed to the best possible health and 
safety performance. 2008 was the third successive 
year in which the Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
was reduced. The majority of the reported incidents 
were minor slips, trips, falls, or manual handling 
injuries, with the individual returning to work within 
a day or two. A major review of the global safety 
management system was carried out involving 
external benchmarking to ensure the best possible 
systems are in place for managing safety globally, 
and that the systems are appropriate for the level  
of identified risks and to ensure legal compliance.
Non-financial KPIs
Accident frequency rate
Health and safety is of vital importance in our 
business. It is important to provide all personnel  
at our sites with a safe place to work, and any 
accident is disruptive to the running of the  
business. AFR is our reporting standard and is 
defined as the number of Lost Time Accidents 
(LTAs) divided by the number of hours worked, 
multiplied by 100,000. We define a LTA as 24 hours 
absence from work – this is a much tighter definition 
than the usual legal requirement of three days. 
Reportable environmental incidents
Our power plants are issued with environmental 
licences by the relevant statutory authorities. 
Environmental licences require that any significant 
environmental incident is reported. 
We have always had a policy of complying with  
all applicable environmental regulations and we 
measure our ability to comply with environmental 
regulations by recording the number of reportable 
environmental incidents at all plants where we have 
an interest (including joint ventures and associates).
Technical availability
Technical availability measures when a plant  
is available for dispatch. Each of our plants will 
generally be unavailable during some periods in  
the year due to a combination of planned outages 
for maintenance and unplanned outages.
An important aspect of our business is ensuring that 
our merchant power trading and Power Purchase 
Agreements (PPAs) are closely aligned to our 
operational activities and availability planning is a 
key factor in this regard. The year-on-year variance 
in the profile of planned outages influences the 
technical availability.
  Year ended 31 December
   2005 2006 2007 2008
AFR  0.23 0.16 0.12 0.09
Reportable environmental incidents  16 16 13 6
Technical availability  90.1% 89.6% 90.0% 89.1%
All non-financial KPIs are calculated on a full impact basis, at all assets where we have an interest, including joint ventures and associates.
Non-financial KPIs
We have invested in our first solar power  
project at Juneda PV in Spain Financial position and resources 17
Financial position and resources
A summary of the Group’s financial performance during the year is as follows:
Income statement
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m
Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Revenue (including joint ventures and associates)    4,891 3,872
Profit from operations
– from subsidiaries     821 718
– from joint ventures and associates     229 186
Profit from operations     1,050 904
Interest     (368) (308)
Profit before tax     682 596
Taxation     (123) (11 3)
Profit for the year     559 483
Attributable to:
Minority interests     69 77
Equity holders of the parent     490 406
Earnings per share (basic)     32.4p 27.1p
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements
Profit from operations     1,156 518
Profit for the year     759 529
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent    667 503
Earnings per share (basic)     44.2p 33.6p
Net interest expense at £368 million is £60 million higher than 2007; mainly due to the interest expense 
relating to acquisitions made during 2007 and 2008.
The Group tax charge has increased by £10 million to £123 million. The effective tax rate for the year  
was 22% (2007: 26%) after the release of provisions relating to prior year tax, following the satisfactory 
resolution of some historic tax issues. Excluding these items, the effective tax rate would have been  
27%. In 2007, the effective rate benefited from the impact of tax rate changes in the UK, Czech Republic,  
Germany and Italy.
Exceptional losses before and after tax of £57 million comprise the impairment of our Milford plant  
by £37 million and a £20 million charge for Australian stamp duty arising from our acquisition of the  
Loy Yang B and Valley Power plants in 2004.
The specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in profit before tax for the year are gains  
of £290 million (2007: losses of £346 million), £163 million of which relates to decreases in forward 
commodity prices in the UK, US and Australia, £150 million to fair value gains on the 3.25% and  
4.75% convertible euro bonds, and £23 million to losses on interest rate swaps.
Tax on mark to market movements during the year was a charge of £92 million (2007: a credit of  
£96 million).
The Group has US tax losses of US$593 million (£412 million). As a result of the acquisition of IPA Central 
(the portfolio of four peaking plants in PJM and MISO in North America), certain of these tax losses have  
now been recognised as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet. This has resulted in an exceptional tax 
credit of £59 million.
Uni-Mar (Marmara), Turkey 
Midlothian, US Financial position and resources 18
Cash flow
A summary of the Group’s cash flow is set out below:
     Year ended  Year ended
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m
Profit for the year     759  529
Depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash movements
(1)
   411  406
Exceptional items     57  (233)
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements    (172) 342
Dividends from joint ventures and associates    135  145
Capital expenditure – maintenance     (108) (71)
Net sale/(purchase) of intangible assets     25  (48)
Net increase in working capital     (109) (4)
Tax and net interest paid     (485) (413)
Free cash flow     513  653 
Australian stamp duty – exceptional     (7) –
Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt    (33) (2)
Capital expenditure – growth     (156) (160)
Purchase of intangibles – growth     (8) –
Investments in joint ventures, associates and investments   (58) (1)
Acquisitions     (614) (841)
Disposals      – 418
Dividends paid     (166) (160)
Proceeds from share issue     10 13
Net receipts from/(payments to) minority interests    28 (35)
Foreign exchange and other     (1,163) (261)
Increase in net debt     (1,654) (376)
Opening net debt     (4,662) (3,575)
Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries     (2) (711)
Closing net debt     (6,318) (4,662)
(1)   Depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash movements include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, and the share of profit of joint 
ventures and associates.
Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2008 was £513 million, a decrease of £140 million compared 
with 2007. This decrease is driven by an increase in maintenance capital expenditure of £37 million, principally  
at Rugeley, Hazelwood and Saltend; and an increase in net interest paid of £87 million. In addition, there was  
a working capital increase in the year of £109 million due to stock building at Rugeley and a reversal of some 
one-off working capital benefits in 2007 .
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and exceptional items, as described on the previous page,  
have been reversed out of the profits for the year in calculating free cash flow.
Growth capital expenditure was £156 million in the year (2007: £160 million) and mainly related to fitting 
Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) at Rugeley, the west field mine extension at Hazelwood and further 
construction in our European wind portfolio.
Acquisitions of £614 million in 2008 include the four peaking facilities in North America and additional 
shareholdings in Turbogás and Uch.
Net debt has increased by £1,656 million between 2007 and 2008, of which £1,282 million is attributed  
to currency translation impacts. Overall, over 85% of International Power’s total debt is represented by 
non-recourse project finance. Financial position and resources 19
Summary balance sheet
A summarised, reclassified Group balance sheet is set out below:
     As at As at
     31 December 31 December
     2008 2007
     £m £m 
Goodwill and intangibles     1,137 901
Property, plant and equipment     7,318 5,721
Investments     1,803 1,292
Long-term receivables and others     1,943 1,530
     12,201 9,444 
Net current liabilities (excluding net debt items)    (137) (387)
Non-current liabilities (excluding net debt items)    (1,611) (1,388)
Net debt     (6,318) (4,662)
Net assets     4,135 3,007 
Gearing     153% 155%
Debt capitalisation     60% 61%
Net debt – joint ventures and associates     (1,820) (1,297)
Goodwill and intangibles, property, plant and equipment, and investments have increased by  
£2,344 million during the year, with the majority of this increase relating to the weakening of sterling.  
The acquisition of the portfolio of North American peaking plants in July also contributed an increase  
in property, plant and equipment of £480 million at that time.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash flow 
generation. At 31 December 2008 the business had £354 million of cash (2007: £290 million) at the 
corporate level and £775 million (2007: £871 million) at the asset level. Debt within the Group comprises 
three convertible bonds with a book value of £900 million and £6,547 million of project level debt. The 
Group has a corporate revolver of US$850 million which is predominantly used for letters of credit, bid 
bonds and short-term liquidity requirements.
Debt capitalisation has decreased marginally to 60% (2007: 61%).
During 2008, International Power and its partners raised a total of £919 million (gross), £516 million (net) 
of project finance to fund acquisitions and greenfield development projects in North America and Europe. 
In addition International Power issued E700 million of senior convertible bonds, due in 2015. These 
significant financings were successfully completed in a challenging banking market in 2008, with all deals 
completed on attractive terms.
Dividend 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share, bringing the full-year dividend to  
12.15 pence per share (2007: 10.16 pence per share), an increase of 20% year-on-year. Payment  
of this final dividend to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 5 June 2009 is due  
to be made on 9 July 2009, following approval at the 2009 AGM which will be held on 21 May 2009.
Outlook
We have a well established portfolio of long-term contracted assets which continues to perform well.  
We are also well positioned in our key merchant markets, although forward pricing in the UK and 
the US does not reflect the attractive long-term market fundamentals. In the absence of a significant 
improvement in pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower  
than in 2008. However, our assets are well placed to capture value, from both market recovery and  
short-term pricing volatility. The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good corporate 
liquidity and no material refinancings in 2009. We expect to continue to deliver strong free cash flow  
in 2009.
Umm Al Nar, UAE
IPR European Wind Portfolio, Germany Board of Directors 20
Board of Directors
Ranald Spiers (53) 
Executive Director, Middle East and Asia
Ranald was appointed to the Board in May 2008, as Executive 
Director, Middle East and Asia, based in Abu Dhabi and Singapore. 
Prior to this appointment, he was Regional Director for the Middle 
East, where he was responsible for leading the development, 
financing, construction and operation of power and water 
desalination assets throughout the region. Ranald joined National 
Power in 1993, having previously spent 12 years with the BP 
Group. Ranald is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry  
(FRSC) and a Chartered Chemist.
Non-Executive Directors
Anthony (Tony) Isaac (67) 
Non-Executive Director
Tony became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in 
October 2000. He is the Senior Independent Director and was 
Chairman of the Audit Committee until 1 April 2008. He was 
previously the Chief Executive of The BOC Group plc and is a 
Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger Limited and Hogg 
Robinson Group plc.
Alan Murray (55) 
Non-Executive Director
Alan became a Non-Executive Director of the Company on  
1 July 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 
2008. He was a member of the Managing Board of Heidelberg 
Cement AG until the end of 2008 and was previously the Chief 
Executive of Hanson PLC, from April 2002 to October 2007.  
He joined Hanson in 1988 and held various positions prior to 
his appointment as Chief Executive, including Finance Director 
of Hanson PLC and Chief Executive of Hanson Building 
Materials America.
Struan Robertson (59) 
Non-Executive Director
Struan became a Non-Executive Director of the Company  
on 1 October 2004. He is Chairman of the Health, Safety and 
Environment Committee. He was Group Chief Executive  
of Wates Group Ltd until January 2004. Before that he was 
Executive Chairman of BP Asia Pacific. He is currently a 
Non-Executive Director at Forth Ports plc, Henderson TR 
Pacific Investment Trust plc, Tomkins plc, and is the Senior 
Independent Director of Salamander Energy plc. Previously  
he was the Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
John Roberts (63) 
Non-Executive Director
John became a Non-Executive Director of the Company  
on 18 May 2006. He is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. He was previously Chief Executive of United 
Utilities PLC, a position he held for over six years. Before that,  
he was Chief Executive of Hyder Utilities and of Manweb. He is  
a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Institution  
of Engineering and Technology and the Association of 
Chartered Certified Accountants. He is a Non-Executive 
Director of Royal Bank of Canada (Europe) Limited, Merrill 
Lynch New Energy Technology Trust and Remote Energy 
Monitoring Holdings Limited.
Chairman
Sir Neville Simms FREng (64)
Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of National Power 
in August 1998 and was appointed Chairman of International 
Power in October 2000. He has been a member of the 
President’s Committee of the CBI since 1998, is Deputy 
Chairman of Ashridge Management College and Chairman  
of the BRE Trust. Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director  
of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002 and Chairman  
of the government’s Sustainable Procurement Task Force 
 from 2005 to 2007 .
Executive Directors
Philip Cox (57) 
Chief Executive Officer
Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 as Chief Financial 
Officer and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of 
International Power in December 2003. He is responsible for the 
overall management of the Company, and leading the executive 
and operational teams in implementing the strategies approved 
by the Board. Philip is a Chartered Accountant and prior to 
joining the Company he was a senior vice president at Invensys. 
He is a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc and will become 
a Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC 
with effect from 1 April 2009.
Mark Williamson (51) 
Chief Financial Officer
Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer of International 
Power in December 2003. His responsibilities include financial 
control and reporting, tax and risk management. Mark joined  
the Company as Group financial controller, with responsibility for 
the Group’s financial reporting, in September 2000. Prior to this 
Mark was at Simon Group plc, where he was the Group financial 
controller. He is a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco plc 
and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Bruce Levy (53) 
Executive Director, North America
Bruce was appointed to the Board in June 2005, and is 
responsible for all aspects of performance in North America 
including plant operations, finance, energy trading and business 
development. Prior to joining the Company, he was senior vice 
president and Chief Financial Officer at GPU, Inc. a diversified 
energy production and distribution corporation. Bruce is Chair 
of the Electric Power Supply Association, the national 
association of competitive power suppliers in the US.
Steve Riley (47) 
Executive Director, Europe
Steve was appointed to the Board in January 2004 and is 
responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the 
European region including plant operations, finance, energy 
trading and business development. Steve joined the Company in 
1985 holding senior positions in two UK power stations before 
being appointed managing director, Australia in January 2000. 
Steve is currently Chairman of the Association of Electricity 
Producers in the UK. He is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks 
Group plc. 
Tony Concannon (45) 
Executive Director, Australia
Tony was appointed to the Board in January 2004 and is 
responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the 
Australian region including plant operations, finance, energy 
trading and business development. Tony is a Chartered 
Engineer and joined the industry in 1982. He has previously 
worked in a number of business areas including power station 
operations, trading and international business development.  Summary Directors’ remuneration report 21
Summary Directors’ remuneration report
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee is responsible for:
—  the establishment of the remuneration policy  
for Executive Directors
—  the determination of the compensation  
and terms of employment (including any 
termination arrangements) of Executive 
Directors and other senior executives of  
the Company
—  approving all Company share plan and pension 
plan arrangements including the establishment 
and measurement of all performance conditions
—  monitoring the total compensation of  
Executive Directors in light of Group and 
individual performance
The principles of the remuneration policy  
for Executive Directors
The Committee has based its Executive Director 
remuneration policy on the following principles to 
ensure that it remains relevant to business needs:
Competitive:  
Total remuneration levels in comparison  
to our chosen comparator group are reviewed 
on an annual basis in order to ensure they  
are competitive and thereby to ensure that 
International Power can retain and motivate 
top calibre executives.
In determining the salaries and benefits of the 
Executive Directors, the Committee has regard 
to the treatment of staff and management 
generally within the Group, to ensure that  
an appropriate balance is maintained.
Balanced and performance related:  
The remuneration of the Executive Directors 
incorporates both fixed and variable elements.
Fixed elements – including salary, pension and 
benefits – are provided as part of a competitive 
employment package.
Variable elements are based upon the 
achievement of specific and measurable 
shared and individual performance objectives 
over both the short and long-term that align 
the Executives’ rewards with the creation of 
value for shareholders.
Shareholder aligned:  
Remuneration packages include significant 
opportunities to acquire, and obligations to 
retain, International Power shares, consistent 
with our strategy of building a strong share 
ownership culture.
At the Remuneration Committee meeting in 
December 2008, the policy requirement for a 
minimum shareholding was reviewed and clarified. 
All Executive Directors, with the exception of the 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), have a requirement 
to hold shares equivalent to 100% of their salary. 
The requirement for the CEO is 150%.
The Committee intends to maintain these principles 
of remuneration for 2009, as the Committee 
believes they are delivering fair and proportionate 
rewards to the Executive Directors based on the 
Group’s performance, and it will continue to 
monitor and consider changes in light of developing 
market practice.
Directors’ beneficial interests as at 31 December 2008
The beneficial interest of the Directors in office at 31 December 2008 in the Ordinary Shares of the 
Company are shown in the table below:   
 
   At 31 December 2008 At 31 December 2007
Sir Neville Simms 200,000 178,220
Philip Cox 775,504 775,504
Mark Williamson 227,132 125,097
Tony Concannon 172,093 153,518
Bruce Levy 155,364 90,364
Steve Riley 283,805 189,902
Ranald Spiers
(1)
 223,315 n/a
Tony Isaac 25,501 25,501
Alan Murray 10,000 –
Struan Robertson 10,663 3,163
John Roberts 25,000 25,000
(1)  Date of appointment as a Director 15 May 2008. Ranald Spiers held 223,315 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 15 May 2008.
No Director had, at any time during the financial year, any beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary 
undertaking.
The middle market quotation of an International Power plc Ordinary Share as at the close of business  
on 31 December 2008 was 240.25 pence (2007: 453.50 pence) and the daily quotations during the year 
ranged from 182.00 pence to 463.00 pence.
No changes to Directors’ share interests have taken place between 31 December 2008 and 10 March 2009.
TNP (Pluak Daeng), Thailand Summary Directors’ remuneration report 22
2008 Directors’ remuneration and interests
Directors’ aggregate remuneration
The table below shows the aggregate remuneration of the Directors of International Power plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Notes:
1.   For Philip Cox, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension 
cash allowance (£144,000) and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap (£12,100).  
He also received a car allowance (£15,000) and private medical insurance (£1,350), which are included in ‘Other benefits’.
2.   For Mark Williamson, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of  
a pension cash allowance (£92,940) and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 
(£3,460). He also received a car allowance (£12,000) and private medical insurance (£1,750), which are included in ‘Other 
benefits’.
3.   The ‘Other benefits’ entry of £517,100 for Tony Concannon comprises elements delivered from the UK (£51,550), in Australia 
(£15,850) and to cover taxes paid under the Company’s expatriate policy (£449,700). The UK total comprises a car allowance 
(£12,000), private medical insurance (£2,850 in respect of both UK and international cover), relocation support (£1,200, which  
is tapering off from a previous relocation) and certain elements of the expatriate package provided (£35,500). The balance  
of the expatriate package (medical costs and children’s schooling fees at £15,850) is provided locally in Australia.
  The taxes paid by the Company in the UK and Australia are net of UK hypothetical tax paid by Tony Concannon in 2008,  
under the Company’s expatriate policy. The net tax liability for 2008 has been estimated by the Company’s taxation specialists  
to be £449,700. 
4.   The ‘Other benefits’ entry for Steve Riley incorporates a company car allowance (£12,000), private medical insurance (£1,750), 
the payment of school fees (£51,708) and the value of relocation support (£18,151).
5.   Bruce Levy’s payment in lieu of pension figure comprises contributions to a 401k Savings Plan (US$7,244), a Retirement Plan 
(US$23,000) and a Supplemental Retirement Plan (US$232,106). He also received a car allowance (US$21,600), medical and 
dental insurance (US$5,705), disability and life insurance (US$3,315) and relocation support (US$28,000), the total of which is 
included under ‘Other benefits’. The values shown in the above table, including for bonus, have been converted from US dollars 
to sterling using the average annual exchange rate of 1.8521.
6.   For Ranald Spiers, all figures provided are on the basis of time since his appointment to the Board on 15 May 2008. The payment 
in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance (£43,700) 
and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap (£2,650). He also received a car 
allowance (£7,500), private medical insurance (£1,600 in respect of both UK and international cover), an overseas allowance 
(£31,500) and other benefits paid locally in the Middle East relating to his expatriate status (£22,950). These elements are 
included in ‘Other benefits’, pro-rated since his appointment to the Board on 15 May 2008. As with Tony Concannon, the Group 
is committed to funding Ranald Spiers’ worldwide employment tax and social security liability in excess of what would be due  
if he were resident for tax purposes in the UK, and had not triggered an overseas tax liability. As Ranald Spiers is primarily based 
in the UAE, however, such taxes and social security are typically expected to be less than or equivalent to the hypothetical taxes 
and social security deductions that are withheld from his UK income. 
7.   Tony Isaac received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation, £5,000 in respect of his role as  
Senior Independent Director and £2,500 for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee to the end of March 2008.
8.   Struan Robertson received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation and £10,000 for his role  
as Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
9.   John Roberts received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation and £10,000 for his role  
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
10.   Alan Murray received a basic fee of £50,000, a £5,000 fee for Committee participation and £7,500 for his role  
as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 April 2008.
11.   Adri Baan’s total fee of £55,000 for 2007 is shown to enable a more useful year-on-year comparison. He retired  
as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2007.
 Salary Fees Performance related Payment in lieu Other Aggregate Aggregate
   bonus – cash of pension benefits remuneration remuneration
      year to year to
      31 December 2008 31 December 2007
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Sir Neville Simms – 285,000 – – – 285,000 250,000
Philip Cox 700,000 – 384,300 156,100 16,350 1,256,750 1,331,154
Mark Williamson 405,000 – 222,345 96,400 13,750 737,495 811,181
Tony Concannon 370,000 – 149,850 – 517,100 1,036,950 651,001
Steve Riley 370,000 – 217,190 – 83,609 670,799 696,850
Bruce Levy 429,242 – 226,640 141,650 31,651 829,183 769,722
Ranald Spiers 201,290 – 120,661 46,350 63,550 431,851 –
Tony Isaac – 62,500 – – – 62,500 60,000
Struan Robertson – 65,000 – – – 65,000 45,000
John Roberts – 65,000 – – – 65,000 45,000
Alan Murray – 62,500 – – – 62,500 22,500
Adri Baan – – – – – – 55,000
Total 2,475,532 540,000 1,320,986 440,500 726,010 5,503,028 4,737,408 Summary financial statement 23
Summary financial statement
The summary financial statement is a summary of information in the Annual Report 2008. As such, it does not 
contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs 
of the Company or the Group and of their policies and arrangements concerning Directors’ remuneration 
as would be provided by the full Annual Report. For further information, the full consolidated financial 
statements, the independent auditor’s report and the Directors’ report (which includes the full Directors’ 
remuneration report) should be consulted. These are contained in a separate document entitled  Annual 
Report 2008. Those shareholders who only receive the Summary Annual Report but would like to receive, 
free of charge, the Annual Report for this or for future years should contact Equiniti, at the address set out 
on page 27.
This summary financial statement was approved by the Board on 10 March 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Mark Williamson 
Chief Financial Officer
Independent auditor
The independent auditor’s report on the financial statements of the Group was unqualified and did not 
contain a statement under either section 237(2) of the Companies Act 1985 (accounting records or 
returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records and returns) or section 237(3) (failure to obtain 
necessary information and explanations).
Statement of the independent auditors to the members of International Power plc pursuant to 
section 251 of the Companies Act 1985
We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the consolidated income statement, 
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash 
flow statement and summary Directors’ remuneration report. 
This statement is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the 
Companies Act 1985. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our work, for this statement or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors  and auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Annual Report in accordance with applicable 
UK law. Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial 
statement within the Summary Annual Report, with the full annual financial statements, Directors’ report 
and Directors’ remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 
of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder. We also read the other information 
contained in the Summary Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become 
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999/6, “The auditor’s statement on the summary 
financial statement” issued by the Auditing Practices Board. Our report on the Company’s full annual 
financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the 
Directors’ remuneration report.
Opinion
In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, 
Directors’ report and Directors’ remuneration report of International Power plc for the year ended 
31 December 2008 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 
1985 and the regulations made thereunder. 
 
KPMG Audit Plc  
Chartered accountants  
Registered auditor 
10 March 2009
8 Salisbury Square 
London EC4Y 8BB Summary financial statement 24
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
  Year ended 31 December 2008  Year ended 31 December 2007
  Results  Exceptional Results for Results Exceptional Results for
  excluding  items and the year excluding items and the year
  exceptional  specific   exceptional specific  
  items and IAS 39  items and IAS 39 
  specific IAS 39 mark to  specific IAS 39 mark to 
  mark to market  mark to market 
  market  movements
(i)
  market movements
(i)
 
  movements
(i)
   movements
(i)
 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 4,891 339 5,230 3,872 (387) 3,485
Less: share of joint ventures’ revenue (417) – (417) (340) – (340)
Less: share of associates’ revenue (992) – (992) (820) – (820)
Group revenue 3,482 339 3,821 2,712 (387) 2,325
Cost of sales (2,552) (204) (2,756) (1,927) (2) (1,929)
Gross profit 930 135 1,065 785 (389) 396
Other operating income 112 – 112 96 – 96
Other operating expenses (221) (20) (241) (163) (9) (172)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 229 (9) 220 186 12 198
Profit from operations 1,050 106 1,156 904 (386) 518
Disposal of interests in businesses – – – – 289 289
Finance income 104 – 104 77 – 77
Finance expenses  (472) 127 (345) (385) (16) (401)
Net finance costs (368) 127 (241) (308) (16) (324)
Profit before tax 682 233 915 596 (113) 483
Tax expense (123) (33) (156) (113) 159 46
Profit for the year 559 200 759 483 46 529
Attributable to:      
Minority interests 69 23 92 77 (51) 26
Equity holders of the parent 490 177 667 406 97 503
Earnings per share:
Basic  32.4p  44.2p 27.1p  33.6p
Diluted 30.6p  34.7p 25.7p  31.8p
All results are from continuing operations.
(i)  The Group separately presents certain items as exceptional. These are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information. In 
addition, in order to assist the reader to understand the underlying business performance, the Group separately discloses within the 
income statement specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 December 2008
       Year ended  Year ended
       31 December  31 December
       2008  2007
       £m  £m
Net loss on cash flow hedges      (270)  (122)
Revaluation deficit on step acquisition      –  (12)
Exchange losses recognised on net investment hedges      (155)  (17)
Exchange gains arising on translation of foreign operations      947  137
Tax on items taken directly to equity      18  23
Net income recognised directly in equity      540  9
Profit for the year      759  529
Total recognised income and expense for the year      1,299  538
Attributable to:
Minority interests      100  21
Equity holders of the parent      1,199  517 Summary financial statement 25
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 December 2008
       31 December  31 December
       2008  2007
       £m  £m
Non-current assets        
Goodwill      941  733
Other intangible assets      196  168
Property, plant and equipment      7,318  5,721
Investments in joint ventures and associates      1,756  1,279
Other investments      47  13
Finance lease receivables      1,669  1,252
Other long-term receivables      124  91
Deferred tax assets      120  142
Derivative financial assets      30  45
Total non-current assets      12,201  9,444
Current assets        
Inventories      275  150
Trade and other receivables      949  713
Finance lease receivables      58  41
Derivative financial assets      477  223
Cash and cash equivalents      1,129  1,161
Total current assets      2,888  2,288
Total assets      15,089  11,732
Current liabilities        
Loans and bonds      421  539
Derivative financial liabilities      544  508
Trade and other payables      894  720
Current tax liabilities      389  203
Provisions      69  83
Total current liabilities      2,317  2,053
Non-current liabilities        
Loans and bonds      7,026  5,284
Derivative financial liabilities      453  326
Other payables      57  30
Retirement benefit obligations      20  22
Provisions      72  98
Deferred tax liabilities      1,009  912
Total non-current liabilities      8,637  6,672
Total liabilities      10,954  8,725
Net assets      4,135  3,007
Equity        
Share capital      759  751
Share premium account      431  411
Capital redemption reserve      145  145
Capital reserve      422  422
Revaluation reserve      (2)  (9)
Hedging reserve      (376)  (84)
Translation reserve      859  35
Retained earnings      1,660  1,173
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     3,898  2,844
Minority interests      237  163
Total equity      4,135  3,007
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 10 March 2009 and signed on its behalf by
  Philip Cox Mark Williamson
  Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Summary financial statement 26
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
       Year ended  Year ended
       31 December  31 December
       2008  2007
       £m  £m
Cash flows from operating activities        
Profit for the year      759  529
Adjustments for:    
 Tax expense/(credit)      156  (46)
 Net finance costs      241  324
 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates      (220)  (198)
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets   298  320
 Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment      2   (2)
 Profit on sale of intangible assets      (14)   –
 Exceptional losses/(gains) before tax       57  (233)
 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements      (172)  342
 Other non-cash movements      22  (5)
 Decrease in provisions      (81)  (38)
 Decrease in finance lease receivables      45  35
 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment      –  7
Other cash movements      (38)  9
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates      135  145
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – maintenance      (108)  (71)
Purchase of intangible assets      (47)  (58)
Sale of intangible assets      72  10
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital     1,107  1,070
Increase in inventories      (76)  (2)
Increase in trade and other receivables      (109)  (88)
Increase in trade and other payables      76  42
Decrease in assets held for trading      –  44
Cash generated from operations      998  1,066
Taxes paid      (86)  (101)
Interest paid      (457)  (374)
Interest received      58  62
Free cash flow      513  653
Cash flows relating to exceptional items:
 Payment of Australian stamp duty – exceptional      (7)  –
Net cash inflow from operating activities      506  653
Cash flows from investing activities        
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – growth      (156)  (160)
Government grants received      –  1
Purchase of intangible assets – growth      (8)  –
Acquisitions (net of cash acquired), and increase in stake, of subsidiaries     (539)  (778)
Acquisitions of joint ventures, associates and investments      (75)  (13)
Investments in (net of returns from) joint ventures, associates and investments    (58)  (1)
Proceeds from partial disposal of subsidiaries      –  168
Proceeds from disposal of investments      –  250
Net cash outflow from investing activities      (836)  (533)
Cash flows from financing activities        
Dividends paid      (166)  (160)
Proceeds from share issue      10  13
Proceeds from new loans and bonds      2,065  616
Repayment of loans and bonds      (1,577)  (423)
Funding from minority interests      49  63
Funding repaid to minority interests      (199)  (29)
Distributions paid to minority interests      (21)  (35)
Net cash inflow from financing activities      161  45
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents      (169)  165
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year      1,161  980
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes thereon      137  16
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year       1,129  1,161 Shareholder services and information 27
Disclaimer
This document includes certain forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and projections of the Group about future events. However, by their nature 
forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future. Actual results may differ from those 
expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries in which the 
Group operates, changes in trends in the general, global or regional economies, changes in trends in the global energy sector, changes in regulation and natural disasters or other calamities. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The 2009 AGM will be held on Thursday 21 May 2009.  
Further details are outlined in the Notice of the AGM.
Electronic voting
For the AGM you can register your vote electronically by logging on to 
the following website: www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your voting 
reference numbers (the three 8-digit numbers shown on your Proxy Form). 
Alternatively, if you have already registered for a Shareview portfolio with 
Equiniti, then log on to your portfolio at www.shareview.co.uk and click 
on company meetings.
Receive your Annual Report online
If you have access to the Internet, in future you can receive your copy of the 
Annual Report by registering with www.shareview.co.uk. This is a service 
offered by Equiniti that also enables you to check your holdings in many UK 
companies and helps you to organise your investments electronically. Once 
you have registered for a portfolio, you can also use this service to change 
your address details online as well as register your vote for a company’s 
General Meeting safely, securely and privately.
Consolidated tax vouchers
A new system was introduced in 2008 for those shareholders receiving 
direct dividend payments. Following this, single consolidated tax vouchers 
are now issued at the end of March each year, in time for the preparation 
of self-assessment tax returns.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you can choose to reinvest 
your money in the Company’s shares by using a Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan (DRIP). The DRIP works by reinvesting your dividend money by way 
of buying shares in the open market. If you would like to receive further 
information and an application form for the International Power DRIP, 
please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
Individual Savings Accounts
Information on the International Power corporate Individual Savings 
Account (ISA), which offers a tax-efficient way of holding shares, 
can be obtained from Equiniti Financial Services Limited, who can 
be contacted on 0845 300 0430.
Shareholder enquiries
If you have any queries on the following:
—  transfer of shares
—  change of name or address
—  lost share certificates
—  lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of dividends 
directly into a bank or building society account
—  death of the registered holder of shares
—  receiving duplicate copies of this report
—  receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual Report  
in addition to the electronic version of the report
please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082 or write to them at Equiniti, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, 
quoting International Power and including your shareholder reference 
number (found on your share certificate).
Additional information can be found on the Equiniti Limited  
website at www.equiniti.com.
Share dealing services
Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service for both the purchase 
and sale of shares. This is a postal service only. For information on the 
low-cost dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, please contact 
Equiniti on 0871 384 2082.
Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a 
BT landline. Other telephony providers’ costs may vary.
Shareholder services and information
Shareview dealing
Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share dealing service, details of 
which can be found on their website: www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. This 
arrangement is available at any time during market trading hours and 
provides an easy and convenient facility to trade shares offering real time 
prices through a range of market makers, and giving you control of when 
and for how much you wish to trade your shares. Full terms and conditions 
for this service are available on the Shareview website. You should note 
that for sales, the maximum online trade size is £25,000 and for purchases 
£20,000. To trade over the telephone, please call 0845 603 7037.
Share price
Our latest share price information is available on our website at  
www.ipplc.com/ipr/investors/shareinfo. This link will provide you 
with International Power’s latest share price, historical closing prices 
and volumes and an interactive share price graph.
In addition, you can now access the latest share price on your Blackberry, 
PDA or mobile phone at http://mobile.ipplc.com.
Contact details
General enquiries
Please contact:  
Stephen Ramsay 
Company Secretary 
International Power plc 
Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street 
London EC4V 4DP 
Tel: 020 7320 8706 
E-mail: ipr.relations@ipplc.com
Corporate investor and media enquiries
Please contact: 
Aarti Singhal 
Head of Communications 
International Power plc 
Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street 
London EC4V 4DP 
Tel: 020 7320 8600 
E-mail: ipr.relations@ipplc.com
Website
The International Power website: www.ipplc.com contains the 2008 
Annual Report and Summary Annual Report, along with a wide range of 
other information on the Group. The Annual Report and Summary Annual 
Report can be found at www.ipplc.com/ipr/investors/reports/rep2008/.
The website also hosts an alert service  
www.ipplc.com/ipr/siteservices/alerts, where you can sign 
up for e-mail alerts of news releases, reports, results and 
presentations and events.
Corporate responsibility
Further information on corporate responsibility is available  
on our website: www.ipplc.com/ipr/environment/.
Financial calendar
For updates to the calendar during the year, please see our website: 
www.ipplc.com/ipr/investors/events/.
Interim Management Statement 12 May 2009
Annual General Meeting 21 May 2009
2008 final dividend ex-dividend date 3 June 2009
2008 final dividend record date 5 June 2009
2008 final dividend payment date 9 July 2009
Interim Report for the six months  
 ending 30 June 2009 11 August 2009
Interim Management Statement 11 November 2009 Section 28
Registered Office  
International Power plc  
Senator House 
85 Queen Victoria Street  
London EC4V 4DP
Registered in England  
and Wales No: 2366963
Published by  
International Power plc
www.ipplc.com
Designed and produced by Roundel 
www.roundel.com
Photography:  
front cover – iStockphoto
It is important to us that our Summary 
Annual Report is produced in an 
environmentally responsible manner, 
including the sourcing of materials. This 
Summary Annual Report is printed in 
the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon 
Neutral company, on Revive 75 Matt, a 
recycled paper with Forest Stewardship 
Council certification, using vegetable-
based inks and water-based sealants. 
The printer and paper-manufacturing 
mill both have ISO 14001 accreditation 
for environmental management.
When you have finished with this item, 
please dispose of it in your recycled 
paper waste.
Front cover
Boston by night
