 Annual Report 2007
Creating value on a global scale Creating Value on a Global Scale
Intertek is a leading provider of quality and safety
solutions serving a wide range of industries around 
the world.
From auditing and inspection, to testing, quality assurance
and certification, Intertek people are dedicated to 
adding value to customers’ products and processes,
supporting their success in the global marketplace.
Intertek has the expertise, resources and global reach 
to support its customers through its network of more
than 1,000 laboratories and offices and over 21,000 people
in 110 countries around the world.
Contents
1 Financial Highlights
2 How our Business Works
4 Our Marketplace
6 Introduction by the Chairman
8 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
10 Business and Financial Review
25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
30 Board of Directors
32 Corporate Governance Report
37 Directors’ Report
39 Remuneration Report
47 Consolidated Income Statement
48 Consolidated Balance Sheet
49 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
50 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
51 Notes to the Financial Statements
84 Intertek Group plc Company Balance Sheet
85 Notes to the Financial Statements
89 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of
Intertek Group plc
90 Corporate and Shareholder Information
91 Financial Calendar
92 Contact Information
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to 
the financial condition, results, operations and business of Intertek Group plc. 
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate 
to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. There are 
a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and
forecasts. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
To find out more go to 
www.intertek.com Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 1
Financial Highlights
Revenue
£775.4m +1 6.7%
(+22.5% at constant rates
1
)
Adjusted operating profit
2
£121 .6m +1 9.0%
(+27.2% at constant rates
1
)
Operating cash flow
£1 49. 1m +1 9.7%
Basic earnings per share
46. 7p +1 4.2%
(Diluted adjusted EPS
3
+15.0%)
Operating profit
£116. 1m +1 8.3%
Adjusted operating profit margin
2
15. 7% +30
(+60 basis points at constant rates
1
)
Profit before income tax
£1 05.8m +1 5.8%
Dividend per share
4
1 8.0p +2 1 .6%
1. Growth at constant rates compares revenue and adjusted operating profit for 2007
and 2006 at the average exchange rates for 2007. 
2. Adjusted to remove the amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions of £5.1m
(2006: £3.8m) and goodwill impairment of £0.4m (2006: £0.3m) (see reconciliation
in note 3 to the financial statements).
3. Diluted adjusted EPS based on adjusted profit (see note 8 to the financial statements).
4. Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend paid of 5.8p (2006: 4.6p) plus
the proposed final dividend of 12.2p (2006: 10.2p).
Revenue £m
CAGR 15.6%
2005 580.1
664.5
775.4
2006
2007
Adjusted operating profit
2
 £m
CAGR 18.2%
2005 87.1
102.2
121.6
2006
2007
Dividend per share (pence)
4
CAGR 22.5%
2005 12.0
14.8
18.0
2006
2007
Basic earnings per share (pence)
CAGR 12.7%
2005 36.8
40.9
46.7
2006
2007
basis
points 2 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
How our Business Works
Intertek combines
unparalleled experience,
an extensive global
network and a strong
customer focus to
provide the added 
value our clients seek.
What we do
We provide the services our clients
need to deal with increasingly complex
global quality and safety challenges.
The industries in which we operate
We operate in industries where we can
use our global network, international
expertise and combination of services
to support our customers in their local
and global markets.
• Testing
• Inspection
• Certification
• Auditing
• Quality Assurance
• Advisory Services
• Agriculture
• Automotive
• Chemical
• Consumer Products
• Electrical & Electronic
• Energy & Fuels
• Food
• Government
• Industrial
• IT & Telecom
• Minerals
• Pharmaceutical
• Retailers Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 3
Our leading customers
We have a strong customer ethos 
that has attracted some of the 
world’s leading brands.
ARI, Bangladesh, Bosch, BP , Canon, Certified Automotive
Parts Association, ChevronTexaco, Citgo, ConocoPhillips,
DSM, ExxonMobil, First Alert, GapInc, General Mills Inc,
Glencore, Guinea, Haagen-Dazs, Haier, Hanesbrands Inc,
Highlights for Children, IKEA, Infineum, KBToys, Kenya,
Kohl’s, Kuwait, Levi Strauss&Co, LG, LIDL, Lloyd’s Register,
Marks & Spencer, McDonald’s
®
Corporation, MeadWestco
Corporation, Mexico, Mothercare, Morgan Stanley,
Mozambique, Nestlé, Nigeria, Nikon, Nordstrom Inc,
Oriental Trading Company, Panasonic, Qualcomm
Incorporated, Raymond Geddes and Company, Redcats
Group, Sabic, Safety Equipment Institute, Samsung, Sasol,
Saudi Arabia, Shell, Sierra Leone, StatoilHydro, Sunoco,
Tesco, TOKYO ELECTRON LIMITED, Toshiba, Total, 
Toys “R” Us, Trafigura, Uzbekistan, Vale, Valero, Vermont
Teddy Bear Company, Vitol. 4 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Our Marketplace
Our market has grown
strongly as our customers
expand product lines,
increase speed to market
and keep up with
changes in regulation.
Intertek growth
Our growth is a result of our clear and
effective growth strategy.
A global presence
2 1 ,300
Intertek people
11 0
Countries
+1 6. 7%
Revenue growth in 2007
+3, 1 00
New employees in 2007
Revenue
by region
1 Asia Pacific 35%
2 Americas 35%
3 EMEA 30%
1
2
3
Intertek labs and offices Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 5
Creating value
By utilising Intertek’s resources, we add value to
our customers’ products and processes.
Local knowledge, global network
Our global network of more than 1,000 offices and laboratories
serving customers in more than 100 countries means that we are
able to deliver the most comprehensive solutions in a range of
diverse markets.
Equipped to service our clients
Our expanding range of high specification laboratory equipment
coupled with experienced scientists and engineers is at the disposal
of our clients. By outsourcing their quality and safety needs to
Intertek, our customers can dedicate their primary energies to their
core business activities.
Expertise
By combining a legacy of innovation and creative thinking with
detailed knowledge of local legislation, culture, industry and market
conditions, our people are in the best position to understand the
needs of our customers and deliver time-critical, optimised solutions
to meet those needs.
Respected and recognised marks
Intertek offers one of the broadest ranges of certification and
accreditation marks to help our customers’ services or products be
accepted in markets around the world. 
A global perspective
Drawing in world-class resources and capabilities through our
network of laboratories wherever and whenever they’re needed.
Speed and responsiveness
A partner who understands the importance of time-to-market to
help customers gain a competitive edge.
Expertise
An appreciation of local legislation and in-depth industry know-how,
offering customers a one-stop-shop for all their safety and quality
requirements.
Quality of service
By offering one global, consistently exceptional service, adapted to
local needs.
Customer demands
Our customers look to us as partners that 
will help them meet their safety and 
quality challenges.
Intertek – the mark of quality
A symbol can speak volumes. With a
recognised safety mark on your product
you can meet regulatory requirements,
win new customers and open up markets.
We have a comprehensive suite of 
safety marks:
• ETL mark for US 
• S mark, BEAB mark, GS mark and 
CE mark for European access
• ASTA Diamond mark accepted across
Europe, Asia and beyond
1
2
1 Paris
2 Kuala Lumpur 6 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Introduction by the Chairman
Record revenue growth
Results 
I am delighted to report that Intertek
performed strongly in 2007, demonstrating
the effectiveness of our business model and
strategy. Revenue increased to £775.4m, up
a record 16.7% over last year. This was
achieved despite the average exchange rate
for the US dollar being nearly 9% weaker
against sterling, which reduced reported
revenue when translated into sterling. 
Operating profit was £116.1m, up 18.3%
over last year. Operating profit before the
amortisation of intangible assets arising on
acquisitions and impairment of goodwill
(‘adjusted operating profit’) increased to
£121.6m, up 19.0%. Our adjusted
operating margin increased by 30 basis
points to 15.7%.
At constant exchange rates, revenue and
adjusted operating profit grew 22.5% and
27.2% respectively, and on a like-for-like
basis, organic revenue and adjusted
operating profit increased by 13.0% and
15.2% respectively, reflecting the strong
growth in our underlying businesses. 
Acquisitions
We completed 16 acquisitions in 2007 for
total consideration of £100.0m (2006: £36.9m).
Details of the acquisitions are given in the
business review by division. We continue 
to see many opportunities to acquire
businesses in our chosen industry sectors
and so far in 2008 we have completed 
for total consideration of £17.5m, five
acquisitions which further widen the 
scope and range of the services we offer.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 46.7p, up 14.2%
over last year. Diluted adjusted earnings 
per share, before amortisation of intangibles
arising on acquisitions and impairment of
goodwill were 49.7p, up 15.0%. 
Dividends
An interim dividend of 5.8p per share 
(2006: 4.6p) was paid to shareholders on 
13 November 2007. The Directors will propose
a final dividend of 12.2p per share at the
Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2008, 
to be paid on 19 June 2008 to shareholders
on the register at close of business on 
6 June 2008. If approved, this will make 
a full year dividend of 18.0p per share
(2006: 14.8p), an increase of 21.6%. 
This is in line with our dividend policy and
reflects the good performance of the Group.
As announced in our last Annual Report, 
our intention is to pay an annual dividend
that is covered at least two and a half times
by earnings. 
Board changes
As previously announced, after 34 years
with the Group, Raymond Kong retired on
11 May 2007. I would like to express my
deep gratitude to him, on behalf of his
fellow Directors, employees and customers,
for his outstanding contribution towards
building the Consumer Goods division into
the successful business it is today and for 
his excellent contribution to the Board, on
which he served for the past three years. 
We wish him a happy and healthy retirement.
On 1 January 2008, Mark Loughead joined
the Intertek Board as Executive Director 
and Chief Operating Officer for the Group.
Mark was previously Executive Vice President
of our Oil, Chemical & Agri division and 
has 30 years experience in the industry, 
19 of which have been with Intertek. 
I congratulate and welcome Mark and 
look forward to his pursuit of opportunities
to increase our growth and value for our
customers and shareholders. 
Vanni Treves
Chairman Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 7
Basic earnings per share
46. 7p
Dividend per share
1
1 8.0p
Biographies of each of the Board members
are set out on page 31.
Employees 
The growth reflected in this strong set of
results has been delivered by the dedication
and expertise of the Group’s employees 
in providing value to our customers. At the
end of 2007, the Group employed over
21,300 people in 110 countries, an increase
of 3,100 people over last year. Almost 900
new employees joined the Group in the
businesses that we acquired in the year. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to
welcome all new employees to Intertek 
and to thank all our employees around the
world for their commitment to making 2007
such a successful year.
Climate change
Intertek is committed to play an important
and positive role with respect to climate
change. We advise our clients as an integral
part of our business, on many issues which
have an impact on the environment, such as
the chemical content of their products and
packaging, the energy efficiency of their
equipment, CO
2
emissions and the disposal
of harmful substances and waste electrical
products. We also provide advisory and
consultancy services to help retailers and
manufacturers design their products and
services to comply with current and future
environmental regulations around the world.
Through our services we help our clients 
to minimise the environmental impact of
their products for the benefit of society 
as a whole. We are also mindful of our own
impact on the environment and are working
on various initiatives to reduce this. This is
discussed further in the Corporate Social
Responsibility Report on pages 25 to 29. 
Organisation changes
In 2008, we are dividing our four operating
divisions into seven. This reflects the growth
and change in composition of our business,
particularly in the Oil, Chemical & Agri
division which will be split into three to
better support the needs of our customers.
Each division will build on the strong
foundations already in place to grow both
organically and through strategic
acquisitions. This new structure and the
dedication of our management and
employees will enable us to concentrate on
developing our business sectors to create
value for our customers and shareholders.
Outlook
Demand for Intertek’s services is driven by
product variety and innovation, growth in
regulatory requirements and standards, and
increasing environmental awareness, as well
as global trade and the drive to increase
quality and safety. Therefore, our growth
drivers are not directly correlated to total
consumer or business expenditure, which
means we are well placed to withstand a
global economic slowdown. Indeed, our
services can help our customers remain
competitive in more challenging market
conditions. Furthermore, we are also very
well diversified, both geographically and
across industry sectors, which would help
mitigate any impact in the event of an
economic downturn.
We expect 2008 to be another good year
for Intertek.
Vanni Treves
Chairman
1. Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend
paid of 5.8p (2006: 4.6p) plus the proposed final
dividend of 12.2p (2006: 10.2p).
1
2
1 London
2 Rio de Janeiro 8 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Our strategy for success
Introduction
Our financial results speak for themselves –
we have enjoyed a very successful year, with
record revenue growth. This outstanding
performance was due to our clear and
effective growth strategy, favourable
conditions in some of our markets and the
dedication and expertise of our people. In
the paragraphs below, I describe how our
strategy works in practice.
Add value to our clients’ business 
and products
Our mission is to support our clients in their
global and local trade by adding value to
their products and processes. But what does
this really mean? As our clients buy, sell or
receive products around the world, we help
them to achieve the quality, safety, social and
environmental standards that they need for
trading these products successfully and
within critical time frames. Manufacturers,
retailers and traders operate in an
increasingly competitive global marketplace.
We act in partnership with them to help
them to succeed. By doing this we create
value for our shareholders.
Combine and increase services to meet
clients’ future needs
We constantly review the services that we
offer our clients and identify where their
future needs are developing. By being in
regular and close contact with them, we
listen, anticipate and then plan the key areas
in which to expand our services and
resources to best support their changing
needs. For example, we have long provided
clients with electromagnetic compatibility,
safety certification and performance testing
for mobile devices. By acquiring Product
Quality Partners and National Software
Technology Laboratories in the United
States, we now offer a full suite of hardware
testing, including advanced testing
applications and software compatibility
services which are becoming increasingly
sought after in many markets. This is exactly
the support that our clients now require
from us, as their products and the
environment in which they operate, evolve. 
We grew the breadth of our emissions
service offerings to engine, lubricant and
additive manufacturer and automotive
industries substantially, by acquiring 
Carnot Emission Services, a company based
in San Antonio, Texas, US. Carnot provides
emissions testing services to small engine
and industrial equipment manufacturers and
certifies engines to the latest recently
enacted Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) off-road regulations. These services
expand and complement the heavy diesel
on-highway and off-road emission services
we provide at our neighbouring Intertek
Automotive Research facility. 
Acquisitions bring new clients into the
Group who can benefit from our services on
a global scale and also allow us to provide
new services to our existing customers. 
By listening to and foreseeing our clients’
future needs we are growing our business.
Get closer to customers – organise
ourselves to their industry lines
In response to the growth opportunities in
new sectors and to increase the focus on
customers in their specific industries, we
have changed the organisational structure
from four divisions to seven: Consumer
Goods; Commercial & Electrical; Analytical
Services; Minerals; Oil, Chemical & Agri;
Industrial Services; and Government
Services. This will enable the leaders of each
division to focus on the needs of their
customers and pursue a growth strategy
more directly focused on the industries that
they serve and thereby continue to diversify
the revenue streams into different industries.
To support these seven divisions, our
‘Intertek as One’ initiative launched two
years ago, will ensure there is cross-
divisional integration and co-operation. 
It has led to more service offerings and
added value for our customers and at the
same time allowed us to pursue opportunities
for sharing of resources.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 9
Our Strategy
Add value
Combine and increase services
Customer focus
To be the service provider of choice 
in our industry sectors
Drive outsourcing
Our global brand of one Intertek, with
thirteen main industry groupings, ensures
our customers can rapidly identify themselves
with us and helps us to offer a full range of
services to each industry. The main industries
we reach are shown on page 2 and we
expect this to expand in the future through
greenfield and acquisition growth.
To be a leader in our core service
industries
Our strategy is to concentrate on industry
sectors which provide us with an
opportunity to service customers globally.
We have developed a list of industries that
meet our criteria. In many of these, we are
already a leading provider and maintain a
strong reputation. Where we are not, we
aim to gain sufficient market share to
become the first or second service provider. 
For example, the global demand for minerals
is accelerating due to rapid industrialisation
and increasing development in emerging
economies. This growth leads to increased
demand for testing services at the point of
extraction and inspection at the point of
shipment. We lacked market presence in
Australia, which is a key location for the
mining industry, so we acquired two
companies: Genalysis which provides testing
and analytical services to the mining industry
in Western and Southern Australia and
Africa; and Northern Territories
Environmental Laboratories which covers
Northern Australia. These companies have
given us a strong presence in the Australian
minerals sector and helped us to win a
significant seven-year contract with
Fortescue Metals Group (FMG) to provide
analytical testing of mine samples to a major
mining company. These two acquisitions
complement our existing minerals operations
in Asia and the Americas and give us the
market penetration to pursue other
opportunities in the minerals testing market.
Our strategy of growing Intertek in our core
industry sectors means that we can focus
our acquisition strategy, building a complete
portfolio of services which maximises the
value we can add to our customers.
Drive the outsourcing trend in our core
industries
We developed the laboratory outsourcing
strategy initially in the oil sector over eight
years ago, but have now extended our reach
to the chemical, pharmaceutical, personal care,
automotive and minerals industries. Major
outsourcing contracts won in 2007 include:
• ICI outsourced its Measurement Science
Group in the UK;
• Kodak outsourced the analytical services of
its Eastman Gelatine Corporation in the US;
• FMG outsourced its minerals sample
preparation to Intertek Robotics in Australia;
• Limburg Water Board outsourced its water
and environmental laboratory activities in
the Netherlands.
Our outstanding track record is attracting more
opportunity and has established Intertek as the
market leader in laboratory outsourcing in the
oil and chemical sectors.
Many companies still run their quality and
safety services in-house. These are often 
non-core activities within a large, complex
organisation. We take the time to understand
these companies’ quality requirements and
offer outsourced solutions to maximise value
to our customers, including the resources and
skills available from our global network of
1,000 laboratories and offices. We expect
more outsourcing of these services across a
variety of industries, especially if the business
environment for our customers becomes more
challenging, as there may be increased
pressure to optimise value from scarcer
resources, presenting a strong growth
opportunity for Intertek. 
Our business is underpinned by global trade
but more importantly depends on product
variety, increasing demands for quality and
safety and the growing volume of regulations
concerning the environment and quality and
safety issues. I am confident that our proven
strategy and the dedication of our people will
continue to drive strong demand for our
services, providing added value for our
customers and increased value creation for 
our shareholders.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
1 Hong Kong
2 Houston
1
2 Adjusted operating profit
1
 £m
2003
87.1
83.0
74.7
102.2
121.6
2004
2005
2006
2007
10 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
Intertek provides safety
and quality services to
customers to add value
to their products and
processes and support
their success in the global
marketplace.
Revenue
+1 6. 7%
Adjusted operating profit
1
+1 9.0%
Adjusted operating margin
1
+30bp
1. Before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions and goodwill impairment.
This Business and Financial Review is provided to help
shareholders gain an understanding of our business 
and the issues affecting the Group. The Group overview
sets out our performance for the year and highlights
any significant issues that affected the Group. This is
followed by a more detailed commentary on the
performance of each division. We continue with a
Financial Review and conclude with a summary of the
risks and uncertainties affecting our business.
Results
The Group had an excellent year and reported record
revenue growth. Revenue increased by 16.7% (22.5%
at constant rates). The adjusted operating profit
increased by 19.0% (27.2% at constant rates). The
adjusted operating margin was 15.7%, up 30 basis
points from last year.
The results for 2007 by division are summarised on 
the next page. 
For statutory reporting purposes, operating profit is
stated after the deduction of the amortisation of
intangible assets arising on acquisitions and goodwill
impairment. For management purposes, we adjust
operating profit to remove these charges as we consider
that adjusted operating profit is a better figure on
which to judge year-on-year growth. 
The percentage change at actual rates compares 
the results for 2007 and 2006 translated into sterling 
at the average exchange rates applicable in each 
of those years. The percentage change at constant rates
compares the results for 2007 and 2006 at 
the average exchange rates applicable in 2007. 
For management purposes we measure growth in
revenue and adjusted operating profit at constant rates,
as we consider that it provides a better like-for-like
comparison of the underlying performance. 
Intertek Group
revenue
1 Oil, Chemical & Agri 47%
2 Commercial & Electrical 23%
3 Consumer Goods 23%
4 Government Services 7%
1
2
3
4
Group overview
Revenue £m
2003
580.1
499.6
471.1
664.5
775.4
2004
2005
2006
2007 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 11
We calculate organic growth by excluding
the results of acquisitions made in 2006 and
2007. On an organic basis, revenue grew by
7.6% (13.0% at constant rates) and adjusted
operating profit grew by 7.8% (15.2% at
constant rates). The organic growth was
generated primarily by growth in the market
for quality and safety services, an increase 
in environmental regulations, an increase in
outsourcing and increased global trade.
Part of the Group’s growth strategy is to
make bolt-on acquisitions which complement
and extend the Group’s service offering into
new areas of expertise and new geographies.
We made 16 such acquisitions in 2007 
and seven in 2006, which were located in
12 different countries. These businesses have
extended the range of analytical services
offered by the Group in a variety of sectors
including the minerals, plastics, food,
pharmaceutical and chemical industries and
have increased the Group’s footprint in
strategically important countries such as the
United States (US), the United Kingdom (UK),
Australia, India, Japan and Spain. The Group
is able to leverage the return from these
acquisitions by offering new services on a
global basis to existing customers. 
Details of the performance of each division,
including more information about the
acquisitions are given in the Business review
by division which starts on page 12.
The Group operates in 110 countries and
revenue is relatively evenly spread over the
three key regions. Our largest contributors
are the US and China (including Hong Kong),
which accounted for 28% and 20%
respectively of the Group’s revenue in 2007.
Growth in the US was driven partly by
acquisitions but also by the strong petroleum
market. Growth in China was driven mainly
by the increased demand for quality and
safety services. The Group has been established
in China for many years and continues to
expand its facilities into new locations with
three laboratories and seven offices opened
in 2007 offering services to a wide range 
of industries. There was substantial growth
in revenue in Australia in 2007 which was
mainly in the minerals sector where we
acquired two new companies in the year. 
Outlook
The market for our services continues to
expand. Consumers and regulatory bodies
are increasingly concerned about the quality
and safety of products and services and their
impact on the environment. The number of
global and domestic regulations concerning
issues such as the environment and the safety
and quality of products has increased and
this trend is set to continue. Manufacturers
and retailers need to meet the demands 
of their customers and ensure that they
comply with the increasingly complex array
of legislation. We work in partnership with
our customers to help them meet those
demands and increase the value of their
products and services. 
Our business is based partly on global trade
but also on product variety and increasing
consumer demand for variety, quality and
safety. Whilst a significant recession in key
countries such as the US and China would
probably slowdown our growth, we are very
well diversified, both geographically and
across industry sectors, which would help
mitigate any impact. 
Summary of results for 2007 Revenue Operating profit
1
2007 Change at Change at 2007 Change at Change at
£m actual rates constant rates £m actual rates constant rates
Oil, Chemical & Agri 364.0 29.3% 35.3% 45.8 52.7% 61.8%
Commercial & Electrical 179.1 6.7% 12.9% 27.2 10.6% 18.8%
Consumer Goods 181.2 12.1% 17.7% 55.2 7.0% 12.9%
Government Services 51.1 (4.3)% (0.8)% 7.6 15.2% 26.7%
Central overheads – –– (14.2) (34.0)% (35.2)%
775.4 16.7% 22.5% 121.6 19.0% 27.2%
Amortisation – (5.1)
Impairment – (0.4)
Operating profit – 116.1 18.3%
Net financing costs – (10.2)
Share of loss of associates – (0.1)
Profit before income tax – 105.8 15.8%
Income tax expense – (27.0)
Result for the year 775.4 16.7% 22.5% 78.8 14.4%
1. Before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions and goodwill impairment.
Each of our divisions offers opportunities 
for organic growth through increasing 
our service offering to customers, to add
value to their products and processes and
help them compete in the global market.
We have been very successful in finding
businesses to acquire which extend the
range of services we are able to offer. 
We have a pipeline of potential acquisitions
which we are pursuing and we will continue
to seek other opportunities.
The outlook for our business is positive and
we look forward to continued growth and
value creation for our shareholders. We expect
2008 to be another good year for Intertek. 12 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
Continued
For management purposes the Group is
organised into four operating divisions, 
each covering certain industry sectors. 
The contribution of each division to the
revenue of the Group is shown in the pie
chart on page 10.
For management purposes and in the
discussion that follows, we calculate growth
at constant rates because we consider it
gives a better comparison of year-on-year
growth. We also use adjusted operating profit
which is a non-GAAP measure of operating
profit before deducting amortisation of
intangible assets arising on acquisitions and
impairment of goodwill. Organic growth 
is calculated by excluding the results of
acquisitions made in 2006 and 2007. 
Oil, Chemical & Agri
The Oil, Chemical & Agri division offers
independent cargo inspection, testing and
analytical services to the oil and chemical,
agricultural, mineral and pharmaceutical
sectors. Global customers include the major
oil companies and leading chemical companies
and the division also provides outsourcing
services to many other major manufacturers. 
Cargo inspection and testing is a well
established global market in which Intertek
is one of the leading service providers. 
High barriers to entry are principally due 
to the fixed costs of establishing a global
network of operations and laboratories.
Analytical services continue to expand 
as a variety of industries continue to
outsource non-core services including
testing. More stringent environmental 
and regulatory requirements for fossil fuels
and the drive for alternative energy sources
are also expanding the market for testing
services. Intertek developed laboratory
outsourcing initially in the oil sector, but has
now extended its reach to the chemical,
pharmaceutical, cosmetics/personal care,
automotive/aerospace and minerals industries.
Intertek’s outstanding track record is
attracting more opportunity and has
established Intertek as the market leader in
laboratory outsourcing in the oil and
chemical sectors. 
Oil, Chemical & Agri had an excellent
performance with strong organic growth
across all regions, enhanced by several
acquisitions. Total revenue increased by 35.3%
to £364.0m and total adjusted operating
profit increased by 61.8% to £45.8m.
Adjusted operating profit is stated before
amortisation of intangible assets arising on
acquisitions of £2.9m (2006: £1.2m) and
goodwill impairment of £nil (2006: £0.3m).
The adjusted operating margin improved by
210 basis points to 12.6%. On an organic
basis, revenue growth was 15.6% and
adjusted operating profit growth was 27.5%.
Organic growth was driven by favourable
market conditions, including high demand 
for alternative fuels and more stringent
regulations, resulting in increased testing
and inspection services. In addition, optimising
the utilisation of our laboratories and
equipment has helped to drive growth in
operating profit. Demand for outsourced
analytical services also continued to grow.
This sector accounted for half of the division’s
revenue in 2007, up from 43% in 2006. 
We continue to extend the breadth and depth
of the services we can offer our customers 
by acquiring businesses which complement
our existing services. The division made 11
acquisitions in 2007 and a further four in
January and February 2008. In January 2007,
upstream services were extended by the
acquisition of UK based Umitek Ltd and its
subsidiaries, CAPCIS and SREL, which provide
specialist testing and consultancy services to
the oil and gas industries in the North Sea and
globally. These businesses allow our analytical
services stream to extend the range of services
provided by its upstream operations globally
and especially in Europe, North and West
Africa and the Middle East. The acquisition of
Geotechnical Services Pty Ltd, located near
Perth, Australia, in July 2007, extended
Intertek’s global reach in upstream services
and reinforced the national spread of
petroleum testing services for the division
across Australia.
The global demand for minerals is accelerating
due to rapid industrialisation and growing
numbers of new consumers in emerging
economies. This growth leads to increased
demand for testing and inspection services. 
In April 2007, the Group acquired Genalysis
Laboratory Services Pty Ltd, which provides
testing and analytical services to the mining
industry in Western and Southern Australia
and Africa. In September 2007, we acquired
Northern Territories Environmental
Laboratories Pty Ltd, a company based in
Darwin, Australia, which provides
environmental and geochemical analysis
services in Northern Australia. These
acquisitions give us a strong presence in the
minerals sector in Australia and helped us 
to win a significant seven-year contract to
provide analytical testing of mine samples to 
a major mining company. These acquisitions
complement our existing minerals operations
in Asia and the Americas and give us the
market penetration to pursue other
opportunities in the minerals testing market.
Our analytical services stream increased its
range of offerings for the pharmaceutical
industry in June 2007, with the acquisition
of Quantitative Technologies Inc. (QTI).
Located in New Jersey, US, QTI established
an East Coast presence for pharmaceutical
support services for Intertek, building upon
our existing operations in California and
Europe. QTI provides product quality testing
services to pharmaceutical, medical device
and biotechnology companies. This
acquisition further extends our growth in
the provision of expert analytical support to
the global pharmaceutical, medical device
and drug delivery industries. 
We also made two strategic acquisitions in
the petroleum inspection and testing sector.
In June 2007, we acquired Union Lab which
is a key local petroleum testing and
inspection company in Singapore. The
business was absorbed into our existing
operations in Singapore and further
strengthens our market position in this
strategically important country. In July 2007,
we acquired VIP Cargo Surveys Inc.(VIP),
a petroleum inspection and testing company
based in Texas, US. VIP will further
strengthen our operations in Texas and
provide us with a platform to develop our
offshore lightering business.
Oil, Chemical & Agri
2007 Change at Change at
£m actual rates constant rates
Revenue 364.0 29.3% 35.3%
Adjusted operating profit 45.8 52.7% 61.8%
Margin 12.6% 190bp 210bp
Business review by division Expertise on 
a global scale:
Houston Hong Kong Beijing London Vancouver Rotterdam Jakarta Paris 
Stockholm Singapore Taipei Tokyo Milan New Delhi Rio de Janeiro Perth
Global reach, 
local knowledge 14 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
Continued
In August 2007, we announced two new
laboratory outsourcing contracts. At Teesside
in the UK, ICI has outsourced its Measurement
Science Group (MSG) to Intertek under a four-
year contract for highly advanced analytical
services. As part of this agreement, MSG sold
its business assets to Intertek and transferred
all 42 of its employees. At the same time, and
building from the success of our outsourcing
contracts with them in Harrow, UK and
Chalon sur Saône, France, Eastman Kodak’s
Gelatine Corporation outsourced its analytical
laboratory services in Peabody, Massachusetts,
US, to Intertek under a three-year contract.
Both laboratories provide significant new
materials expertise and measurement
capability to Intertek’s existing network.
In March 2008, the Limburg water authorities
in Holland will transfer all their laboratory
activities from Waterschapsbedrijf Limburg
(WBL) to Intertek Polychemlab. Intertek will
provide extended analytical and consultancy
services to the Limburg water authorities 
and other environmental branches of WBL. 
This contract serves as a model towards
establishing further public and private sector
partnerships in analysis and testing in Europe. 
On 31 August 2007, we acquired Carnot
Emission Services LLC (Carnot), a company
based in San Antonio, Texas, US, which
provides niche emissions testing services to
small engine and industrial equipment
manufacturers, certifying engines to the latest
recently enacted Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) off-road regulations. Carnot’s
services are highly complementary to the heavy
diesel on-highway and off-road emission
services at our neighbouring Intertek
Automotive Research facility and enable the
Group to substantially grow the breadth of our
emissions service offerings to the engine,
lubricant and additive manufacturer and
automotive industries, both in the US and
internationally.
In October 2007, we acquired Ageus Solutions, 
a company based in Canada offering
environmental and compliance consultancy
services addressing global environmental
regulations such as Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment (WEEE), Restriction of
Hazardous Substances (RoHS), and Registration,
Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals
(REACH) amongst others. The environmental
compliance market is fast growing, driven by
increased regulations and wider application,
and we expect this to lead to an increasing
demand for compliance advice.
In November 2007, we acquired Plastics
Technologies Laboratories Inc. (PTLI), a
company based in Massachusetts, US, which
provides plastics testing services. This
business slots neatly into our emerging
network of polymer and plastics testing
laboratories with strong technical
complementarity to the capabilities of
Polychemlab in the Netherlands and MSG 
in the UK, for whom it also provides an
important portal to the marketplace in the US.
We have been very successful in making
acquisitions to extend the service offerings
of the division and we continue to see more
opportunities. In January 2008, we acquired
Electrical Mechanical Instrument Services
(UK) Ltd, a company which provides
calibration services to the oil and gas
industries, and in February 2008, we
acquired Bioclin Research Laboratories Ltd
(Bioclin), a specialist pharmaceutical testing
laboratory located in Athlone, Ireland.
Bioclin provides product quality testing and
bio-analytical services to pharmaceutical,
medical device and biotechnology
companies locally and internationally. 
It holds Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) 
and Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP)
certifications and presents an excellent
geographic site for further penetration 
of one of Europe’s key centres for
pharmaceutical and medical device
manufacture. In February we also acquired
CML Biotech Ltd (CML), a company which
has expertise in the measurement and
management of microbial bacteria in oil and
gas production infrastructure. The majority
of CML’s operations are in the North Sea
and the Gulf of Mexico, but it also supports
other main oil reserve regions including
North and West Coast Africa, the Caspian
Sea and the Middle East. 
In 2007, the Oil, Chemical & Agri division
accounted for almost half of the revenue in
the Group and through the numerous
acquisitions made in the past few years, its
activities have diversified into three main
activities: Oil, Chemical & Agri, Analytical
Services and Minerals. In 2008, these
activities will become separate operating
divisions which will enable the leaders of
each new divisional sector to pursue a
growth strategy more directly focused on
the industries that they serve, whilst
retaining the benefits of their historical 
close co-operation.
Commercial & Electrical
The Commercial & Electrical division provides
services to a wide range of industries including
those in the home appliances, lighting,
medical, building, industrial and HVAC/R
(heating, ventilation, air conditioning and
refrigeration), IT and telecom and automotive
sectors. On 1 January 2007, the Electrical
and Electronic retail inspection (E&E) business
was transferred from Commercial & Electrical
to Consumer Goods. Revenue and operating
profit for prior periods have been restated to
show a like-for-like comparison. 
Customers are mostly manufacturers but
also retailers, industry organisations and
government departments. Services include
testing and certification, electromagnetic
compatibility testing (EMC), systems auditing,
outsourcing, benchmark and performance
testing and environmental testing. The Group
has the widest range of owned marks and
accreditations, including the ETL listed and
Warnock Hersey mark for North America and
the S mark, as well as being a leader 
in providing CB certification and the CE
mark and GS mark for Europe. 
The market for the services of the
Commercial & Electrical division is driven 
primarily by increasing regulations over the
safety of products, increased product variety
and growing environmental concerns. 
This includes current concerns over climate
change and the impact on the environment
of electrical products. The division has a
global strategy for each of its key industry
sectors, for example expertise in the United
Commercial & Electrical
2007 Change at Change at
£m actual rates constant rates
Revenue 179.1 6.7% 12.9%
Adjusted operating profit 27.2 10.6% 18.8%
Margin 15.2% 50bp 80bp Industry know-how: Agriculture
Energy & Fuels
Minerals
Electrical & Electronic
IT & Telecom
Consumer Products
Industrial
Chemical
Government
Retailers
Automotive
Food
Pharmaceutical
Capability to enhance 
our customers’ performance 16 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
Continued
States in automotive component testing and
building products testing has been extended
into China by the opening of an automotive
facility in Shanghai and a building products
facility in Guangzhou. 
The division performed well in 2007, with
revenue and adjusted operating profit
growth of 12.9% and 18.8% respectively.
Adjusted operating profit is stated before
amortisation of intangible assets arising on
acquisitions of £1.6m (2006: £2.0m) and
goodwill impairment of £0.4m (2006: £nil).
On an organic basis, revenue increased by
8.6% and adjusted operating profit
increased by 11.9%. 
The electrical, building products and HVAC/R
businesses which accounted for 75% of 
the division’s revenue grew strongly, with
double digit organic revenue growth. The
performance of the automotive sector was
mixed, with strong growth in China reduced
by weak results in the United States where
the domestic automotive market remained
depressed. The systems certification sector
also under performed in some regions,
particularly the United States where automotive
certification declined. 
In March 2007, the Group acquired the
Finnish company Natlabs Oy which provides
electro-magnetic compatibility testing. This
gives us a significant presence in Finland and
allows us to improve service to our customers
in the Baltic region. 
In June 2007, we acquired UK based ASTA
BEAB, which provides product and systems
certification services and is the owner of the
ASTA and BEAB certification marks. These
marks are an important addition to our leading
portfolio of marks, which are recognised
around the world, giving us a competitive
advantage and providing manufacturers
with seamless global market access. We
have made progress in gaining acceptance
of the ETL mark by retailers in the US and
this has helped to drive revenue growth in
Asia and the rest of the world.
In August 2007, we acquired Product Quality
Partners Inc., which is a leader in North
America in wireless device and application
testing and in September 2007, we acquired
National Software Technology Laboratories
Inc. (NSTL), which tests applications software,
based primarily in North America. Combining
these businesses with our existing EMC,
safety certification and performance testing
services, gave us a strategic platform to
launch a full suite of software testing services
to existing and new customers. Our strategy
is to establish a leading position in the
growing cellular/mobile application software
market in the United States and globally.
In February 2008, we acquired Epsilon
Technical Services Ltd, a company in the 
UK which provides testing and certification
of equipment and systems in explosive
atmospheres. This business will complement
our existing explosive environment
certification services. 
Customer demand for safe, reliable, energy
efficient products continues to increase and
the market for Commercial & Electrical
continues to evolve presenting opportunities
for growth. Concerns over climate change
are driving new directives regarding the
energy usage of products. This is particularly
evident in the HVAC/R industry and is
expected to extend over other industries.
There are many small niche players in the
market and this provides opportunities for
continued bolt-on acquisitions.
Consumer Goods
The Consumer Goods division provides services
to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food
and retail industries. Services include testing,
inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality
assurance and hazardous substance testing.
Customers are often retailers but can include
manufacturers and suppliers within a global
supply chain. On 1 January 2007, the Electrical
and Electronic retail inspection (E&E) business
was transferred from Commercial & Electrical
to Consumer Goods. Revenue and operating
profit for prior periods have been restated 
to show a like-for-like comparison.
The market for the services of the Consumer
Goods division is diverse. Demand is driven
by retailers who require the goods they sell
to be produced to a quality set by either
their own internal standards or by legislation
in a particular country. Increasingly, materials
are sourced and goods are manufactured in
locations that are remote from the eventual
consumer, causing supply chains to be longer
and more complex. The market is increasingly
being driven by regulations issued to address
safety and environmental concerns over such
issues as carcinogenic dyes in textiles and
chemicals in toys and cosmetics. 
The Consumer Goods division reported
good results in 2007, with revenue growth
of 17.7% and adjusted operating profit
growth of 12.9%. Adjusted operating profit
is stated before amortisation of intangible
assets arising on acquisitions of £0.5m
(2006: £0.5m). The high adjusted operating
margin in Consumer Goods was maintained
at over 30% but decreased by 130 basis
points over last year. This decline was due to
a change in market conditions in Restriction
of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) testing and
the changing mix of services in the division.
On an organic basis, revenue growth was
17.4% and adjusted operating profit growth
was 12.7%.
Toy testing finished the year with a very
strong performance, driven by an increase in
heavy metals testing. Product recalls received
considerable publicity in the second half 
of 2007 and this prompted customers to
increase the volume of testing performed 
by independent service providers such as
ourselves. We are uncertain whether this
increased volume will continue at the same
level in 2008, but we expect to benefit from
any increase in the market.
The textile market was stable. Good growth
was reported in many countries, including
China, and we continue to invest in this
region. New facilities in Vietnam, Pakistan,
Brazil, Colombia, Romania and Egypt,
contributed to revenue growth but are not
expected to cover their costs until 2008.
Consumer Goods
2007 Change at Change at
£m actual rates constant rates
Revenue 181.2 12.1% 17.7%
Adjusted operating profit 55.2 7.0% 12.9%
Margin 30.5% (140)bp (130)bp A comprehensive 
range of services:
Testing Inspection Auditing Certification Quality assurance Advisory services
Quality to meet
customer demand 18 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
Revenue from RoHS testing declined in 2007
compared to 2006. The RoHS directive
became mandatory in the European Union
on 1 July 2006, prompting a peak in RoHS
testing in 2006 as companies rushed to
meet the deadline. However, subsequent
limited enforcement of the legislation has
reduced the demand for testing. This
volatility is common with new legislation
and going forward we expect demand to
stabilise. We anticipate that the acquisition
of Ageus Solutions in the Oil, Chemical &
Agri division will help to drive growth in the
RoHS sector as it provides consultancy and
advisory services on environmental regulations. 
The market for corporate social responsibility
services is growing and our revenue in this
sector, which was 7% of the division’s total
revenue, grew well. We expect this sector 
to develop as the demand for sustainability
reporting increases and environmental issues
become more prominent. We also expect
regulation in this area to increase, which will
lead to increased demand for our services.
Revenue from inspection work declined slightly,
due to a reduction in the volume of E&E
retail inspections. 
In September 2007, we acquired Biodata
Analytik GmbH, a small food testing company
based in Germany. This provides us with a
centre of excellence in Europe from which 
to develop our food testing business.
The key growth drivers in Consumer Goods
remain strong, principally the sourcing 
of products from China, the increasingly
wide range of products being sold by retailers
and shorter product lifecycles. Also, the recent
public concerns over the safety of consumer
products will increase demand from consumers
and regulatory bodies for independent
assurance of quality and safety. However,
the mix of businesses in this division is
changing, with developing services such 
as RoHS, consultancy, inspection, food and
corporate social responsibility not always
having the high margins earned by the
established services.
Continued
Government Services
The Government Services division offers 
a range of services to governments, national
standards organisations, customs departments
and industrial companies. Services include
cargo scanning, fiscal support services
(including pre-shipment inspection), standards
programmes and industrial services. Services
offered include ensuring imports comply with
relevant safety, quality and other standards.
Goods and commodities are tested and/or
inspected prior to shipment which prevents
dumping of unsafe goods and improves the
quality of imported and sold goods. Ministries
of Finance retain services to increase import
duty and help improve efficiency. Imports are
inspected and valued before shipment to
enable import duties to be accurately assessed
and certified. Container scanning services
are offered to help protect against security
risks associated with international trade.
Intertek’s worldwide laboratory coverage
allows for rapid inspection, certification and
valuation of shipments, anywhere in the world.
Most of the customers of the Government
Services division are governments or
departments linked to governments in
countries which do not have the necessary
infrastructure to enforce import controls
effectively. 
The division performed well in 2007, with 
a small decline in revenue of 0.8%, but an
increase of 26.7% in adjusted operating
profit. Adjusted operating profit is stated
before amortisation of intangible assets
arising on acquisitions of £0.1m (2006:
£0.1m). The adjusted operating margin
increased by 320 basis points to 14.9%.
The slight decline in revenue in 2007 over
2006 was due to the inclusion in 2006 
of £3.8m for the final work performed 
on the discontinued Nigerian pre-shipment
inspection (PSI) contract. Revenue from
continuing business increased by 7.2% 
in 2007 compared to 2006. 
The division’s reliance on traditional PSI
contracts has reduced and two-thirds of
revenue is now generated by other services
such as standards programmes, supply chain
security and industrial services. The container
scanning contract in Guinea is now fully
operational and performing well. The PSI
contract in Mozambique was extended 
for a further two years. The government 
of Ecuador announced the termination 
of their PSI programme, two years earlier
than the official end date, but the contract
has continued to operate. If the contract
does cease in March 2008 as expected,
annual revenue will be reduced by about
£5.0m. Closure costs are fully provided. 
The Government Services division continues
to seek new opportunities with governments
in the PSI market and is committed to
developing innovative solutions to the 
cargo security issues facing international
trade. There are a number of potential
opportunities for new contracts, particularly
in the areas of container scanning and
standards programmes.
Government Services
2007 Change at Change at
£m actual rates constant rates
Revenue 51.1 (4.3)% (0.8)%
Adjusted operating profit 7.6 15.2% 26.7%
Margin 14.9% 250bp 320bp Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 19
Results for the year
Profit before income tax increased by 15.8%
to £105.8m (2006: £91.4m) and diluted
adjusted earnings per share were 49.7p
(2006: 43.2p). Basic earnings per share 
were 46.7p (2006: 40.9p). 
Key performance indicators
We use a variety of key performance
indicators (KPIs) to monitor the performance
of the Group. Similar indicators are used 
to review the performance of the operating
divisions. These KPIs are reviewed by the
Board and management on a monthly basis
and are used to assess past performance
and set targets for the future. Most of the
KPIs also form part of the management
incentive scheme whereby managers may
receive annual bonus payments on achieving
or exceeding a range of targets set for the
year. Further information on management
incentives is given in the Remuneration
Report which starts on page 39. 
Key performance indicators
Revenue +16.7%
Operating profit +18.3%
Adjusted operating profit +19.0%
Adjusted operating margin +30bp
Operating cash flow +19.7%
Profit before income tax +15.8%
Basic earnings per share +14.2%
Dividend per share +21.6%
Return on business assets +10bp
Growth in revenue
Top line revenue growth is a key performance
measure. Revenue increased by £110.9m 
to £775.4m in 2007, up 16.7% over the
prior year (22.5% at constant rates). 
The Group operates in 67 different currencies,
although the majority of the Group’s earnings
are denominated in US dollars or currencies
linked to the US or which historically have
moved in line with the dollar. Other currencies
such as the Euro and the Chinese renminbi
are also an important constituent of overseas
earnings. Therefore the Group’s results when
translated into sterling, are exposed to
changes in the value of the US dollar and
other currencies. We show below the main
currencies that make up the Group’s earnings
and the cumulative average exchange rates
that we have used when translating results
into sterling in 2007 and 2006. 
Value of £1 2007 2006
US dollar 2.00 1.84
Euro 1.46 1.47
Chinese renminbi 15.24 14.67
Hong Kong dollar 15.62 14.30
Growth in adjusted operating profit 
and margin
2007 2006
£m £m Change
Operating profit 116.1 98.1 18.3%
Amortisation of 
intangible assets 
arising on acquisitions 5.1 3.8 34.2%
Impairment 
of goodwill 0.4 0.3 33.3%
Adjusted 
operating profit 121.6 102.2 19.0%
Adjusted 
operating margin 15.7% 15.4% +30bp
For management purposes, the Group adjusts
operating profit and operating margin to
exclude the amortisation of intangible assets
arising on acquisitions and the impairment
of goodwill. In 2007, adjusted operating profit
was £121.6m, up 19.0% over the previous
year. The adjusted operating margin was
15.7%, up 30 basis points from 15.4%. 
Amortisation of intangible assets arising
on acquisitions
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on
acquisitions is provided on a straight line
basis over the life of the assets, which is
normally five years but can be up to ten
years. The charge increased in 2007 due to
the number of acquisitions made in 2006
and 2007.
Impairment of goodwill
As described in note 10 to the financial
statements, we perform a detailed review of
goodwill each year to consider whether
there is any impairment in its carrying value.
The capitalised goodwill at 31 December
2007 was £148.4m (2006: £71.1m) which
relates to acquisitions made since 1998. 
Our review revealed that an acquisition
made by the Commercial & Electrical division
in 2005, had underperformed our
expectations, mainly due to the loss of key
employees. We therefore considered that
the goodwill associated with this business
should be reduced by £0.4m to £0.8m. 
This business is now under new management
and is expected to improve in the future.
Net financing costs
As set out in note 6 to the financial
statements, the Group reported finance
income in 2007 of £5.4m (2006: £6.3m).
This comprised the expected return on
pension assets, interest on bank balances,
the change in fair value of financial
instruments, foreign exchange differences
on interest accruals and the ineffective
portion of hedge of net investment in
foreign operations. The decrease was mainly
due to a reduction in the change in fair
value of financial instruments.
The Group’s finance expense for 2007 was
£15.6m compared to £13.3m in 2006. 
The charge comprised interest on
borrowings, pension interest cost, other
foreign exchange differences and other
financing fees. The increase was primarily
due to higher levels of debt. 
Income tax expense
As set out in note 7 to the financial statements,
income tax expense for 2007 was £27.0m
(2006: £22.5m), comprising a current tax
charge of £29.3m (2006: £22.0m) less a
deferred tax credit of £2.3m (2006: charge
£0.5m). The tax rate was 25.5%, up from
24.6% in 2006. The main reason for the
increase in the tax rate was increased earnings
in higher taxed jurisdictions.
Profit before income tax
+15.8%
Operating cash flow
+19.7%
Financial review 20 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
Profit for the year
Profit for the year after income tax was
£78.8m (2006: £68.9m) of which £73.2m
(2006: £63.8m) was attributable to equity
holders of the Company. 
Minority interests
As set out in note 20 to the financial
statements, profit attributable to minority
shareholders was £5.6m in 2007 (2006:
£5.1m). The increase was mainly due to the
strong growth in the Group’s non-wholly
owned subsidiaries in Asia.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share are calculated by dividing
the profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares
in issue during the year. As set out in note 8
to the financial statements, basic earnings
per share at the end of the year were 
46.7p (2006: 40.9p), an increase of 14.2%. 
A diluted adjusted earnings per share
calculation is also shown which removes the
impact of amortisation of intangible assets
arising on acquisitions and impairment of
goodwill from earnings, and includes
potentially dilutive share options in the
number of shares, to give diluted adjusted
earnings per share of 49.7p (2006: 43.2p),
an increase of 15.0%. We consider that
growth in the diluted adjusted earnings per
share figure gives a more representative
measure of underlying performance and is
one of the key performance targets that the
Group uses to incentivise its managers.
Dividends 
During the year, the Group paid total dividends
of £25.2m (2006: £19.8m), which comprised
£16.1m in respect of the final dividend for 
the year ended 31 December 2006, paid on
15 June 2007 at the rate of 10.2p per share
and £9.1m being the interim dividend in
respect of the year ended 31 December 2007,
paid on 13 November 2007 at a rate of 5.8p
per share. These amounts were charged to
retained earnings (see note 19 to the financial
statements). After the balance sheet date, 
the Board recommended a 19.6% increase in
the final dividend in respect of the year ended
31 December 2007, to 12.2p per share 
Continued
(2006: 10.2p) which together with the interim
dividend will give a full year dividend of 18.0p
per share (2006: 14.8p), an increase of 21.6%
over last year. If approved, the final dividend
will be paid to shareholders on 19 June 2008.
The total cost of the final dividend is expected
to be £19.2m, giving a total cost of £28.3m
for the dividends paid in respect of the year
ended 31 December 2007. Dividend cover is
2.8 times (2006: 2.9 times).
Cash and liquidity
2007 2006
£m £m Increase
Cash generated 
from operations 149.1 124.6 19.7%
Less net acquisition 
of property, plant, 
equipment 
and software (43.5) (42.3) 2.8%
Operating cash 
flow after 
capital expenditure 105.6 82.3 28.3%
Adjusted 
operating profit 121.6 102.2 19.0%
Operating cash 
flow/adjusted 
operating profit 86.8% 80.5% +630bp
The primary source of the Group’s cash
liquidity over the last two financial years has
been cash generated from operations and
the drawdown of debt. A portion of these
funds has been used to fund acquisitions
and capital expenditure and to pay interest,
dividends and taxes.
Cash flow for the year was excellent. Cash
generated from operations was £149.1m for
2007, compared to £124.6m for 2006. The
increase of 19.7% was due to improved
profitability and effective working capital
management. One of the key performance
indicators we use to measure the efficiency
of our cash generation is the percentage of
adjusted operating profit that is converted
into cash. As shown in the table above, in
2007, 86.8% of adjusted operating profit
was converted into cash compared to
80.5% in 2006. 
In order to support our growth strategy we
need to invest continually in our operations.
In 2007, net cash flows used in investing
activities were £128.2m (2006: £78.1m). 
In 2007, we invested net £129.3m (2006:
£79.2m) in acquisitions and property, plant,
equipment and software. We paid £85.8m
net of cash acquired, (2006: £36.9m) for 16
new businesses and £43.5m (2006: £42.3m)
for the acquisition of property, plant and
equipment and computer software.
Historically our level of capital expenditure
has been less than 7% of revenue. In 2007, 
the ratio was 5.6% compared to 6.4% the
year before.
Cash flows from financing activities comprised
cash inflows from the issue of share capital
following the exercise of employee share
options of £4.9m (2006: £4.2m) and the net
drawdown of debt of £49.4m (2006: £8.2m),
and cash outflows of dividends paid to
minorities of £3.6m (2006: £3.8m) and
dividends paid to Group shareholders of £25.2m
(2006: £19.8m), which resulted in a net cash
inflow of £25.5m (2006: outflow £11.2m).
As set out in note 15 to the financial
statements, interest bearing loans and
borrowings were £231.2m at 31 December
2007, an increase of 29.6% over 2006. 
The Group’s borrowings are in currencies
which match its asset base. The increase in
borrowings comprised exchange adjustments
of £3.4m due to the translation into sterling
of borrowings denominated in other currencies
and the net drawdown of debt of £49.4m.
The debt drawdown was mainly used to
finance acquisitions. Cash and cash equivalents
at 31 December 2007, were £58.6m, an
increase of 18.4% over 2006. As shown in
note 23 to the financial statements, net
debt at 31 December 2007 was £172.6m
(2006: £128.9m). 
Borrowings
The Group has a multi-currency senior debt
facility that was placed in December 2004.
This facility was originally due to expire on
15 December 2009, however the Group
exercised its option to extend the facility by
a year in 2005 and by a further year in
2006, so the facility is now due to expire in
December 2011. The margins currently paid
on borrowings are in the range of 0.3% to
Cash outflow and increase in cash
3
14%
6
3%
1
40%
5
5%
2
21%
4
14%
1 Acquisitions 2 Capital expenditure 3 Dividends 4 Tax
5 Interest 6 Working capital 7 Increase in cash
7
3%
Sources of cash
1
74%
3
2%
2
24%
1 Operations 2 Drawdown of debt 3 Issue of share capital Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 21
0.6% over LIBOR in the relevant currency. 
In August 2007, the Group extended the
commitments of the senior debt facility by 
a further £100m. This was achieved through
adding an additional Term D tranche of
finance. Term D margins are in the range of
0.3% to 0.5% over LIBOR. The maturity of
the Group’s borrowings is set out below:
2007 2006
Borrowings £m £m
Due within one year 13.7 13.6
Due between 
one and two years 82.7 87.5
Due between 
two and five years 134.8 77.3
Total 231.2 178.4
The Group’s gross borrowings are
denominated in the following currencies:
2007 2006
£m £m
Hong Kong dollar 36% 31%
US dollar 30% 43%
Euro 13% 14%
Swedish kroner 10% 4%
Japanese yen 5% 6%
Other 6% 2%
The Group’s policy is to ensure that a liquidity
buffer is available, in the short term, to
absorb the net effects of transactions made
and expected changes in liquidity both under
normal and stressed conditions without
incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage
to the Group’s reputation. At 31 December
the Group had the following liquid funds:
2007 2006
£m £m
Senior debt facility 400.0 300.0
Senior debt repayments 
to 31 December (50.0) (28.0)
Borrowings (230.7) (178.4)
Letters of credit 
and guarantees (7.0) (7.1)
Undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities 112.3 86.5
Cash and cash equivalents 58.6 49.5
Liquid funds 170.9 136.0
Where appropriate, cash is managed in
currency based cash pools and is put on
overnight deposit, bearing interest at rates
fixed daily in advance. At 31 December 2007,
75.1% of cash was on overnight deposit
(2006: 80.6%).
Acquisitions and disposals
As described earlier, during 2007 the Group
made 16 acquisitions for a net cash outflow
of £85.8m (2006: £36.9m). To date in 2008,
five businesses have been acquired for a net
cash outflow of £17.5m. Further information
on acquisitions is given in the business
review by division which starts on page 12
and in note 24 to the financial statements.
Return on business assets
For management purposes, the Group
calculates return on business assets as the
adjusted operating profit for the year
divided by the carrying value of business
assets which comprise operating working
capital plus tangible fixed assets and
software at the end of the year. For 2007,
the return on business assets was 57.1%,
up 10 basis points from 57.0% in 2006. 
Critical accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are
prepared in accordance with IFRS. Intertek’s
accounting policies are set out in the notes
to the consolidated financial statements in
this Annual Report. In applying these policies
we are required to make estimates and
subjective judgements that may affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at
the balance sheet date and reported profit
for the year. These are based on a combination
of past experience and any other evidence
that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The actual outcome could differ from those
estimates. Of Intertek’s accounting policies,
we consider that policies in relation to the
following areas are of greater complexity
and are particularly subject to the exercise 
of judgement. 
Goodwill 
Acquired goodwill is held on the consolidated
balance sheet at cost. Impairment reviews
are carried out to ensure that goodwill is 
not carried at above its recoverable amount.
A discounted cash flow analysis is performed
annually to compare the discounted
estimated future operating cash flows of
cash generating units of the Group, to the
net assets attributable to the cash generating
units including goodwill. The tests are
dependent on management’s estimates and
judgements, in particular in relation to the
forecasting of future cash flows, long-term
growth rates and the discount rate applied
to these cash flows. 
Taxation
The Group is required to estimate the income
tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it
operates. This requires an estimation of the
current tax liability together with an
assessment of the temporary differences
which arise as a consequence of different
accounting and tax treatments. These
temporary differences result in deferred tax
assets or liabilities which are included within
the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are measured using tax rates
expected to apply when the temporary
differences reverse. The Group operates in
many countries in the world and is subject to
many tax jurisdictions and rules. As a
consequence the Group is subject to tax
audits, which by their nature are often
complex and can require several years to
conclude. Management judgement is
required to determine the total provision for
income tax. Amounts accrued are based on
our interpretation of country specific tax law
and the likelihood of settlement. However,
the actual tax liabilities could differ from the
provision and in such an event, the Group
would be required to make an adjustment in
a subsequent period which could have a
material impact on the Group’s profit and loss
and/or cash position. Tax benefits are not
recognised unless it is probable that the tax
positions are sustainable. Once considered to
be probable, we review each material tax
benefit to assess whether a provision should
be taken against full recognition of the
benefit on the basis of potential settlement
through negotiation and/or litigation.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where
it is more likely than not that the asset will
not be realised in the future. This evaluation
requires judgements to be made including
the forecast of future taxable income.
Dividend per share (pence)
1
2003
12.0
10.4
8.8
14.8
18.0
2004
2005
2006
2007
1. Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend paid and the proposed final
dividend in each financial year. 22 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
New accounting standards
The Group has adopted in the year a new
standard, International Financial Reporting
Standard 7 (IFRS 7) Financial Instruments:
Disclosures. This IFRS requires the Group 
to provide disclosures in the consolidated
financial statements that enable users 
to evaluate the significance of financial
instruments on the Group’s financial position
and performance. It also requires the
disclosure of the nature and extent of risks
arising from financial instruments to which
the Group is exposed during the year and at
the reporting date, and how those risks are
managed. This information is set out in note
26 to the consolidated financial statements
and in the discussion below on risk and risk
management which is an integral part of the
audited financial statements.
Risk and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the
establishment and oversight of the Group’s
risk management framework. The Board has
an established, structured approach to risk
management, which is described in the
Corporate Governance Report which starts
on page 32. The Vice President of Risk
Management and Internal Audit, who
reports to the Chief Financial Officer, has
accountability for the system of risk
management and reporting the key risks
and mitigating actions. Risks are formally
identified and recorded in a risk matrix for
each operating division, which calculates
gross risk and net risk after mitigating
controls are applied. The risk matrix is
updated annually and is used to plan the
Group’s internal audit strategy. In addition 
to the risk matrix, all senior executives and
their direct reports are required to complete
an annual return to confirm that
management controls have been effectively
applied during the year. The return covers
operations, compliance, risk management
and finance. The Vice President of Risk
Management and Internal Audit attends the
meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee
(which is a sub-group of the Board) and
meets with the members of that committee
alone, at least once a year.
Continued
In common with all businesses, the Group is
affected by a number of risk factors, some
of which are outside our control. Although
many of the risk factors influencing the Group’s
performance are macroeconomic and likely
to affect the performance of business
generally, others are particular to Intertek’s
operations. Specific risks which we are aware
of are detailed below, however there may 
be other risks that are currently unknown or
are currently regarded as immaterial which
could turn out to be material. Any of these
risks could have the potential to impact 
the performance of the Group, its assets,
liquidity and capital resources. 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market
prices, such as foreign exchange rates and
interest rates will affect the Group’s income
or the value of its assets and liabilities. These
risks are managed by the Group’s treasury
function as described below.
Treasury management
The Board is responsible for approving the
treasury policy for the Group. The Group’s
treasury and funding activities are undertaken
by a centralised treasury function which reports
to the Chief Financial Officer. Its primary
activities are to manage the Group’s liquidity,
funding requirements and financial risk,
principally arising from movements in interest
and foreign currency exchange rates. The
Group’s policy is to ensure that adequate
liquidity and financial resource is available 
to support the Group’s continuing activities
and growth whilst managing these risks. The
Group’s policy is not to engage in speculative
financial transactions. Generally, the Group
seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to
manage volatility in profit or loss. There have
been no significant changes in the Group’s
policies in the last year. Group Treasury
operates as a service centre within clearly
defined objectives and controls and is subject
to periodic review by internal audit.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates in 110 (2006: 109)
countries and has 180 (2006: 166) subsidiaries,
of which 161 (2006: 143) report in currencies
other than sterling. The net assets of foreign
subsidiaries represent a significant portion 
of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a
substantial percentage of the Group’s revenue
and operating costs are incurred in currencies
other than sterling. Because of the high
proportion of international activity, the Group’s
profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
Two types of risk arise as a result: (i) translation
risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency
fluctuations in the translation of foreign
currency operations and foreign assets and
liabilities into sterling and (ii) transaction risk,
that is, the risk that currency fluctuations
will have a negative effect on the value of
the Group’s commercial cash flows in
various currencies. 
(i) Translation risk
The results of the Group’s overseas activities
are translated into sterling using the
cumulative average exchange rates for the
period concerned. The balance sheets of
overseas subsidiaries are translated at actual
exchange rates. 
Key rates used during the year were 
as follows:
Actual rates
Balance sheet 31 Dec 31 Dec
Value of £1 2007 2006
US dollar 1.99 1.96
Euro 1.36 1.49
Chinese renminbi 14.57 15.28
Hong Kong dollar 15.51 15.20
Actual rates
Income statement 31 Dec 31 Dec
Value of £1 2007 2006
US dollar 2.00 1.84
Euro 1.46 1.47
Chinese renminbi 15.24 14.67
Hong Kong dollar 15.62 14.30
Material changes in the exchange rates can
create volatility in the results when they are
translated into sterling. In order to mitigate
this translation exposure, the Group’s policy
is to match the currency of external
borrowings to the currency of expected cash
flows and the currency of net investments.
At 31 December 2007, two-thirds of the
Group’s borrowings were denominated in
US dollars and Hong Kong dollars. Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 23
(ii) Transaction risk
The Group’s policy requires overseas
subsidiaries to hedge all significant transaction
exposures with Group Treasury where 
they are managed centrally. Subsidiaries’
transaction exposures include committed
foreign currency sales and purchases together
with the anticipated transactions reasonably
expected to occur during future periods. The
Group’s policy is also to hedge transaction
exposures arising from the remittance of
overseas dividends and interest as soon as
they are committed. Transaction exposures
are hedged forward using forward currency
contracts which mature in less than 12 months.
Interest rate risk and exposure
The Group’s policy is to ensure that between
33% and 67% of its exposure to changes in
interest rates on borrowings is on a fixed
rate basis. This is achieved by entering into
interest rate swaps. The balance between
fixed and variable rate debt is periodically
adjusted on the basis of prevailing and
anticipated market conditions and the Group’s
gearing and interest cover, which are
monitored by Group Treasury. Details of the
interest rate hedges in place at 31 December
2007 are given in note 26 to the financial
statements.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group fails
to meet its financial obligations as and when
they fall due.
The management of operational liquidity risk
aims primarily at ensuring that the Group
always has a liquidity buffer that is able, in
the short term, to absorb the net effects 
of transactions made and expected changes
in liquidity both under normal and stressed
conditions without incurring unacceptable
losses or risking damage to the Group’s
reputation.
The Group has a multi-currency senior debt
facility that was placed in December 2004.
This facility was originally due to expire 
on 15 December 2009, however the Group
exercised its option to extend the facility 
by a year in 2005 and by a further year 
in 2006, so the facility is now due to expire
in December 2011. The margins currently
paid on borrowings are in the range of
0.3% to 0.6% over LIBOR. In August 2007,
the Group extended the commitments of
the senior debt facility by a further £100m.
This was achieved through adding an
additional Term D tranche of finance. 
Term D margins are in the range of 0.3% 
to 0.5% over LIBOR.
At 31 December 2007, there was £231.2m
of debt outstanding (2006: £178.4m) and
the undrawn committed borrowing facilities
were £112.3m (2006: £86.5m) having taken
into account £7.0m (2006: £7.1m) utilised
for letters of credit and guarantees. These
facilities are expected to be adequate to
support the Group’s medium-term funding
requirements. Surplus cash is placed on
deposit with short-term maturities providing
liquidity when required.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to
the Group if a customer or counterparty 
to a financial instrument fails to meet its
contractual obligations, and arises principally
from the Group’s receivables from customers. 
(i) Trade receivables
There is no concentration of credit risk with
respect to trade receivables as the Group
has a large number of customers who are
internationally dispersed. All companies in
the Group are required to operate a credit
policy under which each new customer is
analysed individually for creditworthiness
before the company transacts any business
with the customer. The Group establishes an
allowance for impairment that represents
our estimate of likely losses in respect of
trade and other receivables. The main
components of this allowance are a specific
loss component that relates to individually
significant exposures and a collective loss
component established for groups of similar
assets in respect of losses that have been
incurred but not yet identified. The collective
loss allowance is determined based on
historical data of payment statistics for
similar financial assets. 
(ii) Counterparty
The Group monitors the distribution of cash
deposits, borrowings and hedging instruments
which are assigned to each of the Group’s
counterparties and which are subject to
periodic review.
Tax risk
Tax risk is the risk that the value of tax assets
and liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet 
is misstated resulting in financial loss to 
the Group.
The Group operates in 110 countries and is
subject to wide range of complex tax laws
and regulations. At any point in time it is
normal for there to be a number of open
years in any particular territory which may
be subject to enquiry by local authorities.
Where the effect of the laws and regulations
is unclear, estimates are used in determining
the liability for the tax to be paid on past
profits which are recognised in the financial
statements. The Group considers the estimates,
assumptions and judgements to be reasonable
but this can involve complex issues which
may take a number of years to resolve. 
The final determination of prior year tax
liabilities could be different from the estimates
reflected in the financial statements. 
Risk of financial irregularities
Risk of financial irregularities is the risk that
assets of the Group could be misappropriated
resulting in financial loss to the Group, 
as well as the risk of management
misrepresenting results.
The Group comprises 180 subsidiaries,
operating in 110 countries. Despite a
rigorous programme of internal audits and
management reviews, we cannot be certain
that internal and external audit procedures
will always identify any financial irregularity.
The Group regularly reminds the operating
company officers of their fiduciary
responsibilities and maintains a culture 
of openness to promote disclosure. 
As described above, each of the senior
executives and their direct reports are
required to complete an annual return to
confirm that management controls have
been effectively applied during the year.  24 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Business and Financial Review
Continued
Risk of litigation
Risk of litigation is the risk that the Group
could suffer a material financial loss resulting
from a legal judgement against the Group
or one of its subsidiaries. Such a judgement
could also result in adverse publicity which
could damage the reputation of the Group. 
The Group is regularly notified of, or involved
in, a number of claims and proceedings which
are incidental to its ordinary course of business.
Claims can arise in the context of a dispute
between the parties to a commercial
transaction in which the Group has provided
testing, inspection or certification services.
Often the Group’s role in the transaction will
be incidental to the underlying dispute, but
the claim will be notified to the Group in
order to toll the relevant statute of limitations
in respect of such a claim. In certain situations,
a claim may only be notified to the Group
after resolution of the underlying commercial
dispute and, in such cases, a considerable
period of time may elapse between the
performance of services by the Group and
the assertion of a claim in respect of such
services. In either case, because the underlying
commercial transaction can be of significant
value, the claims notified to the Group can
allege substantial damages. 
To reduce the likelihood of claims arising,
the Group has extensive quality assurance
and control procedures to ensure that work
is performed in accordance with proper
protocols. All incidents that could potentially
result in a claim against the Group are
reported to compliance officers and the Vice
President of Risk Management and Internal
Audit and are logged in a data base of
incidents. Legal counsel is appointed if
appropriate. The Group mitigates the risk of
financial loss arising from litigation by
maintaining insurance against potential
claims, however there can be no assurance
that claims brought against the Group will
always be covered by insurance, or that such
insurance, if available, will be sufficient to
cover fully the damages or other expenses
which the Group may be required to pay. 
Environmental risk
Environmental risk is the risk that assets of
the Group could be damaged or destroyed
by an environmental incident and that the
Group could incur loss of revenue as a result
of the ensuing disruption to operations. 
Intertek operates facilities in 110 countries
which are subject to local environmental 
and political factors. Disasters such as fire,
hurricanes, floods and earthquakes can
cause damage to property and personnel
and can disrupt operations, causing loss 
of revenue. The Group maintains disaster
recovery plans for such events and endeavours
to ensure that adequate insurance is in place. 
Political risk
Political risk is the risk that the Group could
suffer financial losses due to the action of a
government. The Group operates in some
countries where there is potential risk of
political instability which can make it difficult
to operate. In particular, government contracts
in the Government Services division can 
be subject to change or termination at 
short notice. The Group manages this risk 
by maintaining close relationships with
government representatives, however the
risk cannot be entirely mitigated.
Capital structure and management
The Group is committed to enhancing
shareholder value, both by investing in the
business so as to improve the return on
investment in the longer term and by
managing our capital structure. The Group’s
policy is to maintain a strong capital base so
as to maintain investor, creditor and market
confidence and to sustain future
development of the business. Management
monitors both the demographic spread of
shareholders, as well as the return on
capital. The Group seeks to maintain a
balance between the higher returns that
might be possible with higher levels of
borrowings and the advantages and security
afforded by a sound capital position. Return
on invested capital in 2007 (as calculated in
the following table) was 24.2% compared
to 29.3% in 2006. The decrease was
primarily due to the capital invested in
acquisitions during the year, which did not
contribute a full year’s profits in 2007.
Return on 2007 2006
invested capital £m £m
Operating profit 116.1 98.1
Amortisation of intangible 
assets arising on acquisitions 5.1 3.8
Impairment of goodwill 0.4 0.3
Adjusted operating profit 121.6 102.2
Tax rate 25.5% 24.6%
Adjusted operating profit 
after tax 90.6 77.1
Property, plant and 
equipment 149.2 123.7
Goodwill 148.4 71.1
Other intangible assets 35.0 19.6
Inventories 4.0 3.2
Trade and other receivables 191.0 151.9
Trade and other payables (129.5) (101.4)
Provisions (23.6) (5.3)
Invested capital 374.5 262.8
Return on invested capital 24.2% 29.3%
There were no changes to the Group’s
approach to capital management during 
the year and neither the Company nor any
of its subsidiaries are subject to externally
imposed capital requirements. Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 25
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
In this report we consider corporate social
responsibility (CSR) matters under the
following headings:
Our business
gives an overview of our operations and
how they impact CSR issues
Our values
sets out our approach to business
Our employees
describes our CSR policy as it relates 
to our staff
Our communities
shows our commitment to making an
effective social contribution
Our environment
demonstrates our determination to reduce
our own and our customers’ impact on the
environment
Our customers, suppliers 
and shareholders
shows the value we place on strong
relationships and integrity
Our corporate social 
responsibility structure
sets out how Intertek is organised with
regard to CSR issues
Our business
Intertek is a leading international provider
of quality and safety services to a wide range
of industries, including:
• Agriculture
• Automotive
• Chemical
• Consumer Products
• Electrical & Electronic
• Energy & Fuels
• Food
• Government
• Industrial
• IT & Telecom
• Minerals
• Pharmaceutical
• Retailers
Operating in more than 100 countries
worldwide, we meet the needs of our
customers and are committed to supporting
them and adding value to their businesses.
The chart above shows how our facilities are
distributed geographically.
Intertek’s services by their very nature
improve quality and safety in the products
and processes in people’s lives around 
the world. We guide many of the world’s
largest multinational corporations and 
best-known brands on how to improve 
the social, ethical and environmental
consequences of their products, services 
and supply chains. 
We inject the expertise of our people, some
of the world’s leading scientific analysts 
and experts, into industries to bring scientific
solutions or analytical advances that will
reduce adverse impact on the environment
now and into the future. 
In 2007, UBS, the global investment bank,
identified Intertek as a group set to benefit
from climate change due to its exposure to
climate change related activities. 
Our work includes testing compliance and
effectiveness targets in the production of 
bio fuels and ethanol, assisting customers 
to comply with ultra low sulphur diesel
legislation, and helping to assess low 
energy and low emission equipment.
During 2007, we partnered with clients on
new carbon dioxide reducing solutions in
many industries. In the oil and gas sector
our experts are supporting a project that will
clean and re-use carbon dioxide emissions
for enhanced oil recovery in the Norwegian
Sea. We worked with clients throughout the
year to reduce carbon dioxide emissions
across a range of electrical products.
Location of facilities
1 Asia Pacific 35%
2 EMEA 31%
3 Americas 34%
1
2
3 26 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Continued
We guide organisations on how to reduce
the use of hazardous materials in substances
in their products and sourcing. We also
partner with governments and regulatory
bodies to help enforce and monitor
adherence to environmental protocols. 
In 2007, we helped Swedish authorities
monitor electrical and electronics products
for restricted hazardous substances. 
Our work brought greater protection 
to consumers and the environment and
support to local regulations.
We have made solid investments during 
the year, in our people and world-class
equipment and infrastructure in our
laboratories, to meet the world’s need for
more environmentally friendly products 
and appliances.
In 2007, we made a sizeable investment to
build the first independent air-conditioner
energy efficiency laboratory in Guangzhou.
We are now working with manufacturers
and suppliers who supply heating and
ventilation equipment to the world, to improve
the environmental impact and emissions of
their products. 
We provide audit and consultancy services
to corporations, non-governmental and
regulatory organisations to improve the
social and ethical impact of their operations.
Increasingly consumers around the world
want peace of mind that products they have
purchased have not been created through
social or ethical abuses of workers or unfair
trade. We audit factory conditions and work
practices to ensure that they are legal, ethical
and humane. We work with corporations 
to develop bespoke global CSR standards
and programmes to ensure that they exceed
minimum social and ethical thresholds across
all of their sourcing. We have successfully
initiated partnerships and collaborations
with non-governmental and not-for-profit
organisations to pursue and improve
standards. In January 2007 Intertek launched
the China Center for Labor and Environment
to provide strategic support to local industries
in meeting international social responsibility
and sustainability protocols in manufacturing
and exported products.
Intertek is a world leader in the design of
safe products, with particular expertise in
children’s toys. Our centres of excellence 
in Chicago and London provide counsel to
some of the world’s largest product brands
to advance the design of safe products in
the market place. In partnership with
industry and health bodies, we collect and
analyse safety data in connection with child
accidents. This data is used to help our
clients improve the safety of their products.
The growth in global trade has led to
increasing demand for our CSR programmes.
We have provided programmes and
standards-based approaches specially
tailored for our clients and we have 
hosted a number of forums, including 
a Worldwide Responsible Accredited
Production seminar in Vietnam and Ethical
Sourcing forums in France and the US.
Our values
Intertek has adopted and published the
following values for the Group and for the
individuals who work for us. We will:
• value trust and personal responsibility;
• act with integrity, honesty and respect;
• value each employee’s contribution toward
achieving our business objectives;
• promote a culture where motivated
customer-orientated employees can
flourish, experience professional fulfilment
and reach their highest potential; and 
• respect diverse perspectives, experiences
and traditions as essential.
We believe that the highest standard of
integrity is essential in business.
In all our activities we aim to:
• be both commercial and fair;
• recognise the importance to all
stakeholders of ensuring the health 
and safety of all our employees;
• maintain our integrity and professionalism;
and
• strive for continual improvement and
innovation.
Employee numbers 
2003
15,500
13,500
11,900
18,200
21,300
2004
2005
2006
2007 Some of the matters I have mentioned are the subject of formal
policy, so we need to be especially sure we get those right. For
example, as part of our equal opportunities policy, people with
disabilities are given the same consideration as others when they
apply for jobs. Depending on their skills and aptitudes, they enjoy
the same career prospects as other employees. If employees
become disabled every effort will be made to retain them in their
current role or to look at possibilities for retraining or redeployment
within the Group. Where necessary the Group aims to provide these
employees with facilities, equipment and training to assist them in
doing their jobs.
What about communication?
Good communication is the basis of every successful relationship
and we are always looking for ways to increase communication
opportunities with our employees, especially with regard to two-
way communication. We particularly need to ensure that our
employees are aware of our ethical, risk and safety procedures. 
We use annual face-to-face review meetings, regular management
meetings and newsletters to give and receive information.
Employees are also able to use our telephone and email hotlines 
if there is anything they feel should be communicated. The values 
we promote at Intertek feed into the Group’s relationships with
staff, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Does that include encouraging senior management to 
become shareholders?
We are committed to encouraging our key executives to align
themselves with the interests of shareholders and the Group’s
performance through the ownership of the Company’s shares. 
The Company operates share schemes for senior executives and
requires the most senior executives to retain some of the shares
they obtain through these schemes. 
How is the success of your health and safety policy
measured?
The health and safety of our employees is of paramount importance
to the Group and the necessary local health and safety procedures
are subject to audit by our compliance team. We are committed
always to comply with the relevant local legislation and guidelines
in any area in which we operate. We continually seek to minimise
injuries to our employees. For example in the Oil, Chemical & Agri
division in the US we reduced the Department of Labour defined
injury rate per 100 full time employees from 1.12 in 2006 to 0.72 
in 2007 – a noteworthy accomplishment, but we aim to reduce 
this further. 
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 27
Our employees 
Our principal strength is the talent of our staff. For this reason our
main CSR focus is on employee issues.
Q&A with the Chief Executive Officer, Wolfhart Hauser
Intertek’s CSR report for 2006 stated ‘the Group’s focus 
over the last year has been principally on people issues.’ 
How has this developed during 2007?
Our focus is very much employee-orientated. Our intention is to
unlock the potential of every employee to perform to the best of
his or her abilities. This enables us to achieve maximum value for
them, our customers and shareholders. 
How does this work in practice?
Following regular and detailed discussions, we have adopted a
number of objectives which include:
• adopting a number of framework policies; 
• developing better analysis of employee statistics; and
• improving communication with employees.
What sort of framework policies?
We now have remuneration and recruitment frameworks in place
that enable us to treat employees fairly across the Group, whilst still
giving local managers the authority and flexibility to adopt what is
right for their local area.
The chart above shows how our workforce is distributed
geographically, and why a ‘one-size fits all’ set of policies is not
always appropriate.
Why do you need better analysis of employee statistics?
It is important to monitor progress in matters such as diversity,
employment of disabled staff, training, staff turnover and safety to
attain the best results for the Group. The more information we have,
the more we will be able to achieve. The decentralised nature of
the Group has led to some information being less comprehensive
than we need, so Group-wide human resource meetings and
intranet-based sharing of information have begun to address these
shortcomings.
Employee distribution
by region
1 US 15%
2 Rest of Americas 11%
3 UK 7%
4 EMEA 16%
5 China 29%
6 Rest of Asia Pacific 22%
1
2
3
4
5
6 28 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Continued
Our communities
Because of the decentralised structure of 
our Group and the nature of our activities,
community involvement is organised at local
level by local managers. We recognise the
importance of our relationship with the
communities in which we operate and
actively encourage our businesses and
employees to undertake community service
and charitable giving. Some examples of
charitable work undertaken by Intertek are
as follows:
Intertek made a donation to the Msafiri
Express charity road trip which distributed
branded soccer balls in Gambia and 
was delighted to be associated with the
goodwill engendered by that project in 
West Africa.
In Sri Lanka employees collected money and
donated to a housing project for families
affected by the Tsunami.
In Norway we issued a Christmas gift to
‘Plan Norway’ which works to improve
children’s standard of living in developing
countries, particularly in the medical area.
In the US, toys were collected from employees
and clients for the ‘T oys for T ots’ organisation
who distribute toys to deprived families.
Our environment
Although our own environmental impact 
is low (for 2007, electricity and gas costs
represented only about 1% of our total
costs), we recognise the importance of
minimising the impact our businesses have
on the environment. 
Our operations are conducted in laboratories
and offices, most of which are leased properties.
The chart above shows the Group’s expansion
during the past five years. 
We carry out a number of environmental
audits on our sites each year to assess the
level of environmental impact and ensure
that any issues are identified and dealt with
appropriately. 
As for many areas of Intertek’s business, 
the implementation of our framework policy
on the environment is operated by local
management in accordance with relevant
local legislation and guidelines. A number 
of projects have been carried out at the local
level during the year.
We are delighted to report that our
Automotive Research Laboratory in 
Texas, US has received an Environmental
Excellence award from the San Antonio
Water System and the City of San Antonio
for environmental stewardship and site
management.
Our Cortland, US testing facility
commissioned a study on electricity 
usage for their lighting which led them 
to invest in a new energy-efficient lighting
system which is expected to cut electricity
costs for lighting in half.
In addition to the scheduled environmental
audits we currently perform, the Group will
be introducing random audits in 2008.
Specific initiatives we are working on include:
• reducing paper usage by using electronic
document management systems;
introducing electronic communication with
shareholders and increasing the use of the
internet and intranet for communications;
• increasing investment in low-energy
equipment;
• increasing recycling schemes throughout
the Group; and 
• reducing carbon-fuel travel by holding
meetings by conference call. 
Intertek’s compliance team takes an active
role in identifying areas where the Group
and employees can have a positive effect 
on reducing our environmental impact.
These include energy and water consumption, 
use of fuel by Group vehicles, reduced use
of ozone-depleting substances and waste 
and by-product production. 
We aim to educate our employees so that
we can all work towards a better future 
for the environment. The circulation of
information concerning, for example, energy
consumption, is one way of identifying 
and enlisting the help of all employees in
minimising specific and overall usage. 
Number of labs and offices
321
355
398 2007 629
2006 578
2005 566
294
273
2004 531
2003 522
Offices Labs Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 29
Our customers, suppliers and
shareholders
‘Strong customer focus produces 
strong results.’ Vanni Treves, Chairman
At Intertek we:
• value and serve our customers as embodied
in our customer focused mission statement;
• offer an integrated and unified service on
a global basis;
• welcome feedback from all stakeholders;
• maintain quality management systems in
our divisions and continually monitor the
service we provide;
• hold regular feedback meetings with
customers and welcome their inspection 
of our premises;
• provide an accessible feedback service to
assess the quality of service provided; and
• conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys. 
BP Azerbaijan’s award for Best Employer 
of the Year was awarded to Intertek
Azerbaijan. According to BP’s announcement
‘The awards recognise outstanding local and
international companies and business
personalities whose entrepreneurial skills
contribute to the success of BP-operated 
oil and gas projects and make a lasting
impact on the local business environment.’
As a Group, we do not have any individual
suppliers on whom we are overly reliant 
and we aim to treat all suppliers with
fairness and integrity. We strive to create
relationships based on mutual trust and
ensure payment of all invoices on a 
timely basis.
Communication with shareholders is given 
a high priority and a number of means are
used to promote greater understanding 
and dialogue with investment audiences.
Our investor programme includes:
• regular individual meetings with
shareholders and investment managers 
during the year;
• road shows in the UK and overseas; 
• regular analyst briefings; and 
• ‘investor days’ where analysts and 
investors are invited to visit some of our
laboratories to meet staff and observe
work being performed.
In addition, Intertek has an experienced
investor relations team to handle enquiries
and report investor-related matters to the
Board. Feedback on the Group’s investor
programme has been positive and Intertek
has a good relationship with investors and
their representatives.
During the course of the year, shareholders
are kept informed on the progress of the
Group through reports on our financial
results, and other announcements of
significant developments that are released
through the London Stock Exchange and
our own website. We have introduced the
option of electronic communications with
shareholders as a way of reducing paper-
based reporting. 
Our corporate social responsibility
structure
Intertek has businesses in many locations
around the world. Our activities are
organised to permit local or where
appropriate, functional managers, to
manage operations within the framework
established by the Board of Intertek Group
plc. We consider local managers are best
placed to understand and react to their 
local business environment. They have 
the knowledge to apply policies with due
regard to their relationships with local
stakeholders such as employees, customers
and communities. 
Overall and ultimate responsibility for 
the Group’s CSR policies, issues and 
their implementation lies with the Chief
Executive Officer.
We take a responsible and active role in 
the business communities in which we
operate. Intertek is a member of a number
of CSR related associations such as CSR
Europe, the Ethos Institute of Business and
Social Responsibility, Business for Social
Responsibility and Canadian Business for
Social Responsibility. We aim to increase 
our participation and membership of 
such bodies in the future to show our
commitment to being a significant player 
in the corporate social responsibility arena. 30 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Board of Directors
1
4
2
3 5
6 8 7 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 31
1 Vanni Treves (67)
Chairman
Appointed to the Board in January 2001*,
he became Chairman in April 2001. He is 
a corporate solicitor and was a Partner 
of a major London law firm, Macfarlanes, 
for 30 years. He has been Chairman of three
listed companies, Channel Four Television
and London Business School and is currently
Chairman of Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Korn/Ferry International UK Limited and 
the National College for School Leadership.
He is also a Senior Advisor to Oliver Wyman,
a leading management consultancy, and a
Trustee of the J Paul Getty Charitable Trust.
2 Wolfhart Hauser (58)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive
Officer in March 2005 after serving as 
a Non-Executive Director since November
2002. He was previously Chief Executive
Officer of TÜV Product Services for ten years
and Chief Executive Officer and President 
of TÜV Süddeutschland AG from 1998 
to 2002. Starting his career as a scientist 
in pharmacology and ergonomics, he
established and led a broad range of
successful international service industry
businesses over 25 years. He is also currently
a Non-Executive Director of LogicaCMG plc.
3 Bill Spencer (48)
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board as a Director in
1996*, he has been Chief Financial Officer of
the Group since its acquisition from Inchcape
plc in 1996. Previously, he was Finance
Director of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd,
Chief Financial Officer of the Oil, Chemical 
& Agri division for Europe, Middle East 
and Africa and has held financial positions in
Olivetti UK Ltd, Rexam PLC and Centrica plc.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants and a member 
of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
4 Richard Nelson (65)
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
in April 2005 after retiring as Chief Executive
Officer of the Group, a position he had held
since the acquisition from lnchcape plc in
1996. Prior to that he was Chief Executive
Officer of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd from
1987 and before then of Transcontinental
Services Ltd, which was bought by lnchcape
plc in 1985. A Chartered Accountant, he is
also Chairman of Wogen plc. 
5 David Allvey (62)
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive
Director in May 2001*. With a career that
started in civil engineering, as a Chartered
Accountant, he has held positions in major
international businesses including Group
Finance Director for BAT Industries and
Barclays Bank plc and Chief Operating
Officer for Zurich Financial Services. He is
currently Chairman of Costain Group plc and
Arena Coventry Ltd and a Non-Executive
Director of Resolution Plc, William Hill plc
and Thomas Cook Plc, and is a former board
member of the UK Accounting Standards Board. 
6 Debra Rade (54)
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive
Director in January 2006. Between 1989 and
2002, she was an officer of Underwriters
Laboratories Inc., a global provider of product
safety testing and certification and held
various positions there, including Chief Legal
Officer, Senior Vice President of External
Affairs and Chief Administrative Officer. She
is currently Of Counsel to Katten Muchin
Rosenman LLP a major national US law firm.
* Appointed to the Board of Intertek Testing Services Ltd
which was the previous parent company prior to the
Group reorganisation and appointed to the Board of
Intertek Group plc in April/May 2002.
7 Christopher Knight (61)
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in March 2006. 
He was an investment banker for nearly 
30 years, for much of that time with
Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank, 
of which he was a managing director until
2001. He has extensive corporate finance
experience gained during his banking career
in London, New York and Hong Kong. 
A Chartered Accountant, he is Chairman of
Brooks Macdonald Group plc and NB Real
Estate Group Limited and a Non-Executive
Director of Lloyds Register Holdings. 
8 Mark Loughead (48)
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board and appointed 
Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Intertek
Group plc on 1 January 2008. As COO, he
leads the global integration of sales, key
account management, global information
systems and country-focused activities 
across the Group. Previously, he was Chief
Executive of Intertek’s Oil, Chemical & Agri
division. Before this, he was Vice President 
of the division in the Americas and prior to
that, divisional Vice President in Europe,
Middle East and Africa. He joined the Group
in 1988 as Operations Manager in Liverpool
and in 1993 he was promoted to Regional
Manager for Scotland, based in Aberdeen.
Prior to joining Intertek, he spent 13 years 
at Inspectorate including six years in the
Middle East. 32 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Introduction
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance
and this report outlines its compliance with the provisions of the
revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the
Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 (the Code). During 2007,
the Group complied with almost all of the provisions of the Code.
The areas of non-compliance are as follows, and are further discussed
and explained below:
• the Board did not comprise at least half independent 
Non-Executive Directors for the whole of the year; and
• the membership of the Audit and Risk Committee and the
Remuneration Committee each included two independent
Non-Executive Directors instead of three.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for good corporate
governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles
of governance have been applied.
The Board
An effective Board, which provides entrepreneurial leadership and
controls the Group, is in place. The Board’s main roles are to create
value for shareholders, to lead the Group, to approve the Group’s
strategic objectives and to ensure that the appropriate financial and
other resources as required are made available to enable it to meet
those objectives. The Board is responsible to shareholders for the
proper management of the Group. All Directors have a wide range of
experience and skills, bringing independent judgement to bear on
issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct. 
There were nine scheduled Board meetings held in 2007. There was,
in addition, frequent informal contact between Directors to discuss
the Group’s affairs and develop its business. Directors’ attendance at
Board meetings is shown in the table on page 33. Also, on several
occasions, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without
the Executive Directors being present. The Non-Executive Directors
have also had discussions without the Chairman being present.
Board matrix
The Group has identified a number of key areas that are subject 
to regular reporting to the Board, so that the performance of
management can be reviewed and monitored. A Board matrix is 
in place which formally outlines the matters specifically requiring
the consent of the full Board and includes, inter alia, the approval
of the Group strategy and operating plans, the annual budget, 
the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements,
substantial capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, 
the recommendation of dividends and the approval of treasury 
and risk management policies. The Board matrix was reviewed,
amended and approved by the Board during 2007.
The Board matrix also identifies areas where executive management
can grant approval subject to certain financial limits. Where any 
of the activities involve amounts greater than those limits they are
referred to the Board. The Board matrix is communicated to all senior
management to ensure that throughout the Group it is known
when Board approval is required. 
Corporate Governance Report
Board management
During the year the Board consisted of the Chairman Vanni Treves,
the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Richard Nelson, the Chief
Executive Officer Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Financial Officer 
Bill Spencer, Raymond Kong, a Non-Executive Director who retired
on 11 May 2007, and three independent Non-Executive Directors,
David Allvey, who is also the Senior Independent Director, 
Debra Rade and Christopher Knight. Mark Loughead was appointed
to the Board on 1 January 2008, as Chief Operating Officer. 
The Directors’ biographies appear on page 31. The Senior
Independent Director is readily available to shareholders if they 
have concerns that remain unresolved after contacting the Group
through the usual channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 
or Chief Financial Officer or where such contact is inappropriate. 
If a Director has any concerns about the Group or a proposed
action, then such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes 
as a matter of course. 
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman
and the Chief Executive Officer and they have been set out in
writing and approved by the Board. On appointment to the Board
in May 2002, the Chairman met the independence criteria as set 
out in the Code.
The responsibilities of Vanni Treves as Chairman include those
contained in the supporting principle to paragraph A.2 of the Code,
namely leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all
aspects of its role and setting its agenda; ensuring that the directors
receive accurate, timely and clear information; ensuring effective
communication with shareholders; facilitating the effective
contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in particular;
and ensuring constructive relationships between the Executive and
Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman’s other main commitments
are detailed in his biography on page 31. The Chief Executive
Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and 
is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational
performance of the Group.
David Allvey, Debra Rade and Christopher Knight are clearly
independent Non-Executive Directors as they have been Directors
for less than nine years, were never employed by the Group and
have no material relationships or links to the business which would
compromise their independence. Richard Nelson and Raymond
Kong were not considered to be independent in their positions 
as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director,
respectively, because of their previous service as executives in the
Group. However, during the year Richard Nelson and Raymond
Kong, until his retirement in May 2007, brought valuable expertise
to the Board through their extensive knowledge of the business 
and industry.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure
that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully
discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-term
interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take proper
account of the interests of customers, employees and other
stakeholders. The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced and
influential individuals and through their mix of skills and business
experience they contribute significantly to the effective functioning
of the Board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully
debated and that no one individual or group dominates the
decision-making process. Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 33
The Code requires that half of the Board comprises independent
Non-Executive Directors. After the retirement of Raymond Kong on
11 May 2007, the Board, excluding the Chairman, met this
requirement. However, following the appointment of Mark Loughead
to the Board on 1 January 2008 independent Directors now represent
less than half the Board. Nevertheless, the Board believes that its
current composition, taking into account the overall balance of
skills, knowledge, commitment and experience, results in an efficient
and effective board operation, whilst maintaining an appropriate
balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
To enable them to discharge their duties, all Directors have full and
timely access to all relevant information. Papers are circulated well
before the Board and Committee meetings to ensure that Directors
have the necessary time to read and review them. The Non-Executive
Directors receive monthly management accounts and regular
management reports and information which enable them to scrutinise
the Group’s and management’s performance against agreed
objectives and prior performance.
A formal induction programme has been established for new Directors,
tailored to suit the individual’s previous experience. Ongoing training
is provided to Directors as necessary and visits to sites arranged 
to further their knowledge of the Group’s operations. Directors are
regularly briefed on changes to legislation and best practice.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group
Company Secretary who will assist in arranging any additional
training and information as required. The appointment and removal
of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice,
at the Group’s expense, in the performance of their duties as
Directors. No such advice was sought during the year. Insurance
cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
The Board believes that strong corporate governance improves 
the performance of the business and enhances shareholder value.
During its meetings in 2007, the Board received and discussed 
the Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial Officer’s reports,
market reports, share trading reports, analysts’ forecasts, potential
acquisitions, litigation reports, claims and risk reports, final and
interim dividend recommendations, potential contract bids, 
road show and investor feedback, divisional budgets, marketing
initiatives, treasury policy, Annual and Interim Reports and
announcements and a wide range of other issues. 
Board Committees
The Board has established three Committees, each with clearly defined
terms of reference, procedures and powers. These terms of reference
are available on request from the Group Company Secretary at the
registered office or can be downloaded from www.intertek.com.
The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended
by each Director during the year was as follows:
Figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held in the
period during which the relevant individual was a Director or
Committee member.
Membership of the three relevant Board Committees is set out below. 
The Remuneration Committee
This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors,
David Allvey (Chairman), Vanni Treves and Christopher Knight. 
The Code requires the Remuneration Committee to have at least
three independent Non-Executive Directors whilst allowing the
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, if considered
independent on appointment, to be a member. The Committee,
therefore, does not currently comply with the Code. During 2007,
the Remuneration Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed
that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to
the Board on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors
and senior executives and for the determination, within agreed terms
of reference, of additional benefits for each of the Executive Directors,
including pension rights and any compensation for loss of office.
The Committee is also responsible for the implementation and
operation of employee share incentive arrangements. 
Scheduled Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee 
Name/Position meetings meetings meetings meetings
Vanni Treves
Chairman 9 (9) 4 (4) 2 (2) 8 (8)
Richard Nelson
Non-Executive 
Deputy Chairman 8 (9) n/a n/a n/a
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer 9 (9) n/a n/a n/a
Bill Spencer
Chief Financial Officer 9 (9) n/a n/a n/a
David Allvey
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director 8 (9) 4 (4) 2 (2) 8 (8)
Debra Rade
Independent
Non-Executive Director 9 (9) n/a n/a n/a
Christopher Knight
Independent
Non-Executive Director 9 (9) 4 (4) 2 (2) 8 (8)
Raymond Kong
Non-Executive Director
(retired 11 May 2007) 3 (3) n/a n/a n/a 34 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
During 2007, the Remuneration Committee met eight times. 
At those meetings the Committee discussed, amongst other things,
the financial status and investment strategy of the Company’s UK
final salary pension scheme, determined bonus awards for 2006
and bonus targets for 2007, determined salary increases for senior
members of the executive team, determined the criteria for awards
made under the 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan, and approved the
annual Remuneration Report.
Details of the Group’s remuneration for Executive Directors and details
of benefits, share options, pension entitlements, service contracts
and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration Report
on pages 39 to 46.
The Nomination Committee
This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors,
Vanni Treves (Chairman), David Allvey and Christopher Knight.
During 2007, this Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed
that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective.
The composition of the Committee is in compliance with the Code.
This Committee, which met twice during the year, nominates
candidates to fill board vacancies, reviews the talent mapping and
succession planning for the Board and senior management and
makes recommendations on the balance and composition of the
Board. Bearing in mind the balance of existing skills, knowledge 
and experience of the Board, a job description is prepared for any
new Board position and when a Non-Executive Director is appointed,
the Committee requires confirmation that he or she can devote
sufficient time to fulfil the commitments of the role. The terms and
conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available
for inspection by any person at the Company’s registered office
during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting
(for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting). 
All new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the 
first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and then
subject to re-election by shareholders once every three years. 
The policy on Directors’ service contracts is set out in the
Remuneration Report.
The Audit and Risk Committee
This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors,
David Allvey (Chairman), Vanni Treves and Christopher Knight. 
The Code requires the Audit and Risk Committee to have at least
three independent Non-Executive Directors. As Chairman of the
Company, Vanni Treves is not viewed as independent by the Code
and therefore the Committee does not currently comply with the
Code. During 2007, the Audit and Risk Committee was evaluated 
and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was
appropriate and effective. David Allvey and Christopher Knight 
have recent and relevant financial experience as detailed in their
biographies on page 31.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the integrity of the Group’s
financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the
Group’s performance. The Committee is responsible for monitoring
the effectiveness of the external audit process and making
recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors, and for
ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and
the external auditors is maintained. It also reviews annually the
Group’s systems of internal control, the processes for monitoring
and evaluating the risks facing the Group and the effectiveness of
the internal audit function. It reviews the progress of internal audit
activity against the annual plan, and reviews the strategy, scope 
and approach of the internal audit and compliance teams. It reviews
the corrective action taken by management to address any control
issues identified by the internal audit and compliance function. 
It is responsible for approving the appointment and termination 
of the Vice President Risk Management and Internal Audit and
meets with him at least once a year without management present.
Corporate Governance Report
The Group’s auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, Vice President Financial Control and the Vice President Risk
Management and Internal Audit, usually attend Committee
meetings. The Group’s auditors meet with the members of the
Audit and Risk Committee alone at least once a year.
The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure the continued
independence and objectivity of the Group’s auditors. A policy 
on the provision of non-audit work by the external auditors has
been approved by the Board to ensure that auditors objectivity and
independence are safeguarded. To this end, the policy highlights
those areas where the external auditor cannot provide services to
the Group, including inter alia, the provision of Group management
functions, internal audit outsourcing, provision of legal advice 
and recruitment and remuneration advice. As a reassurance, the
auditors confirm by way of letter to the Board that processes to
ensure compliance with this policy are in place, and that these
processes are monitored regularly. A detailed breakdown of 
the audit and non-audit fees paid to the Group’s auditors during 
the year is set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
At its meetings during 2007, the Committee reviewed and endorsed,
prior to submission to the Board, the Group’s 2006 Annual Report,
2007 Interim Report and results announcements. The Committee
also monitored and reviewed the standards and effectiveness of 
risk management and internal control, the Group’s internal audit
function and its plans and performance. It also reviewed the 
Group’s arrangements for the avoidance and detection of fraud 
and related matters, whistle blowing and hotlines, compliance,
training, e-learning, quality assurance systems and substantial claims
affecting the Company.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual
Report and the Interim Report remains with the Board. 
During 2007, the Audit and Risk Committee met four times. The
Chairman and other Committee members also attend meetings
held twice a year with the external auditors and management 
to discuss any accounting issues associated with the annual audit
and interim review. 
Performance evaluation
A stringent performance evaluation process led by the Chairman 
is applied to each Director, Committee and the Board as a whole.
This comprises a series of detailed questionnaires which provide 
a framework for the evaluation process, and provides the Chairman
with a means of making year-on-year comparisons. There are
questionnaires for each of the following: the Board; each individual
Director; and the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit and Risk
Committees. 
This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its
Committees ensures that the performance of each individual
Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and
each Committee are properly measured and debated. 
Continued Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 35
The Chairman assesses the individual performance of each Director,
taking into account discussions with other Directors. The Senior
Independent Director has discussions with the other Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman being present,
in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance during the year.
For the year under review these assessments concluded that the
performance of the Board and each Director was and is effective
and that all Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective
roles to the Company (evidenced, inter alia, by the Board and
Committee attendance records set out in this report). The evaluations
further demonstrate that the Board has an appropriate set of skills,
that all the Directors add value to the overall effectiveness and
success of the Group, and that no substantial issues have arisen 
out of the evaluation process. 
After a rigorous review of performance and in view of their continued
robust contribution and commitment to the Board, Vanni Treves and
David Allvey are to continue in their roles on the Board for a third
three-year term, subject to re-election at the AGM in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
The Remuneration, Nomination, and Audit and Risk Committees
each also held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness during
the year, the results of which were reported to the Board by the
Group Company Secretary. The reviews concluded that each
Committee was operating in an efficient and effective manner. 
The Board will continue to develop the evaluation process in 
order to ensure that it can properly review, on an annual basis, its
performance and that of its individual members and Committees.
Internal control
The Group’s primary business objectives require adherence to local,
national and international laws and insist that the Group’s
employees show integrity and honesty in all business dealings. 
Risk management and internal controls are therefore embedded 
in the running of each division, assuring the accuracy and validity 
of reports and certificates that the Group provides to customers.
Although the Directors are ultimately responsible for establishing
and maintaining the Group’s system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness, such a system can realistically 
only manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Board can confirm that, in addition to internal audits, there is
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any
significant risks to the Group’s short and long-term value, including
those arising from social, environmental and ethical matters. 
This process has been in place for the year under review, and up 
to the date of approval of the Annual Report, is regularly reviewed
by the Board, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance. No material
breaches of any internal controls were identified during the year. 
In carrying out the risk review, the Board is satisfied that it received
adequate information from the operations around the world.
Training is provided to Directors on these matters where necessary. 
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the
system of financial and non-financial internal control during the
year. In particular, it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve
the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks
affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which
these risks are managed. This is reinforced by the Code of Ethics,
which provides practical guidance and instruction for staff. A copy
of this Code is available at www.intertek.com. 
The Group operates a zero tolerance policy in regard to breaches of
ethics and all employees are required to sign a certificate confirming
their understanding that any breaches of the Group’s Code of Ethics
will result in disciplinary action that may include summary dismissal
of the employee concerned. To support Group policies and to facilitate
the raising of concerns about possible improprieties in matters of
financial reporting or any other matters, the Group provides and
publicises independently managed email and telephone hotlines 
so that staff may report anonymously any inaccurate or unethical
working practices. 
In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee endeavours
to ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and
effective controls, checks, systems and risk management techniques
so as to be in line with best practice on such matters. 
Each operating division is responsible for the identification and
evaluation of significant risks applicable to that area of business,
together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis, and may be associated
with a variety of internal or external sources including control
breakdowns, disruption of information systems, competition, natural
catastrophe and regulatory requirements. Operation of the controls
is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or of its consequences.
A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical reporting
has been established which provides a documented trail of
accountability. These procedures are applied across Group operations
and provide for continuing assurances to be given at increasingly
higher levels of management and finally, to the Board. This process
is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides assurance as to
the operation and validity of the system of internal controls. Planned
corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion.
Each division reports annually to the Audit and Risk Committee via
the Chief Financial Officer on its review of risks and how they are
managed. Each year senior managers throughout the Group confirm
the adequacy of their systems of internal controls, compliance with
Group policies, local laws and regulations and report any control
weaknesses identified in the past year. One of the Audit and Risk
Committee’s main roles is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key
risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary
to ensure such risks are properly managed. 
The Chief Financial Officer heads a central compliance team, which
co-ordinates the quality assurance function. Quality assurance
audits are carried out by the divisions, and the findings reported 
to divisional management and to compliance officers. Each division
has at least one dedicated compliance officer who undertakes
investigations of issues that arise either from quality assurance
audits or by other means, such as the employee hotline. Reports of
significant findings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Each geographic region has at least one internal auditor who is
independent of the divisions. The main reporting sites are reviewed
annually. The other sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based
on materiality and risk. Reports of significant findings are presented
to the Audit and Risk Committee and it monitors and reviews the
effectiveness of the internal audit function. The internal audit
department was awarded ISO 9001: 2000 accreditation in 2003
and was re-accredited in 2007. 36 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
The Group will, from time-to-time, be required by its customers 
to operate in countries where there is potential political and
economic risk. In doing so, the Group fulfils its policy of facilitating
international trade inspection and audit services that help to
prevent corruption and assist with humanitarian aid. Where there
are no laws in place that prohibit business dealings in certain countries,
the Group will consider operating in those countries, but only in
strict accordance with its stringent Code of Ethics.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the assurance procedures,
ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to attain 
the level of assurance required by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on significant
changes in the business and the external environment which could
impact on risk. The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with
monthly financial information, which includes the comparison of
key performance figures against budget and forecasts and risk
indicators. Where areas for improvement in the system are
identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by
management and the Audit and Risk Committee. The Board
approves the treasury policy and the Treasury department’s 
activities are also subject to internal audit on an annual basis.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given a high priority. The
Group produces an Annual Report which is available to shareholders.
At the half year, an Interim Report is published. The Group also 
has a website (www.intertek.com) which contains up-to-date
information on the Group’s activities and published financial 
results. Shareholders can subscribe via the Investors’ section of
www.intertek.com to receive email alerts of important announcements
made by the Group. At the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2007,
the Company took advantage of provisions contained within the
Companies Act 2006 and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority enabling communication 
with shareholders using electronic means via the Group website 
or by email. The Group’s Annual Report and Accounts, notices 
of meetings and proxy forms are now provided electronically as 
a default option. However, shareholders are also able to request
paper copies of documents if they so choose.
The Chairman ensures that any comments he receives from
institutional shareholders are communicated directly to the Board
and all analysts’ and brokers’ reports on the Group are emailed
directly to each Director.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to
communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes
their participation. All Board members attend the Annual General
Meeting and in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer
questions. At General Meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast
is made available to all shareholders and is also put onto the
website. The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially
separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
Corporate Governance Report
Going concern
After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group’s financial
statements.
Corporate social responsibility 
The Board welcomes the Group’s responsibility to act ethically in
relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates
and recognises that failure to do so could adversely impact on the
Group’s long and short-term value, as a result of financial penalty
and loss of customer support. It takes such responsibilities seriously,
paying full regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
Further details are disclosed in the Corporate Social Responsibility
Report on pages 25 to 29.
Continued Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 37
The Directors of Intertek Group plc have pleasure in presenting their
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Business review
The Company has set out a Business and Financial Review in this
report which contains a fair review of the business of the Group
during the financial year ended 31 December 2007 and a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. The purpose
of this review is to inform members of the Company and help them
assess how the Directors have performed their duties. The information
that fulfils the Business Review requirements can be found in the
following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated 
into this report by reference:
Key performance indicators on page 19 and the Business and
Financial Review incorporating principal risks and uncertainties
affecting the Group on pages 10 to 24 and in note 26 to the
financial statements.
Principal activities
The Group’s principal activities continued to be the provision 
of quality and safety services to a wide range of global and 
local industries. 
Dividends and reserves
Note 19 to the financial statements sets out details of dividends and
movements on reserves during the year. The Directors recommend 
a final dividend of 12.2p per share (2006: 10.2p) making a full year
dividend of 18.0p per share (2006: 14.8p) which will, if approved at
the AGM, be paid on 19 June 2008 to shareholders on the register
at close of business on 6 June 2008. 
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together
with details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital
during the year, are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
There are no special restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s
shares, which are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange
and may be traded through the CREST system.
Allotment of own shares
At the AGM held in 2007, the shareholders generally and
unconditionally, authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities
up to approximately one-third of the nominal amount of issued
share capital, for a period of five years, under section 80 of the
Companies Act 1985. This authority was not exercised during 
the year and the Directors currently have no intention to do 
so although it is their intention to renew this authority, for up to
one-third of the nominal amount of issued share capital, at the
forthcoming AGM. 
Also at the AGM in 2007, the Directors were empowered by the
shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5%, for cash under
section 95 of the Companies Act 1985. It is intended that this
authority be renewed, up to 5%, at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors’ Report
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM held in 2007, shareholders generally and unconditionally
authorised the Company to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary
shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be
held this year. No such purchases have been made to date pursuant
to this authority. The Directors will seek to renew this authority for
up to 10% of the Company’s issued share capital at the forthcoming
AGM. This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied
that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the
ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and, accordingly,
that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders. The Directors
will also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company
and its general financial position. Any shares purchased in this way
may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide
the Company with flexibility in the management of its share capital.
Where treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards,
they will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10%
limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a ten-year
period under our relevant share plan rules.
Directors
The Directors who held office during the year are set out below. 
In addition, Mark Loughead was appointed on 1 January 2008.
Vanni Treves Chairman
Richard Nelson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer
Bill Spencer Chief Financial Officer 
David Allvey Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director 
Raymond Kong Non-Executive Director (retired 11 May 2007)
Debra Rade Non-Executive Director 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions relating 
to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors.
• Mark Loughead has been appointed since the last AGM and
therefore will offer himself for election at the forthcoming AGM.
• Vanni Treves and Richard Nelson, having not been re-elected at
either of the previous two AGMs, retire by rotation and, being
eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. 
Short biographies of all the Directors are set out on page 31.
Raymond Kong had a contract with Intertek Testing Services Pacific
Limited for the provision of consultancy services up to the date 
of his retirement and Richard Nelson may occasionally undertake
special project work for the Group. Details of these service
arrangements are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 42
and in note 28 to the financial statements. With these exceptions,
other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the
Company had a personal interest in any business transactions of 
the Company or its subsidiaries. The terms of the Directors’ service
contracts and the Directors’ interests in the shares and options 
of the Company in respect of which transactions are notifiable to
the Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.2. 
are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 42, 45 and 46.
Directors’ indemnities
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to
attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced
Directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including
the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable
statutory provisions. Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions 
(as defined by section 234 of the Act) were accordingly in force
during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2007
for the benefit of the then Directors and, at the date of this report,
are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain
losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in
connection with their duties, powers or office. 38 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Employment 
Information on the Group’s employment practices is contained
within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 
26 and 27. Information on employee share schemes appears in the
Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 46.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers 
The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice
but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers. Payment terms
are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier
and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly,
subject to the terms and conditions being met. The Company has
no trade payables.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 March 2008, the Company has received the following
notifications of disclosable interests in the Company’s voting rights
in issued ordinary share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules:
Major shareholder Number of shares Percentage of voting rights
Eminence Capital, LLC 7,884,091 5.0%
HBOS 7,705,008 4.9%
F & C Asset Management plc 7,566,858 4.8%
Legal & General Group plc 6,347,087 4.0%
Prudential Plc & The Prudential
Assurance Co. Ltd 5,953,194 3.8%
AXA S.A. and its subsidiaries 5,446,519 3.5%
Newton Investment Management
Limited 4,819,461 3.1%
Save for the above, at the date of this report no other person has
reported an interest notifiable under the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules.
Financial instruments and risk
An indication of the Company’s financial risk management objectives
and policies in respect of the use of financial instruments, and its
exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk is set out in the
Business and Financial Review on pages 22 to 24 and in note 26 to
the financial statements.
Charitable and political donations
The Group made charitable donations of £68,000 in 2007 
(2006: £67,000). The Group did not make any political donations 
in 2007 (2006: £nil).
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’
Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware
and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to
have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s
auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to
continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be
proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 384
of the Companies Act 1985.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the
Annual Report and the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that
law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the European Union (IFRSs) and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides 
in relation to such financial statements that references in the
relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true 
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation. 
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company. 
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial
statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been
prepared in accordance with IFRSs; 
• for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent
Company financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible
for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report
and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and
those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the AGM, to be held on Friday 9 May 2008, is set 
out in a letter to shareholders from the Chairman which will be 
sent separately. The Notice will detail the business to be conducted
at the meeting and include information concerning the deadlines
for submitting proxy forms and in relation to voting rights.
By order of the Board
Fiona Evans
Group Company Secretary
10 March 2008
Registered Office
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
Registered Number: 4267576
Directors’ Report
Continued Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 39
Introduction
This report sets out the Group’s policy and disclosures in relation 
to Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2007. 
It will be subject to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM. 
The report complies fully with the requirements of the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations) and the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) and has been
audited by KPMG Audit Plc to the extent required by the Regulations. 
The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate Governance
relating to the remuneration of its Directors and this report outlines
how the Group has complied with the provisions of the Code as well
as some of the guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee)
Responsibilities
On behalf of the Board the Committee: 
• determines the Company’s policy on the remuneration of, and
incentives for, the Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior
executives (mainly the Intertek Operations Committee (IOC) 
which comprises the Group and Executive Vice Presidents); 
• determines their remuneration packages, including any
compensation on termination of office; 
• provides advice to, and consults with, the Chief Executive Officer
on major policy issues affecting the remuneration of senior
executives; and
• keeps the remuneration policy under review in the light of regulatory
and best practice developments and shareholder expectations.
Due regard is given to the interests of shareholders and the
requirements of the Listing Rules and associated guidance. 
The Committee met eight times during 2007. Its terms of reference
are available on our website.
Composition
For the whole of 2007 the Committee comprised the following
Non-Executive Directors of the Company:
David Allvey (Chairman)
Christopher Knight 
Vanni Treves
Each Committee member is independent in accordance with the
Code (with the exception of Vanni Treves who was independent 
on appointment). The Committee members have no personal
financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be
decided and each director absents himself from matters relating to
his own remuneration. 
Advisors
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices are market
competitive and to help achieve its objectives, the Committee
obtains information from various independent sources. The
Committee has appointed and taken independent advice on
remuneration matters and share incentive arrangements from New
Bridge Street Consultants LLP (NBSC), on remuneration
benchmarking from Towers Perrin (TP) and on UK pension matters
from Premier Pensions Management Limited (PPM). None of PPM,
TP nor NBSC has any other connection with the Company.
Remuneration Report
Remuneration of executives
Policy 
The Committee considers that the Company’s long-term success is
dependent on its ability to attract, retain, motivate and reward
high-calibre individuals to deliver superior performance both in the
short and long-term. Its aim is to promote a performance-driven
culture by maintaining a competitive package of pay and benefits,
commensurate with packages of pay and benefits provided by 
other global companies of comparable size and complexity in the
FTSE 250 index. 
For overseas executives, the objective is to provide a competitive
package that is commensurate with comparable packages paid to
employees of other organisations overseas doing a similar-sized job
in that region. 
The Group is an international service business deriving significant
amounts of its revenue from the Americas (35%), Europe, Middle
East and Africa (30%) and Asia Pacific (35%). The international
nature and complexity of the Group are reflected in salary policy,
requiring alignment with the relevant local and international market
in order to retain and attract the right people. 
Exceptional performance on the part of both the Group and
individual can deliver upper quartile remuneration. This direct
alignment with performance is considered by the Committee to be
clearly in the interests of shareholders and provides the executives
with unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering
success to the Company’s shareholders in both the short- and 
long-term.
In January 2008, the Committee reviewed the Group’s
remuneration policy for its Executive Directors and senior executives,
taking into account external developments in executive pay, to
ensure that the policy remains appropriate in the light of the
Group’s business needs and future strategy and is competitive.
Following the review, the Committee has made changes to increase
the performance-related element of remuneration for the Executive
Directors and some senior executives within the context of the
existing remuneration strategy. In 2008, the maximum potential
cash bonus will increase in the case of the Chief Executive Officer
from 75% to 100% of base salary, and in the cases of the Chief
Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, from 60% to 70% 
of base salary. The 2008 bonus targets have also been changed to
ensure that they are sufficiently stretching to align the interests 
of the Executive Directors and senior executives with those of the
Company’s shareholders.
Components
The Remuneration Committee reviews the balance between base
and performance-related benefits when agreeing each individual’s
performance-related arrangements. It aims to achieve alignment of
rewards with shareholder interests through a balance between the
following elements:
• base salary;
• annual cash performance bonus;
• awards made under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan;
• pension; and
• other benefits, which may include travel, school fees, 
car allowances, permanent health insurance, life and private
medical insurance and annual medicals. 40 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
The balance of remuneration in 2007 for the two Executive
Directors is shown on the left.
Base salary 
Annual increases in base salary are linked to:
• the growth in size and complexity of the business;
• demonstrable efforts and contribution of an individual to the
development of Intertek Group efficiency, synergy and strategy;
and
• market movement.
When the Committee takes benchmarking information into account,
it reviews the performance of the individual concerned against 
the above measures to ensure that there is no unjustified upward
ratchet in remuneration. Where a decision is made to increase base
salary over the amount suggested by market movements, the
Committee will expect the individual, taking into account levels 
of experience, to have demonstrated good and solid leadership
within the business and a results-orientated approach, as well as
considering the requirement to retain senior executives. When
determining salary increases for Executive Directors, the Committee
is sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the
Group. This is achieved by reviewing information on the top four
countries, by employees, within the Group. The salary increases
granted to the Executive Directors for 2008 reflect recognition of
achievement ahead of expectations, together with retention
requirements and are as follows: 
2007 Salary (£) 2008 Salary (£) % increase
Wolfhart Hauser 473,000 533,500 12.8%
Bill Spencer 251,462 270,070 7.4%
Annual incentives
The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible for annual
cash performance payments for the achievement of the financial
and strategic goals of the Group and its businesses. All targets are
established and approved by the Committee. The level of bonus
achieved is also taken into account in determining the size of
awards under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan described 
on page 41. Bonuses are not pensionable. 
The financial targets are derived from the goals determined by the
annual planning process for the Group and its businesses, which are
the cornerstone of the Group’s results-focused culture. Executive
Directors’ and senior executives’ bonus criteria comprise the
following: (i) Group performance elements; (ii) personal objectives
or divisional performance elements; and (iii) discretionary elements. 
Shown on the left are the relevant proportions for different groups
of senior executives for 2007.
Divisional targets
The Committee reviews the bonus targets used each year to ensure
that they remain relevant and appropriate for the Group. For 2007
and 2008 the Group growth measures and their respective
weightings are shown on the left.
For each growth measure, three target levels are set and a fixed
proportion of the bonus available is applicable at each level. 
Pro-rata awards will be made for achievement between the target
levels. Awards are applied to base salary.
The divisional elements of bonus are based upon similar financial
performance indicators for each division but with targets appropriate
to that division.
Remuneration Report
Continued
Balance of remuneration in 2007
Wolfhart Hauser
1
38%
2
7%
3
29%
4
7%
Bill Spencer
1
46%
2
3%
3
24%
4
3%
5
24%
1 Salary 2 Benefits 3 Cash bonus 4 Pensions
5 Deferred share bonus
Group growth measures 2007 and 2008
1
50%
2
25%
3
15%
4
10%
1 Diluted adjusted EPS 2 Operating profit (excluding amortisation of intangible assets
arising on acquisitions and goodwill impairment) translated at constant exchange rates
3 Operating cash flow/Operating profit 4 Return on invested capital
Bonus proportions 2007
CEO and CFO
1
90%
3
10%
Group Vice Presidents
1
50%
2
40%
Executive Vice Presidents
1
40%
3
10%
4
50%
1 Group target 2 Personal objectives 3 Discretionary 4 Divisional targets
3
10%
5
19% Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 41
The sum to be paid under the discretionary element, of up to 10%
of total bonus, is determined by taking into account the overall
personal contribution of the executive to the goals and results 
of the Group for the year, the development of the medium-term
strategy of the Group, the achievement over the year of strategic
objectives and demonstrable efforts and results in team-building
and leadership. The Committee recognises its responsibility to
shareholders to use its discretion in a reasonable and informed
manner and in the Group’s interests, and to be accountable and
transparent in the exercise of that discretion. 
The Committee can additionally award a discretionary payment
where circumstances have occurred which were beyond the direct
responsibility of the executive and the executive has managed and
mitigated the impact of any loss, or where circumstances have
arisen outside the Group’s control and the Committee feels that
payment is necessary to retain and motivate the executive concerned.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce bonus payments if it
believes that short-term performance has been achieved at the
expense of the Group’s long-term future. The Committee also retains
the discretion to reclaim payments if the performance achievements
are subsequently found to have been significantly misstated. 
Based on the performance measures for 2007, cash bonuses 
of 75% and 49.6% of salary will be paid to Wolfhart Hauser and
Bill Spencer respectively. 
The maximum annual cash bonus potential for 2007 and 2008 
is outlined below:
Percentage of base salary 2007 2008
Chief Executive Officer 75% 100%
Chief Operating Officer – 70%
Chief Financial Officer 60% 70%
Executive Vice Presidents 60% 60%
Share incentives 
The Company believes that share ownership by employees is an
integral part of its programme to incentivise, reward and retain
employees as it strengthens the link between employees’ personal
interests and those of shareholders and enables them to benefit
from the growth of the Company. 
Executive Directors and other employees are eligible to participate 
in the share plans, Non-Executive Directors are not.
The only long-term incentive plan currently in use is the Intertek
Deferred Bonus Share Plan (the Plan). This was approved in 2005
and supersedes all previous Executive Share Option Plans, creating
more effective rewards for executives throughout the Group’s global
operations by linking their share rewards to the achievement of 
the bonus targets which are directly relevant to them. Awards have
been made in 2006 and 2007. Information about the Plan, awards
granted under the Plan and the Directors’ participation in them is
given on pages 45 and 46.
The Company had established a share option scheme for executives
in March 1997. This scheme was discontinued and replaced by the
Intertek Group 2002 Share Option Plan and the Intertek Group
2002 Approved Share Option Plan on 9 May 2002, under which
options were granted by either the Company or the Employee
Share Ownership Trust on the recommendation of the Committee.
All awards were discretionary. No options have been granted since
2005. Information about the schemes and the Directors’ participation
in them is given on page 46.
The Committee regularly reviews the appropriateness of the
Company’s share incentive arrangements and targets to ensure 
that they remain challenging. Having done so during the year, 
the Committee is proposing that changes should be made to the
level of awards available under the current Plan. Shareholder
approval will be sought for these proposals, which are described
fully in the Notice of AGM.
The purpose of the Plan is to assist in the retention of senior
executives and to align their interests with shareholders by linking
their rewards to Intertek’s share price performance. 
The Plan has two elements:
• Deferred Shares are awarded to executives based on their annual
bonus achievement. They will therefore be rewarded for the
achievement of performance which is directly within their sphere
of influence. The awards vest after three years. For the Executive
Directors and IOC the value of Deferred Shares will be equal to
the cash bonus, currently subject to a maximum of 50% of salary.
The Committee believes that this provides a simple and well-
targeted form of reward.
• Matching Share awards, which are subject to performance
requirements, are, at the discretion of the Committee, awarded to
the most senior executives. Awards of Matching Shares are linked
to awards of Deferred Shares, and for the Executive Directors and
IOC are granted at a ratio of two Matching Shares for every Deferred
Share. Matching Shares vest after three years depending on the
Company’s relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) measured against
the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). Awards vest as follows:
TSR Ranking % of Matching Award that vests
Below median None
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata on a straight-line
between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile 100%
In addition, irrespective of the company’s TSR performance, no part
of a Matching Award will vest unless the Company’s normalised 
EPS growth over the performance period is, on average, at least 
2% per annum above the growth in the UK Retail Price Index (RPI).
The Company has undertaken to limit the number of awards satisfied
by newly issued shares under the Plan in the ten-year period from
the time the plan was adopted to 5% of the Company’s issued
share capital. The awards granted amounted to 0.48% of the
Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2007. 
Pensions
Wolfhart Hauser
Wolfhart Hauser is not a member of a Group company pension
scheme. Instead the Group contributes an amount equal to 20% 
of his base salary to a personal pension arrangement. During 2007
this amounted to £94,600 (2006: £86,000). Wolfhart Hauser 
is entitled to life cover benefit comprising a lump sum payment
equivalent to four times his base salary. 
Bill Spencer
Bill Spencer is a member of the defined benefit section of the
Intertek UK Company Pension Scheme. This is a defined benefit and
defined contribution occupational pension scheme approved by the
Inland Revenue. The main features of the defined benefit section of
the scheme are shown on page 44.
Share retention
A shareholding retention requirement has been set by the Committee.
Executive Directors and the members of the IOC are now expected,
within five years, to build up a shareholding in the Company worth
at least 100% of base salary. To assist in the building of this holding,
it is expected that, after allowing for tax and similar liabilities, all the
shares subject to each vested award under the Intertek Deferred Bonus
Share Plan will be retained by the executive until the ownership
target is attained. 42 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration Report
Non-Executive Directors
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive
Directors of the Company, for their work as Directors and as members
of committees. Their remuneration is assessed relative to the Group’s
peer groups and following a review, fees increased on 1 March 2007.
Remuneration is neither pensionable nor eligible for annual incentive
payments and the Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to
participate in the Company’s share incentive plan. Other than 
Vanni Treves, who has the benefit of a company car, and Richard
Nelson, for whom the Group maintains a life insurance policy in
accordance with the terms of his previous employment contract
with the Company, no other benefits-in-kind are provided.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with 
the Company. The letter of engagement for each Non-Executive
Director states that they are appointed for an initial period of three
years and all appointments are terminable by either one or three
months’ notice on either side. At the end of the initial period, the
appointment may be renewed for a further period, if the Company
and the Director agree, subject to reappointment at the AGM. Each
letter of engagement states that should the Group terminate the
appointment, on such termination the Non-Executive Director will
not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office. 
Vanni Treves and David Allvey are each engaged by the Group as
Non-Executive Directors under the terms of a letter of appointment
commencing 29 May 2002. Both appointments were renewed for
three years at the end of their three-year initial period. 
Richard Nelson is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director
under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of
three years commencing 8 April 2005. Under the terms of the same
letter of appointment Richard Nelson is entitled to remuneration 
of £1,000 per working day for any special project work agreed in
advance by the Chairman.
Debra Rade is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director
under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of
three years commencing 1 January 2006. 
Christopher Knight is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive
Director under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial
period of three years commencing 30 March 2006. 
Raymond Kong, who ceased to be a Non-Executive Director on 
11 May 2007, had been engaged by the Group under the terms of
a letter of appointment commencing 1 July 2006. On the same date,
he entered into an agreement to provide independent professional
consultancy services to Intertek Testing Services Pacific Limited, as
and when required by the Chief Executive Officer of that company.
The agreement was terminable at one month’s notice without
compensation for loss of office and Raymond Kong’s remuneration
thereunder was £1,000 per working day.
With effect from 1 March 2007, the Non-Executive Directors are
paid as follows:
The Chairman is paid £140,000 per annum. The Deputy Chairman
is paid £55,000 per annum. Each remaining Non-Executive Director
is paid £43,000 per annum, with the following additional amounts
being paid for serving on Committees. David Allvey receives
£24,500 in total for acting as Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
and Remuneration Committees and serving on each of the Board
Committees and Christopher Knight receives £12,000 in total per
annum for serving on each of the Board Committees. 
Service contracts
Details of the service contracts currently in place for Executive
Directors who have served during the year are as follows:
Wolfhart Hauser has a service contract dated 1 March 2005; 
Bill Spencer has a service contract dated 24 May 2002. Both are 
12-month rolling contracts terminable by either party on 12 months’
notice and contain provisions by way of compensation for loss 
of office, limited to payment of salary and bonus over a 12-month
period, and benefits in lieu of notice. Wolfhart Hauser’s contract
permits payments in lieu of notice to be made, at the Company’s
election, either (a) in full on termination or (b) on a monthly basis
but only for so long as he receives no remuneration from any other
business. If Wolfhart Hauser does receive any such remuneration,
the monthly amount payable will be reduced by that remuneration,
determined on a monthly basis. Neither service contract contains
provisions regarding a change of control. 
Policy on external appointments
The Company recognises that, during their employment with 
the Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become 
Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such duties
can broaden their experience and knowledge. Executive Directors
may, with written consent of the Company, accept such appointments
outside the Company, and the policy is that any fees may be retained
by the Director. On 1 January 2007 Wolfhart Hauser joined the
Board of LogicaCMG plc as a Non-Executive Director. His earnings
for this appointment for 2007 were £35,000.
Performance graph 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR), comprising the changes in value of
a share and dividends distributed, can be represented by the value
of a notional £100 invested at the beginning of a period and its
change over that period.
The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the Company over
five years. The TSR for the Company is compared with the TSR for
the FTSE Mid 250 index. The FTSE Mid 250 index was selected 
as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a member. 
In addition, the Group uses that group of companies, amongst
others, for comparison of pay and benefit levels and as its TSR
comparator group in assessing performance for the vesting of
Matching Shares under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan. 
Continued
Intertek Group vs FTSE 250 TSR
Intertek Group FTSE MID 250
100
150
200
250
300
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 43
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following section of the Remuneration Report.
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration and pension contributions for 2007 and the prior year for comparison. 
No payments for loss of office were made during the year and no other awards were made to any Director. 
Directors’ remuneration summary
2007 2006
Base Total Pension Total Pension Deferred Deferred
salary Consult- Cash Other emolu- contri- emolu- contri- bonus bonus
and fees ancy fees bonuses benefits ments butions Total ments butions Total 2007
7
2006
7
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Wolfhart Hauser 1 473 – 363 88 924 95 1,019 700 86 786 242 209
Bill Spencer 2 251 – 12617 394 18 412 343 17 360 126 90
Non-Executive Directors
David Allvey 66 ––– 66 – 66 57 – 57 – –
Raymond Kong 3 154 – – 19– 19 236 14 250 – –
Christopher Knight 4 54––– 54 – 54 38 – 38 – –
Richard Nelson 5 54 1 –51106 – 106 106 – 106 – –
Debra Rade 43––– 43 – 43 38 – 38 – –
Vanni Treves 6 135–– 13 148 – 148 118 – 118 – –
Total 1,091 5489 169 1,754 113 1,867 1,636 117 1,753 368 299
1. Other benefits for Wolfhart Hauser of £88,000 (2006: £60,917) include long-term disability insurance, school fees, company car allowances and healthcare.
2. Other benefits for Bill Spencer comprise long-term disability insurance, healthcare and company car allowances.
3. In addition to his Non-Executive Director’s fees, Raymond Kong received £3,500 (2006: £29,000) under a consultancy agreement and £34,745 in lieu of shares vested under 
the deferred bonus plan (see page 45). Remuneration for 2007 is reported up to date of resignation, 11 May 2007. No pension contribution was made in respect of Raymond
Kong following his retirement from executive service on 30 June 2006. All his vested benefit was paid as a lump sum of £1,270,143 in July 2006.
4. Remuneration for 2006 is reported from date of appointment, 30 March 2006. 
5. In addition to his Non-Executive Director’s fees, Richard Nelson received £1,000 (2006: £5,000) for special project work undertaken during the year. The other benefits for
Richard Nelson of £50,880 (2006: £50,880) is for a life assurance policy, in accordance with the terms of his previous employment contract with the Company, for £1.0m to 
be maintained for the whole of his life and payable to his beneficiaries on his death.
6. Other benefits for Vanni Treves comprise a company car.
7. Under the 2005 Deferred Bonus Share Plan, Deferred Awards are made to Executive Directors based on their previous year’s bonus achievement. Awards vest after three years.
Matching Awards, which are subject to additional performance conditions, are also made. Details of Deferred and Matching Awards are given in the table on page 45.
Transactions with Directors 
These are disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements.
Pensions 
In order to ensure that there is no adverse impact on liabilities, the Group made certain modifications to its UK pension schemes as a result
of changes in UK pension legislation, which took effect from April 2006. The Committee continues to review the current liabilities under
the defined benefit section of the UK pension scheme and to monitor the effect of changes to future mortality rates and investment 
returns and how to limit the potential liability created by pension commitments. The majority of the Group’s employees are non-UK based
and are therefore unaffected. Further details of the Group’s pension schemes, including the funding position, are disclosed in note 22 to the
financial statements. Details of the pension arrangements for those who have served as Executive Directors during the financial year are shown
on page 44. 44 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Remuneration Report 
Bill Spencer
Normal retirement age 65
Annual pension at normal retirement age 1/60 of final pensionable salary (highest base salary in any 12-month period
during the five years immediately preceding retirement date) for each year of
pensionable service, except, for those members who were active members of 
the Scheme on 5 April 1996, the accrual rate is 1/45 for pensionable service in
the period after 5 April 1996 and before 6 April 1999. Members may exchange
part of their pension for a tax-free cash sum. This will reduce their pension but 
not that of their spouse.
Spouse’s or dependant’s pension payable 
on death of member Half of member’s pension.
Early retirement From age 50 onwards with the consent of the Company and the Trustees, 
based on accrued entitlement currently reduced by 4% for each year of retirement
prior to age 65. With effect from 6 April 2010, the minimum retirement age 
will increase to age 55.
Pension increases in payment or deferment Increases in deferment – revaluation is in two parts:
i) The part that represents the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) will be
increased at the rate of 4.0% for each complete tax year between date of leaving
and State Pension Age. 
ii) The balance of the pension will increase at the rate of 5.0% per annum or in
line with the Retail Price Index if lower, for each completed year between the date
of leaving and the Normal Retirement Date.
Increases in retirement (or payment) i) Pre 6 April 1997, excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of 3% p.a.
ii) 6 April 1997 to 5 April 2005, excess pension benefits will increase at the 
rate of the lower of 5% per annum or the increase in Retail Price Index. 
iii) Post 5 April 2005 excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of the
lower of 2.5% per annum or the increase in Retail Price Index. 
iv) Pre 1988 GMP will not increase. 
v) Post 1988 GMP will increase at the rate of 3% per annum or the increase in
the Retail Price Index, if lower.
Employee contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 8.5% of base salary
(excluding incentive payments) up to the company-set earnings cap which was 
£112,028 for the 2007/2008 tax year (£109,296 for 2006/2007).
Employer contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 16% of base salary
(excluding incentive payments) up to the company-set earnings cap.
Ill health or incapacity In the case of ill health, the pension is calculated as for early retirement but
without the 4% reduction. In the case of incapacity, the pension is calculated 
as if pensionable service had continued to normal retirement date.
Death in service A member is entitled to a refund of his own contributions plus either:
i) a lump sum of four times pensionable salary plus spouse’s pension which is
50% of the member’s prospective pension at normal retirement date (based on
prospective pensionable service to normal retirement date and final pensionable
salary immediately prior to the member’s death); or
ii) lump sum of eight times pensionable salary, but with no spouse’s pension
(except for the contracting-out requirements).
Details of the accrued pension to which Bill Spencer is entitled to on leaving service and the changes during the year are shown in the
table below:
Contributions Increase
made by in accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in transfer value
Age at the Director entitlement entitlement
1
value
2
value
2
in year less contributions
31 December during the year during the year
1
2007 2006 2007 made by Director
Name 2007 £££££ £
Bill Spencer 48 9,464 1,535 30,311 272,511 303,124 21,149
1. The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 65 based on service to 31 December 2007, excluding the effect of inflation.
Including inflation, the increase was £2,616 during the year. 
2. The transfer value has been calculated in a manner consistent with ‘Retirement Benefit Schemes – Transfer Values (GN11)’ last revised by the Institute of Actuaries and 
the Faculty of Actuaries on 30 December 2005. The transfer value disclosed above does not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director, instead it represents 
a potential liability of the Pension Scheme. The value represents the full transfer value without reduction for any shortfall in scheme funding.
Continued Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 45
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year end are set out below:
Number of 31 December 31 December
ordinary shares of 1p 2006 Acquired Sold 2007
David Allvey 5,270 – – 5,270
Wolfhart Hauser ––– –
Christopher Knight 5,000 – – 5,000
Richard Nelson 500,000 – – 500,000
Debra Rade ––– –
Bill Spencer 210,000 – 78,000 132,000
Vanni Treves 50,000 – – 50,000
Save as stated in this report, during the course of the year, no Director, nor any member of his or her immediate family, had any other
interest in the ordinary share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. No changes in the above Directors’ interests have taken
place between 31 December 2007 and the date of this report.
Directors’ interests in Long Term Incentive Plan and share options
Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to participate in the Company’s share incentive plans. Awards made under the Intertek Deferred
Bonus Share Plan and options granted to the Executive Directors under the 2002 Plan and the Approved Plan are shown below. 
No options have been granted to the Executive Directors under the 1997 Plan.
The Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan
31 December Granted in Vested in Lapsed in 31 December
2006 2007 2007 2007 2007
Number Number Award price
1
Number Number Number Date
of shares of shares £ of shares of shares of shares award vests
2
Wolfhart Hauser
Deferred 2006 14,514 – 8.276 – – 14,514 April 2009
Deferred 2007 – 22,753 9.166 – – 22,753 April 2010
Matching 2006 29,028 – 8.276 – – 29,028 April 2009
Matching 2007 – 45,506 9.166 – – 45,506 April 2010
Total 43,542 68,259 – – 111,801
Bill Spencer
Deferred 2006 6,391 – 8.276 – – 6,391 April 2009
Deferred 2007 – 9,774 9.166 – – 9,774 April 2010
Matching 2006 12,782 – 8.276 – – 12,782 April 2009
Matching 2007 – 19,548 9.166 – – 19,548 April 2010
Total 19,173 29,322 – – 48,495
Raymond Kong
3
Deferred 2006 3,732 – 8.276 3,732 – – –
Matching 2006 7,464 – 8.276 – 7,464 – –
Total 11,196 – 3,732 7,464–
1. DBP awards are made based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant. At date of grant in 2007, the
share price was 931p. No payment is made by participants in the Plan.
2. The vesting of Matching Awards is subject to additional performance conditions described on page 41.
3. Following his retirement from executive service Raymond Kong retained his interest under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan until his retirement from the Board on 
11 May 2007. At that date 3,732 shares vested, but were satisfied by the payment of cash in lieu of shares of £34,745. The vested award had been granted on 7 April 2006.
The share price applicable at vesting was 931p. No performance conditions applied to the vested award. The Matching Award lapsed on the same date.
Additional information about the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan 
The annual maximum value of Deferred Awards, which are not subject to a performance condition, is the amount of the annual cash bonus
to which it is linked or 50% of basic salary. In certain exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment or retention, the Committee has the
discretion to make an award of Deferred Shares which is not linked to the achievement of the annual bonus but the same maximum salary
limit will apply.
The maximum number of Matching Shares which may be awarded to an individual is twice the number of their corresponding Deferred
Award (i.e. a 2:1 match).
Vesting Awards
Deferred Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant provided the participant is still employed in the Group. It is the current
intention of the Company to satisfy vested awards by the issue of new shares.
Matching Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant once the Committee has determined the extent to which the applicable
performance conditions have been satisfied and provided the participant is still employed in the Group. 46 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Leaving employment
If a participant leaves employment for certain reasons beyond the participant’s control or, at the discretion of the Committee, for any other
reason, then the awards vest thus: (i) Deferred Awards will vest on a pro-rata basis on the date of cessation, although the Committee may
decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances; (ii) Matching Awards will vest at
the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured, or the Committee may decide that the Matching Award will
vest on cessation of employment. The extent to which a Matching Award will vest will depend upon the extent to which the performance
conditions have been satisfied over the full performance period or up to the date of cessation as appropriate. In the event of a change 
of control, vesting of Matching Awards will occur on the same basis as for leaving employment, described above. Deferred Awards will 
vest in full.
The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described on page 41 for future awards or those for existing ones.
Any such new targets will not, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, be materially less challenging in the circumstances than those
described above. 
The 2002 Share Option Plans
Options Options Options
31 December granted in exercised in lapsed in 31 December
2006 2007 2007 2007 2007 Date option
Number Number Option price Number Number Number becomes Date option
of shares of shares £ of shares of shares of shares exercisable expires
Wolfhart Hauser 
Approved Plan 3,856 – 7.78 – – 3,856 April 2008 April 2015
2002 Plan 47,558 – 7.78 – – 47,558 April 2008 April 2015
Total 51,414– ––51,414
Bill Spencer
Approved Plan 6,864 – 4.37 – – 6,864 May 2005 May 2012
2002 Plan 15,466 – 4.37 – – 15,466 May 2005 May 2012
2002 Plan 21,357 – 3.59 – 951 20,406 April 2006 April 2013
2002 Plan 24,069 – 5.24 – – 24,069 April 2007 April 2014
2002 Plan 29,563 – 7.78 – – 29,563 April 2008 April 2015
Total 97,319– – 951 96,368
Additional information about the 2002 Share Option Plans
Exercise prices were determined by the average of the closing middle market quotations of an ordinary share in the Company on the five
dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant and the options granted are exercisable between three and ten years after the date 
of grant, provided the performance condition has been satisfied. The Committee will decide whether the performance condition has been
met at the appropriate time.
No options have been granted since 2005, but prior to that there were annual grants within each tranche equating to approximately 1%
of the Company’s issued share capital. No individual was granted options with a value of more than their annual base salary in each year.
The options are subject to performance criteria unless there are regulatory or legal difficulties in jurisdictions where the employee is based.
The performance condition requires that the growth in the Company’s EPS outperforms the growth in the RPI by a minimum of 5% per
annum over a three-year period. If the condition is met, 25% of the options become exercisable. If the growth rate is 8% over RPI then
two-thirds of options become exercisable. 100% of the options would only become exercisable if the Company’s growth in EPS
outperformed the growth in the RPI by 11% per annum over a three-year period. For growth rates between 5% and 8%, and 8% and
11%, the percentage of options exercisable is calculated on a sliding scale. In respect of options granted prior to 2005, if the performance
targets were not met in full for the initial performance period of three years, the performance period could be extended by one further
period of 12 months, to ascertain whether the balance of the unvested options can be exercised. The final grant of options under the Plan
in 2005 did not have a re-testing provision. The above performance criteria were selected to closely link improvement in performance with
increase in shareholder value.
The key features of the Approved Plan (which was approved by HM Revenue & Customs) were broadly the same as for the 2002 Plan,
except that options were granted subject to the requirement that the aggregate exercise price of all the subsisting options granted to an
employee under the Approved Plan, must not exceed £30,000.
Share information
On 31 December 2007, the closing market price of Intertek ordinary shares was 990p. The highest and lowest prices of the shares during the
year were 1,043p and 843p respectively. 
Approval of the Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 10 March 2008.
David Allvey
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Report
Continued Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 47
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Revenue 775.4 664.5
Cost of sales (615.9) (523.6)
Gross profit 159.5 140.9
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 10 (5.1) (3.8)
Impairment of goodwill 10 (0.4) (0.3)
Other administrative expenses (37.9) (38.7)
Total administrative expenses (43.4) (42.8)
Group operating profit 3 116.1 98.1
Finance income 6 5.4 6.3
Finance expense 6 (15.6) (13.3)
Net financing costs (10.2) (7.0)
Share of (loss)/profit of associates 11 (0.1) 0.3
Profit before income tax 105.8 91.4
Income tax expense 7 (27.0) (22.5)
Profit for the year 78.8 68.9
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 19 73.2 63.8
Minority interest 20 5.6 5.1
Profit for the year 78.8 68.9
Earnings per share 
Basic 8 46.7p 40.9p
Diluted 8 46.2p 40.6p
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2007 48 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 149.2 123.7
Goodwill 10 148.4 71.1
Other intangible assets 10 35.0 19.6
Investments in associates 11 0.6 0.7
Deferred tax assets 12 11.9 13.3
Total non-current assets 345.1 228.4
Inventories 13 4.0 3.2
Trade and other receivables 14 191.0 151.9
Derivative financial instruments 26 – 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents 23 58.6 49.5
Total current assets 253.6 205.0
Total assets 598.7 433.4
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 15 (13.7) (13.6)
Derivative financial instruments 26 (0.7) –
Current taxes payable (25.3) (24.1)
Trade and other payables 16 (128.6) (101.0)
Provisions 17 (22.7) (4.8)
Total current liabilities (191.0) (143.5)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 15 (217.5) (164.8)
Deferred tax liabilities 12 (5.3) (3.8)
Net pension liabilities 22 (7.3) (15.2)
Other payables 16 (0.9) (0.4)
Provisions 17 (0.9) (0.5)
Total non-current liabilities (231.9) (184.7)
Total liabilities (422.9) (328.2)
Net assets 175.8 105.2
Equity
Share capital 18 1.6 1.6
Share premium 19 247.3 242.4
Other reserves 19 11.7 6.0
Retained earnings 19 (96.4) (153.6)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 164.2 96.4
Minority interest 20 11.6 8.8
Total equity 175.8 105.2
The financial statements on pages 47 to 83 were approved by the Board on 10 March 2008 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Wolfhart Hauser, Director Bill Spencer, Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2007 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 49
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 3 78.8 68.9
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charge 9 27.7 24.1
Amortisation of software 10 2.3 2.2
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 10 5.1 3.8
Impairment of goodwill 10 0.4 0.3
Equity-settled transactions 25 3.0 2.4
Share of loss/(profit) of associates 11 0.1 (0.3)
Net financing costs 6 10.2 7.0
Income tax expense 7 27.0 22.5
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 0.1 (0.3)
Operating profit before changes in working capital and operating provisions 154.7 130.6
Change in inventories (0.3) (0.4)
Change in trade and other receivables (20.7) (13.7)
Change in trade and other payables 11.6 12.3
Change in claims and other provisions 3.8 (4.2)
Cash generated from operations 149.1 124.6
Interest paid (10.8) (7.7)
Income taxes paid (28.4) (24.6)
Net cash flows from operating activities 109.9 92.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.9
Interest received 1.1 1.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 24 (85.8) (36.9)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 9 (41.3) (42.0)
Acquisition of software 10 (2.5) (1.2)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (128.2) (78.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 19 4.9 4.2
Drawdown of debt 70.6 22.1
Repayment of debt (21.2) (13.9)
Dividends paid to minorities 20 (3.6) (3.8)
Equity dividends paid 19 (25.2) (19.8)
Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 25.5 (11.2)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 7.2 3.0
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 49.5 50.8
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 23 1.9 (4.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 58.6 49.5
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2007 50 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences for foreign operations 19 10.0 (26.6)
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 22 8.5 3.2
Tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity 19 (2.3) (1.9)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 19 (1.1) (1.3)
Net (loss)/gain on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 19 (3.2) 20.5
Income and expense recognised directly in equity 11.9 (6.1)
Profit for the year 78.8 68.9
Total recognised income and expense for the year 90.7 62.8
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 84.5 58.2
Minority interest 6.2 4.6
Total recognised income and expense for the year 90.7 62.8
Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense 
For the year ended 31 December 2007 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 51
1 General
Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in 
the UK.
The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 
31 December 2007 consolidate those of the Company and its
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and equity account
the Group’s interest in associates. The parent company financial
statements present information about the Company as a separate
entity and not about its Group.
The Group’s activities are the testing, inspection and certification
of products and commodities against a wide range of safety,
regulatory, quality and performance standards. Note 3 provides 
a segmental analysis of the Group’s performance.
2 Significant accounting policies
(a) Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved
by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the EU (IFRSs). The Company has elected
to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance
with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 84 to 88. 
(b) Basis of preparation
The accounting policies set out below have been applied
consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial
statements. 
The Group has adopted in the year a new standard, International
Financial Reporting Standard 7 (IFRS 7) Financial Instruments:
Disclosures. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs,
requires management to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the
period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods
affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation,
uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies
that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in
the financial statements, is discussed in note (w).
Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis
except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value. 
Functional and presentation currency
These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling,
which is the Company’s functional currency. All information
presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £100,000.
(c) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control
exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to
obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential
voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken
into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included
in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control
commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting
policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to
align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant
influence, but not control, over the financial and operating
policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group
holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another
entity. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s
share of the total recognised income and expense of associates 
on an equity accounted basis, after adjustments to align the
accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that
significant influence commences until the date that significant
influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its
interest in an associate, the Group’s carrying amount of that
interest is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has a legal or
constructive obligation or made payments on behalf of an
associate. The Group does not consider the associate to be an
integral part of the Group’s operations and therefore its results 
are presented outside of the Group operating profit.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains
and losses or income and expenses arising from intra group
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with
associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent of
the Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated
in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that
there is no evidence of impairment.
(d) Foreign currency 
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the
reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at
that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are
recognised in the income statement except those arising on the
retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of net
investment in a foreign operation. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at
fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the
dates the fair values were determined.
Notes to the Financial Statements 52 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date. The
income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into
sterling at cumulative average rates of exchange during the year.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised
directly in equity in a translation reserve.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at
the following exchange rates:
Balance sheet Income statement
Actual rates Cumulative average 
rates
Value of £1 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006 2007 2006
US dollar 1.99 1.96 2.00 1.84
Euro 1.36 1.49 1.46 1.47
Chinese renminbi 14.57 15.28 15.24 14.67
Hong Kong dollar 15.51 15.20 15.62 14.30
Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign
operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to
the translation reserve. They are released into the income
statement upon disposal. The Group has taken advantage of relief
available in IFRS 1, to deem the cumulative translation differences
for all foreign operations to be zero at the date of transition to
IFRS on 1 January 2004.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are discussed in
accounting policy (g).
(e) Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Following the adoption of IAS 32, financial instruments issued by
the Group are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’
funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two
conditions:
(i) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to
deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial
assets or financial liabilities with another party under
conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
(ii) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s
own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that
includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the
Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will
be settled by the Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of
cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own
equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue
are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the
amounts presented in these financial statements for called up
share capital and share premium exclude amounts in relation to
those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with
as part of finance expenses. Finance payments associated with
financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and
are recorded directly in equity.
(f) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to economically
hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks
arising from operational, financing and investment activities. In
accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or
issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value;
attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial
instruments are measured at fair value. The gain or loss on 
re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the
income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge
accounting, in which case the recognition of any resultant gain 
or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged 
(see accounting policy (g)). Derivatives that do not qualify for
hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that
the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the
balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and
the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair
value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price
at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the
difference between the quoted forward price and the exercise
price of the contract. 
(g) Hedging
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge 
of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a
highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any
gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised
directly in the hedging reserve. The ineffective part of any gain 
or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the
income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or
exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge
relationship but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur,
the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is
recognised when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction
is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain
or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement
immediately.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount
recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the
same period that the hedged item affects the income statement.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 53
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to
hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary
asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a
hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined
to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity in a
translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately
in the income statement. When the hedged net investment is
disposed of, the cumulative amount in equity is transferred to the
income statement as an adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal.
(h) Property, plant and equipment
Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost 
or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and
accumulated impairment losses (see accounting policy (m)).
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the
acquisition of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposal of items of property, plant and
equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from
disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and
equipment and are recognised in profit or loss.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and
equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is
probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the
part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The
carrying amount of the replaced part is de-recognised. The costs of
the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are
recognised in profit or loss as incurred. 
Leased assets
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases, the
accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from
that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance
leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair
value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at
inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses. 
Other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not
recognised on the Group’s balance sheet.
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and
equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the
lease term and their useful lives, unless it is reasonably certain that
the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold land 
and buildings 50 years
Short leasehold land and buildings Term of lease 
Plant and equipment 3–10 years
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all
assets are re-assessed at each reporting date.
(i) Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses. All business
combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition
and the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill is stated at
cost less any accumulated impairment losses (see accounting
policy (m)). Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs)
and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment. In
respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included
in the carrying amount of the investments in associates.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1
and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January
2004, the date of transition to IFRS. In respect of acquisitions prior
to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised
under the Group’s previous accounting framework.
Purchased goodwill in respect of acquisitions before 1 January
1998, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition, in
accordance with the accounting standard then in force. 
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised
immediately in the income statement.
Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions. If at the
balance sheet date the fair values of the acquiree’s identifiable
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be established
provisionally, then these values are used. Any adjustments to these
values made within 12 months of the acquisition date are taken as
adjustments to goodwill. 
Other intangible assets
Other than goodwill, intangible assets arising on acquisitions and
computer software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation
and accumulated impairment losses. Identifiable intangibles are
those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights
regardless of whether those rights are separable, and which have
finite useful lives. 54 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
Computer software Up to 5 years
Customer relationships Up to 10 years
Know-how Up to 5 years
Licences Contractual life
Covenants not to compete Contractual life
(j) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their fair value less
impairment losses (see accounting policy (m)).
(k) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable
value. The cost of the inventories is based on the last-in-first-out
(LIFO) principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal
course of business in bringing inventories to their present
condition and location and net realisable value is the estimated
selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
selling costs.
(l) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form
an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as
a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the
statement of cash flows.
(m) Impairment
Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. A
financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence
indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on
the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at
amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying
amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows
discounted at the original effective interest rate. Receivables with 
a short duration are not discounted.
Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment 
on an individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed
collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related
objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was
recognised. For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the
reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other
than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each
reporting date to determine whether there is any indication 
of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s
recoverable amount is estimated. The recoverable amount 
of goodwill is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount
of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units
are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill
allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying
amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash
generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that
generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash
inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit 
is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money
and the risks specific to the asset. The goodwill acquired in a
business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is
allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit
from the synergies of the combination. For an asset that does not
generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable
amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the
asset belongs. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent
that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation 
or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when 
there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist
as a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the
recoverable amount.
(n) Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when
they are paid. Final dividends are reported as a movement in
equity in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
(o) Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value,
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised
cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being
recognised in the income statement over the period of the
borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 55
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(p) Employee benefits
Defined contribution plan
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan
under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate
entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay
further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined
contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit
expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The net liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of
defined benefit pension plans, is the present value of the defined
benefit obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of
the plan assets and less any unrecognised past service costs. Any
net asset is subject to a ceiling test. The recognised asset is limited
to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the
present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in
future contributions to the plan. The discount rate used to calculate
the present value of the obligations is the yield at balance sheet
date on high quality corporate bonds that have maturity dates
approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations. An
independent ‘IAS 19’ actuarial valuation, using the projected unit
credit method, is carried out at each balance sheet date. 
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise
from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged
to the operating profit in the income statement. The expected
return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present
value of the schemes’ liabilities during the accounting period are
shown as finance income and finance expense respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity.
Share-based payment transactions
The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow
employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the
employee services received in exchange for the grant of share
options or shares is measured at the grant date and is recognised
as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The charge
is calculated using the Black-Scholes method and expensed to the
income statement over the vesting period of the relevant award.
The charge for the share options and for the share awards is
adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting where
conditions are non-market based. The expense of the share
awards under the deferred bonus plan is also adjusted for the
probability of performance conditions being achieved. The Group
has taken advantage of the provisions of IFRS 1: First-time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, and has
recognised an expense only in respect of share options and share
awards granted since 7 November 2002.
Own shares held by ESOT trust
Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT trust are included in
the Group financial statements. In particular, the trust’s purchases
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(q) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has
a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated
reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
(r) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at their fair value.
(s) Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services
rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income statement
when the relevant service is completed or in certain circumstances, 
in proportion to the stage of completion, normally determined by
reference to costs incurred to date in proportion to the total
anticipated costs of the transaction at the balance sheet date. 
(t) Expenses
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income
statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the
term of the lease.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings
calculated using the effective interest rate method, amortisation
of debt issuance costs, facility fees, interest receivable on funds
invested, net foreign exchange gains or losses on external interest,
income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities, and
gains and losses on hedging instruments, that are recognised in 
the income statement (see accounting policy (g)). Interest income
is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the
effective interest rate method. All borrowing costs are recognised
in the income statement using the effective interest rate method. 
(u) Income tax 
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in
which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of
previous years. 56 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method,
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary
differences are not provided for: initial recognition of goodwill, the
initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not
a business combination and that affect neither accounting nor
taxable profit, overseas retained earnings the distribution of which
is under the control of the Group, and which are not likely to be
distributed in the foreseeable future, and differences relating to
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax
provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a
legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets,
and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority
on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they
intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or
their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax 
assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit 
will be realised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of
dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay
the related dividend.
(v) Segment reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is
engaged either in providing services (business segment) or in
providing services within a particular economic environment
(geographic segment), which is subject to risks and rewards that
are different from those of other segments.
(w) Significant accounting judgements and estimates
Judgements
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above, 
the management has made judgement in the following area that
has significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements.
Claims
Note 17 sets out the provisions made in respect of claims at 
31 December 2007 and note 27 explains contingent liabilities in
respect of litigation. In making provision for claims, management
bases its judgement on the circumstances relating to each 
specific event, internal and external legal advice, knowledge of the
industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal
precedents. The Group’s legal and warranty claims are reviewed, 
at a minimum, on a quarterly basis by senior management.
Estimates
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources
of estimation at the balance sheet date that have a risk of causing
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and
liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the
business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible
assets should be recognised separately from goodwill. If such an
asset is identified, then it is valued by discounting the probable
future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, over the
estimated life of the asset. Where there is uncertainty over the
amount of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored
into the calculation. Details of intangible assets are given in note 10.
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual
basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash
generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the
value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the
expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that
holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate the
present value of those cash flows. Note 10 sets out details of the
testing of impairment at the balance sheet date. 
Recoverability of trade receivables
Trade receivables are reflected net of an estimated provision for
impairment losses. This provision is based primarily on a review of
all outstanding accounts and considers the past payment history
and creditworthiness of each account and the length of time that
the debt has remained unpaid. The actual amounts of debts that
ultimately prove irrecoverable could vary from the actual provision
made. 
Employee post-retirement benefit obligations
The Group has three principal defined pension benefit plans. 
The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance
sheet and represent the present value of the obligation calculated
by independent actuaries, with input from management. These
actuarial valuations include assumptions such as discount rates,
return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These
assumptions vary from time to time according to prevailing
economic and social conditions. Details of the assumptions used
and sensitivity analysis in relation to the inflation rate and discount
rate assumptions are provided in note 22. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement
in determining the amounts to be recognised. In particular,
judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred
tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the
timing and level of future taxable income.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 57
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Income tax
The actual tax on profits is determined according to complex tax
laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws and
regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the
liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised
in the financial statements. The Group considers the estimates,
assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve
complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve. The
final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different
from the estimates reflected in the financial statements. 
(x) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The following new standards, amendments to standards 
and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 
31 December 2007, and have not been applied in preparing 
these consolidated financial statements:
• IFRS 8: Operating segments
• Revised IAS 23: Borrowing costs
• IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and treasury share transactions
The adoption of these standards and interpretations in future
periods is not expected to have a material impact on the financial
statements of the Group.
3 Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s
business and geographical segments. The primary format, business
segments, is based on the Group’s management and internal
reporting structure.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s-length basis.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly
attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on
a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly borrowings,
pension fund liabilities, and corporate expenses and assets. 
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during 
the year to acquire property, plant and equipment, and 
computer software.
Business segments
The Group comprises the following main business segments:
Oil, Chemical & Agri which provides cargo inspection, testing and
analytical services to the oil and gas, chemical, agricultural, mineral
and pharmaceutical sectors.
Commercial & Electrical which provides testing, inspection and
certification services to industries including those in the home
appliances, medical, building, industrial and HVAC/R, IT and
telecom and automotive sectors. 
Consumer Goods which provides services to the textiles, footwear,
toys, food and hardlines industries. 
Government Services which provides trade services to standards
bodies and governments. 
Central overheads comprise the costs of the corporate head office
and non-operating holding companies and other costs which are
not controlled by the operating divisions. 
On 1 January 2007, the electrical and electronic retail inspection
(E&E) business was transferred from the Commercial & Electrical
division to the Consumer Goods division and prior period figures for
revenue and operating profit have been restated to show a like-for-
like comparison. 
Geographic segments
All the business segments are managed on a worldwide basis but
can be divided into the following geographic regions:
• Americas
• Europe, Middle East and Africa 
• Asia Pacific
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments,
segment revenue is based on the geographical location of the
entity that generated that revenue. Segment assets are based on
the geographical location of the assets. 58 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
3 Segment reporting (continued)
Business analysis (primary segment)
Oil, Chemical Commercial Consumer Government Central Eliminations Consolidated
& Agri & Electrical Goods Services overheads
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers 364.0 281.5 179.1 167.9* 181.2 161.7* 51.1 53.4 – – – – 775.4 664.5
Inter-segment revenue 3.1 2.4 1.8 1.4 0.4 0.3 1.3 1.3 – – (6.6) (5.4) – –
Revenue 367.1 283.9 180.9 169.3 181.6 162.0 52.4 54.7 – – (6.6) (5.4) 775.4 664.5
Operating profit before 
amortisation and impairment 45.8 30.0 27.2 24.6* 55.2 51.6* 7.6 6.6 (14.2) (10.6) – – 121.6 102.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 
arising on acquisitions (2.9) (1.2) (1.6) (2.0) (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) (0.1) – – – – (5.1) (3.8)
Impairment of goodwill – (0.3) (0.4) – – – – – – – – – (0.4) (0.3)
Group operating profit 42.9 28.5 25.2 22.6 54.7 51.1 7.5 6.5 (14.2) (10.6) – – 116.1 98.1
Net financing costs (10.2) (7.0)
Share of (loss)/profit of associates (0.1) 0.3
Income tax expense (27.0) (22.5)
Profit for the year 78.8 68.9
Segment assets 303.6 188.0 121.5 95.0 80.7 64.9 16.0 18.1 4.2 2.4 526.0 368.4
Investment in associates 0.6 0.7
Unallocated assets 72.1 64.3
Total assets 598.7 433.4
Segment liabilities 55.1 40.3 37.1 31.3 28.1 21.5 9.4 9.1 6.7 3.1 136.4 105.3
Unallocated liabilities 286.5 222.9
Total liabilities 422.9 328.2
Depreciation and 
software amortisation 13.4 11.0 7.7 7.6 7.3 6.2 1.5 1.4 0.1 0.1 – – 30.0 26.3
Capital expenditure 
including software 24.8 16.7 9.6 9.9 8.7 14.3 0.4 2.2 0.3 0.1 – – 43.8 43.2
* On 1 January 2007, the electrical and electronic retail inspection (E&E) business was transferred from the Commercial & Electrical division to the Consumer Goods division and
the 2006 figures have been restated to show a like-for-like comparison. 
Geographic analysis (secondary segment)
Americas Europe, Middle East Asia Pacific Consolidated
and Africa
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers 271.7 245.1 235.0 190.3 268.7 229.1 775.4 664.5
Group operating profit 36.7 29.6 2.5 (2.0) 76.9 70.5 116.1 98.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 
arising on acquisitions 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.1 1.7 1.0 5.1 3.8
Impairment of goodwill – – – 0.3 0.4 – 0.4 0.3
Segment assets 198.7 142.8 172.2 128.2 155.1 97.4 526.0 368.4
Capital expenditure including software 14.2 11.5 10.5 10.1 19.1 21.6 43.8 43.2
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 59
4 Expenses and auditors’ remuneration
2007 2006
£m £m
Included in profit for the year are the following expenses/(income):
Property rentals 25.7 22.2
Lease and hire charges – plant and equipment 5.3 4.6
Depreciation and software amortisation 30.0 26.3
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 (0.3)
2007 2006
£000 £000
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit of these financial statements 264 221
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 661 537
Other services pursuant to such legislation – review of interim financial statements 78 67
Taxation services 223 84
Actuarial services 26 14
Other 149 62
Total 1,401 985
5 Employees 
2007 2006
Employee costs £m £m
Wages and salaries 279.9 243.9
Equity-settled transactions 3.0 2.4
Social security costs 28.1 24.5
Pension costs 13.2 10.6
Total employee costs 324.2 281.4
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report. Details of pension arrangements and equity-settled
transactions are set out in notes 22 and 25 respectively.
Average number of employees by activity 2007 2006
Oil, Chemical & Agri 9,057 7,499
Commercial & Electrical 3,395 3,091
Consumer Goods 6,400 5,376
Government Services 848 857
Central overheads 51 49
Total 19,751 16,872
Actual number at 31 December 21,303 18,198
6 Net financing costs
2007 2006
Recognised in profit or loss £m £m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances 1.1 1.1
Expected return on pension assets (note 22) 3.5 3.3
Ineffective portion of hedge of net investment in foreign operations 0.1 –
Foreign exchange differences on interest accruals – 0.1
Change in fair value of financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 0.7 1.8
Total finance income 5.4 6.3
Finance expense
Interest on borrowings 10.8 7.8
Pension interest cost (note 22) 3.8 3.4
Other foreign exchange differences 0.7 1.8
Facility fees and other 0.3 0.3
Total finance expense 15.6 13.3
Net financing costs 10.2 7.0 60 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
6 Net financing costs (continued)
2007 2006
Recognised directly in equity £m £m
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 10.0 (26.6)
Net exchange (loss)/gain on hedges of net investment in foreign operations (3.2) 20.5
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (1.1) (1.3)
Income tax on income and expense above recognised directly in equity (0.1) (1.9)
Finance income/(expense) recognised directly in equity, net of tax 5.6 (9.3)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 6.2 (9.8)
Minority interest (0.6) 0.5
Finance income/(expense) recognised directly in equity, net of tax 5.6 (9.3)
Recognised in:
Hedging reserve (1.1) (1.3)
Translation reserve 6.8 (6.1)
Retained earnings (0.1) (1.9)
Finance income/(expense) recognised directly in equity, net of tax 5.6 (9.3)
7 Income tax expense
2007 2006
£m £m
UK corporation tax at 30% (2006: 30%) 2.3 0.9
Double taxation relief (2.2) (0.9)
UK taxation 0.1 –
Overseas taxation 32.6 25.1
Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities (3.4) (3.1)
Current tax 29.3 22.0
Deferred tax-origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.3) 0.5
Total tax in income statement 27.0 22.5
Reconciliation of the notional tax charge at UK standard rate to the actual current tax charge:
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit before taxation 105.8 91.4
Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 30% (2006: 30%) 31.7 27.4
Differences in overseas tax rates (4.8) (5.0)
Tax on dividends 1.5 1.5
Non-deductible expenses 3.6 2.8
Tax exempt income (0.3) (0.4)
Losses brought forward utilised (0.3) (0.8)
Current year losses not recognised 0.6 0.5
Accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences not recognised 3.6 1.2
Brought forward accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences utilised (2.0) (2.2)
Recognition of previously unprovided accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences (3.4) (0.1)
Tax impact of associates – (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3.4) (3.1)
Other 0.2 0.8
Total tax in income statement 27.0 22.5
During the year there was a current tax credit of £0.3m on equity-settled transactions and foreign exchange differences (2006: charge of
£1.3m) and deferred tax charge of £2.6m on pension deficit, interest rate swaps and equity-settled transactions (2006: £0.6m) charged
directly to equity (see notes 12 and 19).
The tax rate was 25.5% (2006: 24.6%). The main reason for the increase in the tax rate was due to an increase in earnings in higher
taxed jurisdictions.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 61
8 Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33: Earnings Per Share,
an adjusted earnings per share has also been calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of intangible assets
arising on acquisitions and goodwill impairment. It has been calculated to allow shareholders to have a better understanding of the
trading performance of the Group. Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below:
2007 2006
Based on the profit for the year £m £m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 73.2 63.8
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 5.1 3.8
Impairment of goodwill 0.4 0.3
Adjusted earnings 78.7 67.9
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 156.9 156.0
Potentially dilutive share options* 1.4 1.2
Diluted weighted average number of shares 158.3 157.2
Basic earnings per share 46.7p 40.9p
Options (0.5)p (0.3)p
Diluted earnings per share 46.2p 40.6p
Basic adjusted earnings per share 50.2p 43.5p
Options (0.5)p (0.3)p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 49.7p 43.2p
* The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of the diluted earnings per share for the year to 31 December 2007, excludes nil (2006: 128,194) contingently
issuable shares as the performance conditions were not met.
9 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2006 20.8 185.7 206.5
Exchange adjustments (1.7) (19.0) (20.7)
Transfer to intangibles (note 10) – (8.0) (8.0)
Additions 1.9 40.1 42.0
Disposals – (5.8) (5.8)
Businesses acquired (note 24) 3.8 4.6 8.4
At 31 December 2006 24.8 197.6 222.4
Depreciation
At 1 January 2006 2.5 88.1 90.6
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (10.7) (10.8)
Charge for the year 0.7 23.4 24.1
Disposals – (5.2) (5.2)
At 31 December 2006 3.1 95.6 98.7
Net book value at 31 December 2006 21.7 102.0 123.7
Net book value at 1 January 2006 18.3 97.6 115.9
Cost
At 1 January 2007 24.8 197.6 222.4
Exchange adjustments 0.7 7.8 8.5
Additions 0.9 40.4 41.3
Disposals – (4.3) (4.3)
Businesses acquired (note 24) 0.7 7.7 8.4
At 31 December 2007 27.1 249.2 276.3
Depreciation
At 1 January 2007 3.1 95.6 98.7
Exchange adjustments 0.1 4.5 4.6
Charge for the year 0.7 27.0 27.7
Disposals – (3.9) (3.9)
At 31 December 2007 3.9 123.2 127.1
Net book value at 31 December 2007 23.2 126.0 149.2 62 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Notes to the Financial Statements
9 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Computer software of £8.0m, previously included as assets under construction in plant and equipment, was transferred out as an intangible
asset following completion of construction in 2006 (see note 10).
Plant and equipment includes assets in the course of construction at 31 December 2007, comprising mainly of laboratories under construction
of £0.3m (2006: £1.0m). These assets will not be depreciated until they are brought into use.
2007 2006
The net book value of land and buildings comprised: £m £m
Freehold 20.5 19.3
Long leasehold 0.6 0.6
Short leasehold 2.1 1.8
Total 23.2 21.7
10 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets
arising on Computer
Goodwill acquisitions software Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2006 66.6 16.5 – 16.5
Transfer from property, plant and equipment (note 9) – – 8.0 8.0
Exchange adjustments (5.6) (1.8) (1.3) (3.1)
Additions – – 1.2 1.2
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.1)
Businesses acquired (note 24) 20.9 5.6 – 5.6
At 31 December 2006 81.9 20.3 7.8 28.1
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2006 10.9 3.7 – 3.7
Exchange adjustments (0.4) (0.5) (0.6) (1.1)
Charged for the year – 3.8 2.2 6.0
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.1)
Impairment charge 0.3 – – –
At 31 December 2006 10.8 7.0 1.5 8.5
Net book value at 31 December 2006 71.1 13.3 6.3 19.6
Net book value at 1 January 2006 55.7 12.8 – 12.8
Cost
At 1 January 2007 81.9 20.3 7.8 28.1
Exchange adjustments 3.9 0.9 0.2 1.1
Additions – – 2.5 2.5
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.1)
Businesses acquired (note 24) 74.5 19.4 0.1 19.5
At 31 December 2007 160.3 40.6 10.5 51.1
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2007 10.8 7.0 1.5 8.5
Exchange adjustments 0.7 0.2 – 0.2
Charged for the year – 5.1 2.3 7.4
Impairment charge 0.4 – – –
At 31 December 2007 11.9 12.3 3.8 16.1
Net book value at 31 December 2007 148.4 28.3 6.7 35.0
The intangible assets arising on acquisitions consist of customer relationships with a net book value of £21.9m (2006: £9.1m), licences 
of £3.6m (2006: £2.5m), covenants not to compete of £1.8m (2006: £0.9m) and know-how of £1.0m (2006: £0.8m). The average remaining
amortisation period for customer relationships is 4.2 years (2006: 4.5).
Computer software, previously included as assets under construction in plant and equipment was transferred as an intangible asset
following completion of construction in 2006 (see note 9). 
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the year has been allocated to business segments as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Oil, Chemical & Agri 56.2 17.8
Commercial & Electrical 16.1 3.1
Consumer Goods 2.2 –
Total goodwill 74.5 20.9 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 63
10 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The carrying amount of goodwill by business segment is as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Oil, Chemical & Agri 105.7 46.6
Commercial & Electrical 35.3 19.5
Consumer Goods 7.4 5.0
Total goodwill net book value at 31 December 148.4 71.1
Total goodwill of £148.4m (2006: £71.1m) is attributable to 66 (2006: 50) acquired businesses which are grouped into 52 (2006: 39) 
cash generating units. Each of these cash generating units has been tested for impairment in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy
described on page 54. 
Detailed results of the impairment tests for material acquisitions with goodwill in excess of 5% of total net book value of goodwill, are
presented below.
Material acquisitions 
2007 2006
£m £m
Oil, Chemical & Agri – Genalysis 21.2 –
Oil, Chemical & Agri – Alta Analytical Laboratories 9.5 9.6
Oil, Chemical & Agri – Quantitative Technologies 9.3 –
Oil, Chemical & Agri – Umitek 9.1 –
Oil, Chemical & Agri – Automotive Research 9.0 9.1
Commercial & Electrical – National Software Testing Laboratories 8.9 –
Commercial & Electrical – Entela 8.7 8.8
Others (each less than 5% of total goodwill at 31 December 2007) 72.7 43.6
Total goodwill net book value at 31 December 148.4 71.1
All goodwill is denominated in local currency and is translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date. 
Each of the acquisitions offers similar services to those already offered by the Intertek Group’s existing businesses, therefore it is considered
appropriate to use the same assumptions in each of the impairment calculations. In each case the recoverable amount of the acquired
business, determined upon a value-in-use calculation, was higher than its carrying amount except for those discussed below. 
Management approved forecasts for each cash generating unit are used in these calculations. These forecasts cover a two-year period and are
based on the most current information relating to each business unit. Beyond two years, management consider that it is difficult to accurately
forecast business growth for each individual unit. In Intertek’s business, most contractual relationships with customers are short-term. Despite this,
the Group has a strong historical track record of growth. Intertek is supporting global trade which grows faster than GDP and our underlying
markets are expected to continue to show good growth. Therefore, when looking at longer term growth (not exceeding five years), a steady
conservative growth rate of 5% is used for all business units. This is considered to be a reasonable assumption based on the long-term
historical growth rate in profits of the Intertek businesses.
A Group pre-tax, risk adjusted, discount rate of 11% (2006: 12%) has been used in the value-in-use calculations. The characteristics 
of the businesses acquired are that they are not capital intensive and are largely similar to each other, and therefore the rate of 11%,
which is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, is considered to be the most appropriate rate.
The key sensitivity for the impairment test is the growth in operating profit. Had the overall growth rate been reduced by 1% to 4%, 
the carrying amount would still not have exceeded the recoverable amount.
An increase of 1% in the discount rate assumption would not change the conclusions of the impairment tests.
There are 45 (2006: 36) cash generating units with a goodwill amount that is not significant in relation to the carrying value of goodwill 
of £148.4m (2006: £71.1m). The aggregate balance of goodwill for these multiple cash generating units is £72.7m (2006: £43.6m). 
The recoverable amount of all these units was determined following the same assumptions as for the individually significant units 
disclosed above.
An impairment charge of £0.4m was recognised within administrative expenses in the Commercial & Electrical division in respect of the
goodwill of a certification business in India, which was acquired by the Group in 2005. This was necessitated by lower than expected
trading results in the period since acquisition. The goodwill impairment was based on a calculation of the recoverable amount based 
on value-in-use, using projected cash flows for this business, discounted by a pre-tax rate of 11%. The charge of £0.4m represented the
shortfall of the recoverable amount to the carrying value. The carrying amount after the impairment was £0.8m.
No other goodwill impairment losses were identified.
In 2006, an impairment charge of £0.3m was recognised within administrative expenses in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division, in respect 
of the goodwill of Eurolabo, a company registered in Estonia and acquired by the Group in 2005. This was necessitated by lower than
expected trading results in the period since acquisition. The goodwill impairment was based on a calculation of the recoverable amount
based on value-in-use, using projected cash flows for this company, discounted by a pre-tax rate of 12%. The charge of £0.3m represented
the shortfall of the recoverable amount to the carrying value which, after the impairment, was £0.1m. 
There are no intangible assets with indefinite lives. 64 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
11 Investment in associates
2007 2006
£m £m
Cost
At 1 January 0.6 0.9
Exchange adjustments – (0.3)
At 31 December 0.6 0.6
Share of post-acquisition reserves
At 1 January 0.1 (0.2)
Share of net (loss)/profit for the year (0.1) 0.3
At 31 December – 0.1
Net book value at 31 December 0.6 0.7
Throughout the year the Group had a 40% interest in Allium LLC, a company registered in the US. Summary financial information on
associates (100% basis) is set out below:
Assets* Liabilities Equity Revenues (Loss)/profit
£m £m £m £m £m
2007 13.3 12.5 0.8 19.5 (0.3)
2006 14.2 12.7 1.5 23.3 0.7
* excluding goodwill and intangibles
12 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Net Net
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Other intangible assets – – (2.5) – (2.5) –
Property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.9 (2.8) (1.9) (2.1) (1.0)
Pensions 2.6 4.7 (0.5) – 2.1 4.7
Equity-settled transactions 1.9 1.4 – – 1.9 1.4
Interest rate swaps 0.2 – – – 0.2 –
Provisions and other temporary differences 8.8 5.8 (2.2) (1.9) 6.6 3.9
Tax value of losses 0.4 0.5 – – 0.4 0.5
Set-off of tax (2.7) – 2.7 – – –
Total 11.9 13.3 (5.3) (3.8) 6.6 9.5
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2007 2006
£m £m
Deductible temporary differences 8.9 12.0
Tax losses 16.8 17.6
Property, plant and equipment 4.3 1.9
Total 30.0 31.5
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be
available against which the Group can utilise the benefits from them.
There is a temporary difference of £10.2m (2006: £16.4m) which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings. No deferred
tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group and there is no intention to
either repatriate from or sell the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 65
12 Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Movements in temporary differences during the year
Balance Recognised Balance
1 January Exchange in income Recognised 31 December
2007 adjustments Acquisitions statement in equity* 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Other intangible assets – – (3.1) 0.6 – (2.5)
Property, plant and equipment (1.0) – (0.2) (0.9) – (2.1)
Pensions 4.7 (0.1) 0.7 (0.6) (2.6) 2.1
Equity-settled transactions 1.4 – – 0.7 (0.2) 1.9
Interest rate swaps –––– 0.2 0.2
Provisions and other temporary differences 3.9 (0.1) 0.1 2.7 – 6.6
Tax value of losses 0.5 0.1 – (0.2) – 0.4
Total 9.5 (0.1) (2.5) 2.3 (2.6) 6.6
* see notes 7 and 19
Balance Recognised Balance
1 January Exchange in income Recognised 31 December
2006 adjustments statement in equity* 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment (1.1) 0.1 – – (1.0)
Pensions 5.4 – – (0.7) 4.7
Equity-settled transactions 0.8 – 0.5 0.1 1.4
Provisions and other temporary differences 5.3 (0.5) (0.9) – 3.9
Tax value of losses 0.6 – (0.1) – 0.5
Total 11.0 (0.4) (0.5) (0.6) 9.5
* see notes 7 and 19
13 Inventories 
2007 2006
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 3.0 2.0
Work in progress 0.7 0.6
Finished goods 0.3 0.6
Total inventories 4.0 3.2
The amount of inventory recognised as an expense in 2007 was £5.2m (2006: £1.5m). All inventories are expected to be recovered within
12 months. The amount of inventory written off in 2007 was £nil (2006: £nil).
14 Trade and other receivables
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade receivables 147.5 120.4
Other receivables 13.6 9.8
Prepayments and accrued income 29.9 21.7
Total trade and other receivables 191.0 151.9
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of £6.4m (2006: £5.0m). Impairment on trade receivables charged 
as part of costs of sales was £3.0m (2006: £2.6m).
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their short-term
duration. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers who are
internationally dispersed. 
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and further details on impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are
disclosed in note 26. 66 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
15 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Current Current Non-current Non-current
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Senior term loans 13.5 13.6 217.2 164.8
Other borrowings 0.2 – 0.3 –
Total borrowings 13.7 13.6 217.5 164.8
2007 2006
Analysis of debt £m £m
Debt falling due:
In one year or less 13.7 13.6
Between one and two years 82.7 87.5
Between two and five years 134.8 77.3
Total borrowings 231.2 178.4
Description of borrowings
In December 2004, the Group refinanced its existing £300.0m secured facility with a £300.0m non-secured facility. In August 2007, 
an additional £100.0m tranche was added making a total facility of £400.0m. The facility was originally for five years expiring on 
15 December 2009, with two one-year extension options to extend this up to a further two years. The facility was extended by a year 
in 2005 and by a further year in 2006. The facility now expires in December 2011.
The facility comprises four tranches. Facility A is a £28.0m multi-currency term loan (original £70.0m less repayments to 31 December 2007)
with bi-annual equal amortisations over the remaining two years. Facility B is a £150.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility, available
up to 15 December 2011. Facility C is a 364 day, £72.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility, with the option to convert this into a
one-year loan by the end of the 364 day period. During the year, £8.0m of this facility was repaid. This amount has been included in debt
falling due between one and two years because the Group expects to be able to renew the facility for a further 364 day period. Facility D
is a £100.0m multi-currency term loan facility available up to 15 December 2011.
Advances under Facilities A and B bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR (as adjusted) plus a margin. The margin over LIBOR is in the range
of 0.4% to 0.6% in accordance with a leverage grid. As at 31 December 2007, the margin was 0.45%. Advances under Facility C and D
initially bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR (as adjusted) plus a margin. The margin over LIBOR is in the range 0.3% to 0.5% in
accordance with a leverage grid. As at 31 December 2007, the margin was 0.35%. 
The undrawn committed borrowing facilities, which mature in 2011, amounted to £112.3m (2006: £86.5m), having taken into account
£7.0m (2006: £7.1m) utilised for letters of credit and guarantees.
16 Trade and other payables
Current Current Non-current Non-current
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables 43.1 33.8 – –
Other payables 19.6 14.9 0.9 0.4
Accruals and deferred income 65.9 52.3 – –
Total trade and other payables 128.6 101.0 0.9 0.4
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 26.
17 Provisions
Contingent 
consideration Claims Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007 0.8 4.0 0.5 5.3
Exchange adjustments 0.6 0.2 – 0.8
Provided in the year 13.9 6.3 0.6 20.8
Released during the year (0.2) (0.7) – (0.9)
Utilised during the year – (2.3) (0.1) (2.4)
At 31 December 2007 15.1 7.5 1.0 23.6
Included in:
Current liabilities 14.6 7.5 0.6 22.7
Non-current liabilities 0.5 – 0.4 0.9
At 31 December 2007 15.1 7.5 1.0 23.6
Contingent consideration represents the additional amounts payable on acquisitions and which are uncertain in amount, since they are
based on earn outs dependent on achievement of prescribed level of profits in the acquisition agreements.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 67
17 Provisions (continued)
From time-to-time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The outcome 
of such litigation and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often subject to legal proceedings. Based on
information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation
is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The provision for claims of £7.5m (2006: £4.0m) represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identified claims from
customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs. The timing of the cash outflow relating to the provisions is
uncertain but is likely to be within one year. Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in note 27.
On the expiry of certain contracts, the Group will incur costs to dispose of assets, repair premises and reduce headcount. The other provision
of £1.0m (2006: £0.5m) is an estimate of the cost of meeting these obligations. 
18 Share capital 
2007 2007 2006
Group and Company Number £m £m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 1p each 200,000,000 2.0 2.0
Zero coupon redeemable preference shares of £1 each 105,478,482 105.5 105.5
107.5 107.5
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 156,383,938 1.6 1.6
Employee share option schemes – options exercised (note 25) 1,007,575 – –
Employee Long Term Incentive Plan (note 25) 1,274 – –
Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 157,392,787 1.6 1.6
Shares classified in shareholders’ funds 1.6 1.6
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time-to-time and are entitled to vote at general meetings
of the Company.
During the year, the Company issued 1,007,575 1p ordinary shares in respect of the share options exercised, for a consideration of £4.9m
settled in cash and issued 1,274 shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan for £nil consideration. 
None of the zero coupon redeemable preference shares were allotted at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2006. Preference shareholders
have the right to a return of capital on winding up but receive no priority over ordinary shareholders with respect to repayment of capital
paid up and have no further rights to participate in the profits or assets of the Company.
The Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT) is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee. The total ESOT costs charged
to the Group profits for 2007 were £9,000 (2006: £20,000) of which £nil (2006: £7,000) was interest expense. The ESOT did not hold
any shares of the Company at 31 December 2007 (2006: nil).  68 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
19 Shareholders’ equity
Other reserves
Share Share Translation Hedging Retained
capital premium reserve reserve Other earnings* Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 1.6 238.2 5.4 1.6 6.4 (201.3) 51.9
Movement on cash flow hedges – – – (1.3) – – (1.3)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders ––––– 63.8 63.8
Dividends paid ––––– (19.8) (19.8)
Issue of shares – 4.2–––– 4.2
Equity-settled transactions ––––– 2.4 2.4
Actuarial pension gain ––––– 3.2 3.2
Foreign exchange translation differences for foreign operations – – (26.6) – – – (26.6)
Net gain on hedges of net investments in foreign operations – – 20.5––– 20.5
Tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity ––––– (1.9) (1.9)
At 31 December 2006 1.6 242.4 (0.7) 0.3 6.4 (153.6) 96.4
At 1 January 2007 1.6 242.4 (0.7) 0.3 6.4 (153.6) 96.4
Movement on cash flow hedges – – – (1.1) – – (1.1)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders ––––– 73.2 73.2
Dividends paid ––––– (25.2) (25.2)
Issue of shares – 4.9–––– 4.9
Equity-settled transactions ––––– 3.0 3.0
Actuarial pension gain ––––– 8.5 8.5
Foreign exchange translation differences for foreign operations – – 10.0––– 10.0
Net loss on hedges of net investments in foreign operations – – (3.2) – – – (3.2)
Tax on income and expense recognised directly in equity ––––– (2.3) (2.3)
At 31 December 2007 1.6 247.3 6.1 (0.8) 6.4 (96.4) 164.2
* After £244.1m for goodwill written off to retained earnings as at 1 January 2004 in relation to subsidiaries acquired prior to 31 December 1997. This figure has not been
restated as permitted by IFRS 1.
Dividends 
2007 2006
Pence per Pence per
£m share £m share
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 –– 12.6 8.1
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 –– 7.2 4.6
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 16.1 10.2 ––
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 9.1 5.8 ––
Dividends paid 25.2 16.0 19.8 12.7
After the balance sheet date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 12.2p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007,
which is expected to amount to £19.2m. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore,
in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the Balance Sheet Date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. If approved,
the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 19 June 2008. 
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations
as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Other
This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 69
20 Minority interests 
2007 2006
£m £m
At 1 January 8.8 7.8
Exchange adjustments 0.6 (0.5)
Share of profit for the year 5.6 5.1
Additions 0.2 0.2
Dividends (3.6) (3.8)
At 31 December 11.6 8.8
21 Commitments
At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows:
Land and
buildings Other Total
2007 £m £m £m
Within one year 22.1 3.6 25.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 39.9 3.5 43.4
Over five years 26.3 – 26.3
Total 88.3 7.1 95.4
Land and
buildings Other Total
2006 £m £m £m
Within one year 17.8 2.9 20.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 34.6 2.5 37.1
Over five years 27.8 – 27.8
Total 80.2 5.4 85.6
The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative offices and plant and equipment under lease agreements
which have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in these accounts amounted to £3.8m (2006: £4.5m).
22 Employee benefits
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. In most locations, these are defined contribution arrangements.
However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and one in Hong Kong. The United Kingdom schemes are
the Intertek Pension Scheme and the Capcis Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme that came into the Group through the acquisition
of the Umitek group in January 2007. These are funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds. Other funded
defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and are therefore accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes.
The schemes in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were closed to new entrants in 2002 and 2000, respectively.
The Group recognises any actuarial gains and losses in each period in equity through the consolidated statement of recognised income 
and expense.
(a) The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was:
2007 2006
£m £m
Defined contribution schemes 11.3 8.4
Defined benefit schemes – current service cost 1.9 2.2
Pension cost included in operating profit 13.2 10.6
See (b) below for pension interest cost and expected return on scheme assets recognised in the income statement.
(b) The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. The last full
triennial actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom was carried out as at 1 April 2007, but this has 
been updated to 31 December 2007 for IAS 19 purposes. The last full triennial actuarial valuation of the Capcis Limited Pension and 
Life Assurance Scheme in the UK was also carried out as at 1 April 2007, and this has been updated to 31 December 2007 for IAS 19
purposes. The last full actuarial valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2006, for local accounting
purposes but this has been updated to 31 December 2007 for IAS 19 purposes. 70 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
22 Employee benefits (continued)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 66.6 56.4 55.0
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (73.9) (71.6) (72.8)
Net liability in the balance sheet (7.3) (15.2) (17.8)
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Current service cost (1.9) (2.2)
Pension interest cost (note 6) (3.8) (3.4)
Expected return on scheme assets (note 6) 3.5 3.3
Total charge (2.2) (2.3)
The current service cost is included in administrative expenses in the income statement and pension interest cost and expected return on
scheme assets are included in net financing costs.
(c) Changes in the fair value of scheme assets:
2007 2006
£m £m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 56.4 55.0
Acquisition of Capcis 2.3 –
Expected return on scheme assets 3.5 3.3
Normal contributions by the employer 1.6 1.8
Special contribution by the employer 2.8 –
Contributions by scheme participants 0.6 0.6
Benefits paid (2.4) (4.0)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plan (0.3) (1.6)
Actuarial gains 2.1 1.3
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 66.6 56.4
(d) Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 71.6 72.8
Acquisition of Capcis 5.1 –
Current service cost 1.9 2.2
Interest cost 3.8 3.4
Contributions by scheme participants 0.6 0.6
Benefits paid (2.4) (4.0)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plan (0.3) (1.5)
Actuarial gains (6.4) (1.9)
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 73.9 71.6
(e) Actuarial losses recognised directly in equity:
2007 2006
£m £m
Cumulative loss at 1 January (9.5) (12.7)
Recognised gains in the year 8.5 3.2
Cumulative loss at 31 December (1.0) (9.5)
(f) Company contributions
The Group expects to make normal contributions of £1.1m (2007: £1.2m) to the United Kingdom pension schemes and £0.5m (2007: £0.6m)
to the Hong Kong pension scheme in 2008. 
(g) Fair value of scheme assets in each category
United Kingdom schemes Hong Kong
2007 2006 2007 2006
Equities 69% 72% 63% 63%
Bonds 27% 23% 36% 36%
Cash/other 4% 5% 1% 1%
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 71
22 Employee benefits (continued)
(h) The net pension (liabilities)/assets of each scheme at 31 December 2007 were as follows:
The Capcis
Limited Pension Intertek
The Intertek and Life Hong Kong
Pension Assurance Retirement
Scheme scheme scheme Total
£m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 49.0 5.1 12.5 66.6
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (58.4) (4.2) (11.3) (73.9)
(Deficit)/surplus in schemes (9.4) 0.9 1.2 (7.3)
(i) Principal actuarial assumptions
United Kingdom
schemes Hong Kong Weighted average
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Discount rate 5.70% 5.15% 3.50% 3.70% 5.40% 4.90%
Inflation rate 3.35% 3.00% n/a n/a 3.35% 3.00%
Rate of salary increases 3.85% 3.50% 4.00% 4.00% 3.90% 3.90%
Rate of pension increases 3.35% 3.00% n/a n/a 3.35% 3.00%
Annualised expected return on scheme assets 6.68% 6.70% 6.30% 6.30% 6.60% 6.60%
The expected rates of return on scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices which take into account the current level
of expected returns on risk free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with equities and the expectation for future
returns on such assets. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated
balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long-term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on
such assets at the balance sheet date. A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments. This is based on an out-performance
assumption over gilt yields.
The actual return on scheme assets was as follows: 
United Kingdom schemes Hong Kong*
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Actual return 4.0 2.8 1.6 1.8
(j) Life expectancy assumptions at year end for:
United Kingdom schemes Hong Kong*
2007 2006 2007 2006
Male aged 40 47.4 47.3 n/a n/a
Male aged 65 21.9 21.8 n/a n/a
Female aged 40 50.2 50.2 n/a n/a
Female aged 65 24.8 24.7 n/a n/a
* The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays lump sums to members instead of pensions at the point they retire. Since the amount of the lump sum is not related 
to the life expectancy of the members, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong scheme.
The table above shows the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at 31 December.
The 2007 and 2006 mortality assumptions are based on an actuarial table ‘PA 92 medium cohort, projected by an individual’s year of birth’. 
(k) Sensitivity analysis
The table below sets out the sensitivity on the pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007 of the two main assumptions:
Increase/ 
(decrease)
Liabilities Assets Deficit in deficit
Change in assumptions £m £m £m £m
No change 73.9 66.6 7.3 –
0.25% rise in discount rate 70.3 66.6 3.7 (3.6)
0.25% fall in discount rate 77.9 66.6 11.3 4.0
0.25% rise in inflation 75.4 66.6 8.8 1.5
0.25% fall in inflation 72.5 66.6 5.9 (1.4) 72 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
22 Employee benefits (continued)
(l) History of experience gains and losses:
2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 66.6 56.4 55.0 46.7
Defined benefit obligations (73.9) (71.6) (72.8) (62.8)
Deficit (7.3) (15.2) (17.8) (16.1)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 1.5 1.6 (0.5) (1.6)
Experience gains on scheme assets 2.1 1.3 4.3 1.3
23 Analysis of net debt
1 January Exchange 31 December
2007 Cash flow adjustments 2007
£m £m £m £m
Cash 49.5 7.2 1.9 58.6
Borrowings (178.4) (49.4) (3.4) (231.2)
Total net debt (128.9) (42.2) (1.5) (172.6)
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk, currency risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 26.
24 Acquisitions
The Group made 16 acquisitions during the year, all of which were paid for in cash.
Provisional details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below. The analysis is provisional and amendments may be
made to these figures in the 12 months following the date of each acquisition, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
Fair value
Book value prior Fair value to Group
to acquisition adjustments on acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 8.2 0.2 8.4
Goodwill – 74.5 74.5
Other intangible assets – 19.5 19.5
Inventories 0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other receivables 12.7 (0.2) 12.5
Trade and other payables (7.6) (4.6) (12.2)
Tax payable (0.7) 0.1 (0.6)
Deferred tax liability (0.2) (2.3) (2.5)
Net assets acquired 12.8 87.2 100.0
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 85.8
Contingent and deferred consideration 14.2
Total consideration 100.0
(a) The largest acquisition was the purchase on 18 April 2007, of 100% of the share capital of Genalysis Laboratory Services Pty Ltd, 
a company incorporated in Western Australia. Genalysis provides analytical testing and sample preparation services to mining, ore and
minerals companies on a global basis.
Payments totalling £20.6m, net of cash acquired of £0.2m, have been made, and contingent consideration, based on completion accounts,
estimated to be £8.3m, will be payable on or before March 2008, making a total estimated consideration for this acquisition of £28.9m. 
Provisional details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set in the table that follows. The analysis is provisional and
amendments may be made to these figures in the 12 months to 17 April 2008, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 73
24 Acquisitions (continued)
Fair value
Book value prior Fair value to Group
to acquisition adjustments on acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 3.8 (0.2) 3.6
Goodwill – 20.1 20.1
Other intangible assets – 4.0 4.0
Inventories 0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other receivables 4.1 – 4.1
Trade and other payables (1.4) – (1.4)
Tax payable (0.7) – (0.7)
Deferred tax liability – (1.2) (1.2)
Net assets acquired 6.2 22.7 28.9
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 20.6
Contingent consideration 8.3
Total consideration 28.9
The goodwill of £20.1m represents the value to the Group of acquiring a presence in an industry sector and in a country in which the Group
did not have a significant market share. The other intangible assets of £4.0m represent value placed on client relationships. The fair value
adjustment of £0.2m brings the property, plant and equipment to its approximate market value on acquisition. The deferred tax liability 
of £1.2m arises on intangibles.
The profit of Genalysis for the period 1 January 2007 to 18 April 2007 was £0.5m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date of
acquisition to 31 December 2007 was £1.1m.
(b) On 9 January 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Umitek Limited, a company incorporated in the UK, for 
£9.8m, net of cash of £0.6m, of which £0.5m was deferred. The company and its subsidiaries provide specialist testing and consultancy
services to the oil and gas industries in the North Sea and globally. The net assets acquired, prior to fair value adjustments, were £2.0m 
of which £2.7m related to debtors and prepayments. Provisional fair value adjustments totalled £7.8m of which £9.1m was for goodwill,
£1.0m for intangibles, £2.8m related to the recognition of a pension deficit and a deferred tax asset of £0.8m thereon and £0.3m for 
the deferred tax liability on intangibles. Intangibles represent the value placed on client relationships. The goodwill represents the 
expertise and reputation acquired which will enable Intertek to improve the service offered to its existing customers. The profit of the
Umitek group for the period 1 January 2007 to 9 January 2007 was £25,000. The profit attributable to the Group from the date of
acquisition to 31 December 2007 was £0.8m.
(c) On 7 June 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Quantitative Technologies Inc. (QTI), a US pharmaceutical testing
company, for £12.8m, net of cash acquired of £0.3m, of which £2.5m was contingent consideration based on actual 2007 results. The
company provides expert analytical support services to the global pharmaceutical, medical device and drug delivery industries. The net
assets acquired, prior to fair value adjustments, were £0.9m of which £0.9m related to receivables and prepayments. Provisional fair
value revaluations to fixed assets totalled £0.2m. Intangibles of £2.5m, representing value placed on customer relationships, were
recognised and goodwill arising was £9.2m. The goodwill represents the benefit of providing the Group with an established presence on
the East Coast in the US for pharmaceutical support services and the opportunity for the Group to expand its pharma services in North
America, complementing and enhancing the capabilities acquired with the ASG and Alta acquisitions made in 2004 and 2006 respectively.
The profit of QTI for the period 1 January 2007 to 7 June 2007 was £0.3m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date of
acquisition to 31 December 2007 was £0.7m.
(d) On 14 September 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of National Software Technology Laboratories Inc. (NSTL), 
a company incorporated in the US, which tests mobile applications software, for £11.4m, net of cash acquired of £1.1m. The net 
liabilities acquired, prior to fair value adjustments, were £0.1m, of which £1.4m related to receivables and prepayments, £1.7m related 
to payables and £0.2m related to property, plant and equipment. There were no fair value adjustments other than for intangibles of
£2.7m, representing value placed on client relationships and for goodwill of £8.8m. The goodwill represents the opportunity for the
Group to establish a leading position in the growing cellular/mobile application software market within the US. The profit of NSTL for 
the period 1 January 2007 to 15 September 2007 was £0.4m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 
31 December 2007 was £0.4m.
(e) The following table sets out a provisional analysis of the net assets acquired and the fair value to the Group in respect of the remaining
acquisitions made in 2007. The analysis is provisional due to the timing of some of the acquisitions and amendments may be made to
these figures in the period up to 12 months from the date each business was acquired, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill. 74 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
24 Acquisitions (continued)
Fair value
Book value prior Fair value to Group
to acquisition adjustments on acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 3.4 0.3 3.7
Goodwill – 27.3 27.3
Other intangible assets – 9.3 9.3
Trade and other receivables 3.3 (0.1) 3.2
Trade and other payables (2.9) (1.7) (4.6)
Tax payable (0.1) – (0.1)
Deferred tax liability (0.1) (1.6) (1.7)
Net assets acquired 3.6 33.5 37.1
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 34.2
Contingent consideration 2.9
Total consideration 37.1
The other intangible assets of £9.3m represent the value placed on client relationships and certification marks. The fair value adjustment
of £0.3m brings the property, plant and equipment to its approximate market value on acquisition. The £1.7m represents pension liabilities
recognised and the £1.6m relates to deferred tax liability on intangibles.
The total goodwill of £27.3m is in respect of the following acquisitions: 
£m
Measurement Science Group 5.1
Product Quality Partners 3.2
Carnot Emission Services 3.1
ASTA BEAB 3.1
Plastics Technologies Laboratories 2.5
Biodata Analytik GmbH 2.1
Others (each less than £2.0m) 8.2
Total goodwill 27.3
The goodwill of £27.3m represents value to the Group of acquiring presence in new industry sectors and countries, value of the skilled
workforce in the acquired companies and the synergies that the Group will achieve in integrating these new businesses.
The profit attributable to the Group from these acquisitions from their respective dates of purchase to 31 December 2007 was £0.6m.
(f) All the acquisitions made during the year contributed revenues of £36.1m and profits of £3.6m to the Group from their respective dates
of acquisition to 31 December 2007.
The Group revenue and profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 would have been £799.2m and £81.9m respectively if all the
acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2007.
(g) Details of 2006 acquisitions
The Group made seven acquisitions in 2006, all of which were paid in cash.
The main acquisition was that of the business and assets of Alta Analytical Laboratories Inc. (Oil, Chemical & Agri) in California, US on 
30 November 2006, for £14.0m. Alta provides a variety of analytical services to pharmaceutical and clinical research organisations.
(i) In respect of Alta, an analysis of the net assets acquired and the fair value to the Group is set out below.
Fair value
Book value prior Fair value to Group
to acquisition adjustments on acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 1.2 – 1.2
Goodwill – 10.2 10.2
Other intangible assets – 1.4 1.4
Trade and other receivables 1.6 – 1.6
Trade and other payables (0.4) – (0.4)
Net assets acquired 2.4 11.6 14.0
Net cash outflow 14.0
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 75
24 Acquisitions (continued)
Goodwill of £10.2m represents the value to the Group of acquiring the services of the highly skilled workforce in Alta which, combined with
the customer base which is valued as an intangible asset of £1.4m, allows the Group direct access to the North American market for bio-analysis.
The goodwill also reflects the synergies that the Group expects to generate with one of the Group’s existing European businesses.
The profit of Alta for the period 1 January 2006 to 30 November 2006 was £0.9m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date of
acquisition to 31 December 2006 was £17,000. 
(ii) The table below sets out an analysis of the net assets acquired and the fair value to the Group in respect of the remaining acquisitions
made during the year.
Fair value
Book value prior Fair value to Group
to acquisition adjustments on acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 8.4 (1.2) 7.2
Goodwill – 10.7 10.7
Other intangible assets – 4.2 4.2
Inventories 0.1 (0.1) –
Trade and other receivables 3.4 (0.3) 3.1
Trade and other payables (1.8) – (1.8)
Tax payable (0.5) – (0.5)
Net assets acquired 9.6 13.3 22.9
Net cash outflow 22.9
The fair value adjustment of £1.2m brings the property, plant and equipment to its approximate market value on acquisition. The £0.3m relates
to additional allowance for doubtful receivables. The other intangible assets of £4.2m represent the value placed on client relationships.
The goodwill of £10.7m arises as follows:
£m
Akzo Nobel 2.9
Polychemlab 3.1
Caleb Brett Iberica 3.3
Others 1.4
Total goodwill 10.7
Akzo Nobel
The goodwill of £2.9m for Akzo Nobel mainly represents the future income that the Group expects to generate from acquiring an established
business in the electrical testing market in Japan, which is regarded as a key strategic country.
Polychemlab
The goodwill of £3.1m for Polychemlab represents the value of the highly skilled workforce and future income that the Group expects 
to obtain from being located in a key site in the chemical industry in the Netherlands and the ability to generate revenue by putting third
party work through the laboratory.
Caleb Brett Iberica
The goodwill of £3.3m for Caleb Brett Iberica primarily represents future income that the Group expects to obtain from acquiring established
businesses in the strategically important cargo inspection market in Spain and Portugal.
These acquisitions contributed profits to the Group from their respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2006 of £0.8m. 
(iii) The Group revenue and profit for the year ended 31 December 2006 would have been £690.3m and £71.6m respectively, if all the
acquisitions made in 2006, were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2006.  76 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
24 Acquisitions (continued)
(h) Details of post balance sheet acquisitions
On 13 February 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of CML Biotech Limited, the holding company for the Commercial
Microbiology Group for a total estimated consideration of £9.6m. The group which is based in Scotland and in the US, provides analytical,
consultancy and manufacturing services to the upstream oil and gas industry.
Due to the timing of the acquisition, the fair value of the net assets acquired has not yet been determined. A provisional analysis of net
assets acquired is set out below which will be subject to amendment once the value of these net assets and fair value adjustments are fully
determined. The goodwill will also be analysed to determine whether there are any intangible assets which should be recognised separately. 
Fair value
Book value prior Fair value to Group
to acquisition adjustments on acquisition
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.8 – 0.8
Goodwill – 8.1 8.1
Inventories 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables 1.2 – 1.2
Trade and other payables (0.6) – (0.6)
Net assets acquired 1.5 8.1 9.6
Fair value of consideration, including costs 9.6
Contingent consideration, included in above 1.5
In addition to the above there were four other acquisitions made in January and February 2008 for a total consideration of £7.9m.
25 Share schemes
(a) Share option schemes 
The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997. The maximum number of options that can 
be granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued. In May 2002, the Intertek Group plc 2002
Share Option Plan (the 2002 Plan) and the Intertek Group plc 2002 Approved Share Option Plan (the Approved Plan) were established 
for employees to be granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. These plans have also been discontinued and the last
grants under these plans were made in September 2005. 
(i) The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
average Number average Number
exercise price of options exercise price of options
At beginning of year 714p 3,289,131 556p 4,495,355
Exercised 491p (1,007,575) 389p (1,002,460)
Forfeited 596p (255,552) 647p (203,764)
Outstanding options at end of year 654p 2,026,004 714p 3,289,131
Exercisable at end of year 465p 796,606 388p 737,232
The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 921p (2006: 790p).
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 140p to 778p and a weighted average contractual life of
6.7 years.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 77
25 Share schemes (continued)
(ii) The outstanding options at 31 December 2007 are exercisable as follows:
Number of options Exercise price
Option scheme outstanding per share Exercisable between
1997 Plan 5,903 140p 1 December 2004 1 December 2008
2002 Plan 130,945 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012
7,632 380p 17 July 2005 17 July 2012
163,304 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
19,831 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
387,050 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
11,116 607p 14 September 2007 14 September 2014
1,159,629 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
19,500 711p 13 September 2008 13 September 2015
1,899,007
Approved Plan 12,099 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012
7,894 380p 17 July 2005 17 July 2012
17,886 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
262 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
25,762 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
6,922 607p 14 September 2007 14 September 2014
49,269 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
1,000 711p 13 September 2008 13 September 2015
121,094
Total 2,026,004
(b) Long Term Incentive Plan
As explained in the Remuneration Report on page 41, deferred and matching shares are awarded under this plan. The first awards were
granted on 7 April 2006. The awards under this plan vest three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment of the performance conditions.
2007 2006
Deferred Matching Deferred Matching
shares shares shares shares
At beginning of year 239,669 128,194 ––
Granted 278,170 156,386 244,222 128,194
Exercised (1,108) – (171) –
Forfeited (26,605) (11,552) (4,382) –
Outstanding share awards at end of year 490,126 273,028 239,669 128,194
Of the 171 deferred shares exercised in 2006, there were 166 shares which were allotted in 2007. Total shares allotted in 2007 were 1,274.
Details of the share option schemes and the Long Term Incentive Plan are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 46. 
(c) Equity-settled transactions
In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for shares and share options granted to employees, is measured 
by reference to the fair value of shares and share options granted. In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2, 
the recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not been applied to share option grants made prior to 7 November 2002. 
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Black-Scholes formula, a financial model used to calculate
the fair value of shares and share options. 
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group recognised an expense of £3.0m (2006: £2.4m) in respect of outstanding share
and share option awards granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
The fair values and the assumptions used in their calculations are set out below:
Share options Share awards
Deferred Matching Deferred Matching
shares shares shares shares
Date of share option grant/shares awarded 7 April 14 Sept 7 April 13 Sept 7 April 7 April 10 April 10 April
2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007
Fair value at measurement date (pence) 163.9 185.9 240.2 189.8 795.9 435.0 887.6 498.8
Share price (pence) 527.0 611.0 790.0 703.0 827.6 827.6 931.0 931.0
Exercise price (pence) 523.5 607.0 778.0 711.0 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Expected volatility 28.2% 26.2% 25.4% 24.9% 21.6% 21.6% 21.4% 21.4%
Dividend yield 1.7% 1.5% 1.3% 1.6% 1.4% 1.4% 1.6% 1.6%
Risk free interest rate 4.8% 4.9% 4.6% 4.2% 4.4% 4.4% 5.4% 5.4%
Time to maturity (years) 66663333
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. 78 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
25 Share schemes (continued)
Share options were granted under a service condition and a non-market performance condition. Such conditions are not taken into account
in the fair value measurement at grant date.
The deferred shares, under the Long Term Incentive Plan, are granted under a service condition. Such condition is not taken into account
in the fair value measurement at grant date. The matching shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan are granted under a performance
related market condition and as a result this condition is taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
26 Financial instruments 
Details of the Group’s treasury controls, exposures to credit, liquidity, interest rate and currency risks are set out in the Business and
Financial Review on pages 22 to 24.
(a) Credit risk
(i) Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet
date was as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of allowance 147.5 120.4
Cash and cash equivalents 58.6 49.5
Interest rate swaps used for hedging (0.7) 0.4
205.4 170.3
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region was as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Americas 49.5 40.8
Europe, Middle East and Africa 51.1 44.1
Asia Pacific 46.9 35.5
147.5 120.4
(ii) Impairment losses
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Under 6 months 142.1 115.5
Between 6 and 12 months 7.5 6.7
Over 12 months 4.3 3.2
153.9 125.4
Allowance for impairment (6.4) (5.0)
Trade receivables, net of allowance 147.5 120.4
Included in receivables due under 6 months of £142.1m are receivables of £69.1m (2006: £55.2m) which are not due for payment under
the Group’s standard terms and conditions of sale.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Balance at beginning of year 5.0 6.1
Exchange differences 0.3 (0.6)
Cash recovered (0.2) (1.1)
Impairment loss recognised 3.0 2.6
Receivables written off (1.7) (2.0)
Impairment allowance for doubtful receivables 6.4 5.0
There were no significant individual impairments of trade receivables.
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. The Group assesses
periodically the creditworthiness of customers. The Group’s credit risk is diversified due to the large number of entities that make up the
Group’s customer base and the diversification across many different industries and geographic regions.
Allowance for impairment is based on the risk profile of the receivable, based on the likelihood of the amount being recovered. Based on
historic default rates reflecting the track record of payments by the Group’s customers, the Group believes that no impairment allowance
is necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are specific circumstances such as the
bankruptcy of a customer which would render the receivable irrecoverable. The Group provides fully for all receivables over 12 months 
old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable. Where recovery is in doubt, a provision is made against the specific receivable until
such time as the Group believes the amount to be irrecoverable. At that time the receivable is written off.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 79
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(iii) Counterparty 
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties who have sound credit ratings. Given this, management
does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
(b) Liquidity risk
The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Group’s senior term loans at 
31 December 2007.
Carrying amount
2008 2009 2010 2011 and fair value
Liabilities 2007 £m £m £m £m £m
Floating rate (USD) – 35.6 – 32.9 68.5
Average interest rate – 4.1% – 4.4% –
Floating rate (HKD) 11.2 29.0 – 43.0 83.2
Average interest rate 3.8% 3.9% – 4.0% –
Floating rate (SEK) 2.3 18.0 – 1.8 22.1
Average interest rate 5.1% 5.0% – 5.2% –
Floating rate (GBP) – – – 6.0 6.0
Average interest rate – – – 5.5% –
Floating rate (EUR) – – – 29.5 29.5
Average interest rate – – – 5.2% –
Floating rate (JPY) – – – 11.1 11.1
Average interest rate – – – 1.4% –
Floating rate (NOK) – – – 8.3 8.3
Average interest rate – – – 5.8% –
Floating rate (SGD) – – – 2.0 2.0
Average interest rate – – – 3.3% –
Total 13.5 82.6 – 134.6 230.7
Of the other borrowings of £0.5m, £0.2m falls due for repayment in 2008 and the other £0.3m over the next two to ten years.
The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Group’s borrowings at 
31 December 2006.
Carrying amount
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and fair value
Liabilities 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating rate (USD) – 59.3 – – 16.8 76.1
Average interest rate – 5.5% – – 5.6% –
Floating rate (HKD) 11.4 26.0 11.4 – 5.7 54.5
Average interest rate 4.4% 4.3% 4.5% – 4.5% –
Floating rate (SEK) 2.2 2.2 2.2 – 1.1 7.7
Average interest rate 4.3% 4.5% 4.5% – 4.6% –
Floating rate (GBP) –––– 5.0 5.0
Average interest rate –––– 5.8% –
Floating rate (JPY) –––– 10.9 10.9
Average interest rate –––– 1.8% –
Floating rate (EUR) –––– 24.2 24.2
Average interest rate 4.6% –
Total 13.687.513.6–63.7178.4
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
Carrying Contractual 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than
amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years
2007 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans 230.7 230.7 6.8 6.7 82.6 134.6 –
Other loans 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Trade and other payables 129.5 129.5 128.6 – 0.9 – –
360.7 360.7 135.5 6.8 83.6 134.7 0.1
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 –
Forward exchange contracts:
Outflow – 10.6 10.6––––
Inflow – (10.6) (10.6) ––––
0.7 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 –
Total 361.4 361.4 135.7 7.0 83.8 134.8 0.1 80 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
26 Financial instruments (continued)
Carrying Contractual 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than
amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years
2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank loans 178.4 178.4 6.8 6.8 87.5 77.3 –
Trade and other payables 101.4 101.4 101.0 – 0.4 – –
279.8 279.8 107.8 6.8 87.9 77.3 –
Derivative financial assets
Interest rate swaps used for hedging (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) ––––
Forward exchange contracts:
Outflow – 15.7 15.7––––
Inflow – (15.7) (15.7) ––––
(0.4) (0.4) (0.4) ––––
Total 279.4 279.4 107.4 6.8 87.9 77.3 –
Cash flow hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to
occur and expected to impact profit or loss.
Carrying Expected 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than
amount cash outflows or less months years years 5 years
2007 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps used for hedging – liabilities 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 –
Carrying Expected 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than
amount cash outflows or less months years years 5 years
2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps used for hedging – assets (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) ––––
(c) Interest rate risk
(i) Hedging
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 33% and 67% of its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on 
a fixed rate basis. Interest rate swaps, denominated in various currencies and an interest rate cap have been entered into to achieve an
appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate exposure within the Group’s policy. The swaps mature over the next three years and have fixed
swap rates ranging from 1.1% to 5.3%. At 31 December 2007, the Group had interest rate swaps with a notional contract amount of
£55.4m (2006: £97.4m) and an interest rate cap with a notional value of £14.7m (2006: £nil).
The Group designates interest rate swaps and interest rate caps as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. 
The net fair value of swaps and caps at 31 December 2007 was £0.7m (2006: £0.4m) comprising assets of £nil (2006: £0.4m) and
liabilities of £0.7m (2006: £nil). These amounts were recognised as fair value derivatives.
Under the interest rate swap agreements, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between
fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount. 
(ii) Profile
The information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Group’s borrowings is shown in section (b) liquidity risk,
above. The interest rate profile of the Group’s short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2007 is set out below:
Total
Effective At floating carrying amount
interest rates interest rates Interest free and fair value
Financial assets £m £m £m
Short-term deposits and cash*:
Sterling 5.6% (6.2) – (6.2)
US dollar 5.2% 16.3 – 16.3
Chinese renminbi 1.8% 17.0 – 17.0
Hong Kong dollar 3.9% 1.2 – 1.2
Euro 3.8% 1.5 6.8 8.3
Other currencies Various 14.2 7.8 22.0
Total cash and cash equivalents 44.0 14.6 58.6
* Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 81
26 Financial instruments (continued)
The interest rate profile of the Group’s short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2006 was as follows:
Total
Effective At floating carrying amount
interest rates interest rates Interest free and fair value
Financial assets £m £m £m
Short-term deposits and cash*:
Sterling 4.7% 0.6 – 0.6
US dollar 5.0% 9.3 0.8 10.1
Chinese renminbi 0.8% 13.3 – 13.3
Hong Kong dollar 3.9% 3.5 – 3.5
Euro 2.7% 1.8 4.3 6.1
Other currencies Various 11.4 4.5 15.9
Total cash and cash equivalents 39.9 9.6 49.5
* Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
(iii) Sensitivity
At 31 December 2007, it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit
before tax by approximately £1.2m (2006: £0.5m). Interest rate swaps have been included in this calculation. This analysis assumes all
other variables remain constant.
(d) Foreign currency risk
The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a substantial percentage of
the Group’s revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling. Because of the high proportion of international
activity, the Group’s profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result: (i) translation risk, that is, the risk 
of adverse currency fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets and liabilities into sterling and 
(ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on the value of the Group’s commercial cash
flows in various currencies. 
(i) Recognised assets and liabilities
Changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies and
for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement. At 31 December 2007, the fair value of forward
exchange contracts was £nil (2006: £nil).
(ii) Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Group’s investment in its respective subsidiaries. 
The carrying amount of the loans at 31 December 2007 was £230.7m (2006: £178.4m). A foreign exchange loss of £3.2m (2006: gain 
of £20.5m) was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these loans to sterling.
(iii) Sensitivity
It is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in the value of the sterling against the dollar, the main currency impacting
the Group, would have decreased the Group’s profit before tax for 2007 by approximately £0.8m (2006: £0.7m). The forward exchange
contracts have been included in this calculation. This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant.
(e) Fair values
The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments by class. 
2007 2007 2006 2006
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 58.6 58.6 49.5 49.5
Interest rate swaps used for hedging –– 0.4 0.4
Trade and other receivables 191.0 191.0 151.9 151.9
Associates 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7
250.2 250.2 202.5 202.5
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 231.2 231.2 178.4 178.4
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 0.7 0.7 ––
Trade and other payables 129.5 129.5 101.4 101.4
361.4 361.4 279.8 279.8 82 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
26 Financial instruments (continued)
Estimation of fair values
The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of the Group’s financial instruments are summarised below.
Interest rate swaps used for hedging
Bank valuations are used to estimate the fair value of interest rate swaps used for hedging. Valuations are tested by considering the
equivalent swap rate as at 31 December and calculating the difference in interest earned at this rate compared to the original swap rate.
Forward exchange contracts
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their quoted market price, if available. If a quoted market price is not available,
the fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the
residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest rate.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of interest bearing loans and borrowings is equal to the book value, since the floating interest rates were reset just prior 
to the year end.
Trade and other receivables/payables
For trade and other receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables/payables are estimated as the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the
reporting date.
Interest rates used for determining fair value
Prevailing market interest rates at the reporting date are used to discount future cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets
and liabilities.
27 Contingent liabilities
2007 2006
£m £m
Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 7.1 6.4
Litigation
From time to time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including claims
for damages, negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing and disputes with former employees. The Group is not
currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business.
The outcome of the litigation to which Intertek Group companies are party, cannot be readily foreseen. Based on information currently
available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a
materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The Group holds a professional indemnity insurance policy that provides coverage for certain claims from customers. The Directors consider
this policy adequate for normal commercial purposes. 
28 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its associates (see note 30) and with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not
discussed in this note.
Transactions with associates
As stated in note 11, the Group holds a 40% interest in the associate, Allium LLC, a company registered in the US. Allium LLC and its
subsidiaries manufacture testing equipment which it sells to certain Intertek Group companies. In 2007, sales by Allium Group companies
to Intertek Group companies amounted to £0.9m (2006: £1.4m). Intertek Group companies had lent dollar equivalent £1.4m to Allium LLC
as at 31 December 2007 (2006: £1.5m) against which there was a Group provision of £1.2m (2006: £1.2m). Interest on these loans 
was charged during 2007 at an average rate of 6.5%. Intertek Group companies owed £0.1m at 31 December 2007 (2006: £0.1m) to
Allium LLC in respect of purchases of testing equipment.
Transactions with key management personnel 
Key management personnel compensation, including the Group’s Executive Directors, is shown in the table below: 
2007 2006
£m £m
Short-term benefits 2.3 1.9
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Equity-settled transactions 0.7 0.5
Total 3.2 2.6
Notes to the Financial Statements Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 83
28 Related parties (continued)
More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other long-term
incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report. 
R Kong who was engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director under the terms of a letter of appointment, commencing 1 July 2006,
retired on 11 May 2007. Until that date, R Kong had an agreement to provide independent professional consultancy services to Intertek
Testing Services Pacific Limited, as and when required by the Chief Executive Officer of that company. In 2007, R Kong received £3,500
(2006: £29,000) for consultancy services.
RC Nelson is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of three
years commencing 8 April 2005. Under the terms of the same letter of appointment, RC Nelson is entitled to remuneration of £1,000 
per working day for any special project work agreed in advance by the Chairman. In 2007, RC Nelson received remuneration of £1,000
(2006: £5,000) for special project work.
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
29 Post balance sheet events
a) Details of all acquisitions made after 31 December 2007 are given in note 24(h). 
b) At a Board meeting on 7 March 2008, the Directors proposed a dividend of 12.2p per ordinary share, which if approved, is payable to
shareholders on 19 June 2008.
30 Principal operating subsidiaries and associated companies 
The Group comprises 180 subsidiary companies and one associated company. As permitted by Section 231(5) of the Companies Act 1985,
only the holding companies and the principal subsidiaries whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally
affect the figures of the Group in 2007 and 2006 have been shown below. A full list of subsidiaries will be attached to the Company’s
Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies. All the subsidiaries were consolidated at 31 December 2007. 
Percentage of ordinary
shares held in 2007 
and 2006
Company name Country of incorporation Principal activity by division* Group Company
Intertek Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100
Intertek Testing Services UK Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 –
Intertek Finance plc England and Wales Finance 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100
Intertek Testing Management Limited England and Wales Management company 100 –
Intertek International Limited England and Wales GS 100 –
ITS Testing Services (UK) Limited England and Wales OCA 100 –
ITS Testing Holdings Canada Limited Canada Holding company 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Limited Shanghai China CG, C&E and GS 85 –
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited China CG and C&E 85 –
Testing Holdings France EURL France Holding company 100 –
Testing Holdings Germany GmbH Germany Holding company 100 –
ITS Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong CG and C&E 100 –
Yickson Enterprises Limited Hong Kong Holding company 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Taiwan Limited Taiwan CG and C&E 100 –
Kite Overseas Holdings BV Netherlands Holding company 100 –
Testing Holdings Sweden AB Sweden Holding company 100 –
Semko AB Sweden C&E 100 –
ITS NA Inc United States C&E 100 –
Intertek USA Inc United States OCA 100 –
Testing Holdings USA Inc United States Holding company 100 –
Genalysis Laboratory Services Pty Ltd 
(acquired in 2007) Australia OCA 100 –
Percentage of ordinary
shares held in 2007 
and 2006
Associates Country of incorporation Principal activity by division* Group Company
Allium LLC United States CG 40 –
* Oil, Chemical & Agri (OCA), Commercial & Electrical (C&E), Consumer Goods (CG) and Government Services (GS). 84 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Restated
note (a)
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings (d) 280.9 277.4
Debtors due after more than one year (e) – 12.9
Current assets
Debtors (f) 0.4 –
Cash at bank and in hand 10.1 –
10.5 –
Creditors due within one year:
Other creditors (g) (1.9) (1.6)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 8.6 (1.6)
Total assets less current liabilities 289.5 288.7
Creditors due after more than one year:
Other creditors (h) (9.2) –
Net assets 280.3 288.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (i) 1.6 1.6
Share premium (i) 247.3 242.4
Profit and loss account (i) 31.4 44.7
Shareholders’ funds-equity 280.3 288.7
The financial statements on pages 84 to 88 were approved by the Board on 10 March 2008 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Wolfhart Hauser, Director Bill Spencer, Director
Intertek Group plc 
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2007 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 85
(a) Accounting policies – Company 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the
Company’s financial statements except as noted below.
In these financial statements the new standard FRS 20: Share-based payments and UITF 41 – Scope of FRS 20 have been adopted for 
the first time. The accounting policy under this new standard is set out below together with an indication of the effect of its adoption. 
The corresponding amounts in these financial statements have been restated in accordance with the new policy.
The effect of adopting this policy is to increase the 2006 investment in subsidiaries by £2.4m with a corresponding increase in the profit
and loss account of £2.4m. As such total net assets and total shareholder’s funds at 31 December 2006 have also increased by £2.4m. 
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under the historical
accounting rules.
Under section 230 (4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated
accounts which it has prepared. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. All foreign exchange
differences are taken to the profit and loss account. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. Deferred
tax assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there will be suitable taxable
profits to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Following the adoption of the presentation requirements of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity 
(i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
(i) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
(ii) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified
takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and
share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges. Finance payments
associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders’ funds are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation
of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds 
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised
and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the
financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Notes to the Financial Statements 86 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
(a) Accounting policies – Company (continued)
Intercompany financial guarantees
When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, the Company
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract
as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
Share-based payments
Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. In order to encourage
share ownership, a share option scheme for senior management was established in March 1997. This option programme was discontinued
in 2006 and was replaced by a new Long Term Incentive Plan.
As permitted by FRS 20, the Company has applied the requirements of this standard to all share-based payment awards granted after 
7 November 2002.
The fair value of options granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase 
in equity. As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the corresponding increase in equity.
However, the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and as such the Company recognises 
an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its
subsidiary’s financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the
options. The fair value granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model. This method, in calculating the fair value, takes into account
various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan are also measured using the Black-Scholes method and is spread over
the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
See note 25 in the Group financial statements for further information on the share schemes. 
(b) Employees
The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
(c) Dividends
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:
2007 2006
£m £m
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 16.1 12.6
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 9.1 7.2
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 25.2 19.8
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2007 is £nil (2006: £nil).
Notes to the Financial Statements  Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 87
(d) Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Restated
note (a)
2007 2006
£m £m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January, as restated 277.4 274.3
Additions 0.5 0.7
Additions due to share-based payments 3.0 2.4
At 31 December 280.9 277.4
During the year, the Company subscribed £0.5m into the share capital of its segregated account in Leeward Insurance Company Limited,
registered in Bermuda. This is the insurance captive for the Group. 
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made share awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-owned subsidiaries
and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of £3.0m (2006: £2.4m). Please see note 30 
in the Group financial statements for details of the principal operating subsidiaries.
The other two direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2007, were Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and Intertek Holdings
Limited, both of which are holding companies, incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales. All interests 
are in the ordinary share capital of the companies and both companies are wholly-owned. In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the
investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
(e) Debtors due after more than one year 
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – 12.9
The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing
currency and which are repayable any time after 12 months from the balance sheet date. 
(f) Debtors due within one year
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 0.4 –
(g) Creditors due within one year
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1.8 1.4
Accruals and deferred income 0.1 0.2
1.9 1.6
(h) Creditors due after more than one year
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 9.2 –
The amounts owed to Group undertakings represent long-term loans which carry interest based on the denomination of the borrowing
currency and which are repayable any time after 12 months from the balance sheet date.  88 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
(i) Shareholders’ funds – equity
Restated Restated
note (a) note (a)
Share Share Profit
capital premium and loss Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 1.6 238.2 24.1 263.9
Profit for the financial year – – 38.0 38.0
Dividends – – (19.8) (19.8)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 2.4 2.4
Shares issued – 4.2 – 4.2
At 31 December 2006, as restated 1.6 242.4 44.7 288.7
Profit for the financial year – – 8.9 8.9
Dividends – – (25.2) (25.2)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 3.0 3.0
Shares issued – 4.9 – 4.9
At 31 December 2007 1.6 247.3 31.4 280.3
Details of share capital are set out in note 18 and details of share options are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985. 
The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of £25.2m (2006: £19.8m) was £8.9m (2006: £38.0m) which was
mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
(j) Related party transactions
Under FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosing transactions with other
Group companies.
(k) Contingent liabilities
The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement. This is a joint 
and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the pool which
was £29.2m at 31 December 2007 (2006: £20.9m).
From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of subsidiary undertakings.
Notes to the Financial Statements  Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 89
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) of Intertek Group plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes. 
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial statements and
the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 38.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information
given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific
information presented in the Annual Report that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ Remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required 
to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our Report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation;
• the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
of the state of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2007;
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
8 Salisbury Square
London
EC4Y 8BB
10 March 2008
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the Members of Intertek Group plc 90 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Corporate and Shareholder Information
Shareholders Enquiries and Electronic Communications www.shareview.co.uk
Any shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding should, in the first instance, contact our Registrars, Equiniti.
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by email each time 
the Company distributes documents, instead of receiving a paper version of such documents, by registering a request at the website,
www.shareview.co.uk.
There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically receive confirmation that a request has been registered. Should you 
wish to change your mind or request a paper version of any document in the future, you may do so by contacting the Registrar by 
email or by post.
To access www.shareview.co.uk, you will need to have your shareholder reference available when you first log in, which may be found
on your dividend voucher, share certificate or form of proxy. The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding details, find out
how to register a change of name or what to do if a share certificate is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes of address,
dividend mandates and share transfers.
Share dealing service
A share dealing service for the purchase or sale of shares in Intertek is available through JPMorgan Cazenove, whose details are as follows:
JPMorgan Cazenove (postal service)
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Telephone +44 20 7155 5328
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes
it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
Telephone +44 20 7930 3737.
Share price information
Information on the Company’s share price is available from the investor pages of www.intertek.com.
Board of Directors
Vanni Treves, Chairman*
Richard Nelson, Deputy Chairman*
David Allvey*
Christopher Knight*
Debra Rade*
Wolfhart Hauser, Chief Executive Officer
William Spencer, Chief Financial Officer
Mark Loughead, Chief Operating Officer 
* Non-Executive Directors
Company Secretary
Fiona Evans
Investor Relations
E: investor
@
intertek.com
T: +44 20 7396 3400
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House,
Spencer Road,
Lancing, West Sussex
BN99 6DA
T: 0871 384 2653
T: +44 121 415 7047 (outside UK)
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
PO Box 486
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
T: +44 20 7311 1000
Registered Office
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London W1S 2ES
T: +44 20 7396 3400
F: +44 20 7396 3480
www.intertek.com
Registered number: 4267576
ISIN: GB0031638363
London Stock Exchange
Support Services
FTSE 250
Symbol: ITRK
Brokers
JPMorgan Cazenove 
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
T: +44 20 7588 2828
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
T: +44 20 7774 1000 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 91
Financial Calendar
Financial year end 31 December 2007
Results announced 10 March 2008
Annual General Meeting 9 May 2008
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 4 June 2008
Record date for final dividend 6 June 2008
Final dividend payable 19 June 2008
Interim results announced 4 August 2008
Interim dividend payable November 2008 92 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
Contact Information
Oil, Chemical & Agri Consumer Goods 
Americas Americas
t: +1 713 407 3500 t: +1 630 623 6070
f: +1 713 407 3594 f: +1 630 623 6074
Europe Europe
t: +44 1708 680200 t: +33 232 09 36 36
f: +44 1708 680264 f: +33 232 09 36 37
Asia Asia
t: +65 6222 3889 t: +852 2173 8888
f: +65 6221 5876 f: +852 2786 1903
Commercial & Electrical Government Services 
Americas Americas
t: +1 800 967 5352 t: +1 305 513 3000
f: +1 800 813 9442 f: +1 305 513 3001
Europe Europe
t: +46 8 750 0000 t: +44 1277 223400
f: +46 8 750 6030 f: +44 1277 220127
Asia Asia
t: +86 21 6127 8200 t: +65 6285 7557
f: +86 21 5426 2346 f: +65 6382 8662
Email enquiries: info
@
intertek.com
We are active in every region around the globe. To find your nearest 
Intertek office and to see our full range of services, visit our website:
www.intertek.com Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 
+44 (0)20 7610 6140
Printed on Zanders Mega Silk – a paper that is manufactured using 50% recycled de-inked
fibre and 50% TCF (Totally Chlorine Free) pulp, and is sourced from sustainable forests. Intertek Group plc
Head Office
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
United Kingdom
T: +44 20 7396 3400
F: +44 20 7396 3480
E: info@intertek.com
www.intertek.com
