 Success 
through 
quality
 Annual Report 2009
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
United Kingdom
t: +44 20 7396 3400
f: +44 20 7396 3480
e: info@intertek.com
www.intertek.com
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2009 
38113_Cover.indd   2-1 5/3/10   05:01:49 Our Business
Intertek is a leading provider of quality  
and safety solutions serving a wide range  
of industries around the world.
From auditing and inspection, to testing, quality 
assurance and certification, Intertek people are 
dedicated to adding value to customers’ products 
and processes, supporting their success in the  
global marketplace.
Intertek has the expertise, resources and global 
reach to support its customers through its network 
of more than 1,000 laboratories and offices and 
over 25,000 people in more than 100 countries 
around the world.
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the 
financial condition, results, operations and business of Intertek Group plc. These 
statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events  
and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number  
of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from  
those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.  
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Corporate Information
Board of Directors
Vanni Treves, Chairman*
David Allvey*
Edward Astle* (appointed 1 September 2009)
Gavin Darby* (appointed 1 September 2009)
Christopher Knight*
Debra Rade*
Wolfhart Hauser, Chief Executive Officer
Mark Loughead, Chief Operating Officer 
William Spencer, Chief Financial Officer 
* Non-Executive Directors
Company Secretary
Fiona Evans
Investor Relations
E: investor@intertek.com
T: +44 20 7396 3400
Registrars
Equiniti
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T: 0871 384 2653
T: +44 121 415 7047 (outside UK)
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
PO Box 486
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
T: +44 20 7311 1000
Registered Office
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London W1S 2ES
T: +44 20 7396 3400
F: +44 20 7396 3480
www.intertek.com
Registered number: 4267576
ISIN: GB0031638363
London Stock Exchange
Support Services
FTSE 100
Symbol: ITRK
Brokers
J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
T: +44 20 7588 2828
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
 133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
T: +44 20 7774 1000
Designed by 35 Communications.
Cover photograph by Charlie Fawell.
38113_Cover.indd   4-3 5/3/10   05:01:56 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 01
Contents
Overview
 IFC Our Business 
 02 Financial Highlights
 04 At a Glance
 06  Chairman’s Statement
Directors’ Report – Business Review
 08 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
 12 Chief Operating Ofﬁcer’s Review
 14 Operating Review
 26 Financial Review
 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
 38 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Directors’ Report – Governance
 42 Board of Directors
 44 Intertek Operations Committee
 46 Corporate Governance Report
 53 Remuneration Report
 66 Other Statutory Information
 68 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Financial Statements
 70 Consolidated Income Statement
 71 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 72 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
 73 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 74 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 75 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
 119 Intertek Group plc – Company Balance Sheet
 120 Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements 
 123 Independent Auditors’ Report
 124  Shareholder Information 
Financial Calendar
 IBC Corporate Information
Go online…
 www .intertek. com 02 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Financial Highlights
Intertek revenue distribution in 2009 Asia Paciﬁc
37%
Americas
34%
EMEA
29%
Recession-beating organic growth boosted by  
acquisitions and favourable currency movements.
>  Revenue up 23% and adjusted operating proﬁt up 27%  
at actual exchange rates
> Organic revenue and adjusted operating proﬁt both up 4%  
at constant exchange rates 
>  Full year dividend up 23% www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 03
Go online for the 5-year summary
 www .intertek. com/invest ors/ﬁ ve-year-summary
Revenue £m 
+23.3%
2009 1,237.3
+7.0% at constant rates
1
Adjusted operating proﬁ t
2
 £m 
+26.9%
2009 209.0
+6.1% at constant rates
1
Operating cash ﬂ ow £m 
+43.5%
2009 278.4
Basic earnings per share  
+21.7%
2009 72.4p
81.5p diluted adjusted EPS
3
 
Operating proﬁ t £m
+26.2%
2009 186.7
Adjusted operating proﬁ t margin
+50bp
2009 16.9%
down 10bp at constant rates
1
Proﬁ t before income tax £m
+22.1%
2009 169.2
Dividend per share
4
 
+22.6%
2009 25.5p
1.  Growth at constant exchange rates compares revenue and adjusted operating proﬁ t 
for 2009 and 2008 at the average exchange rates for 2009. 
2.  Operating proﬁ t before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment 
and non-recurring costs (see reconciliation in note 3 to the ﬁ nancial statements).
3.  Diluted adjusted EPS based on adjusted earnings (see note 9 to the ﬁ nancial statements).
4.  Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend paid of 8.2p (2008: 7.1p) plus the 
proposed ﬁ nal dividend of 17.3p (2008: 13.7p). 04 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Our Divisions
At a Glance
Oil, Chemical & Agri Consumer Goods Commercial & Electrical
Serving a wide range of industries including 
chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and 
automotive and aerospace, we offer expert 
laboratory measurement and consultancy 
services. We have an established track record 
of success in laboratory outsourcing with many 
large, internationally recognised companies. 
Using in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, 
petrochemical, power, renewable energy, 
civil and infrastructure, aerospace and medical 
ﬁ elds, we provide a range of services to help 
customers meet global quality standards. 
These include management systems 
certiﬁ cation, second-party auditing, supplier 
evaluation, technical veriﬁ cation, conformity 
assessment, asset integrity management, 
3D laser scanning and dimensional control 
management, training, health and safety 
consulting and greenhouse gas services. 
We offer analytical testing, inspection and 
mine-site laboratory services to the world’s 
minerals, exploration, ore and mining 
industries. We provide a wide range of 
analytical services for materials including 
precious metals, base metals and their raw 
content, such as iron ore, bauxite, coal and 
coke, as well as bulk commodities. 
25,000+ employees, 1,000+ labs and ofﬁ ces, 
100+ countries across the globe serving the 
world’s leading brands – our customers.
We provide independent cargo inspection, 
non-inspection related laboratory testing, 
calibration and related technical services to 
the world’s energy, petroleum, chemical 
and agricultural industries. We also provide 
cargo scanning, ﬁ scal support services and 
standards programmes to governments, 
national standards organisations and 
customs authorities.
We are a market leading provider of services 
to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food 
and retail industries. Services include testing, 
inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality 
assurance and hazardous substance testing. 
Customers are often retailers but also include 
manufacturers and suppliers within a global 
supply chain. 
Through our global network of accredited 
ofﬁ ces we provide manufacturers and 
retailers with the most comprehensive scope 
of safety, performance and quality testing 
and certiﬁ cation services. We support 
customers in a wide range of industries 
including home appliances, lighting, medical, 
building, industrial and HVAC/R (heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration), 
IT, telecom, renewable energy and automotive.
Analytical Services Industrial Services Minerals Testing Outsourcing
Inspection Advisory
Certiﬁ cation Training
Auditing Quality Assurance
www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 05
Our Services
Our Industries
Our Customers
Aerospace & Automotive
Building Products
Chemicals
Consumer Goods & 
Retailers
Electrical & Electronic
Energy
Food & Agriculture
Industrial
IT & Telecom
Medical & Pharmaceutical
Minerals
Petroleum
Toys, Games & Hardlines
Textiles, Apparel & 
Footwear














Parts Association






























Corporation



























Mozambique


Saudi Arabia










 06 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Dividends
An interim dividend of 8.2p per share (2008: 7.1p) was paid to 
shareholders on 20 November 2009. The Directors will propose  
a ﬁnal dividend of 17.3p per share at the Annual General Meeting 
on 14 May 2010, to be paid on 18 June 2010 to shareholders  
on the register at close of business on 4 June 2010. If approved,  
this will make a full year dividend of 25.5p per share (2008: 20.8p), 
an increase of 22.6%. 
Acquisitions
In 2009, we made three bolt-on acquisitions for total consideration 
of £30.8m (2008: £83.1m). Details of these acquisitions are given  
in the Operating Review by division and in note 24 to the ﬁnancial 
statements. Our strategy of growing key industry sectors through 
acquisitions is unchanged, although we deliberately scaled back our 
acquisitions in 2009 to concentrate on integrating the businesses  
we acquired in prior years. We will continue to invest in new 
opportunities as they arise. 
The Board 
On 14 January 2010, we announced that Bill Spencer has decided  
to retire from his position as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Bill has served 
Intertek extremely well for over 18 years and has played a valuable 
part in the development of the Group. After 24 years with the Group, 
Richard Nelson retired from the Intertek Board on 1 September 2009. 
Richard’s work over the past two decades, as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
and more recently as Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman, 
will have a lasting impact and has been integral in taking Intertek to 
the successful position that it holds today. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank both Bill and Richard very much for the 
signiﬁcant contribution they have made to the Group. Our best 
wishes for the future to them both. 
On 1 September 2009, I was pleased to welcome Edward Astle and 
Gavin Darby to the Board as Non-Executive Directors. Edward Astle 
is Pro-Rector of Commercial Development at Imperial College London 
where he leads the development of major business opportunities in 
the UK and internationally. Edward’s management and commercial 
strategy experience at high level in the telecoms, industrial and 
science related ﬁelds will bring additional perspective to the Board. 
Results 
Intertek delivered strong results in 2009, notwithstanding very 
difﬁcult macro-economic conditions throughout the world and 
ended the year with a revenue ﬁgure of £1,237.3m, up 23.3% over 
last year. Excluding acquisitions revenue growth was 19.4%. 
 
Operating proﬁt was £186.7m, up 26.2% over last year. Adjusted 
operating proﬁt increased to £209.0m, up 26.9%. Our adjusted 
operating margin increased by 50 basis points to 16.9%. Excluding 
acquisitions, adjusted operating proﬁt grew by 24.4%. 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 72.4p, up 21.7% over last year  
and diluted adjusted earnings per share were 81.5p, up 21.5%. 
Positioning for future growth
Vanni Treves
Chairman www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 07
Gavin Darby is Operations and Business Development Director of 
Vodafone Group Plc for the Asia Paciﬁc and Middle East Region. 
Gavin’s extensive background in overseeing the operational 
development of businesses across international markets will be  
a valuable complement to the Board. 
In April 2010, Lloyd Pitchford will join the Board as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer. Lloyd has spent ten years with BG Group plc, one of the 
largest UK publicly listed companies holding the role of Group 
Financial Controller for the BG Group for the past ﬁve years. Lloyd’s 
extensive international and management experience with large, 
complex and growing organisations will assist Intertek to explore 
exciting opportunities across global markets. I am delighted to 
welcome Lloyd to the Board and am conﬁdent that he will 
contribute to Intertek’s continued success. 
Environmental impact
Intertek is committed to playing an important and positive role  
with respect to climate change and the environmental impact of 
products and processes. We advise our clients, as an integral part  
of our business, on many issues which have an impact on the 
environment, such as the chemical content of their products and 
packaging, the energy efﬁciency of their equipment, CO
2 emissions 
and the disposal of harmful substances and waste electrical 
products. We also provide advisory and consultancy services to help 
retailers and manufacturers design their products and services to 
comply with current and future environmental regulations around 
the world. Through our services we help our clients to minimise the 
environmental impact of their products and processes for the 
beneﬁt of society as a whole. We are also mindful of our own 
impact on the environment and are working on various initiatives  
to reduce this. 
Quality and integrity
Quality and integrity are in essence what our customers are buying 
and they therefore lie at the heart of Intertek’s culture and processes. 
We have embedded our values across the organisation and are 
continually reviewing and reinforcing our internal processes to  
ensure compliance. The Intertek Compliance Code and Code of 
Ethics provide practical guidance and instruction for employees  
and there are email and telephone hotlines so that staff may report 
anonymously, any inaccurate or unethical working practices. Our 
strong focus on compliance provides assurance to our customers  
that our reports and certiﬁcates are valid and accurate.
Employees 
Our mission to support and add value for our customers is delivered 
through over 25,000 people across Intertek worldwide. It’s been  
a tough year for many of our customers and the dedication of our 
employees to customer service and going the extra mile has helped 
us to retain business in the face of increased competition. We 
constantly strive to improve our capacity to attract, develop and 
retain the best people who share in the mission, values and success 
of the Group. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees 
to Intertek and to thank all our employees around the world for 
their commitment to making 2009 another successful year.
Summary 
Intertek has performed strongly in difﬁcult circumstances and 
generated cash. Our key growth drivers remain intact and the 
Board’s conﬁdence in the future is reﬂected by the dividend 
increase of 22.6%.  08 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Introduction
As expected, 2009 was a challenging year with tougher global 
market conditions, recession in many countries and severe 
contraction in some industries. Despite these difﬁculties,  
the key business drivers to Intertek’s global business remained  
intact and combined with our customer focused strategy enabled  
us to achieve strong results for the year. 
Our strategy
Our mission is to add value to our customers’ processes, products 
and brands through providing quality and safety services. 
We concentrate on industry sectors in which we have the critical 
size to provide our customers with global world-class services which 
are based on a deep understanding of their current and evolving 
future needs and challenges.
Our divisions are organised to focus on speciﬁc sectors and they 
continuously improve their capabilities and procedures to deliver 
customer centric services. Our excellent staff, market leading 
response times and high value solutions differentiate us in the 
marketplace. 
Our network of laboratories and ofﬁces are located where our 
customers need them and our highly motivated people are chosen 
for their understanding of local culture as well as their industry 
expertise. We understand that our people are our core assets  
and invest continuously in them. Our close relationship with our 
customers and our reputation for quality has allowed us to develop 
partnerships with many globally-renowned companies where we 
take over and operate our customers’ in-house testing facilities or 
quality processes along their supply chain. Companies can outsource 
their laboratory activities to Intertek and be conﬁdent that the 
service they receive will be both high quality and more cost effective. 
Our strategy is to be the premier high value service provider in our 
industry sectors and we will continue to build a full service portfolio 
to offer our customers one-stop shopping solutions and give us the 
opportunity to leverage excellent customer relationships across a 
broad portfolio. Besides focusing on delivering strong organic 
growth rates we will continue our well deﬁned acquisition strategy 
to strengthen our position in evolving market segments and the 
important regional markets of the future. We will do this with small 
to medium sized bolt-on acquisitions but we are also well prepared 
to be an active consolidator in the industry.
Our commitment to 
supporting and adding 
value to our customers  
by improving their 
products and processes 
and reducing their costs 
drives everything we do.
Our strategy in action
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 09
In 2010, we will further strengthen our Intertek brand as the name 
on which leading global players rely if they want to be conﬁdent 
that their products and procedures match the highest quality, safety  
and environmental standards. 
 Action: adding value to the energy sector
We have worked closely with some of the major oil companies to 
develop better ways to analyse crude oils from offshore production 
ﬁelds. We have developed a groundbreaking approach that uses 
near infra-red to conduct pipeline crude oil analysis in combination 
with predictive software. This solution has enabled our customers  
to cut costs, increase revenues and deliver greater proﬁtability.
 Action: using global and local knowledge
We helped one of our well-known retailer clients improve their 
quality control procedures in various countries. Our solution 
balanced global and local concerns. Multi-disciplinary quality 
assurance teams worked closely with the client in each location  
to analyse the supply chain and strengthen local quality control 
procedures at source. Our innovative database technology provided 
transparency and allowed rapid analysis and correction of problems 
in supply before they hit the shelves – reducing costs for our client 
and protecting their worldwide reputation and brand. 
 Action: helping our customers grow
We have helped our customers in China compete on the global 
stage. We contributed expertise in multiple areas for one of the 
world’s largest manufacturer of white goods. By assisting with 
design and R&D and providing training to improve internal capability 
we helped our client make and market better products at a much 
faster rate. This improved their competitive advantage, enabling 
them to further their international growth. 
 Action: expanding our service offering
Through our knowledge of the energy and industrial markets, we 
identiﬁed that our customers worldwide needed global technical 
inspection and expediting support to bring them new expertise, 
project efﬁciencies and cost saving. In February 2009, we acquired 
the WISco group of companies to add these service capabilities  
to our Industrial Services division. We are now able to offer these 
services globally to our customers.
 Action: understanding the regulations
We used our knowledge and understanding of international 
regulations and standards to help the world’s largest manufacturer  
of rehabilitation equipment to navigate the labyrinth of medical 
regulatory standards that apply to their products. When a new 
edition of the IEC 60601 international series of standards for 
electronic medical devices was released, we were able to determine 
which edition would be most suitable for the client’s design, 
certiﬁcation and market entry needs, thus supporting their 
reputation for engineering excellence.
 Action: being close to our clients
One of our clients in the mining industry wanted to be able to 
analyse iron as soon as it was extracted. We set up a laboratory  
at their mine site which uses robotic technology and automated 
systems to provide faster, more accurate analysis which is also 
cleaner and safer. Our results allow our client to make more 
informed decisions and improve resource utilisation. 
 Action: focusing on global trade
A customer in the aerospace industry had been working with 
multiple companies to certify their facilities across the world.  
They recognised the inefﬁciency of this approach and asked Intertek 
to provide this service globally. As one of the best known certiﬁers 
in the aerospace industry and one of the ﬁrst companies to provide 
AS9100 certiﬁcation (the internationally recognised quality 
management standard speciﬁcally written for the aerospace 
industry), we were a natural choice. 
Result: sustainable growth
Despite tougher global market conditions, the  
key business drivers to Intertek’s global business 
remain intact, namely product variety, supply  
chain complexity, the outsourcing of in-house 
testing laboratories and increasing demand for  
safe, environmentally friendly and quality products 
driven by ongoing regulation and end customers. 
Supporting our customers as they strive to be  
more competitive and cost effective underpins  
this growth. We expect this strategy and  
customer focus to generate continued and 
sustainable growth. 10 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review
The Intertek growth drivers
Our success lies in our strategy. Our consistent and committed focus on our 
customers is the cornerstone of our success and enables us to take advantage 
of the ﬁ ve key growth drivers in our business which are shown below.
1
2
3
4
5
GLOBAL TRADE:
MARKET DRIVERS:
EXPANSION:
DRIVING THE 
INDUSTRY:
EXTERNAL GROWTH:
Impacting volume related businesses
Increasing demand for quality and safety, 
concern for the environment and product variety
More services, regions and industries
Customers outsourcing to make 
ﬁ xed costs variable
Strong track record of acquiring 
complementary businesses
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 11
Go online for more information
 www . intertek. com/in vest ors/presentations
The drivers 
of our growth
remain robust
Only about 30% of our business relies on the 
volume of global trade, so although growth in 
global trade has slowed down since the economic 
crisis began, this has primarily impacted our 
inspection related businesses. 
Consumer demand for product variety and 
safe, environmentally friendly and quality 
products continues to grow. An increasing 
number of products are subject to regulations 
which require them to be tested, often by an 
independent company. 
We are continually developing the range of 
services we can offer customers and expanding 
the industry sectors that we cover. Each of our 
divisions broadly supports different industries 
although customers have access to all the services 
available in the Group. We provide local support to 
our customers on an international scale by locating 
our ofﬁ ces and laboratories close to our customers’ 
buying ofﬁ ces and manufacturers. 
The trend is for customers to concentrate on their 
core business and reduce their ﬁ xed costs by 
outsourcing any non-core activities to specialists. 
We have a successful track record of providing 
outsourced laboratory services to many leading 
companies in a wide variety of industries. 
We have acquired over 50 businesses in the past 
ﬁ ve years to complement and enhance our service 
portfolio. In 2009, we reduced our investment 
in acquisitions to reﬂ ect the uncertain market 
conditions and provide increased capacity to fund 
medium or larger acquisitions should suitable 
opportunities arise. 
  12 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer’s Review
Our clients are producing some of the most exciting innovations  
in their industries today, ranging from creating safer and more 
environmentally friendly products, to introducing groundbreaking 
technologies and developing alternative sources of energy. As the 
environment in which they are operating is evolving, our clients are 
rapidly adapting their strategies, business models and supply chains 
to ensure they keep their competitive edge. Intertek is changing 
with them, as we continue to execute our customer-focused  
Intertek as One strategy. 
In 2009, we further strengthened the integration and co-operation 
across the operating divisions with the nomination of a further  
eight country managers, bringing the total to 25, covering 84%  
of the Group’s revenues. The country managers are responsible for 
co-ordinating the actions and activities of the operating divisions 
within a country to ensure that we present a consistent ‘face’  
to our clients and simplify our service offering to enable them to 
understand exactly how we can help them. 
Under the Intertek as One initiative, we met with more than  
200 global industry leading clients to understand their priorities. 
These meetings not only provided insight into their business 
challenges; we were able to talk about how we can expedite their 
product time-to-market, improve their supply chains, reduce cost 
and increase efﬁciency, meet regulatory requirements and adopt 
sustainable business practices. These client engagements resulted  
in over 130 assignments and contracts, including some signiﬁcant 
projects with world-leading companies to provide services from the 
combined divisions of Intertek. 
We also learnt that Intertek enjoys a reputation for integrity, speed  
of response, and prompt delivery of unique solutions, which is one 
of our competitive advantages. As we move into 2010, we will focus 
on developing collaborative relationships based on mutual trust and 
conﬁdence, sustaining momentum in pursuing new opportunities, 
and delivering superior service that encourages retention.
Our Intertek as One 
programme positions  
us to serve our customers 
better and help them 
succeed in a difﬁcult 
business environment.
Mark Loughead
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 13
In support of our single ‘face’ to clients and stakeholders, we 
launched the new Intertek website at www.intertek.com. Going 
forward, we will build on this new platform to increase engagement 
and develop new business. 
Internally we are investing in infrastructure improvements to enable 
faster, more efﬁ cient service and productivity that will lead to higher 
long-term margins. We will transition to common systems and 
processes, beginning with the Intertek Common Financial Platform 


system and Customer Relationship Management system, fully 
integrated across all divisions in the USA, operating from a newly 
created shared service centre in Houston. 
We have reduced costs by leveraging our combined buying 
power across the Group and utilising central procurement teams. 
To date, we have consolidated our suppliers for services such as 
travel, telecoms, logistics ofﬁ ce supplies and laboratory equipment 
and we will continue to seek other cost saving arrangements. 
Also as part of this strategy, and aligned with our corporate social 
responsibility planning, we are establishing a sustainable and 
ethical procurement system.
We have also redesigned and relaunched the Intertek Intranet 
with improved graphics and enhanced content, which will serve 
to inform and align our global organisation in support of our 
growth initiatives. 
What we’ve accomplished this past year has positioned us to serve 
our customers better and help them succeed in a difﬁ cult business 
environment. There is no end point for our Intertek as One strategy, 
which will evolve as we invest in our capabilities and our people. 
We will continue to prioritise our spending where we see 
opportunities to grow our business and deliver faster, more 
efﬁ cient customer service.
Intertek – The marks of quality
For more than 100 years, Intertek 
has guided clients through the 
challenging certiﬁ cation process. 
Offering the broadest range of 
certiﬁ cation and accreditation marks 
accepted in markets around the world, 
Intertek can help clients to succeed 
in new and existing markets, meet 
evolving regulatory requirements and 
win new customers. 14 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Intertek is a global market leader in many industries, 
supporting customers in the international marketplace 
and ensuring that their products comply with their 
own quality and safety standards and all relevant 
external regulations. Our services cover the whole 
supply chain including the sourcing of raw materials, 
product design, manufacturing processes, compliance 
certiﬁcations and performance testing of the  
end product. 
Our customers range from major household names and 
international corporations to niche suppliers, globally and 
locally. With over 1,000 facilities in more than 100 countries 
and over 25,000 employees, we can provide services in  
almost every country in the world. 
Operating Review
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Group overview www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 15
What we do
Intertek is a global market leader providing safety and quality 
services to customers to add value to their products and  
processes, and support their success in the global marketplace.  
We help customers improve performance, gain efﬁciencies in 
manufacturing and logistics, overcome market constraints and 
reduce risk. We offer a comprehensive range of services from 
testing, inspection and certiﬁcation through to auditing and 
consultancy. Using internationally-approved methods, standards, 
equipment and guidelines, we test consumer products, commercial 
products, commodities, food, and raw materials for quality  
control, research, vendor compliance and against regulatory  
and customer requirements. 
Our testing methods use a wide range of skills including complex 
analytical laboratory techniques in the ﬁelds of organic and 
inorganic chemistry and biochemistry, critical analysis to trouble-
shoot customers’ problems, 3D laser scanning, electromagnetic 
compatibility testing, minerals assay and performance testing 
amongst many others. We provide inspection services to 
manufacturers, retailers, bulk commodity traders, governments  
and international buyers and sellers of goods, including factory 
evaluation, quality inspection, custody transfer, pre-production,  
in-production, ﬁnal random sampling, pre-shipment and loading 
supervision. We hold an extensive range of global accreditations, 
recognitions and agreements to provide certiﬁcation services for 
manufacturers, retailers and traders to enable them to sell products 
in virtually any market in the world. Our audit services check 
whether a process, system or facility is performing in the prescribed 
manner. This includes corporate social responsibility auditing to 
ensure that factory conditions, especially in developing countries, 
meet the standards required by our clients. We also offer an 
extensive range of consultancy and training services. Our services 
are integrated together to provide our customers with a complete 
and customised service that meets the precise requirements of the 
different industries in which they operate.
Our market
Intertek provides services to a wide range of industry sectors, 
including Aerospace & Automotive, Building Products, Chemicals, 
Consumer Goods & Retailers, Electrical & Electronic, Energy, Food & 
Agriculture, Industrial, IT & Telecom, Medical & Pharmaceutical, 
Minerals, Petroleum, Toys, Games & Hardlines and Textiles, Apparel 
& Footwear. Each industry has its own characteristics but there are a 
number of key drivers for our services common to all markets. These 
are global and local trade through new product development, 
increasing consumer demand for good quality, safe and 
environmentally friendly products, more stringent regulations,  
and the increasing requirement for independent certiﬁcation  
of the quantity and quality of traded commodities. 
By outsourcing their testing to us, customers reduce the cost of 
maintaining in-house testing facilities and they beneﬁt from the 
economies of scale that we can achieve by higher utilisation of the 
laboratory equipment and personnel. Many products are subject  
to increased regulation to protect consumers and the environment. 
For example, the US Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act 
(CPSIA) contains many provisions concerning the safety and quality 
of consumer goods and more stringent requirements for children’s 
products. In the European Union, the Registration, Evaluation  
and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) regulation covers over 
30,000 chemicals used in products. We advise our customers on  
the regulatory developments that are applicable to their products  
in the markets they choose. 
 
Despite slower economic activity, the key growth drivers behind the 
Intertek business model remain intact. We tend to test products at 
the prototype stage and therefore our business is driven by product 
development activity rather than the volume of products sold. 
Our employees
At 31 December 2009, the Group employed 25,183 people (2008: 
23,841) in over 100 countries. Our people include highly skilled 
scientists and engineers with specialist knowledge of the industries  
in which we operate. Many are educated to degree level and  
above and are peer group leaders in their ﬁelds of expertise. Our 
operations are located close to our customers and our strategy is  
to employ and develop people native to those locations as they have 
a better understanding of local issues and cultures and can build 
strong customer relationships. Through their appointed relationship 
manager, our clients can access all the services and expertise offered 
by our global network. Through our Intertek as One programme  
we emphasise the need to join together to ensure our customers 
receive a co-ordinated and cohesive service. We have a strong 
emphasis on training and professional development and this 
together with the strength of our collective leadership ensures that 
our employees remain motivated to deliver a world class service.  16 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Operating Review
Our impact on the environment
Being a service industry, energy consumption is not a material part 
of our cost base. In 2009, 1.2% (2008: 1.3%) of our total costs 
were spent on gas and electricity. However, we are mindful of  
our impact on the environment and where possible take measures 
to reduce energy consumption and eliminate waste. Our internal 
meetings are increasingly held by conference call to reduce our 
emissions footprint. We recycle waste paper and we dispose of  
our waste products responsibly and in compliance with applicable 
legislation. In the UK and Ireland we operate a ‘green’ company  
car policy. 
Our main impact on the environment is through the services  
we offer to customers. We test the performance and evaluate  
the efﬁciency of products and advise customers of ways in which 
they can improve their products and processes to reduce energy 
use. Since we usually perform our work at the design stage of 
product development, the small amount of energy that we use  
to conduct our tests is far outweighed by the global beneﬁts to  
the environment of our clients using our advice to produce energy 
efﬁcient products on a larger scale. Our services are supporting the 
growing alternative energy sectors such as photovoltaic, biofuels 
and wind energy. More details about our employees and the 
environment are provided in our Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report which starts on page 32.
Signiﬁcant relationships
The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships  
with any single party which are essential to the business of the 
Group and therefore, no such relationships have been disclosed. 
Divisional structure 
For management purposes we organise ourselves into operating 
divisions combining similar industry sectors. During 2009, these 
divisions were Consumer Goods, Commercial & Electrical, Oil, 
Chemical & Agri, Analytical Services, Industrial Services and 
Minerals. We aim to operate a balanced portfolio of businesses 
across industry sectors and regions. 
Our performance in 2009
Considering the challenging economic environment the Group had  
a good year with underlying organic growth boosted by acquisitions 
and favourable exchange rates. Revenue increased by 23.3% (7.0% 
at constant exchange rates) and adjusted operating proﬁt increased 
by 26.9% (6.1% at constant exchange rates). The adjusted 
operating margin was 16.9%, up 50 basis points from last year 
(down 10 basis points at constant exchange rates). The results for 
2009 by division are summarised below.
Directors’ Report – Business Review
        Revenue   Adjusted operating profit
1
        Change at Change at  Change at Change at 
        actual constant  actual constant 
£m      2009 rates rates 2009 rates rates
Consumer Goods      320.9 32.3% 12.4% 105.5 40.5% 16.8%
Commercial & Electrical     244.8 20.2% 2.3% 34.7 18.8% (2.0)%
Oil, Chemical & Agri     406.7 16.7% 2.2% 43.7 11.2% (7.2)%
Analytical Services      137.5 15.1% 4.3% 14.6 10.6% (2.0)%
Industrial Services      80.7 77.0% 53.1% 6.5 132.1% 91.2%
Minerals      46.7 6.6% (4.9)% 4.0 (21.6)% (32.2)%
Revenue/Adjusted operating profit    1,237.3 23.3% 7.0% 209.0 26.9% 6.1%
Amortisation         (12.8)  
Non-recurring costs        (9.5)  
Operating profit         186.7 26.2% 
Net financing costs        (17.5)  
Profit before income tax        169.2 22.1% 
Income tax expense        (45.5)  
Result for the year     1,237.3 23.3% 7.0% 123.7 21.0% 
1. Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and non-recurring costs.
Group overview www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 17
We calculate organic growth by excluding the results of acquisitions 
made in 2008 and 2009. On an organic basis, revenue grew by 
19.4% (3.5% at constant exchange rates) and adjusted operating 
proﬁt grew by 24.4% (3.7% at constant exchange rates). The 
organic growth was generated primarily by growth in the market  
for quality and safety services, an increase in environmental 
regulations and an increase in outsourcing.
Part of the Group’s growth strategy is to make acquisitions which 
complement and extend the Group’s service offering into new  
areas of expertise and new locations. As the economic outlook  
in 2009 was uncertain and ﬁnancial markets were turbulent, the 
Group took the strategic decision to slow down its acquisition 
activity. Three businesses were acquired in the ﬁrst part of the  
year which had operations in six different countries. The two main 
acquisitions were in Industrial Services which is one of the sectors 
targeted for investment. 
Details of the performance of each division, including more 
information about the acquisitions are given in the Review  
by division which starts on page 18.
The market for our services continues to expand. Consumers and 
regulatory bodies are increasingly concerned about the quality  
and safety of products and services and their impact on health and 
the environment. The number of global and domestic regulations 
regarding the environment and the safety and quality of products 
continues to increase. Manufacturers and retailers need to meet  
the demands of their customers and ensure that they comply with 
quality and safety requirements, increasingly complex legislation  
and longer supply chains. We work in partnership with our 
customers to help them meet those demands and increase the  
value of their products and services. 
Our business is based on facilitating trade and increasing consumer 
demand for product variety, quality and safety, as well as 
manufacturers’ desire to reduce overhead costs by outsourcing 
testing and inspection activities. Our 2009 organic revenue growth 
at constant exchange rates was 3.5%. As expected, some of  
our businesses were signiﬁcantly affected by the global recession, 
however we are very well diversiﬁed, both geographically and  
across industry sectors, which helped to mitigate any weaker 
performing areas. 
The key growth drivers in our business model remain unchanged  
so our business is robust. The prevailing economic uncertainty  
made it difﬁcult to predict performance in 2009 and to some extent 
this continues into 2010. The decline in global trade in products and 
commodities affected our customers and reduced the volume of 
goods that we inspect. Some of our customers are undertaking 
fewer development projects and have reduced their outsourcing 
which has reduced the number of products that we test and certify. 
Each of our divisions offers opportunities for organic growth 
through increasing our service offering to customers, to add value 
to their products and processes and help them compete in the 
global market. We anticipate that businesses will increasingly be 
looking to reduce the cost of non-core activities such as in-house 
testing, which provides us with an opportunity to offer our services. 
We have been very successful in ﬁnding acquisitions which extend 
our range of services. Whilst we deliberately reduced the number  
of acquisitions completed in 2009, we still maintain a pipeline of 
opportunities which we are pursuing, and we expect to continue 
our strategy of growing our business through acquisitions in  
the future. 18 Intertek Annual Report 2009
    2009 Change at Change at
Financial Highlights  £m actual rates constant rates
Revenue   320.9 32.3% 12.4%
Adjusted operating profit  105.5 40.5% 16.8%
Adjusted operating margin  32.9% 190bp 120bp
What we do
The Consumer Goods division is a market leading provider of 
services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food and retail 
industries. Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory 
services, quality assurance and hazardous substance testing. 
Customers are often retailers but also include manufacturers and 
suppliers within a global supply chain. 
The market for the services of the Consumer Goods division is 
diverse. Demand is driven by retailers who require the goods they 
sell to be produced to a quality set by either their own internal 
standards or by standards applicable in a particular country or region. 
Increasingly, materials are sourced and goods are manufactured in 
locations that are remote from the consumer, causing supply chains 
to be longer and more complex. The market is also being driven by 
regulations issued to address safety and environmental concerns over 
such issues as carcinogenic dyes in textiles and chemicals in children’s 
products, toys and cosmetics. 
Operating Review
Consumer Goods
Our performance in 2009
The Consumer Goods division delivered very strong results 
with total revenue of £320.9m up 32.3% (12.4% at constant 
exchange rates) and organic revenue up 29.0% (9.3% at 
constant exchange rates). 
Textiles, Apparel & Footwear which is the largest sector in the 
division grew well, with excellent results in China supported 
by growth in Turkey, Taiwan, India and Vietnam. The ﬁ rst half 
of 2009, beneﬁ ted from the surge in volume of children’s 
products requiring testing to comply with the US Consumer 
Product Safety Improvement Act (CPSIA), which started in the 
second half of 2008. This increase was not sustained in the 
second half of 2009 as customers had cleared their inventory 
back logs and volumes became normalised. Intertek has 
26 laboratories accredited under CPSIA, located in the Americas, 
Europe and Asia. 
Although still relatively small, revenue from the food sector 
increased considerably, helped by good results from businesses 
we acquired in 2008. Our strategy of investing in the food 
industry continued with the establishment of new food testing 
laboratories in India and Thailand. 
Total adjusted operating proﬁ t was £105.5m, up 40.5% (16.8% 
at constant exchange rates). Organic adjusted operating proﬁ t 
increased by 40.5% (16.6% at constant exchange rates). The total 
adjusted operating margin increased 190 basis points to 32.9% 
from 31.0% in 2008. 
Zero injuries
The number of injuries reported following 
the implementation of our quality and safety 
programme for toys distributed by one of 
our global clients.
Paul Yao
Group Executive
Vice President 
Consumer Goods
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 19
On 13 October 2009, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of 
Intertek’s operations in mainland China. The Group commenced  
its operations in China in 1989 with a consumer goods testing  
joint venture in Shenzhen, making it the ﬁrst international provider 
of quality and safety solutions to enter China. Since then we have 
signiﬁcantly expanded the range of services we offer and the 
industries we support. We continue to invest in our operations and 
facilities in China in all our divisions and today we have more than 
6,000 employees in China and over 100 ofﬁces and laboratories. 
The key growth drivers in Consumer Goods remain strong, 
principally the sourcing of products from lower cost manufacturers  
in countries such as China, the increasingly wide range of products 
being sold by retailers and shorter product lifecycles. Concern  
over the safety of consumer products has increased demand from 
consumers and regulatory bodies for independent assurance  
of quality and safety. 
Although two-thirds of revenue is derived from toys and textiles 
testing, the remainder is from our expanding service lines such as 
consultancy, inspection, supply chain services, food and corporate 
social responsibility where margins are not always as high as those 
earned by the established services. As many economies are currently 
entering a recessionary phase, consumer spending is declining. 
Whilst our business is dependent on the variety of goods produced 
and new product development rather than the volume sold, a 
prolonged decline in consumer spending could result in a reduction  
in product development. We aim to grow our revenue by 
developing new services, integrating our services and providing 
innovative supply chain solutions to our customers. 
Concern over the safety of 
consumer products has increased 
demand from consumers and 
regulatory bodies for independent 
assurance of quality and safety.
24/7
Our virtual database tools provide 24/7  
transparency and allow rapid real-time analysis  
and documentation of ﬁeld data, helping us  
to deliver immediate solutions and recurring  
beneﬁts to our clients. 20 Intertek Annual Report 2009
    2009 Change at Change at 
Financial Highlights  £m actual rates constant rates
Revenue   244.8 20.3% 2.3%
Adjusted operating profit  34.7 18.8% (2.0)%
Adjusted operating margin  14.2% (10)bp (70)bp
What we do
The Commercial & Electrical division provides services including 
testing and certiﬁcation, electromagnetic compatibility testing (EMC), 
outsourcing, benchmark and performance testing and environmental 
testing. These are provided to a wide range of industries including 
the home appliance, lighting, medical, building, industrial and 
HVAC/R (heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration), 
IT, telecom, renewable energy and automotive industries. Our 
customers are mostly manufacturers but also retailers, industry 
organisations and government departments. Intertek has the widest 

 Asta mark and BEAB mark for Europe, as well as being a leader in 
providing CB certiﬁcation and the CE mark and GS mark for Europe. 
The market for our Commercial & Electrical services is driven primarily 
by increasing regulations over the safety of products, product  
variety and growing environmental concerns. This includes current 
concerns over climate change and the impact on the environment  
of electrical products. 
Operating Review
Commercial & Electrical
Our performance in 2009
Total revenue increased to £244.8m, up 20.3% (2.3% at constant 
exchange rates) and organic revenue increased by 18.0% (0.4%  
at constant exchange rates). Performance in the Commercial & 
Electrical division was strong in some sectors such as the core 
electrical testing business, which reported good results worldwide, 
particularly in lighting, and heating, ventilation and air conditioning 
(HVAC). We also reported good growth in the renewable energy 
sector where we guide clients through the complex regulatory 
issues affecting renewable energies including photovoltaic and  
wind power equipment. Growth in the building products sector  
was limited by delays in new construction projects and the 
automotive industry continued to be depressed. 
Total adjusted operating proﬁt was £34.7m, up 18.8% (down  
2.0% at constant exchange rates). Organic adjusted operating  
proﬁt increased by 10.9% (down 8.7% at constant exchange  
rates). The total adjusted operating margin decreased 10 basis 
points to 14.2%. 
Despite difﬁcult trading conditions in certain markets, the adjusted 
operating proﬁt at constant exchange rates did not decline 
signiﬁcantly. Underperforming sectors were reorganised to improve 
opportunities, maximise synergies and contain costs. 
In April 2009, the Group acquired Sagentia Catella, a globally 
renowned battery testing business based in Sweden. This business 
has been integrated with Intertek’s global energy services 
laboratories throughout Europe, the USA and Asia and beneﬁts 
global customers who are developing more efﬁcient energy storage 
technologies and more reliable and environmentally friendly 
products. Since acquisition, we have extended the service offering 
into the hybrid and electrical vehicles market, which we expect to 
be a future growth area. 
 
83%
This is the time saving we achieved by streamlining  
one of our clients’ solar panel testing process from  
18 months to 84 days. Accelerating product delivery has 
increased customer satisfaction and improved sales.
Gregg Tiemann
Division Executive 
Vice President  
Commercial & Electrical
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 21
Customer demand for safe, reliable, energy efﬁcient products 
continues to increase and the market for Commercial & Electrical 
continues to evolve presenting opportunities for growth. Market 
drivers in the medical and renewable energy sectors remain strong. 
Concerns over climate change are driving new directives regarding 
the energy usage of products, particularly in the HVAC industry and 
this is expected to extend to other industries. The consumer market 
for home appliances and electronics is under pressure and the 
growth of information, communication and technology products  
is also slowing down. This may provide us with opportunities as 
customers seek to maintain or increase their market share through 
product innovation, improvements in quality and durability, and 
performance comparisons, and cut their costs by improving efﬁciency. 
The issues in the automotive industry are well documented but  
we do not anticipate a signiﬁcant further decline. We are closely 
monitoring our business in this sector and will reduce costs if 
revenue continues to decline. 
Market conditions in 2009 provided both challenges and 
opportunities for the Commercial & Electrical division. The 
renewable energy industries are expected to grow rapidly and  
we are well placed to support this growth. The automotive  
sector remains a concern although there are signs that the  
decline will not worsen. We will continue to strive for operational 
excellence and aim to strengthen our market share by offering 
superior service. There are many small niche players in the  
market and this provides opportunities for us to continue  
adding inﬁll acquisitions.
Rated “Best Buy”
This is the status a leading manufacturer  
of consumer electronics achieved when we  
helped to improve the performance of their  

Customer demand for safe, reliable, 
energy efﬁcient products continues 
to increase and the market for 
Commercial & Electrical continues  
to evolve presenting opportunities 
for growth.  22 Intertek Annual Report 2009
    2009 Change at Change at 
Financial Highlights  £m actual rates constant rates
Revenue   406.7 16.7% 2.2%
Adjusted operating profit  43.7 11.2% (7.2)%
Adjusted operating margin  10.7% (60)bp (110)bp
What we do
The Oil, Chemical & Agri division provides independent cargo 
inspection as well as non-inspection related laboratory testing, 
calibration and related technical services. Our customers include 
the world’s energy, petroleum, chemical and agricultural industries. 
Cargo inspection and testing is a well established global market in 
which Intertek is one of the leading service providers. High barriers 
to entry are principally due to the ﬁxed costs of establishing a global 
network of operations and laboratories and our excellent reputation 
and experience earned through decades of service in the industry. 
The division also provides cargo scanning, ﬁscal support services 
and standards programmes to governments, national standards 
organisations and customs authorities. These services were  
previously reported separately as the Government Services division.
Operating Review
Oil, Chemical & Agri
Our performance in 2009
Revenue increased to £406.7m, up 16.7% (2.2% at constant 
exchange rates). There were no acquisitions in this division so all 
growth is organic. Double digit revenue growth in the Middle East, 
Asia and South America was reduced by a decline in revenues in 

and the East Gulf Coast regions of the USA where trading 
conditions have been particularly badly affected by the economic 
downturn. Several reﬁneries have closed and customers have 
reduced their development expenditure and retained more 
analytical work in-house. The recession also slowed the growth in 
demand for biofuels market, although we expect this to recover as 
soon as conﬁdence in the economy returns. 
 
Total adjusted operating proﬁt increased to £43.7m, up 11.2% 
(down 7.2% at constant exchange rates). The adjusted operating 
margin declined by 60 basis points to 10.7%. The margin decline 
was mainly due to a change in the mix of services provided and 
increased pricing pressure. The revenue growth was mostly in 
inspection and inspection related testing which earns a lower 
margin than more complex non-inspection related testing. 
Underperforming operations have been reorganised and some  
small non-core businesses will be divested. 
The core inspection business is steady and we expect the demand 
for higher margin complex testing services to increase once the 
global recession recedes and investment resumes. We also expect 
the demand for biofuels to grow, leading to the development of 
new technologies and production methods. Once market conditions 
improve we expect the margin for this division to increase. 
Recognition
We have a strong track record of turning original ideas 
into new solutions. Our new oil analysis process has 
been reviewed independently and been given formal 
accreditation to the international standard ISO 17025.
Jay Gutierrez
Division Executive 
Vice President  
Oil, Chemical & Agri
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 23
    2009 Change at Change at 
Financial Highlights  £m actual rates constant rates
Revenue   137.5 15.1% 4.3%
Adjusted operating profit  14.6 10.6% (2.0)%
Adjusted operating margin  10.6% (40)bp (70)bp
What we do
Analytical Services provides expert laboratory measurement  
and consultancy services to a broad range of industries including 
chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and automotive and 
aerospace. We have an established track record of success  
in laboratory outsourcing with many large internationally  
recognised companies. 
Our performance in 2009
Total revenue in 2009 was £137.5m, up 15.1% (4.3% at constant 
exchange rates) over the prior year. Organic revenue increased 
14.9% (4.0% at constant exchange rates). 
Results in Analytical Services were mixed, with some operating 
segments delivering good results and others performing less  
well. Revenue increased in upstream oil and gas services, and  
in downstream chemicals and materials testing, but declined in 
pharmaceutical and speciality chemicals. 
Much of Intertek’s upstream services support the exploration, 
production and transportation of hydrocarbon reserves. Although 
crude oil prices remained fairly steady in 2009, most production 
facilities implemented aggressive cost reduction programmes where 
discretionary expenditure on all non-production critical projects was 
curtailed or delayed, causing our revenue growth to be lower than 
expected in one service line. Downstream chemicals and materials 
Analytical Services
testing which accounted for almost half of the division’s revenue, 
had a strong ﬁnish to the year with several manufacturing plants 
returning to normal production rates, from their previous 12-month 
record low. Our results also beneﬁted strongly from our efforts to 
generate sales in new materials research and development projects 
and from the impact of impending new regulatory programmes in 
automotive lubricants. Overall, the pharmaceutical and speciality 
chemicals sector continued to be challenging. Sales erosion was 
experienced mostly in the USA, due to the merger of large 
pharmaceutical companies and the shortage of investment  
capital available to the smaller biotech companies. The Intertek 
pharmaceutical services business was restructured to consolidate 
resources and reposition its business growth opportunity into  
wider markets.
Total adjusted operating proﬁt increased to £14.6m, up 10.6% 
(down 2.0% at constant exchange rates). Organic adjusted 
operating proﬁt increased by 13.0% (down 1.5% at constant 
exchange rates). Despite the volatility in revenue which made  
it difﬁcult to manage costs, the division reported an adjusted 
operating proﬁt margin of 10.6%, down 40 basis points on the  
prior year. 
The overall reduction in manufacturing volumes in the downstream 
chemicals and materials markets, combined with the upheaval in the 
global pharmaceuticals markets, made 2009 a particularly challenging 
and volatile year. We see signs of improvement in 2010, with 
evidence of recovering manufacturing volumes and larger projects 
being commissioned and clients reawakening their interest in 
outsourcing. We are currently considering a number of strategic 
opportunities which will enhance our future growth. 
US$350,000
The potential lost revenue per day for one of our 
pharmaceutical clients if we had not been able to 
validate their quality control methods within the 
deadline set by the regulator.
Andrew Swift
Division Executive 
Vice President 
Analytical Services 24 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Industrial Services
    2009 Change at Change at
Financial Highlights  £m actual rates constant rates
Revenue   80.7 77.0% 53.1%
Adjusted operating profit  6.5 132.1% 91.2%
Adjusted operating margin  8.1% 200bp 160bp
What we do
Industrial Services is a global provider of inspection, testing and 
auditing services. This includes management systems certiﬁ cation, 
second-party auditing, supplier evaluation, technical veriﬁ cation, 
conformity assessment, asset integrity management, 3D laser 
scanning and dimensional control management, training, health 
and safety consulting and greenhouse gas services. We serve a 
wide variety of industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, power, 
renewable energy, civil and infrastructure, aerospace and medical. 
Our performance in 2009
Total revenue in 2009 was £80.7m, up 77.0% (53.1% at constant 
exchange rates) over the prior year. Organic revenue increased 
22.8% (6.2% at constant exchange rates). Total adjusted operating 
proﬁ t increased to £6.5m, up 132.1% (91.2% at constant exchange 
rates). Organic adjusted operating proﬁ t increased 80.0% (38.5% 
at constant exchange rates). The adjusted operating margin was 
8.1%, up 200 basis points on the prior year. 
The Industrial Services division reported good organic growth which 
was further enhanced by successful acquisitions. In February 2009, 
the Group acquired the WISco group of companies, which provide 
global technical inspection and expediting support to a wide range 
of customers in the oil, gas, petrochemical and power generation 
industries and their supplier markets. The successful integration of 
the acquisition has had a positive impact on organic growth through 
enhanced management and economies of scale. 
Also in February, the Group acquired Aptech Engineering Services 
which is a US based engineering consulting company specialising 
in the life management of infrastructure, facilities and equipment. 
This business has also performed very well in 2009. 
Towards the end of 2009, the market for industrial services 
was affected by the lack of funding available for capital projects. 
Customers either cancelled or delayed projects pending the 
stabilisation of world economies and the global capital markets. 
There are signs that conﬁ dence is returning and investment is 
increasing but there is little certainty of signiﬁ cant improvement 
in 2010. 
The market for systems certiﬁ cation was challenging, especially in 
the automotive sector resulting in reduced demand for our services. 
The development of the systems certiﬁ cation businesses depends 
on acquiring scale. 
Although still relatively small, revenue in the health and 
environmental sector grew by over 30%. The impact of the REACH 
legislation has been minimal to date as only pre-registration 
has been required. However the next registration deadline is 
1 December 2010 so, providing this is complied with, we expect 
growth in 2010. The compliance requirements are complicated and 
we anticipate a surge in interest ahead of the deadline. Other green 
initiatives from government to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
will also create further opportunities for Intertek to advise clients 
on how best to meet these regulatory challenges.
Efﬁ ciency
Using sophisticated data capture and scanning 
technology a leading energy client, operating in 
the Gulf of Mexico, was delighted to be able to 
save on cost, release supply vessels and become 
operational ahead of schedule.
Stefan Butz
Group Executive
Vice President
Industrial Services
Operating Review
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 25
    2009 Change at Change at 
Financial Highlights  £m actual rates constant rates
Revenue   46.7 6.6% (4.9)%
Adjusted operating profit  4.0 (21.6)% (32.2)%
Adjusted operating margin  8.6% (300)bp (350)bp
What we do
The Minerals division offers analytical testing, inspection and  
mine-site laboratory services to the world’s minerals, exploration,  
ore and mining industries. We provide a wide range of analytical 
services for materials including precious metals, base metals and  
their raw content, such as iron ore, bauxite, coal and coke, as  
well as bulk commodities. We also provide marine and inspection 
services of minerals shipments. 
Minerals
Our performance in 2009
In 2009, total revenue was £46.7m, up 6.6% (down 4.9% at 
constant exchange rates) over the prior year and organic revenue 
increased by 3.8% (down 7.4% at constant exchange rates). Total 
adjusted operating proﬁt decreased to £4.0m, down 21.6% (down 
32.2% at constant exchange rates). Organic adjusted operating 
proﬁt decreased by 18.8% (down 29.1% at constant exchange 
rates). The adjusted operating margin was 8.6%, down 300 basis 
points on the prior year.
The difﬁcult trading conditions in the minerals and industrial 
markets which started in the second half of 2008, continued 
through 2009. Although volumes have returned to almost  
pre-recession levels in some locations, overcapacity in the industry  
has resulted in increased price pressure. The revenue growth in 
facilities we established in 2008 has been steadily increasing, albeit  
at a slower rate than originally anticipated. 
The price of commodities such as gold, uranium and other strategic 
metals remains high and this should encourage increased 
exploration by the established mining companies. The junior 
companies are likely to remain inactive until the capital markets 
recover and funding restrictions are eased. We have the expertise 
and capacity to take advantage of an upturn in activity and as we 
currently have a very small share of the available market in the 
minerals industry, even in a declining market we anticipate being 
able to grow revenues by gaining market share from competitors. 
We have reduced our costs and will concentrate on improving our 
margin in those areas which are underperforming. 
Productivity & Safety
Robotic and automated systems are part of Intertek’s 
commitment to increase daily productivity, quality  
and reduce costs for our clients.
Marc Hoffer
Division Executive 
Vice President 
Minerals 26 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Financial Review
Results for the year
Proﬁt before income tax increased by 22.1% to £169.2m (2008: 
£138.6m) and diluted adjusted earnings per share were 81.5p  
(2008: 67.1p). Basic earnings per share were 72.4p (2008: 59.5p). 
Key ﬁnancial performance indicators
 
the performance of the Group. Similar indicators are used to review 

by the Board and management on a monthly basis and are used to 
assess past performance and set targets for the future. Many of the 

managers may receive annual bonus payments on achieving or 
exceeding a range of targets set for the year. Further information on 
management incentives is given in the Remuneration Report which 
starts on page 53. 
Revenue
Up 23.3%
Organic revenue
Up 19.4%
Adjusted operating proﬁt
Up 26.9%
Organic adjusted operating proﬁt
Up 24.4%
Adjusted operating margin
Up 50bp
Operating cash ﬂow
Up 43.5%
Operating cash ﬂow/operating proﬁt
121.0%
Diluted adjusted earnings per share
Up 21.5%
Dividend per share
Up 22.6%
Return on invested capital
26.5%
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 27
Growth in revenue
Top line revenue growth is a key performance measure. In 2009, 
revenue was £1,237.3m up 23.3% over the prior year (7.0% at 
constant exchange rates). 
Impact of currency movements
The Group operates in 74 different currencies. The majority of  
the Group’s earnings are denominated in US dollars or currencies 
linked to the US dollar or which historically have moved in line  
with the dollar. Other currencies such as the Euro and the Chinese 
renminbi are also important constituents of our overseas earnings. 
Therefore the Group’s results, when translated into sterling,  
are exposed to changes in the value of the US dollar and  
other currencies. 
We show below the main currencies that make up the Group’s 
earnings and the cumulative average exchange rates that we have 
used when translating results into sterling in 2009 and 2008. 
Impact of currency movements
Value of £1    2009 2008
US dollar    1.56 1.87
Euro    1.12 1.26
Chinese renminbi    10.63 13.03
 12.06 14.59
The weak value of sterling compared to most of the currencies in 
which we operate had a signiﬁcant effect on our results in 2009. 
Our revenue growth was 23.3% at actual rates but 7.0%  
at constant exchange rates. Growth in adjusted operating proﬁt  
was 26.9% at actual rates but 6.1% at constant exchange rates. 
Growth in adjusted operating proﬁt and margin
    2009 2008  
    £m £m Change
Operating profit   186.7 147.9 26.2%
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 12.8 9.6 33.3%
Impairment of goodwill  – 0.5 –
 9.5 6.7 41.8%
Adjusted operating profit  209.0 164.7 26.9%
Adjusted operating margin  16.9% 16.4% Up 50bp
In 2009, adjusted operating proﬁt was £209.0m, up 26.9% over  
the previous year. The adjusted operating margin was 16.9%,  
up 50 basis points from 16.4%. 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles is provided on a straight line 
basis over the life of the assets, which is normally ﬁve years but can 
be up to ten years. The charge was £12.8m in 2009, up from £9.6m 
in 2008 due to the accumulation of intangible assets acquired in the 
past ﬁve years. 
Impairment of goodwill 
As described in note 11 to the ﬁnancial statements, we perform  
a detailed review of goodwill each year to consider whether there  
is any impairment in its carrying value. The capitalised goodwill  
at 31 December 2009 was £257.8m (2008: £242.1m) which  
relates to acquisitions made since 1998. As a result of the ‘Intertek  
as One’ internal Group-wide initiative, various levels of restructuring 
occurred during 2008 and 2009. This restructuring was considered 
as part of the annual goodwill impairment test which included a  
re-assessment of not only the constitution of the CGUs but also the 
allocation of goodwill across those CGUs and operating segments 
(as required under the newly adopted standard, IFRS 8 – Operating 
Segments). The impact of the restructuring has led to greater global 
operational control across divisions, improved management of 
global customer accounts, and more effective integration of 
acquired businesses into existing Intertek operations (which 
previously had more local, independent control over decision-
making). The above review has led to a change in the composition 
of the CGUs and also to a change in the level at which we monitor 
goodwill. There are now eight CGUs which generate cash inﬂows 
which are largely independent of other CGUs and to which goodwill 
has been allocated. These CGUs have been tested for impairment  
in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy described on 
page 81. This review revealed no requirement for any impairment in 
2009 (2008: £0.5m). 
Non-recurring costs
In 2009, the Group reported non-recurring costs of £9.5m which 
comprised acquisition costs of £2.5m and restructuring and other costs 
of £7.0m, as per note 4. Although the Group has not early adopted 
IFRS 3 (Revised), acquisition-related costs have been incurred prior 
to the adoption of this standard in relation to acquisitions that will 
be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised). The Group 
has chosen to expense these acquisition-related costs as incurred. 

to be effective at the time that the related business combinations are 
expected to occur. The restructuring and other costs were principally 
related to employment costs, including redundancies, retirement costs 
and settlements to former employees. There were also some closure 
costs and asset write downs in underperforming businesses. The 
majority of the restructuring was in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division.  28 Intertek Annual Report 2009
In 2008, the Group incurred costs of £6.7m in relation to the 
integration of the Government Services division into the Oil, 
Chemical & Agri division. 
Net ﬁnancing costs
Details of the Group’s net ﬁnancing costs are given in note 7 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
The Group reported ﬁnance income in 2009 of £7.7m (2008: £13.1m). 
This comprised the gain in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments 
held for trading, the expected return on pension assets, the net 
change in fair value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets transferred 
from equity, and interest on bank balances. The decrease was 
mainly due to the absence of foreign exchange gains made on  
the revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities in 2008.
The Group’s ﬁnance expense for 2009 was £25.2m compared to 
£22.6m in 2008. The charge comprised interest on borrowings, 
pension interest cost, foreign exchange losses on revaluation of net 
monetary assets and liabilities and other ﬁnancing fees. 
Income tax expense
Income tax expense for 2009 was £45.5m (2008: £36.4m), 
comprising a current tax charge of £54.1m (2008: £41.9m) less  
a deferred tax credit of £8.6m (2008: £5.5m). The effective tax rate 
was 26.9%, up from 26.3% in 2008. The change in the effective 
tax rate was mainly due to changes in the mix of proﬁts and an 
increasing dividend withholding tax burden.
Proﬁt for the year
Proﬁt for the year after income tax was £123.7m (2008: £102.2m) 
of which £114.7m (2008: £93.8m) was attributable to equity 
holders of the Company. 
Minority interests
Proﬁt attributable to minority shareholders was £9.0m in 2009 
(2008: £8.4m). The increase was mainly due to the strong growth 
in the Group’s non-wholly owned subsidiaries in Asia.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable 
to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. As set out in 
note 9 to the ﬁnancial statements, basic earnings per share at the 
end of the year were 72.4p (2008: 59.5p), an increase of 21.7%.  
A diluted adjusted earnings per share calculation is also shown, 
which removes the post-tax impact of amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles, impairment of goodwill and non-recurring costs from 
earnings, and includes potentially dilutive share options in the 
number of shares, to give diluted adjusted earnings per share of 
81.5p (2008: 67.1p), an increase of 21.5%. We consider that  
growth in the diluted adjusted earnings per share ﬁgure gives a 
more representative measure of underlying performance and is  
one of the key performance targets that the Group uses to 
incentivise its managers.
Dividends 
During the year, the Group paid total dividends of £34.7m (2008: 
£30.4m), which comprised £21.7m in respect of the ﬁnal dividend 
 
at the rate of 13.7p per share and £13.0m being the interim 
dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009, paid  

were charged to retained earnings (see note 20 to the ﬁnancial 
statements). After the 31 December 2009, the Board recommended  
a 26.3% increase in the ﬁnal dividend in respect of the year ended  
31 December 2009, to 17.3p per share (2008: 13.7p), which 
together with the interim dividend will give a full year dividend  
of 25.5p per share (2008: 20.8p), an increase of 22.6% over last 
year. If approved, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid to shareholders  
 
to be £27.5m, giving a total cost of £40.5m for the dividends paid  
in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009. This represents 
32.7% of the proﬁt for the year for 2009, or a dividend covered  
3.2 times by earnings, based on diluted adjusted earnings per share.
Cash and liquidity
    2009 2008  
Cash and liquidity   £m £m Change
Cash generated from operations 278.4 194.0 43.5%
 
plant, equipment and software (52.5) (67.2) (21.9)%
Operating cash flow after capital  
expenditure   225.9 126.8 78.2%
Operating profit   186.7 147.9 26.2%
Operating cash flow/ 
operating profit    121.0% 85.7% 3530bp
The primary source of the Group’s cash liquidity over the last two 
ﬁnancial years has been cash generated from operations and the 
drawdown of debt. A portion of these funds has been used to fund 
acquisitions and capital expenditure and to pay interest, dividends 
and taxes.
Financial Review
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 29
The Group continued to generate good cash ﬂow. Cash generated 
from operations was £278.4m for 2009, compared to £194.0m for 
2008. The increase of 43.5% was due to favourable exchange rates, 
improved proﬁtability and effective working capital management. 
One of the key performance indicators we use to measure the 
efﬁciency of our cash generation is the percentage of operating 
proﬁt that is converted into cash. As shown in the table on page 28,  
in 2009, 121.0% of operating proﬁt was converted into cash 
compared to 85.7% in 2008. The signiﬁcant increase in the 
conversion rate reﬂects a 21.9% reduction in the capital expenditure, 
increase in operating proﬁt and a much improved working capital 
position. The reduction in capital expenditure was induced by the 
need to conserve cash during the difﬁcult borrowing environment  
in 2009.
In order to support our growth strategy we need to invest continually 
in our operations. In 2009, net cash ﬂows used in investing activities 
were £79.6m (2008: £156.6m), a reduction reﬂecting a policy to 
conserve cash during the difﬁcult economic background in 2009.  
We paid £23.9m net of cash acquired, (2008: £67.8m) for three 
new businesses, £10.2m (2008: £16.7m) for deferred consideration  
on prior year acquisitions, and £52.5m (2008: £67.2m) for the 
acquisition of property, plant and equipment and computer software, 
net of disposals. In 2009, we sold for £5.7m, shares in a listed 
investment acquired in 2008 for £4.4m and also divested our  
40% interest in the associate Allium for £0.9m. 
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities comprised proceeds from  
the issue of share capital following the exercise of employee share 
options of £3.6m (2008: £2.6m), the net repayment of debt  
of £58.7m (2008: drawdown of £79.5m), and cash outﬂows of 
dividends paid to minorities of £6.3m (2008: £6.1m) and dividends 
paid to Group shareholders of £34.7m (2008: £30.4m), which 
resulted in a net cash outﬂow from ﬁnancing activities of £96.1m 
(2008: cash inﬂow £46.1m).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings were £335.6m at 
31 December 2009, a decrease of 20.4% over 2008. The Group’s 
borrowings are made in currencies which, as far as possible match  
its asset base. The decrease in borrowings comprised exchange 
adjustments of £27.3m due to the translation into sterling of 
borrowings denominated in other currencies and the net repayment 
of debt of £58.7m. Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 
2009, were £134.2m, an increase of 18.4% over 2008. This increase 
was due to a net cash inﬂow of £27.0m, partially offset by adverse 
exchange movements of £6.1m. As shown in note 27 to the 
ﬁnancial statements, net debt at 31 December 2009 was 
substantially reduced to £201.4m (2008: £308.3m). 
Borrowings
The Group has a sterling denominated multi-currency bank debt 
facility that was placed in December 2004. This facility was originally 
due to expire on 15 December 2009, however the Group exercised 
its option to extend the facility by a year in 2005 and by a further 
year in 2006, so the facility is now due to expire in December 2011. 
The margins currently paid on the borrowings in this facility are in 
 Group raised a further £75.0m under this facility from three new 
banks who joined the existing syndicate of ten banks under the 
same terms and conditions and margin.
In 2008, the Group also raised a total of US$200.0m by way of senior 
note issues which have a blended ﬁxed borrowing rate of 6.71%. 
This comprised US$100.0m with a ﬁxed interest rate of 5.54%, 

two tranches with US$25.0m at a ﬁxed interest rate of 7.5%, 

 applied against bank debt borrowings to increase the amount of 
liquidity headroom on the facility. 

bilateral, multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Bank of China, 

The maturity of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December 2009 is set 
out below:
     2009 2008 
Borrowings    £m £m
Due within one year   8.2 14.0
Due between one and two years  198.5 44.3
Due between two and five years  19.0 222.0
Due in over five years   109.9 141.3
Total     335.6 421.6
The composition of the Group’s gross borrowings by currency  
is as follows:
     2009 2008
US dollar    63% 63%
 28% 12%
Australian dollar    9% 1%
 – 9%
Euro    – 8%
Swedish kroner    – 4%
 – 3% 30 Intertek Annual Report 2009
The Group’s policy is to ensure that a liquidity buffer is available  
in the short-term, to absorb the net effects of transactions made 
and expected changes in liquidity both under normal and stressed 
conditions without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage 
to the Group’s reputation. At 31 December the Group’s liquidity 
position showed substantial improvement as shown below:
     2009 2008 
     £m £m
Debt facilities    600.3 612.4
Repayments to 31 December   (109.9) (88.0)
Borrowings     (331.9) (417.7)
 (5.3) (8.9)
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities 153.2 97.8
Cash and cash equivalents   134.2 113.3
Liquid funds     287.4 211.1
Where appropriate, cash is managed in currency based cash pools 
and is put on overnight deposit, bearing interest at rates ﬁxed daily 
in advance. At 31 December 2009, 81.1% of cash was on overnight 
deposit (2008: 91.3%).
Capital structure and management
The Group is committed to enhancing shareholder value, both by 
investing in the business so as to improve the return on investment  
in the longer term and by managing our capital structure. The 
Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain 
investor, creditor and market conﬁdence and to sustain future 
development of the business. Management monitors both the 
demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on 
capital. The Group seeks to maintain a balance between the higher 
returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and 
the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. 
Return on capital in 2009 was 26.5% compared to 19.9% in 2008. 
This substantial increase was primarily due to a higher level of 
operating proﬁt, reduced capital expenditure and a better working 
capital position in 2009. 
     2009 2008 
Return on invested capital   £m £m
Operating profit    186.7 147.9
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles  12.8 9.6
Impairment of goodwill   – 0.5
 9.5 6.7
Adjusted operating profit   209.0 164.7
Tax rate    26.9% 26.3%
Adjusted operating profit after tax  152.8 121.4
Property, plant and equipment   220.9 234.8
Goodwill    257.8 242.1
Other intangible assets   46.9 55.2
Inventories    7.6 8.2
Trade and other receivables   265.9 284.4
Trade and other payables   (190.5) (187.8)
Provisions    (31.5) (26.6)
Invested capital    577.1 610.3
  
Return on invested capital   26.5% 19.9%
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital 
management during the year and neither the Company nor  
any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital 
requirements.
Critical accounting policies
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Intertek’s accounting policies are 
set out in note 2 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
Financial Review
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 31
New accounting standards
The Group has adopted in the year the following new standards, 
amendments to standards and interpretations, which have had no 
material impact on the ﬁnancial statements:



 
Standards 2008.
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business combinations, was endorsed by the EU in 

Although the Group has not early adopted IFRS 3 (Revised), 
acquisition-related costs have been incurred prior to the adoption  
of this standard in anticipation of acquisitions that will be accounted 
for in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised). The Group has chosen to 

that IFRS 3 (Revised) is not yet effective, it is expected to be effective 
at the time that the related business combinations are expected  
to occur. 32 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Directors’ Report – Business Review
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Introduction from the Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
We continue to insist on the worldwide strict application of our 
ethical standards, which are fundamental to the success of our 
business. Our work helps our customers improve the quality, 
safety and sustainability of their products and enables consumers 
to rely on our customers’ claims for their products. It is essential 
to us that the advice we give and the services we provide globally 
are independent and are seen to be so. Our Code of Ethics and 
Compliance Code are designed and implemented to help us 
achieve this.
This year we celebrated 20 years of operations in China. In that 
time China has achieved remarkable economic progress, with 
which Intertek’s growth and development has been closely linked. 
Innovation, openness to global trade and increasing emphasis on 
sustainability, have corresponded with developments in Intertek’s 
service offerings, leading us to world-class expertise across a full range 
of quality and safety activities. We operate in many countries but 
in our dealings with employees, customers and other partners we 
aim to provide the local approach, as the following report shows. 
Our business
The range of services we provide has continued to increase. During 
2009 we have introduced new ways of helping our customers to 
assure their customers of the quality of their products and we have 
added new capabilities to our services. 
 

identify products that meet a range of international 
regulatory environmental standards, was launched 
in 2009.
Our main driver, as ever, is to provide the services that are needed 
to help customers around the world improve their products and 
reduce their risk. The beneﬁ ts that arise may be environmental, 
for example by showing customers how to reduce hazardous waste 
or developing energy efﬁ ciency labelling programmes, or they may 
be in the safety of the product. 
We are a world leader in the design of safe products, with particular 
expertise in children’s toys. Our centres of excellence in Chicago 
 brands to advance the design of safe products in the marketplace. 
In partnership with industry and health bodies we collect and 
analyse safety data in connection with child accidents, and use 
this information to help our customers design safer products. 
Our work includes testing compliance and effectiveness targets 
in the production of biofuels and ethanol, assisting customers 
to comply with ultra low sulphur diesel legislation, and helping 
to assess low energy and low emission equipment. 
We provide audit and consultancy services to corporations, 
non-governmental and regulatory organisations to improve the 
social and ethical impact of their operations. Increasingly consumers 
around the world want peace of mind that products they have 
purchased have not been created through social or ethical abuses 
of workers or unfair trade. We audit factory conditions and work 
practices to ensure that they are legal, ethical and humane. We 
work with corporations to develop bespoke global CSR standards 
and programmes to ensure that they exceed minimum social and 
ethical thresholds in their sourcing. We have successfully initiated 
partnerships and collaborations with non-governmental and 
not-for-proﬁ t organisations to improve standards. 

Social Responsibility Medal which each year recognises the 
achievements of an individual who has been an outstanding advocate 
for social responsibility. Spencer Hutchens, after whom the medal is 
named, is a senior Vice President of Intertek in California, a global 
expert in the ﬁ eld of quality control and an Academician for the 
International Academy for Quality.
Contents
32 Introduction from the Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
32 Our business
33 Our values
33 Our employees
35 Our communities
36 Our environment
36 Our customers, suppliers and shareholders
37 Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) structure www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 33
Our values
Our principal aim is to use our resources to add value to our 
customers’ products and processes whilst employing the highest 
standards of integrity in business.
Our Mission Statement  
We will:

employees can ﬂourish, experience professional fulﬁlment  
and reach their highest potential;

 
business objectives;

 
as essential.
In all our activities we aim to:

 
the health and safety of all our employees;


The following systems help us ensure that our values are maintained:

sets out our robust stance on upholding sound business ethics;

procedures are properly applied in practice and that they remain 
appropriate to the business;
 and external parties also have access to a hotline through the 
Group website; and

from hotlines and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
Our employees 
Our principal strength is the talent of our employees. Our intention 
is to unlock the potential of every employee to perform to the best  
of his or her abilities. This enables us to achieve maximum results  
for them, our customers and shareholders.
At 31 December 2009, we employed 25,183 people, an increase  
of 5.6% over the prior year. The growth in employee numbers  
in each region over the past ﬁve years, is shown in the following 
graph. The largest increase was in the Asia Paciﬁc region where  
more than 55% of employees are based. Because we operate in so 
many countries, we have adopted a framework of human resource 
procedures and policies to ensure a fair and consistent approach  
to employee matters around the Group.
Growth in employee numbers
Objectives
Our focus this year has been on:




Our policies
We have framework policies in place that enable us to treat 
employees fairly across the Group, whilst still giving local managers 
the authority and ﬂexibility to adopt what is right for their local area. 
As we grow, whether organically or by acquisition, we continue  
to promote and monitor these policies, which are concerned with 
matters such as fair recruitment, performance assessment, internal 
communications and remuneration.
The graph above shows how our workforce is distributed 
geographically and why it is important for us to respect regional  
and cultural differences. Our human resource managers support  
the progress of our people through country-speciﬁc teams who are 
able to respond to local circumstances. Our strategy is to develop 
and promote locally for the best blend of understanding of the local 
market, with provision of career progress opportunities for everyone. 
We continue to give opportunities to the most talented individuals 
to advance into international management.
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Asia Paciﬁc
EMEA
Americas 34 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Directors’ Report – Business Review
As part of our equal opportunities policy, people with disabilities are 
given the same consideration as others when they apply for jobs. 
Depending on their skills and aptitudes, they enjoy the same career 
prospects as other employees. If employees become disabled every 
effort will be made to retain them in their current role or to look at 
possibilities for retraining or redeployment within the Group. Where 
necessary the Group aims to provide these employees with facilities, 
equipment and training to assist them in doing their jobs. 
Our ongoing commitment to reduce workplace injuries continues  
with good results. In the USA, which accounts for some 10% of  
our workforce, there was a signiﬁcant reduction in the injury rate  
for 2009 compared with 2008, which was a statistically good year. 
Hazard awareness, safety training and local cultural development  
are helping to reduce injuries. 
Also in the USA we are targeting speciﬁc safety training needs  
through ‘learning paths’ assigned by job responsibility and we use 
online monitoring of and documentation for particular groups, such  
as the employees who deal with dangerous goods shipments.
In several countries an incident log is maintained and posted on the 
intranet, allowing management to view injuries or near misses at 
other locations and discuss ‘lessons learned’ with their employees.
The health and safety of our employees is of paramount importance 
to the Group. We aim to provide a safe working environment and 
ensure that our employees have the information and knowledge  
to perform their duties safely. We are committed to maintaining 
high standards and complying with relevant local legislation and 
guidelines in any area in which we operate. We continually seek to 
minimise harm to our employees and our procedures are regularly 
monitored by our compliance team to ensure that they are being 
properly applied in practice. 
 
has led this year to the creation of a safety committee that effects 
HSE improvements country-wide rather than on a business-line  
basis and better identiﬁes areas that need additional support.  

IOSH Managing Safely certiﬁcate.
Information about employees
It is important to monitor progress in matters such as diversity, 
employment of disabled people, training, employee retention and 
safety, to attain the best results for the Group. The more information  
we have, the better we will be able to make changes when they  
are necessary. 
Group-wide human resource meetings and intranet-based sharing  
of information are used to communicate objectives and share 
knowledge and we have begun to introduce software that will, 
once extended around the globe, provide us with more detailed  
and consistent data.
Information for employees
Good communication is the basis of every successful relationship 
and we continually look for ways to increase two-way 
communication opportunities with our employees. We particularly 
need to ensure that our employees are aware of our ethical, risk  
and safety procedures. 
The development of virtual communities through the extended 
intranet allows us to communicate and promote best practice  
in matters such as safety or marketing around the Group more 
speedily than before. 
With the increasing range and complexity of our activities we are 
investing more in the ﬂow of information up, down and across the 
Group to enhance commitment to Group values and consistency  
in how we support customers and each other. We have extended 
the use of our intranet to encourage Group-wide communication 
and knowledge sharing. Our intranet is being built into an online 
encyclopaedia of the Group, a home to internal communities,  
a reference for policies and information and an e-learning forum. 
Online safety training began during the year. In the USA our online 
training programme was expanded to include additional safety, 
health and environmental matters and safety bulletins. Health, Safety 
& Environmental ‘ﬂash’ notiﬁcations are used for notices that need to 
be issued quickly. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 35
We use face-to-face review meetings, safety meetings, regular 
management meetings and, increasingly, country-focused 
newsletters to give and receive information. 
Employees are also able to use our conﬁdential telephone and  
email hotlines if they have any issues that they want to communicate 
anonymously. All hotline calls are investigated sensitively by our 
compliance managers.
Our Intertek as One programme of cross-divisional liaison has 
contributed to increased knowledge of the Group and to better 
opportunities for our employees through regional and country-
based meetings, communications and workshops. 
Share interests
We are committed to encouraging our senior executives to align 
themselves with the interests of shareholders and the Group’s 
performance through the ownership of the Company’s shares.  
The Company operates a long-term incentive share plan for senior 
executives and requires the most senior of them to retain some of 
the shares they obtain through this plan. More information about 
the plan is contained in the Remuneration Report which starts on 
page 53. We are pleased to note that a number of our employees 
have chosen to invest in the Group and that some £5m of our 
shares were held by employees and Directors at the end of 2009.
Our communities
Because of the decentralised structure of our Group and the nature 
of our activities, community involvement is organised at local level 
by local managers. We recognise the importance of our relationship 
with the communities in which we operate, and encourage our 
businesses and employees to undertake community service and 
charitable giving. 
Here are some examples:
In Thailand, where there has been ﬂooding, our managers obtained 
the consent of a number of customers and were able to redeploy 
product samples not needed for testing – giving toys, clothes and 
utensils to local recipients.
Following the earthquake disaster in China, we joined with other 
companies in donating 50,000 books to children in the affected area.
Intertek in Taiwan supported the restoration work in Taiwan after the 
devastation caused by Typhoon Morakot, not only with a donation 
to the Red Cross, but by offering free food microbiology and chemical 
testing and also giving several jobs to victims. A Red Cross donation 
was also made by employees in Vietnam to help the victims of 

Intertek in Singapore is a strong advocate of developing the 
scientists of tomorrow. On average 30 students per year take part  
in a structured intern training programme, enabling them to gain 
valuable industry experience and enhance their academic training. 
In Africa, Intertek donated 20 used computers to two schools  
 


which caters for children with different disabilities or who are infected 
with HIV/AIDS, and provides the children with clothes, uniforms, 
toys, books, food and other items. The orphanage is located on the 

We also encourage the development of links with professional 
peers, providing lecturers and examiners and contributing to 
publications and presentations. 
As an example, one of our Manchester based subsidiaries 
strengthened its relationship with its customers in the chemical 

Industry Association in 2009. 36 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Our environment
We have measured our carbon emissions at 10 key sites over  
the last three years to gain a better understanding of our energy 
use. This has helped us track the impact of various initiatives on  
CO
2
 emissions. Our Singapore laboratory, for example, showed  
a much reduced CO
2
 footprint following initiatives such as installing 
motion sensors, reducing ﬂuorescent lighting and adjusting  
air-conditioning settings.
Our compliance team carries out regular reviews of risks at key sites, 
and as part of these reviews conﬁrms that the sites comply with 

in 2009 and minor issues were corrected as part of the process. 

ongoing basis.
In common with many areas of Intertek’s business, the implementation 
of our framework policy on the environment is operated by local 
management in accordance with relevant local legislation and 
guidelines. A number of projects have been carried out at the  
local level during the year.
We have continued with the following initiatives:

using electronic document management systems, using electronic 
communication with shareholders and increasing the use of the 
internet and intranet for communications including telephone calls;



call or Webinar and amending travel policies to include 
environmentally-friendly elements;

and cut costs.
Intertek’s compliance team takes an active role in identifying areas 
where the Group and employees can have a positive effect on 
reducing our environmental impact. These include energy and water 
consumption, use of fuel by Group vehicles, reduced use of ozone-
depleting substances and waste and by-product production. 
We continue to achieve ISO14001 (Environmental management) 
and OHSAS18001 (Health & Safety management) accreditation in 

We aim to educate our employees so that we can all work towards 
a better future for the environment. The circulation of information 
concerning, for example, energy consumption, is one of the ways we 
identify and enlist the help of all employees in minimising speciﬁc 
and overall usage. 
Our customers, suppliers and shareholders
At Intertek we:

continually monitor the service we provide; 

focused mission statement;



their inspection of our premises;
 
of service provided; and

As a Group, we do not have any individual suppliers on whom  
we are overly reliant and we aim to treat all suppliers with fairness 
and integrity. We strive to create relationships based on mutual  
trust and ensure payment of all invoices on a timely basis. 
Our Compliance Code sets out our business principles including 
their application in business relationships. The Code is available  
in the Compliance and Corporate Governance section of our 
website at www.intertek.com/investors/governance.
Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and  
a number of means are used to promote greater understanding  
and dialogue with investment audiences. Our investor  
programme includes:

managers during the year;



some of our laboratories to meet our employees and observe 
work being performed.
In addition, Intertek has an experienced investor relations team to 
handle enquiries and report investor-related matters to the Board. 
Feedback on the Group’s investor programme has been positive  
and Intertek has a good relationship with investors and their 
representatives. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 37
During the course of the year shareholders are kept informed on  
the progress of the Group through reports on our ﬁnancial results, 
and other announcements of signiﬁcant developments that are 
released through regulatory outlets and our own website, which 
received a relaunch during the year. We have introduced the  
option of electronic communications with shareholders as a way  
of reducing paper-based reporting. 
Our corporate social responsibility structure
Intertek has businesses in many locations around the world. Our 
activities are organised to permit local or functional managers to 
manage operations within the framework established by the Board 
of Intertek Group plc. We consider local managers are best placed  
to understand and react to their local business environment. They 
have the knowledge to apply policies with due regard to their 
relationships with local stakeholders such as employees, customers 
and communities. 
The corporate social responsibility framework within which these 
activities are to be managed, was formally adopted by the Board  
of Intertek Group plc in 2007.
General policy
Intertek’s core businesses provide services that are ultimately of 
beneﬁt to consumers and other stakeholders. We test substances 
for purity and performance. We test products for safety and quality. 
We measure air and noise emissions. We review imports to assess 
their content accurately. We provide advice that can lead to greater 
efﬁciency of production or operation. We carry out audits to help 
ensure that factory conditions and work practices are legal, humane 
and ethical. Intertek takes seriously the beneﬁts that our businesses 
confer and will continue to endeavour in all its dealings to improve 
quality, safety and to bring about environmental beneﬁts through 
improved efﬁciency of products. 
Environmental policy
Intertek will strive to prevent its operations causing adverse impact 
on the environment. We will comply with national environmental 
legislation and will endeavour to identify, monitor and control our 
environmental risks. We will seek to reduce emissions, efﬂuents, 
waste and adverse effect on biodiversity. We will commit to recycling 
schemes and energy efﬁciency. We will provide beneﬁts in respect 
of environmental impacts through our testing of environmental 
standards and will operate safely.
Ethical policy
Intertek prohibits the offer, giving or acceptance of bribes in any 

reward, gift or favour dependent on the outcome of any work will 
be accepted by employees. Employees shall operate free from any 
conﬂict of interest. 
Employee policy
Intertek will strive to provide a safe and healthy environment for  
its employees to work in. It will comply with national employee 
legislation. In the absence of any local prescription, employees will  
be assessed solely on the basis of their ability irrespective of their 
race, religion, colour, age, disabilities, gender or sexual orientation or 
their participation in legitimate union activities. Employees’ diverse 
perspectives, experiences and traditions will be respected. Wherever 
possible, employees’ personal growth will be fostered through the 
provision of training. 
Community and stakeholder policy
Intertek will take into account, when making decisions, its impact 
on all relevant stakeholders. 
Business practices policy
Intertek will carry out its work in an honest, professional, independent 
and impartial manner. Marketing will be conducted in a manner 
that is not misleading. Procurement from suppliers whose corporate 
responsibility policies align with Intertek’s will be encouraged.
We have cascaded these policies through the management structure 
and added them to our corporate intranet to disseminate them. 
Employees are encouraged to supply ideas and information concerning 
our CSR performance by contacting us through the intranet.
Overall and ultimate responsibility for the Group’s CSR policies, 
issues and their implementation lies with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer.
We take a responsible and active role in the business communities in 
which we operate. Intertek is a member of a number of CSR related 
associations such as CSR Europe, the Ethos Institute of Business and 
Social Responsibility and Canadian Business for Social Responsibility. 
We aim to increase our participation and membership of such bodies 
in the future to show our commitment to being a signiﬁcant player 
in the corporate social responsibility arena. 38 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
This section sets out a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the 
Intertek Group’s strategy, performance, results, ﬁnancial condition 
and/or reputation. The risks and uncertainties set out below,  
do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality  
or probability of occurrence.
Risk framework
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight 
of the Group’s risk management framework. There is an established, 
structured approach to risk management, which is described in  
the Corporate Governance Report which starts on page 46. The 
Vice President of Risk Management and Internal Audit, who reports 
to the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and the Audit and Risk Committee, has 
accountability for reporting the key risks, controls and mitigating 
actions. Risks are formally identiﬁed and recorded in a risk matrix for 
each operating division and support function, which calculates gross 
risk and net risk after mitigating controls are applied. The risk matrix 
is updated annually and is used to plan the Group’s internal audit 
and risk strategy. In addition to the risk matrix, all senior executives 
and their direct reports are required to complete an annual return  
to conﬁrm that management controls have been effectively applied 
during the year. The return covers operations, compliance, risk 
management and ﬁnance. The Vice President of Risk Management 
and Internal Audit attends the meetings of the Audit and Risk 
Committee and meets with the members of that committee alone  
at least once a year. 
In common with all businesses, the Group is affected by a number 
of risk factors, some of which are outside our control. Although 
many of the risk factors inﬂuencing the Group’s performance are 
macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of the business 
generally, others are particular to Intertek’s operations. Speciﬁc risks 
of which we are aware are detailed below, however there may  
be other risks that are currently unknown or are currently regarded 
as immaterial which could turn out to be material. Any of these risks 
could have the potential to impact the performance of the Group, 
its assets, liquidity and capital resources. 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign 
exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income or 
the value of its assets and liabilities. These risks are managed by the 
Group’s treasury function as described below.
Treasury management
The Board is responsible for approving the treasury policy for the 
Group. The Group’s treasury and funding activities are undertaken 
by a centralised treasury function which reports to the Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer. Its primary activities are to manage the Group’s 
liquidity, funding requirements and ﬁnancial risk, principally arising 
from movements in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. 
The Group’s policy is to ensure that adequate liquidity and ﬁnancial 
resource is available to support the Group’s continuing activities and 
growth whilst managing these risks. The Group’s policy is not to 
engage in speculative ﬁnancial transactions. Generally, the Group 
seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in 
proﬁt or loss. There have been no signiﬁcant changes in the Group’s 
policies in the last year. Group Treasury operates as a service centre 
within clearly deﬁned objectives and controls and is subject to 
periodic review by internal audit.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates in more than 100 countries and has 219 (2008: 
217) subsidiaries, of which 185 (2008: 180) report in currencies 
other than sterling. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent  
a signiﬁcant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a 
substantial percentage of the Group’s revenue and operating costs 
are incurred in currencies other than sterling. Because of the high 
proportion of international activity, the Group’s proﬁt is exposed  
to exchange rate ﬂuctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result:  
(i) translation risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency ﬂuctuations  
in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets 
and liabilities into sterling and (ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk 
that currency ﬂuctuations will have a negative effect on the value  
of the Group’s commercial cash ﬂows in various currencies. 
(i) Translation risk
The results of the Group’s overseas activities are translated into 
sterling using the cumulative average exchange rates for the period 
concerned. The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are 
translated at actual exchange rates applicable at 31 December. 

   Assets and liabilities Income and expenses 
Value of £1   Actual rates Cumulative average rates
   31 Dec 09 31 Dec 08 2009 2008
US dollar  1.60 1.46 1.56 1.87
Euro  1.12 1.02 1.12 1.26
Chinese renminbi  10.90 9.95 10.63 13.03
  12.38 11.28 12.06 14.59
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 39
Material changes in the exchange rates can create volatility in the 
results when they are translated into sterling. In order to mitigate 
this translation exposure, the Group’s policy is to match the currency 
of external borrowings to the currency of expected cash ﬂows and 
the currency of net investments. At 31 December 2009, over 60% 
of the Group’s borrowings were denominated in US dollars.
(ii) Transaction risk
The Group’s policy requires overseas subsidiaries to hedge all 
signiﬁcant transaction exposures with Group Treasury where they 
are managed centrally. Subsidiaries’ transaction exposures include 
committed foreign currency sales and purchases together with the 
anticipated transactions reasonably expected to occur during future 
periods. The Group’s policy is also to hedge transaction exposures 
arising from the remittance of overseas dividends and interest as 
soon as they are committed. Transaction exposures are hedged 
forward using forward currency contracts which mature in less  
than 12 months. 
Interest rate risk and exposure
The Group’s policy is to ensure that between 33% and 67% of its 
exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on a ﬁxed 
rate basis. This is achieved by entering into interest rate swaps. The 
balance between ﬁxed and variable rate debt is periodically adjusted 
on the basis of prevailing and anticipated market conditions and the 
Group’s gearing and interest cover, which are monitored by Group 
Treasury. Details of the interest rate hedges in place at 31 December 
2009 are given in note 26 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Liquidity 

obligations as and when they fall due. Managing liquidity risk is 
particularly important in the current economic environment where 
the availability of capital is limited.
The management of operational liquidity risk aims primarily at 
ensuring that the Group always has a liquidity buffer that is able, in 
the short term, to absorb the net effects of transactions made and 
expected changes in liquidity both under normal and stressed 
conditions without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage 
to the Group’s reputation. Group Treasury manages this liquidity risk 
through the use of daily headroom calculations as well as forecast 
headroom calculations. Group Treasury is in regular contact with the 
banks and capital debt markets, as well as other potential providers 
of debt to ensure a proper understanding of the availability and 
pricing of debt funding.
The Group has a sterling denominated multi-currency bank debt 
facility that was placed in December 2004. This facility was originally 
due to expire on 15 December 2009, however the Group exercised 
its option to extend the facility by a year in 2005 and by a further 
year in 2006, so the facility is now due to expire in December 2011. 
The margins currently paid on the borrowings in this facility are in 
 
a further £75.0m under this facility under the same terms and 
conditions and margin and also raised US$200.0m by way of senior 
note issues which have a blended ﬁxed borrowing rate of 6.71%. 
The notes are repayable in three tranches with US$100.0m due on  


a US$60.0m bilateral, multi-currency revolving credit facility with 

The sterling equivalent of the gross available and drawn borrowings 
as at 31 December 2009 was £488.8m (2008: £519.4m) of which 
£335.6m (2008: £421.6m) was drawn and £153.2m (2008: £97.8m) 
was available when translated at the year end exchange rates. The 
Group also reported a cash balance of £134.2m at 31 December 2009 
(2008: £113.3m). The borrowings and cash are mostly in currencies 
other than sterling and so the value of these can ﬂuctuate when 
translated into sterling. The liquidity headroom is sterling denominated 
and so this can also ﬂuctuate depending on the sterling value of the 
drawn borrowings. The Group has prepared forecasts, including 
scenarios adjusted for signiﬁcantly worse economic conditions and 
we have concluded that these facilities are expected to be adequate 
to support the Group’s medium-term funding requirements. 
The analysis of the debt and a description of the borrowings and 
their respective maturity dates is given in note 17 to the ﬁnancial 
statements and the currency of the debt is shown in note 26.
Surplus cash is placed on deposit with short-term maturities 
providing liquidity when required. 40 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a ﬁnancial loss to the Group if a customer  
or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables 
from customers. 
 
(i) Trade receivables
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade 
receivables as the Group has a large number of customers which are 
internationally dispersed. All companies in the Group are required to 
operate a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed 
individually for creditworthiness before the company transacts any 
business with the customer. Each division has a range of targets  
for days sales outstanding and to encourage and reward good 
performance, these form part of the bonus criteria for divisional 
managers. The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that 
represents our estimate of likely losses in respect of trade and other 
receivables. The main components of this allowance are a speciﬁc 
loss component that relates to individually signiﬁcant exposures and 
a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets 
in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identiﬁed. 
The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data 
of payment statistics for similar ﬁnancial assets. Due to the current 
economic recession there is an increased risk that certain of our 
customers may face ﬁnancial difﬁculties and as a result be unable  
to meet our credit terms or cease trading. We have reinforced our 
credit checking procedures and have increased our vigilance in 
monitoring and reacting to changes in our clients’ circumstances. 
 
(ii) Counterparty
The Group monitors the distribution of cash deposits, borrowings 
and hedging instruments which are assigned to each of the Group’s 
counterparties and which are subject to periodic review.
Tax risk
Tax risk is the risk that the value of tax assets and liabilities in the 
Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is misstated, 
resulting in ﬁnancial loss to the Group.
The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to 
wide range of complex tax laws and regulations. At any point in time 
it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular 
territory which may be subject to enquiry by local authorities. Where 
the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used 
in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past proﬁts which 
are recognised in the ﬁnancial statements. The Group considers the 
estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this 
can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to 
resolve. The ﬁnal determination of prior year tax liabilities could be 
different from the estimates reﬂected in the ﬁnancial statements. 
Risk of ﬁnancial irregularities
Risk of ﬁnancial irregularities is the risk that assets of the Group 
could be misappropriated resulting in ﬁnancial loss to the Group,  
as well as the risk of management misrepresenting results.
The Group comprises 219 subsidiaries, operating in over 100 countries. 
Historically, the ﬁnance structure was organised on a divisional basis. 
In 2009, the function was reorganised on a geographic basis with a 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer allocated to each of the three regions. Country 
ﬁnance managers have been nominated in all major countries and 
the Group is migrating towards larger, multi-divisional accounting 
centres with common accounting systems and controls. These 
changes have further strengthened ﬁnancial controls and support 
the Intertek as One programme. 
The Group operates a rigorous programme of internal audits  
and management reviews, however, we cannot be certain that 
internal and external audit procedures will always identify any 
ﬁnancial irregularity. The Group regularly reminds the operating 
company ofﬁcers of their ﬁduciary responsibilities and maintains  
a culture of openness to promote disclosure. As described above, 
each of the senior executives and their direct reports are required  
to complete an annual return to conﬁrm that management  
controls have been effectively applied during the year. 
Risk of litigation
Risk of litigation is the risk that the Group could suffer a material 
ﬁnancial loss resulting from a legal judgement against the Group or 
one of its subsidiaries. Such a judgement could also result in adverse 
publicity which could damage the reputation of the Group. 
The Group is regularly notiﬁed of, or involved in, a number of claims 
and proceedings which are incidental to its ordinary course of 
business. Claims can arise in the context of a dispute between the 
parties to a commercial transaction in which the Group has provided 
testing, inspection or certiﬁcation services. Often the Group’s role in 
the transaction will be incidental to the underlying dispute, but the 
claim will be notiﬁed to the Group in order to toll the relevant 
statute of limitations in respect of such a claim. In certain situations, 
a claim may only be notiﬁed to the Group after resolution of the 
underlying commercial dispute and, in such cases, a considerable 
period of time may elapse between the performance of services by 
the Group and the assertion of a claim in respect of such services. In 
either case, because the underlying commercial transaction can be 
of signiﬁcant value, the claims notiﬁed to the Group can allege 
substantial damages. 
To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, the Group has extensive 
quality assurance and control procedures to ensure that work is 
performed in accordance with proper protocols. All incidents that 
could potentially result in a claim against the Group are reported to 
Directors’ Report – Business Review www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 41
compliance ofﬁcers and are logged in a database of incidents.  
The Company Secretary reports signiﬁcant claims to the Audit and 

Group mitigates the risk of ﬁnancial loss arising from litigation by 
maintaining insurance against potential claims, however there can 
be no assurance that claims brought against the Group will always 
be covered by insurance, or that such insurance, if available, will be 
sufﬁcient to cover fully the damages or other expenses which the 
Group may be required to pay. 
Legal and regulatory compliance
We are subject worldwide to laws and regulations that govern and/ 
or affect where and how our business may be conducted. We have 
implemented internal compliance and audit systems to facilitate 
compliance with the requirements of the laws and regulations 
affecting our business conduct, and we believe that we have taken 
the appropriate steps to comply with these requirements. However, 
there can be no assurance that compliance issues under the above 
laws and regulations may not arise with respect to Intertek, our 

with applicable laws and regulations could result in criminal liability on 
behalf of the Company and/or the Directors, imposition of signiﬁcant 
ﬁnes, as well as negative publicity and reputational damage.
Dependence on accreditations
Intertek holds accreditations and afﬁliations that manufacturers need 
for the global market entry of their products. These accreditations 
are granted by governments, accreditation bodies, manufacturers, 
retailers and other bodies to the legal entities operating within 
Intertek. Each accreditation has a deﬁned scope and is site speciﬁc. 
In order to maintain an accreditation, each site is subject to regular 
audits by the accreditation issuer and other associated parties. 
Intertek has extensive quality assurance procedures and routines 
embedded through the Group to ensure that accreditations are 
maintained and that we uphold the highest standards in both our 
testing methods and our business practices. Failure to retain an 
accreditation could lead to loss of business in the relevant industry 
sector and damage to our reputation. 
Loss of key facilities
There is a risk that assets of the Group could be damaged or destroyed 
by an environmental incident and that the Group could incur loss of 
revenue as a result of the ensuing disruption to operations. 
Intertek operates facilities in geographical locations which are 
subject to local, environmental and political factors. Disasters such 
as ﬁre, hurricanes, ﬂoods and earthquakes can cause damage to 
property and personnel and can disrupt operations, causing loss  
of revenue. The Group maintains disaster recovery plans at key 
facilities for such events and endeavours to ensure that adequate 
insurance is in place. 
Environmental health and safety risks
We are subject to worldwide laws and regulations governing 
activities that may have adverse environmental effects, such as 
discharges to air and water and handling, storage and disposal of 
hazardous wastes and chemicals. In many jurisdictions these laws 
are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more 
stringent over time. Our operations are also subject to various  
health and safety laws and regulations. We believe that we are in 
material compliance with applicable environmental and health and 
safety laws where failure to comply would materially and adversely 
affect the Intertek Group. However, there can be no assurance  
that breaches of these laws have not occurred or will not occur  
or be identiﬁed, or that these laws will not change in the future  
in a manner that could materially and adversely affect the Group. 
Environmental laws and regulations may also impose obligations  
to investigate and remediate or pay for the investigation and 
remediation of environmental contamination, and compensate 
public and private parties for related damages. If an environmental 
issue arises in relation to a property and it is not remedied, or not 
capable of being remedied, this may result in such property either 
being sold at a reduced sale price or becoming unsaleable.
Political risk
Political risk is the risk that the Group could suffer ﬁnancial losses 
due to the action of a government.
The Group operates in some countries where there is potential risk of 
political instability which can make it difﬁcult to operate. In particular, 
government contracts in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division can be 
subject to change or termination at short notice. The Group manages 
this risk by maintaining close relationships with government 
representatives, however the risk cannot be entirely mitigated. 
Reputational risk
Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to maintain our 
reputation in the marketplace as an independent and trustworthy 
entity. The Group’s primary business objectives require adherence  
to local, national and international laws and require all the Group’s 
employees to operate professionally, fairly and with integrity and 
honesty in all business dealings. Failure to follow these principles 
could result in adverse publicity which could harm our reputation 
among our customers, damage our brand and affect both our 
operational performance and ﬁnancial position. A combination of 
awareness training and targeted controls is in place to encourage 
and monitor adherence to these principles and prevent such events 
occurring, however we cannot guarantee that our association with 
any negative publicity will not have an adverse effect upon public 
opinion and a consequential impact on our business. 42 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Board of Directors
01
03
05
08 09
02
04
06 07
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 43
01 Vanni Treves (69)
Chairman
Appointed to the Board as Chairman in May 2002. He is a corporate  
 
for 30 years, (during twelve of which he was Senior Partner). He has been 

 
 


02 Wolfhart Hauser (60)
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in March 2005 after  
 previously Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of TÜV Product Services for 10 years  
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and President of TÜV Süddeutschland AG  
from 1998 to 2002. Starting his career as a scientist in pharmacology  
and ergonomics, he established and led a broad range of successful 
international service industry businesses over 25 years. He is also  

03 Bill Spencer (50)
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (retiring 31 March 2010)
Appointed to the Board as a Director in April 2002, he has been Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer of the Group since its acquisition from Inchcape plc in 
1996. Previously, he was the Finance Director of lnchcape Testing Services 


 
of Management Accountants and a member of the Association of  
Corporate Treasurers.
04 David Allvey (64)


career that started in civil engineering, as a Chartered Accountant he has 
held positions in major international businesses including Group Finance 
Director for BAT Industries plc and Barclays Bank plc and Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer for Zurich Financial Services. He is currently Chairman of Costain 
 
 

05 Edward Astle (56)

 
He is currently Pro-Rector of Commercial Development at Imperial College 


 
a Managing Director at the BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 and an Executive 
and Regional Director at Cable & Wireless plc from 1989 to 1997. Previously  
 06 Gavin Darby (54)

 
He is currently Operations & Business Development Director of Vodafone 
Group Plc for the Asia Paciﬁc and Middle East Region, and prior to that,  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for Vodafone Afﬁliates in the USA, Africa, China  

Gavin’s operational and management experience spans the consumer goods 
and technology sectors, having held senior executive positions at Coca-Cola 
 



07 Christopher Knight (63)

 
He was an investment banker for nearly 30 years, for much of that time with 
Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank, of which he was a managing director 
until 2001. He is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive corporate 


08 Mark Loughead (50)
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Appointed to the Board and appointed Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of Intertek 

sales, key account management, global information systems and country-
focused activities across the Group. Previously, he was Chief Executive of 
Intertek’s Oil, Chemical & Agri division. Before this, he was Vice President  
of the division in the Americas and prior to that, divisional Vice President in 
Europe, Middle East and Africa. He joined the Group in 1988 as Operations 
 
for Scotland, based in Aberdeen. Prior to joining Intertek, he spent 13 years 
at Inspectorate including six years in the Middle East.
09 Debra Rade (56)



Inc., a global provider of systems certiﬁcation, product inspection, testing and 
certiﬁcation, and held various positions there, including Senior Vice President, 
 

in Chicago focused on corporate law, and legal issues concerning product 
testing, safety, certiﬁcation, standards and regulations. Additionally, she is 

strategic planning services.  44 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Intertek Operations Committee
01 Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
See Board of Directors.
02 Bill Spencer
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
See Board of Directors.
03 Mark Loughead
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
See Board of Directors.
04 Paul Yao
Group Executive Vice President 
Consumer Goods 

 
 
with responsibility for Consumer Goods in China and Taiwan. Before  
joining Intertek, Paul worked in Regional Sales & Marketing for companies  
such as Hitachi Chemical, Brent Plc and SISIR Singapore.
05 Stefan Butz
Group Executive Vice President 
Industrial Services 

In addition to Industrial Services, Stefan Butz has responsibility for the  
Group functions of Strategy, Corporate Development and Marketing.  
 
from TÜV SÜD, where he was CEO America with an earlier role as  
Head of Corporate Development. Prior to this he was a Strategy  
Consultant with Accenture Germany.
06 Jonathan Lawrence
Group Executive Vice President 
Human Resources  

 
 
France and the USA. Before moving to Intertek, he was Group Senior Vice 
President of Human Resources at Bureau Veritas and prior to this he was 
Group Director Management Development at Valeo Automotive.
01 02 03 04 05
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 45
07 Andrew Swift
Division Executive Vice President 
Analytical Services  

 
Vice President of Global Outsourcing within Intertek’s Oil, Chemical & Agri 
division, having originally started as Business Development Manager and 
then Director of Global Outsourcing. Andrew began his career by  

08 Gregg Tiemann
Division Executive Vice President 
Commercial & Electrical 


President of Intertek’s Commercial & Electrical division in Europe and  
the Americas since 2004, having started as General Manager of the  

Gregg worked in sales and marketing for the software industry.
09 Jay Gutierrez
Division Executive Vice President 
Oil, Chemical & Agri 


 
 
career with Intertek with a focus to develop the Chemical business stream, 
later assuming responsibility for International Coordination and Sales & 
Marketing. Prior to joining Intertek he spent eight years as General  

10 Marc Hoffer
Division Executive Vice President 
Minerals 


continued responsibility for Intertek’s Oil, Chemical & Agri division in Asia. 
Prior to joining Intertek Marc spent 13 years at SGS, part of the time as 
Country Manager of Taiwan, Brazil and Switzerland and part as Regional 
Financial Controller for Asia and Europe.
06 07 08 09 10 46 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Corporate Governance Report
Introduction
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance 
and this report outlines its compliance with the provisions of the 
revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (the Code). The Code is 
available at www.frc.org.uk.
Throughout 2009 the Group complied with almost all of the 
provisions of the Code. The areas of non-compliance are as follows, 
and are further discussed and explained below:

Directors in accordance with section A.3.2 of the Code. for the 
eight month period to 1 September 2009 but has done so since 
that date; and

Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee, each included two 


Chairman of the Company, Vanni Treves is not viewed as 
independent under the Code. Since 1 September 2009 the 
Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee 

in compliance with the Code.
The Board

ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and that it 

meet its obligations to its shareholders and others, to lead the 
Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which 

strategic objectives and to ensure that the appropriate ﬁnancial and 



management. All Directors have a wide range of experience and 
skills, bringing independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, 
performance, resources and standards of conduct.





David Allvey, who is also the Senior Independent Director, 
 
 
 
on page 43.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Group has identiﬁed a number of key areas that are subject  

management can be reviewed and monitored. A board matrix is  
 





 
delegated limits;




delegated authority to executive management, subject to certain 


Board meetings


table on page 49. Also on several occasions, the Chairman met with 


without the Chairman being present. If a Director has any concerns 
about the Group or a proposed action, then such concerns are 

Role of the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Senior 
Independent Director
In order to avoid any one individual having unfettered powers, there 
is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 


 
at which point he met the independence criteria as set out in the 


its agenda; ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely  
and clear information; ensuring effective communication with 



biography on page 43. 
 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 47
Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, has direct charge of 
the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board  
for the ﬁnancial and operational performance of the Group.
David Allvey was appointed Senior Independent Director in  
 Directors’ annual consideration of the Chairman’s performance  

management present. David Allvey is readily available to 
shareholders if they have concerns that remain unresolved  
after contacting the Group through the usual channels of the 
Chairman or any of the Executive Directors or where such contact  
is inappropriate. 
Board balance and independence
The Code requires that half of the Board comprises independent 
 

Directors represented less than half the Board. In order to refresh  

 

Astle and Gavin Darby, were appointed to the Board. Following 
these additional appointments, and the retirement of Richard 
 

The Board considers David Allvey, Edward Astle, Gavin Darby, 
 
and judgement and conﬁrms that they have been Directors of the 
Company for less than nine years, were never employed by the 
Group and have no material relationships or links to the business 
which would compromise their independence. Under the Code, 

 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Group. However, until his retirement 

viewpoint and valuable expertise to the Board through his extensive 
knowledge of the business and industry.
 ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are 
fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-
term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take 
proper account of the interests of customers, employees and other 

inﬂuential individuals and through their mix of skills and business 
experience they contribute signiﬁcantly to the effective functioning 
of the Board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully 
debated and that no one individual or group dominates the 
decision-making process.
The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions relating  
to the retirement, election and re-election of directors. At the 
forthcoming AGM Edward Astle and Gavin Darby will stand for 

Executive Director will retire and, being eligible, will offer himself  
for re-election. 
Information and professional development
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors have full 
and timely access to all relevant information. Papers are circulated 
well before the Board and Committee meetings to ensure that 
Directors have the necessary time to read and review them. The 
 
and regular management reports and information which enable 
them to scrutinise the Group’s and management’s performance 
against agreed objectives and prior performance.

receive a formal induction programme, co-ordinated by the  
Group Company Secretary, tailored to suit the individual’s  
previous experience. Ongoing training is provided to Directors as 
necessary, for example, on best practice and changes in legislation, 
developments in the economic and regulatory environment and  
on the Company’s businesses. In addition, visits to sites are arranged 
at least once a year and one Board meeting is held abroad which 
incorporates a visit to one of the Group’s principal sites to further 

Directors also attend various seminars during the year on topics 
relevant to a publicly-listed company.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group 
Company Secretary, who will assist in arranging any additional 
training and information as required. The appointment and  
removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the  
Board as a whole.
All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, 
at the Group’s expense, in the performance of their duties as 

with the Company’s Articles of Association, the Company has 
granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each of  
the Directors and Group Company Secretary. Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ 
liability insurance is in place.
 
The Board believes that strong corporate governance improves  
the performance of the business and enhances shareholder value. 
During its meetings in 2009, the Board received and discussed 
reports from the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer on strategy, debt ﬁnancing, market reports, 
share trading reports, analysts’ forecasts, potential acquisitions, 
litigation reports, ﬁnal and interim dividend recommendations,  48 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Corporate Governance Report
potential contract bids, road show and investor feedback, budgets, 
tax policy, Annual Report, Half Year Results, interim management 
statements, announcements and a wide range of other issues. 
Performance evaluation
Once again, the Board engaged in a performance evaluation 
process led by the Chairman comprising of a series of detailed 
questionnaires which provide a framework for the evaluation 
process. This provides a source of information not just on the 
Board’s performance but also on that of individual Directors and the 
Chairman. It also provides the Chairman with a means of making 
year-on-year comparisons. There are questionnaires for each of the 
following: the Board; each individual Director; and the Audit and 
Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. 
This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees ensures that the performance of each individual 
Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and each 
Committee are properly measured and debated. 
The Chairman assesses the individual performance of each Director, 
taking into account discussions with other Directors. The Senior 
Independent Director has discussions with the other Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman being present,  
in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance during the year. 
For the year under review, these assessments concluded that the 
information supplied to the Board was extensive and informative. 
The assessment highlighted a wish for several presentations by 
senior managers to be made to the Board during 2009, which  
took place and such presentations will continue during 2010.  
The performance of the Board and each Director was, and is, 
effective, and all Directors demonstrate full commitment in their 
respective roles to the Company evidenced, inter alia, by the  
Board and Committee attendance records set out in this report.  
The evaluations further demonstrate that the Board has an 
appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors add value to the  
overall effectiveness and success of the Group, and that no 
substantial issues have arisen out of the evaluation process. 
The Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees 
also each held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness during 
the year, the results of which were reported to the Board by the 
Group Company Secretary. The reviews concluded that each 
Committee was operating in an efﬁcient and effective manner.  
The Board will continue to develop the evaluation process in order 
to ensure that it can properly review, on an annual basis, its 
performance and that of its individual members and Committees. 
Board Committees
The Board has established three Committees, each with clearly 
deﬁned terms of reference, procedures and powers. These terms  
of reference are available on request from the Group Company 
Secretary at the registered ofﬁce or can be downloaded from  
www.intertek.com. The Directors who held ofﬁce during the year 
and the number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings 
attended by each Director during the year are given in the table  
on page 49.
The Remuneration Committee
At the end of 2009 this Committee comprised of three independent 
Non-Executive Directors, David Allvey (Chairman), Gavin Darby and 
Christopher Knight. Vanni Treves is also a member of the 
Committee. The Code requires the Remuneration Committee to 
have at least three independent Non-Executive Directors whilst 
allowing the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company,  
if considered independent on appointment, to be a member. The 
Committee complied with the Code provision on composition from 
1 September 2009, when Gavin Darby was appointed as a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to 
the Board on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors 
and senior executives and for the determination, within agreed 
terms of reference, of additional beneﬁts for each of the Executive 
Directors, including pension rights and any compensation for loss  
of ofﬁce. The Committee is also responsible for the implementation 
and operation of employee share incentive arrangements. Details  
of the matters discussed and actions taken by the Remuneration 
Committee, including the Group’s remuneration for Executive 
Directors, and details of beneﬁts, share options, pension 
entitlements, service contracts and compensation payments are 
given in the Remuneration Report which starts on page 53.
The Nominations Committee
This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, 
Vanni Treves (Chairman), David Allvey and Christopher Knight. 
During 2009 this Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed 
that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective. 
The composition of the Committee is in compliance with the Code.
This Committee met three times during the year. The main purpose 
of the Committee is to nominate candidates to ﬁll board vacancies, 
review talent mapping and succession planning for the Board and 
senior management and make recommendations on the balance 
and composition of the Board. 
During the year the Board accepted the Committee’s 
recommendations that Edward Astle and Gavin Darby join the 
Board. Both were appointed on 1 September 2009 as Non-
Executive Directors, increasing the number of independent  
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 49
Non-Executive Directors to ﬁve, and also helping to maintain the 
balance of the Board in the context of the retirement of Richard 
Nelson from the Board during 2009. In respect of the appointment 
of Edward Astle and Gavin Darby, the Committee engaged an 
independent search consultancy to help it identify suitable 
candidates with the necessary skills and capabilities required.
Talent mapping and succession planning are important components 
in ensuring the continued success of the Group. The goal of the 
Intertek talent mapping process is to have the right organisation 
with the right people in the right jobs at the right time, including 
identifying and preparing the next generation. This approach was 
ﬁrst introduced in 2006. The 2009 objectives were to continue the 
roll out of the customer centric organisation and cascade the talent 
processes through and across the global operations.
Reviews are conducted by ‘career committees’ of the Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer, Division Executive Vice Presidents, Group Executive Vice 
President Human Resources and the Division Vice Presidents Human 
Resources. The global Intertek talent mapping process includes the 
identiﬁcation and readiness of potential successors and highlights 
coaching, mentoring and training if required.
Bearing in mind the balance of existing skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Board, a job description is prepared for any new 
Board position and when a Non-Executive Director is appointed, the 
Committee requires conﬁrmation that he or she can devote sufﬁcient 
time to fulﬁl the commitments of the role. The terms and conditions  
of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection 
by any person at the Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal 
business hours and at the AGM (for 15 minutes prior to the meeting 
and during the meeting). All new Directors are subject to election 
by shareholders at the ﬁrst AGM after their appointment and then 
subject to re-election by shareholders once every three years. 
The policy on Directors’ service contracts is set out in the 
Remuneration Report.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings
      Scheduled  Audit and Risk  Nominations  Remuneration 
      Board  Committee  Committee  Committee 
Name/Position     meetings  meetings  meetings  meetings
Vanni Treves      7 (7)  4 (4)  3 (3)  6 (6) 
Chairman
Wolfhart Hauser      7 (7)  n/a  n/a  n/a 
Chief Executive Officer
Mark Loughead      7 (7)  n/a  n/a  n/a 
Chief Operating Officer
Bill Spencer      7 (7)   n/a  n/a  n/a 
Chief Financial Officer
David Allvey      7 (7)  4 (4)  3 (3)  6 (6) 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Edward Astle (appointed 1 September 2009)*  3 (3)  1(1)  n/a  n/a 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gavin Darby (appointed 1 September 2009)*  3 (3)  n/a  n/a  1 (1) 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Christopher Knight     7 (7)  4 (4)  3 (3)  6 (6) 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Debra Rade      7 (7)  n/a  n/a  n/a 
Independent Non-Executive Director
 
Former director 
Richard Nelson (retired 1 September 2009)*  3 (4)  n/a  n/a  n/a 
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 
* Actual attendance/maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Board/Committee member.
Membership of the three relevant Board Committees is set out on pages 48 to 50. 50 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Corporate Governance Report
The Audit and Risk Committee

Vanni Treves. The Code requires the Audit and Risk Committee  
 
As Chairman of the Company, Vanni Treves is not viewed as 
independent by the Code and therefore the Committee did not 
comply with the Code until 1 September 2009 when Edward Astle 
was appointed a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.  
 
relevant ﬁnancial experience as detailed in their biographies  
on page 43. 
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the integrity of the Group’s 
ﬁnancial statements and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s performance. The Committee is responsible for monitoring 
the effectiveness of the external audit process and making 
recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors, and  
for ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between 
the Group and its external auditors. It also reviews annually the 
Group’s systems of internal control, risk management, the processes 
for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group and the 
effectiveness of the internal audit function. It reviews the progress 
of internal audit activity against the annual plan, and reviews  
the strategy, scope and approach of the internal audit and risk 
management teams. It reviews the corrective action taken by 
management to address any control issues identiﬁed by the  
internal audit and risk management function. It is responsible for 
approving the appointment and termination of the Vice President 
Risk Management and Internal Audit and meets with him at least 
once a year without management present.
Committee meetings are usually attended by the Group’s external 
auditors, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Vice 
President Financial Control and the Vice President Risk Management 
and Internal Audit. The Group’s external auditors meet with the 
members of the Audit and Risk Committee at least once a year 
without management present.
The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure the continued 
independence and objectivity of the Group’s external auditors. A 
policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external auditors 
has been approved by the Board to ensure that auditors’ objectivity 
and independence are safeguarded. To this end, the policy 
highlights those areas where the external auditor cannot provide 
services to the Group, including inter alia, the provision of Group 
management functions, internal audit outsourcing, provision of 
legal advice and recruitment and remuneration advice. The external 
auditors conﬁrm by way of letter to the Board that processes to 
ensure compliance with this policy are in place, and that these 
processes are monitored regularly. A detailed breakdown of the 
audit and non-audit fees paid to the Group’s auditors during the 
year is set out in note 5 to the ﬁnancial statements.
 
 
Audit Plc be reappointed auditor at the forthcoming Annual  
General Meeting. 
At its meetings during 2009, the Committee reviewed and endorsed 
prior to submission to the Board, the Group’s 2008 Annual Report 

members also attend meetings with the external auditors and 
management to discuss any accounting issues associated with the 
annual audit. It also reviewed the Group’s arrangements for the 
avoidance and detection of fraud and related matters, whistle-
blowing and hotlines, compliance, training, quality assurance 
systems and potential claims affecting the Company.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the  

with the Board. 
During 2009 the Audit and Risk Committee met four times. 
Procedures to deal with Directors’ conﬂicts of interests
The Board has a formal system to deal with conﬂicts of Directors’ 
interests. Each year all Directors complete a questionnaire in order 
to identify any conﬂicts or potential conﬂicts of interests. The 
decision to authorise a conﬂict of interest can only be made by non-
conﬂicted Directors, meaning those who have no interest in the 
matter being considered. The authorised decisions are reviewed on 
an annual basis or, where appropriate, authorisation is sought prior 
to the appointment of any new directors or if a new conﬂict arises. 
During 2009 this procedure operated effectively. 
Internal control
The Group’s primary business objectives require adherence to local, 
national and international laws and require the Group’s employees 
to show integrity and honesty in all business dealings. Risk 
management and internal controls are therefore embedded in the 
running of each division and support function, assuring the accuracy 
and validity of reports and certiﬁcates that the Group provides to 
customers. The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. Such a system can realistically only manage rather 
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives  
and can only provide reasonable assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 51
There are a number of controls in place to ensure that the Group has 
robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and for 
ﬁnancial reporting. Intertek has a clear set of Accounting Policies 
and Procedures available to all staff. This gives instructions on 
accounting treatment and reporting. There are ongoing reviews of 
adherence to these policies by Group Internal Audit and by Finance 
Management. The Group is audited externally by KPMG Audit Plc. 
The Board conﬁrms that in addition to internal audits, there is an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any 
signiﬁcant risks to the Group’s short and long-term value, including 
those arising from social, environmental and ethical matters. This 
process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with 
the Turnbull Guidance, has been in place for the year under review 
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report. Any breaches 
of internal controls identiﬁed by the Group’s control review 
procedures are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee and 
corrective action taken. In carrying out the risk review, the Board is 
satisﬁed that it received adequate information from the operations 
around the world. Training is provided to Directors on these matters 
where necessary. 
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of  
the system of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial internal control during the 
year. In particular, it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve 
the process for identifying and evaluating the signiﬁcant risks 
affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which 
these risks are managed. This is reinforced by the Intertek 
Compliance Code and Code of Ethics, which provide practical 
guidance and instruction for employees. The Codes are available at 
www.intertek.com. 
The Group maintains a robust stance in regard to breaches of ethics 
and all employees are required to sign a certiﬁcate conﬁrming their 
understanding that any breaches of the Group’s Code of Ethics will 
result in disciplinary action that may include summary dismissal of 
the employee concerned. To support Group policies and to facilitate 
the raising of concerns about possible improprieties in matters of 
ﬁnancial reporting or any other matters, the Group provides and 
publicises email and telephone hotlines so that staff may report 
anonymously any inaccurate or unethical working practices.  
All complaints are investigated thoroughly with action taken  
as appropriate. The number of complaints received, together with 
the corrective actions taken, are reported to the Audit and Risk 
Committee. During 2009, 88 complaints were received and 
investigated. This is an increase from the 42 reported last year.  
The Group has increased the awareness of hotlines to internal  
and external parties, and sees hotlines as an important tool in 
eradicating isolated cases of poor behaviour. Most investigations 
concluded that the complaint was unfounded, but corrective action 
was taken where appropriate.
In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee endeavours 
to ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and 
effective controls, checks, systems and risk management techniques 
so as to be in line with best practice on such matters. 
Each operating division and support function is responsible for the 
identiﬁcation and evaluation of signiﬁcant risks applicable to that 
area of business, together with the design and operation of suitable 
internal controls. These risks are assessed on a continual basis, and 
may be associated with a variety of internal or external factors 
including control breakdowns, disruption of information systems, 
loss of key facilities, retention of key staff, competition, natural 
catastrophe and regulatory requirements. Operation of the controls 
is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or its consequences.
A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical  
reporting has been established which provides a documented  
trail of accountability. These procedures are applied across Group 
operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given at 
increasingly higher levels of management and ﬁnally, to the Board. 
This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides 
assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal 
controls. Planned corrective actions are independently monitored  
for timely completion.
Each division and support function reports annually to the Audit 
and Risk Committee via the Vice President Risk Management and 
Internal Audit on its review of risks and how they are managed. 
Each year senior managers throughout the Group conﬁrm the 
adequacy of their systems of internal controls, compliance with 
Group policies, local laws and regulations and report any control 
weaknesses identiﬁed in the past year. One of the Audit and Risk 
Committee’s main roles is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key 
risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary 
to ensure such risks are properly managed. 
Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the 
ﬁndings reported to divisional management and to compliance 
ofﬁcers. Each division has at least one compliance ofﬁcer who 
undertakes investigations of issues that arise either from quality 
assurance audits or by other means, such as the employee hotline. 
Reports of signiﬁcant ﬁndings are presented to the Audit and  
Risk Committee.
 
Each geographic region has at least one internal auditor who is 
independent of the divisions. Sites are reviewed regularly on a 
schedule based on materiality and perceived risk. Reports of 
signiﬁcant ﬁndings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee 
which monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function. The internal audit department was awarded ISO 9001 
accreditation in 2003. An external accreditation body conducts  52 Intertek Annual Report 2009
surveillance audits of the internal audit department every year, and 
conducts a more detailed review every three years. During 2009, 
the department’s ISO 9001 accreditation was successfully renewed 
for a further three years.
The Group will, from time to time, be required by its customers  
to operate in countries where there is potential political and 
economic risk. In doing so, the Group fulﬁls its policy of facilitating 
international trade inspection and audit services that help to prevent 
corruption and assist with humanitarian aid. Where there are no 
laws in place that prohibit business dealings in certain countries,  
the Group will consider operating in those countries, but only in 
compliance with its stringent Code of Ethics.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer also reports to the Board on signiﬁcant 
changes in the business and the external environment which could 
impact on risk. The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer provides the Board with 
monthly ﬁnancial information, which includes the comparison of key 
performance ﬁgures against budgets, and forecasts. Information  
is also provided with regards to risk indicators. The Board approves 
the treasury policy and the Treasury department’s activities are  
also subject to regular internal audits. During 2009 the policies  
and procedures of the Treasury department were also reviewed  
by PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective 
investor relations and communication programme as part  
of its ongoing relationship with the Company’s shareholders.  
The Group produces an Annual Report which is available to 
shareholders and also publishes interim management statements  

contains up-to-date information on its activities and published 
ﬁnancial results. Shareholders can subscribe via the Investors’ 
section of www.intertek.com to receive email alerts of important 
announcements made by the Group. The Companies Act 2006  
and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial  
Services Authority enable communications with shareholders  
using electronic means via the Group website or by email.  
The Group’s Annual Report, notices of meetings and proxy  
forms are provided electronically as a default option. However, 
shareholders are also able to request paper copies of documents  
if they so choose.
Any comments received from institutional shareholders are 
communicated directly to the Board, and all analysts’ and brokers’ 
reports on the Group are sent to each Director.
The Company’s AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity 
to further develop their understanding of the Company and to ask 
questions of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, 
including the Annual Report. All Board members attend the AGM 

and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions. 
At General Meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made 
available to all shareholders and is also available on the Group 
website. The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially 
separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
Going concern
After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue  
in operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue  
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group’s  
ﬁnancial statements.
Corporate Governance Report
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 53
Contents
53  This report
53  Chairman’s commentary
54  Policy
55  Executive Directors and other executives
 55  Cash bonuses
 56  Deferred Bonus Share Plan
 57  Salaries
 57  Pensions
 58  Service contracts

59 TSR  Performance graph
60  The Committee
62  Audited information
This Report
This report sets out the Group’s policy and disclosures in relation 
to Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2009. 
It will be subject to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM. 
The report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and complies 
fully with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and 

(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations) and the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) and has been 

The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate 
Governance relating to the remuneration of its Directors and this 
report outlines how the Group has complied with the provisions of 
the Code as well as some of the guidelines issued by institutional 
shareholder bodies.
Commentary from the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
The principal challenge for the Remuneration Committee this year 
has been to judge the changing economic conditions, their impact 
on employment and the reactions of investors and advisory bodies 
around the world.
Remuneration Report
During the period under review there has been increased external 
scrutiny of and changes proposed for corporate governance 
 There have been numerous proposals for changes in remuneration 
practices. The Committee has monitored these and will apply them 
where they are considered relevant and applicable to Intertek. 
Reﬂ ecting the continued success of the business, in March 2009, 
Intertek was promoted into the FTSE 100. Because of this we have 
changed the peer groups we use to judge our relative performance 
when making remuneration decisions.
As you will see in the Financial Review, Intertek has continued to 
perform well compared to many other companies. In addition many 
of the current recommendations for remuneration governance 
under discussion for other sectors are already part of Intertek’s 
policies. For example, evaluation of risk is a factor used to decide 
bonus, there is already deferral of part of bonus for three years 
and the possible claw-back of bonuses and share awards in the 
event of misstatement of results.
However, speciﬁ c changes have been made over this year and in 
2010 to take account of the wider economic and governance 
environments and the Company’s success:

conditions for our Deferred Bonus Share Plan performance awards 
granted in 2009 so that the peer group included FTSE companies 
ranked 76 to 175. We will change the peer group again for 2010 
awards, to include companies ranked 51 to 150.
 conditions and deciding that Earnings per share (EPS) was not an 
appropriate measure for deferred bonus awards made in 2009 
or 2010. 
 and other senior employees have been increased for 2010 following 
a benchmarking review.
There are no major strategic changes of direction planned. Whilst 
market turbulence and changes in advised governance continue we 
will keep their effects on our remuneration policy under close review.
The Board has announced the retirement of Bill Spencer and the 

the business on 31 March 2010. Details of Bill Spencer’s 
arrangements on departure are set out on page 58. Details of 

disclosed in next year’s Remuneration Report.
Directors’ Report – Governance 54 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Policy
Our remuneration strategy remains to:
 
 


 




























 




Performance – short-term 


Performance – long-term 
 
 
 
Fixed 
 

Fixed 
Pension
Fixed 

Remuneration Report
 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 55
Senior executives’ bonus criteria for 2009 and the forthcoming  
year comprise the following: (i) Group performance elements;  
(ii) divisional performance elements, where the executive is 
responsible for divisional results, and personal objectives; and  
(iii) discretionary elements. The goals derive from the annual 
planning process for the Group, which forms the cornerstone  
of the Group’s results-focused culture. The divisional elements of 
bonus are based upon ﬁnancial performance indicators similar to 
the Group elements but with targets appropriate to that division.
Bonus elements 2010
Group bonus breakdown 2010
The business outcomes for the bonus criteria for 2009 were:
*calculated using constant 2008 exchange rates.
Combined with the decisions on the non-numeric discretionary part 
of total bonus this resulted in total annual bonus outcome for the 
Executive Directors of 100%, 70% and 65.8% of base salary for 
Wolfhart Hauser, Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer respectively, to 
be paid in March 2010. The Committee also decided that it was 
appropriate to award an additional discretionary cash bonus of 
£50,000 to Wolfhart Hauser in recognition of his outstanding 
contribution to the Group’s strong performance in 2009, despite 
difﬁcult market conditions.
Diluted adjusted earnings per share growth
Adjusted operating profit growth*
Operating cash flow % of adjusted operating profit*
Return on invested capital
21.5%
7.2%
112.2%
26.5%
£628k (26%) £578k (24%) £571k (24%)
Fixed
    Base salary
    Benefits
    Pension
Variable
    Cash bonus
    Deferred shares
    Matching shares
Wolfhart Hauser £71k (3%)
£114k (5%)
£448k (18%)
£241k (22%) £241k (22%) £381k (34%)
Mark Loughead
£187k (17%)
£188k (35%) £283k (54%)
Bill Spencer £17k (3%)
£40k (8%)
£21k (2%)
£34k (3%)
Group
Divisional/personal
Discretionary
80% 20%
40% 20% 40%
20% 30% 50%
Group Function VPs
Group and Divisional EVPs
Executive Directors
Executive Directors and other executives
For 2009 the total remuneration for our Executive Directors was  
as follows:
The base salary, beneﬁts, cash bonus, deferred shares and for Wolfhart Hauser 
pension, are shown in the table on page 60. The pension for Mark Loughead and  
Bill Spencer is the increase in actual transfer value for 2009 as shown on page 62. 
The matching share bonus is half the fair value of the maximum potential number  
of matching shares that may vest,subject to performance. Details of how the fair 
values of the deferred and matching shares have been calculated, are set out in  
note 25 of the ﬁnancial statements.
Each of these components is examined in more detail below.
Cash bonuses
The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible for annual 
cash bonus payments for the achievement of the ﬁnancial and 
strategic goals of the Group and its businesses. These bonuses are not 
pensionable. Targets are a mix of numeric and non-numeric measures. 
The annual cash bonus potential set for 2009 and 2010 are:
Percentage of base salary   2009 2010
Wolfhart Hauser     100%  130%
Mark Loughead     70%  90%
Bill Spencer     70%  n/a
Executive Vice Presidents    60%  75%
The increase in bonus opportunity for 2010 has been agreed by  
the Committee based on benchmarking information in respect of 
similarly-sized companies.
 Diluted adjusted earnings per share
 Adjusted operating profit
 Operating cash flow % of adjusted operating profit
 Return on invested capital
50% 10% 15% 25% 56 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Group and Division bonus targets are established and reviewed by 
the Committee each year and set to ensure they are linked to 
current business goals, and are sufﬁciently demanding, taking full 
account of the economic conditions. 
Achievement of business targets typically delivers half of the  
bonus opportunity so as to encourage and reward performance 
above expectations.
The Committee has reviewed whether remuneration packages 
should take more account of risk behaviour. Intertek’s business  
is not one with unusual risk features beyond the normal  
commercial ones that are described on pages 38 to 41 and the 
Committee has concluded that Group, personal and discretionary 
targets have been set with sufﬁcient regard to risk issues.
The discretionary element, of up to 20% of total bonus, is 
determined by taking into account the overall personal contribution 
of the executive to the goals and results of the Group for the year, 
the development of the medium-term strategy of the Group, the 
achievement over the year of strategic objectives and demonstrable 
efforts and results in team-building and leadership. The Committee 
recognises its responsibility to shareholders to use its discretion in a 
reasonable and informed manner and in the Group’s interests, and 
to be accountable and transparent in the exercise of that discretion.
 
The Committee can additionally award a discretionary payment  
if it feels very exceptional performance has taken place or where 
circumstances have occurred which were beyond the direct 
responsibility of the executive and the executive has managed  
and mitigated the impact of any loss, or where circumstances  
have arisen outside the Group’s control and the Committee  
feels that payment is necessary to retain and motivate the  
executive concerned.
The Committee has the ability to reduce bonus payments if it 
believes that short-term performance has been achieved at the 
expense of the Group’s long-term future. The Committee also 
retains the discretion to reclaim payments if the performance 
achievements are subsequently found to have been signiﬁcantly 
misstated. Neither of these discretions was exercised in respect  
of the bonuses paid in 2009.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan
The only long-term incentive plan currently in use is the Intertek 
Deferred Bonus Share Plan (the Plan). The key purposes of this Plan 
are the reward and retention of senior executives and key specialists 
and the alignment of their interests with shareholders by linking 
bonus rewards to Intertek’s share price performance. Additional 
detail about the Plan appears on page 64.
At the same time as it considers cash bonuses each year the 
Committee agrees the award of bonus shares to executives and  
key specialists. The awards usually vest three years after grant and in 
the case of Matching awards, which are granted to the most senior 
executives, vest subject to the achievement of performance criteria, 
discussed in more detail on page 64. Awards of Deferred Bonus 
Shares cannot exceed 100% of base salary and Matching awards 
are limited to twice the number of Deferred Bonus Shares. The 
majority of Plan participants receive awards equivalent to 10%-30% 
base salary.
In considering the grant of Plan awards in 2010 the Committee  
has taken into account benchmarking data and as a result removed 
in respect of awards to be granted in 2010 and following years the 
70% of base salary limit it had previously imposed. In practice only 
the most senior employees will be affected by this change.
The Committee regularly reviews the appropriateness of the 
Company’s share incentive arrangements and targets to ensure  
that they remain both competitive and challenging. 
A minor variation to the terms of the Deferred and Matching awards 
granted under the Plan to executives in April 2007 has been made 
available to UK executives. Such awards (including awards held by 
the Executive Directors) will be permitted to vest nine days ahead  
of their normal vesting date, 10 April 2010 (the third anniversary  
of grant). All other terms of the awards will remain unchanged 
(including the performance conditions, which shall continue to apply 
over the three year performance period set for the awards, such 
period having expired 31 December 2009). The amendment will 
provide an opportunity for the lower taxation of the awards as  
a result of the maturity falling within the 2009/10 tax year. Any 
acceleration will be conditional on claw-back terms based on the 
provision that if the awards would have otherwise been forfeited 
between the new vesting date and the normal vesting date, for 
example in ‘bad leaver’ circumstances, the Company may recover 
the award gain from the participant. 
In its consideration of share plan incentives in 2009 the Committee 
reviewed the performance criteria for future Matching Share awards, 
taking full account of the economy and business climate at the time 
of the award. The Committee reached the decision that in respect 
Remuneration Report
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 57
of awards to be granted in 2009, the performance criteria should 
remain based wholly on TSR and not, as had been planned, be 
based partly on EPS. This was because the prevailing economic 
turbulence made the setting of realistic stretching EPS targets very 
difﬁcult. The vesting schedule also remained unchanged from the 
previous year. This decision will apply also in respect of awards 
granted in 2010.
The Committee will continue to keep performance criteria  
under review. 
Executive Directors and other key employees are eligible to 
participate in our share plans. Non-Executive Directors are not. 
The Company has undertaken to limit the number of awards 
satisﬁed by newly issued shares under the Plan in the ten-year 
period from the time the plan was adopted to 5% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. As at 31 December 2009 
outstanding awards represented 1.4% of the Company’s issued 
share capital and 0.2% of issued share capital had been issued in 
satisfaction of awards. 
The Committee has decided not to publish the part-way 
achievement of performance conditions applicable to outstanding 
awards, or the expected value of the anticipated vested awards,  
as it considers this information would be misleading to a greater 
extent than it is informative. 
Share retention
A shareholding retention requirement has been set by the 
Committee. Executive Directors and the members of the Intertek 
Operations Committee (IOC), who form the senior management of 
Intertek, are required within ﬁve years, to build up a shareholding in 
the Company worth at least 100% of base salary. To assist in the 
building of this holding, it is expected that, after allowing for tax 
and similar liabilities, all the shares subject to each vested award 
under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan will be retained by  
the executive until the ownership target is attained.
Salaries
Salaries are reviewed annually, in accordance with the Group’s 
Remuneration Policy Framework. Increases in base salary are linked 
to: 





Where a decision is made to increase a senior manager’s base salary 
the Committee will expect the individual, taking into account levels 
of experience, to have demonstrated exceptional leadership within 
the business combined with a results-orientated approach. When 
the Committee takes benchmarking information into account it 
reviews the performance of the individual concerned against the 
above measures to ensure that there is no unjustiﬁed upward 
ratchet in remuneration. 
When determining salary increases for Executive Directors, the 
Committee also takes account of pay and employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group, as well as the general appropriate market. 
This is achieved by reviewing detailed information on the four 
countries (Hong Kong, mainland China, UK and USA) within the 
Group that employ the greatest number of employees. 
Salaries for the Executive Directors were increased in 2009, (see table 
below). The Committee, applying the above criteria consistently with 
previous years, considered the performance of the individuals, taken 
in conjunction with the continuing growth, increasing complexity 
and ﬁnancial success of the Group, justiﬁed the increases. 
Elsewhere in the Group salary increases were also awarded where 
justiﬁed by the growth, increasing complexity and results of the 
relevant businesses.
Having considered whether its remit over remuneration other than 
that relating to the Executive Directors is sufﬁciently broad, the 
Committee came to the conclusion that the salary review process 
adequately informs the Committee of issues relating to reward. 
The Executive Directors’ salaries are: 
  Base salary % increase Base salary % increase 
  from 1 April over 2008 from 1 April over 2009 
  2009 salary 2010 salary
Wolfhart Hauser  £577,500  5% £606,375 5%
Mark Loughead
1
 US$535,000 7% US$556,400 4%
Bill Spencer
2
 £286,173 4% n/a n/a
1.  In addition to his base salary Mark Loughead received £43,000 in Directors’ fees  
in 2009 (2008: £43,000)
2. Bill Spencer will retire from the Group on 31 March 2010.
Pensions
As the result of its international proﬁle, Intertek operates a number  
of pension arrangements around the world, appropriate to the 
employing location. The pension arrangements for Executive 
Directors are as follows: 58 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Wolfhart Hauser
Wolfhart Hauser is not a member of a Group company pension 
scheme. Instead the Group contributes an amount equal to 20%  
of his base salary to a personal pension arrangement. For 2009  
this amounted to £114,000 (2008: £106,700). In 2010 the Group 
contribution will increase to an amount equal to 25% of base salary. 
He is entitled to life cover beneﬁt comprising a lump sum payment 
equivalent to four times his base salary. 
Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer
Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer were both members of the deﬁned 
beneﬁt section of the Intertek UK Company Pension Scheme 
throughout the year. This is a deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution 
occupational pension scheme approved by HMRC. The main features 
of the deﬁned beneﬁt section of the scheme and the beneﬁt to the 
directors for 2009 are shown on page 61.
Service contracts
Details of the service contracts currently in place for Executive 
Directors who served during the year are as follows:
     Date of contract
Wolfhart Hauser     1 March 2005
Mark Loughead     1 January 2008
Bill Spencer    24 May 2002
Wolfhart Hauser’s contract is a 12-month rolling contract terminable 
by either party on 12 months’ notice and contains provisions by way  
of compensation for loss of ofﬁce, limited to payment of salary over  
a 12-month period in lieu of notice. The contract permits payments in 
lieu of notice to be made, at the Company’s election, either (i) in full 
on termination or (ii) on a monthly basis, but only for so long as he 
receives no remuneration from any other business. If he does receive 
any such remuneration, the monthly amount payable will be reduced 
by that remuneration, determined on a monthly basis. The service 
contract contains no provisions regarding a change of control. 
Bill Spencer, on leaving the Company, will take early retirement at the 
end of March 2010, prior to the imminent change in UK pension law 
which would require deferment of retirement at least to the age of 
55. Actuarial reductions in accordance with the rules of the Intertek 
Pension Scheme will be made in respect of the pension he will 
receive. He has the option to have his early retirement beneﬁts from 
the Scheme enhanced by requiring the Company to pay in some  
or all of a contractual departure payment up to £225,636. He will 
receive no bonus in respect of his service in 2010. As a retiree,  
he has good leaver status under the Deferred Bonus Plan rules.  
All Deferred awards will vest in full. The Committee has decided  
that the 2007 and 2008 Matching Share awards will vest fully, as  
to date the Total Shareholder Return conditions in respect of those 
awards have been met. The unvested Matching Share awards 
granted in 2009 will be forfeited. 
Mark Loughead has both an executive service contract with Intertek 
USA Inc. and a letter of appointment in respect of his directorship  
of Intertek Group plc. The executive service contract is subject to 
12 months’ notice on either side and contains provisions for Mark 
Loughead to continue to receive an amount equal to salary and 
beneﬁts during the period of notice in accordance with his normal 
payroll schedule unless he receives remuneration from any other 
business. Bonuses not already received will not be paid unless pro-
rata payment formed part of the bonus criteria. The appointment  
as an Executive Director of Intertek Group plc is for an initial term of 
three years, but can be terminated by either party giving one month’s 
notice and provides for an annual fee of £43,000. The service 
contract contains provisions regarding a change of control based  
on the same criteria as apply to the Intertek Deferred Bonus Plan.
      Annual       
      Basic fee from      Fees used 
      1 April 2009    Additional Total to purchase 
      or date of  Audit and  committee Annual shares in 
      appointment Remuneration Risk Nominations fee fees 2009 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees    £ Committee Committee Committee £ £ £
David Allvey     53,000 Chairman Chairman  39,500 92,500 10,000
Edward Astle
1
     53,000 –  – 7,500 60,500 n/a
Gavin Darby
1
     53,000  – – 5,000 58,000 n/a
Christopher Knight    53,000    15,000 68,000 10,000
Richard Nelson
2
     68,000 – – – n/a 68,000 10,000
Debra Rade     53,000 – – – n/a 53,000 10,000
Vanni Treves     180,000   Chairman – 180,000 20,000
1.  Appointed 1 September 2009. Pro-rata fees paid in 2009 appear in the remuneration table on page 60. Fees of £10,000 will be used to purchase shares in 2010.
2. Retired 1 September 2009.
Remuneration Report
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 59
Policy on external appointments
The Company recognises that, during their employment with the 
Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive 
directors of other companies and that such duties can broaden their 
experience and knowledge. Executive Directors may, with the 
written consent of the Company, accept such appointments outside 
the Company, and the policy is that any fees may be retained by the 

His earnings for this appointment for 2009, which he retained,  
were £45,000.
Non-Executive Directors
Pursuant to the policy of aligning directors’ interests with those  

Directors is used each year to purchase shares in the Company. A 

amounts of those fees used to purchase shares in the Company in 

basic fees increased by £3,000 per annum and the Chairman’s fee 
increased by £10,000 per annum, with effect from 1 April 2009. 
David Allvey, as Chairman of two Committees, also received an 
increase of £2,000 per annum in his Committee fees. The Executive 
Directors, having reviewed benchmarking information, felt that these 
increases were justiﬁed in view of the increasing time commitment 

Intertek’s business. 
Other than Vanni Treves, who has the beneﬁt of a company car, and 
 insurance policy in accordance with the terms of his previous 
employment contract with the Company, no other beneﬁts-in-kind 
are provided.
 

Director states that they are appointed for an initial period of three 
years and all appointments are terminable by one month’s notice  
on either side. At the end of the initial period the appointment  
may be renewed for a further period, if the Company and the 
Director agree, subject to reappointment at the AGM. Each letter  
of engagement states that should the Group terminate the 
 
will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of ofﬁce. 
Vanni Treves and David Allvey are each engaged by the Group as 

commencing 29 May 2002. Both appointments were renewed for 
three years at the end of their second three-year period. 


letter of appointment for an initial period of three years commencing 
8 April 2005, extended for a further two years on 7 March 2008. 
 entitled to remuneration of £1,000 per working day for any special 
project work agreed in advance by the Chairman. In addition the 
Company agreed to pay premiums for a life assurance policy for 

 under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of 



Director under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period 
of three years commencing 30 March 2006. This appointment was 
renewed for a further three years, effective from 30 March 2009. 
Edward Astle and Gavin Darby each joined the Group on 
1 September 2009. Each has been engaged under the terms  
of a letter of appointment for an initial period of three years 
commencing 1 September 2009, subject to election by the 
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. 
TSR Performance graph 
TSR comprising the changes in value of a share and dividends 
distributed can be represented by the value of a notional £100 
invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period.
The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the Company over  
ﬁve years. The TSR for the Company is compared with:
i)  the TSR for the FTSE 250 Index, which is the index we have used 
since the Company’s ﬂotation in 2002 as the most appropriate 
comparator, being a broad market index; and
ii)  the TSR for the FTSE 100 Index. The Company joined the FTSE100 
in March 2009 and the Committee considers it helpful to show 
this comparison also.

that is compliant with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The performance 
of the Company, as indicated by the graph, is not indicative of vesting levels under 
Intertek’s Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Intertek Group v FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 TSR
Intertek Group FTSE 100 FTSE 250
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220 60 Intertek Annual Report 2009
The Committee
On behalf of the Board, the Committee: 
















 













Information required to be audited
 




 

Directors’ remuneration summary
     Base salary Cash Other Pension Total Total Deferred Deferred 
     and fees bonuses benefits contributions
5
 emoluments emoluments bonus
6
 bonus
6
 
     2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2009 2008 
    Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors 
   571 628 71 114 1,384 578
 381 241 21 – 643 241
 2 283 188 17 – 488 –
 
Non-Executive Directors 
   91 – – – 91 – –
 17 – – – 17 – – –
 16 – – – 16 – – –
  67 – – – 67 – –
 48 – 51 – 99 – –
 53 – – – 53 – –
 178 – 14 – 192 – –
Total    1,705 1,057 174 114 3,050 819
 







 

Remuneration Report
 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 61
Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer
Intertek Deﬁned Beneﬁt Pension Scheme
 
Normal retirement age 65
Annual pension at  1/60 of ﬁnal pensionable salary (highest base salary in any 12-month period during the ﬁve years 
normal retirement age  immediately preceding retirement date) for each year of pensionable service, except, for those members 
who were active members of the Scheme on 5 April 1996, the accrual rate is 1/45 for pensionable 
service in the period after 5 April 1996 and before 6 April 1999. Members may exchange part of 
their pension for a tax-free cash sum. This will reduce their pension but not that of their spouse.
Spouse’s or dependant’s pension Half of member’s pension.
payable on death of member
Early retirement  From age 50 onwards with the consent of the Company and the Trustees, based on accrued entitlement 
reduced by an amount calculated in accordance with the Scheme rules for each year of retirement prior 
to age 65. With effect from 6 April 2010, the minimum retirement age will increase to age 55.
Pension increases in payment  Increases in deferment – revaluation is in two parts: 
or deferment  i)  The part that represents the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) will be increased at the rate of 
4% for each complete tax year between date of leaving and State Pension Age.
  ii)  The balance of the pension will increase at the rate of 2.5% per annum or in line with the Retail Price 
Index if lower, for each completed year between the date of leaving and the Normal Retirement Date.
  Increases in retirement (or payment): 
  i) Pre 6 April 1997, excess pension beneﬁts will increase at the rate of 3% per annum.
  ii)  6 April 1997 to 5 April 2005, excess pension beneﬁts will increase at the rate of the lower of  
2.5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
  iii)   Post 5 April 2005, excess pension beneﬁts will increase at the rate of the lower of 2.5% per annum  
or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
  iv)  Pre 1988 GMP will not increase.
  v)   Post 1988 GMP will increase at the rate of 3% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index,  
if lower.
Employee contributions  As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 8.5% of base salary (excluding incentive 
payments) up to the Company-set earnings cap which is £1 19,427 for the 09/10 tax year (£1 15,949  
for 08/09).
Employer contributions  As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 16% of base salary (excluding incentive 
payments) up to the Company-set earnings cap.
Ill health or incapacity  In the case of ill health, the pension is calculated as for early retirement but without reduction. In the 
case of incapacity, the pension is calculated as if pensionable service had continued to normal 
retirement date.
Death in service   Death in service leads to a refund of the member’s own contributions plus either:
  i)  a lump sum of four times pensionable salary plus spouse’s pension which is 50% of the member’s 
prospective pension at normal retirement date (based on prospective pensionable service to  
normal retirement date and ﬁnal pensionable salary immediately prior to the member’s death); or
  ii)  a lump sum of eight times pensionable salary, but with no spouse’s pension (except for the 
contracting-out requirements). 62 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Advisors
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices are market 
competitive and to help achieve its objectives, the Committee obtains 
information from various independent sources. The Committee has 
appointed and taken independent advice on remuneration matters 
and share incentive arrangements from Hewitt New Bridge Street 
(Hewitt), on remuneration benchmarking from Towers Watson (TW) 
and on UK pension matters from Premier Pensions Management 
Limited (PPM). During 2009 PPM’s associate company was engaged 
to provide additional FSA-regulated services in respect of UK 
pension matters. PPM, TW and Hewitt have no other connection 
with the Company or its senior ofﬁcers.
Other beneﬁts
Executive Directors are entitled to the use of a company car or the 
cash equivalent, a fuel allowance, life assurance, an annual medical 
and private medical insurance. Richard Nelson was entitled to life 
assurance in accordance with the terms of his previous employment 
contract with the Company, for £1.0m to be maintained for the 
whole of his life and payable to his beneﬁciaries on his death.  
Vanni Treves is entitled to a company car.
Transactions with Directors 
As disclosed in note 29 to the ﬁnancial statements, no Director had 
a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
Pensions 
The Committee continues to review the liabilities under the deﬁned 
beneﬁt section of the UK pension scheme and to monitor the effect 
of changes to future mortality rates and investment returns and 
consider how to limit the potential liability created by pension 
commitments. The majority of the Group’s employees are non-UK 
based and are therefore unaffected. Further details of the Group’s 
pension schemes, including the funding position, are disclosed in 
note 23 to the ﬁnancial statements. Details of the pension 
arrangements for those who have served as Executive Directors 
during the ﬁnancial year are shown above and on pages 57, 58  
and 61.
Details of the accrued pension to which Mark Loughead and Bill Spencer would be entitled on leaving service and the changes during the 
year are shown in the table below:
            Increase in 
       Contributions Increase in    transfer value 
       made by the accrued    in year less 
       Director entitlement Accrued Transfer Transfer contributions 
      Age at during during entitlement
1
 value
3
 value
3
 made by 
      31 December the year the year
2
 2009 2008 2009 Director 
Name     2009 £ £ £ £ £ £
Mark Loughead     50 10,077 2,962 28,032 273,634 323,924 40,213
Bill Spencer
4
     50 10,077 3,278 36,492 445,044 489,202 34,081
1.  The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 65 based on service to 31 December 2009, excluding the effect of inflation. 
2.  Including inflation, the increases during the year for Bill Spencer and Mark Loughead were £3,278 and £2,962 respectively (these are the same as the figures given above as 
the inflationary increase during the year was nil). 
3.  Transfer values have been calculated using the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value Basis adopted by the Trustees with effect from 1 October 2008, in accordance with The 
Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Values) (Amendment) Regulations 2008 (SI2008/1050). The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or 
payable to the individual Director, instead they represent a potential liability of the Pension Scheme. The value represents the full transfer value without reduction for any 
shortfall in scheme funding.
4.  In addition to the benefit accrued under the Intertek Pension Scheme shown above, Bill Spencer also has an additional fixed pension payable at 65 of £9,777 per annum in 
relation to previous transfers. The liabilities in respect of the transferred-in benefits are included in the transfer values stated above.
Remuneration Report
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 63
The Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan
   31 December  
   2008 or on Granted in  Vested in Lapsed in 31 December  
   appointment 2009  2009 2009 2009 Date 
   Number of Number of Award Price
1
 Number of Number of Number of award
   shares shares £ shares
2
 shares shares vests
3
Wolfhart Hauser 
2006 Deferred 14,514 – 8.276  (14,514) – – April 2009 
  Matching 29,028 – 8.276  (29,028) – – 
2007 Deferred 22,753 – 9.166 – – 22,753 April 2010 
  Matching 45,506 – 9.166 – – 45,506 
2008 Deferred 26,448 – 9.150 – – 26,448 March 2011 
  Matching 52,896 – 9.150 – – 52,896 
2009 Deferred – 46,152 8.342 – – 46,152 March 2012 
  Matching – 92,304 8.342 – – 92,304 
Total  191,145 138,456  (43,542) – 286,059 
Bill Spencer 
2006 Deferred 6,391 – 8.276  (6,391) – – April 2009 
  Matching 12,782 – 8.276  (12,782) – – 
2007 Deferred 9,774 – 9.166 – – 9,774 April 2010 
  Matching 19,548 – 9.166 – – 19,548 
2008 Deferred 13,813 – 9.150 – – 13,813 March 2011 
  Matching 27,626 – 9.150 – – 27,626 
2009 Deferred – 19,524 8.342 – – 19,524 March 2012 
  Matching – 39,048 8.342 – – 39,048 
Total  89,934 58,572  (19,173) – 129,333 
Mark Loughead 
2006 Deferred 7,133 – 8.276  (7,133) – – April 2009 
  Matching 14,266 – 8.276  (14,266) – – 
2007 Deferred 9,351 – 9.166 – – 9,351 April 2010 
  Matching 18,702 – 9.166 – – 18,702 
2008 Deferred 9,972 – 9.150 – – 9,972 March 2011 
  Matching 19,944 – 9.150 – – 19,944 
2009 Deferred – 26,687 8.342 – – 26,687 March 2012 
  Matching – 53,374 8.342 – – 53,374 
Total  79,368 80,061  (21,399) – 138,030 
1.  Awards are made based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant. On the date of grant in 2009  
the share price was £8.995. No payment is made by participants in the Plan.
2.  Awards vested on 7 April 2009, on which date the closing market price of shares was £9.165, having been granted on 7 April 2006 on which date the closing market price 
was £8.31. 
3. Awards normally vest three years after grant. The vesting of Matching Awards is subject to additional performance conditions described on page 64.
4. UK participants in the Plan have been offered the opportunity to elect for accelerated vesting on the Award due to mature in April 2010. An explanation appears on page 56.
5. The aggregate gain made by Directors on the vesting of the awards was £771,000. 64 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at  
the year end are set out below. Save as stated in this report, during 
the course of the year, no Director nor any member of his or her 
immediate family had any other interest in the ordinary share capital 
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
  31 December   31 December 
Number of ordinary 2008 or on   2009 or at 
shares of 1p appointment Acquired Disposed retirement
David Allvey  5,897 677 – 6,574
Edward Astle  – – – –
Gavin Darby  – – – –
Wolfhart Hauser  1,336 43,542 17,908 26,970
Christopher Knight 5,627 677 – 6,304
Mark Loughead  14,485 21,399 – 35,884
Richard Nelson
1
  500,637 574 – 501,211
Debra Rade  1,445 688 – 2,133
Bill Spencer  132,000 85,978 130,830
2
 87,148
Vanni Treves  51,276 1,377 – 52,653
1. Retired 1 September 2009.
2.  Includes 63,000 shares in which Bill Spencer ceased to be beneﬁcially interested on 
10 March 2009.
No changes in the above Directors’ interests have taken place 
between 31 December 2009 and the date of this report.
Directors’ interests in the Intertek Deferred Bonus Plan  
and share options
Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to participate in the 
Company’s share plans. Additional information on these  
share plans appears below.
Awards made under the Intertek Deferred Bonus Share Plan are 
shown on page 63. Share options granted to the Executive Directors 
under the 2002 Plan and the Approved Plan are shown on page 65.
 
Additional information about the Intertek Deferred  
Bonus Share Plan 
The Plan
The Plan has two elements:
 
annual achievement. For the Executive Directors and IOC the 
value of Deferred Shares will be equal to the cash bonus, subject, 
to a maximum of 100% of salary. The Committee believes  
that this provides a simple and well-targeted form of reward.  
The awards normally vest three years after grant subject to 
continued employment.

performance requirements are at the discretion of the  
Committee, awarded to the most senior executives. Awards of 
Matching Shares are linked to awards of Deferred Shares, and  
for the Executive Directors and IOC are granted at the maximum 
ratio of two Matching Shares for every Deferred Share. Matching 
Shares vest after three years depending on performance. For 
awards granted 2006-2009 the performance test for Matching 
Share comprised the Company’s relative Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) measured against a peer group of companies from the FTSE 
Index (excluding investment trusts). For awards granted between 
2006 and 2008 the peer group comprised the members of the 
FTSE250. For awards granted in 2009 the peer group comprised 
FTSE Index members 76 to 175. Grants made in 2010 will use the 
peer group of FTSE Index members 51 to 150.
 
 In addition, irrespective of the Company’s TSR performance, no part 
of a Matching Award can vest unless the Company’s normalised  
EPS growth over the performance period was, on average, at least 
2% per annum above the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index.
TSR calculations are conducted independently by Hewitt. 
Awards vest as follows: 
TSR Ranking % of Matching Award that vests
Below median  None
Median 25%
Between median and Pro-rata on a straight line between 
upper quartile 25% and 100%
Upper quartile 100%
The Committee can set different performance conditions from those 
described above for future awards. Any such new targets will not,  
in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, be materially less 
challenging in the circumstances than those described above. 
Remuneration Report
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 65
Deferred awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant 
provided the participant is still employed in the Group. Matching 
awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant once  
the Committee has determined the extent to which the applicable 
performance conditions have been satisﬁed and provided the 
participant is still employed in the Group. As described on page 56 
the Committee has made a concession in respect of the vesting period 
for UK-based participants who have awards maturing in April 2010. 
Awards may be satisﬁed by the issue of new shares or by purchasing 
shares in the market.
If a participant leaves employment for certain reasons beyond the 
participant’s control or for any other reason at the discretion of the 
Committee, then the awards vest as follows: (i) Deferred awards 
will vest on a pro-rata basis on the date of cessation, although  
the Committee may decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards  
it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances;  
(ii) Matching awards will vest at the end of the period over which 
the performance conditions are measured, or the Committee may 
decide that the Matching award will vest on cessation of employment. 
The extent to which a Matching award will vest will depend upon 
the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisﬁed 
over the full performance period or up to the date of cessation as 
appropriate and awards will vest on a pro-rata basis on the date of 
cessation, although the Committee may decide not to pro-rate an 
award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular 
circumstances. In the event of a change of control, vesting of 
Matching awards will occur on the same basis as for leaving 
employment, described above. Deferred awards will vest in full.
Share information
On 31 December 2009 the closing market price of Intertek ordinary 
shares was £12.55. The highest and lowest prices of the shares 
during the year were £13.54 and £7.73 respectively. 
Approval of the Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on  
8 March 2010.
David Allvey
Chairman
Remuneration Committee
The 2002 Share Option Plans
    Options Options  
  31 December  exercised in lapsed in 31 December   
  2008 Option 2009 2009 2009 Date option  
  Number of price
1
 Number of Number of Number of became Date option 
  shares £ shares shares shares exercisable
1
 expires
Wolfhart Hauser 
Approved Plan 3,277 7.78 – – 3,277 April 2008 April 2015
2002 Plan 40,429 7.78 – – 40,429 April 2008 April 2015
Total 43,706  – – 43,706  
Bill Spencer 
Approved Plan 6,864 4.37 (6,864)
2
 – – May 2005 May 2012
2002 Plan 15,466 4.37 (15,466)
3
 – – May 2005 May 2012
2002 Plan 20,406 3.59 (20,406)
3
 – – April 2006 April 2013
2002 Plan 24,069 5.24 (24,069)
3
 – – April 2007 April 2014
2002 Plan 25,131 7.78 – – 25,131 April 2008 April 2015
Total 91,936  (66,805) – 25,131
Mark Loughead 
2002 Plan 21,472 5.24 – – 21,472 April 2007 April 2014
2002 Plan 17,912 7.78 – – 17,912 April 2008 April 2015
Total 39,384  – – 39,384  
1.  Option exercise prices were determined by the average of the closing middle market quotations of an ordinary share in the Company on the five days immediately prior to the date  
of grant. No payment was made for participation in the option plans. 
2. The closing market price of shares on the date of exercise of options was £8.915.
3. The closing market price of shares on the date of exercise of options was £10.49.
4. The aggregate gain made by Directors on the exercise of options was £393,000. 66 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Other Statutory Information
Directors
The Directors who held ofﬁce during the year are set out below.  
Vanni Treves Chairman
 
 (retired 1 September 2009)
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Ofﬁcer

Bill Spencer  Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  
(to retire on 31 March 2010)

 
(appointed 1 September 2009)
 
(appointed 1 September 2009)


The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions relating  
to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors.
 
last AGM and therefore will offer themselves for election at  
the forthcoming AGM.

previous two AGMs, retires by rotation and, being eligible,  
offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.

Short biographies of all the Directors are set out on page 43.
Directors’ powers
The Directors are responsible for the management of the business  
of the Company and their powers to do so are determined by the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles  
of Association as amended at the previous AGM on 15 May 2009 
and which came into force on 1 October 2009. Further powers are 
granted by members in general meeting and those currently in place 
are set out in detail within the appropriate section of this report.
Directors’ interests

undertook special project work for the Group, although none was 
performed in 2009 or 2008. Details of these service arrangements 
are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 59. With this 
exception, other than employment contracts, none of the Directors  
of the Company had a personal interest in any business transactions of 
the Company or its subsidiaries. The terms of the Directors’ service 
contracts and the Directors’ interests in the shares and options of  
the Company in respect of which transactions are notiﬁable to the 
Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.2 are 
disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 and 64 to 65.
Directors’ indemnities
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to 
attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced 
directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including  
the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable 
statutory provisions. Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions  
(as deﬁned by section 234 of the Act) were accordingly in force 
during the course of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2009 for 
the beneﬁt of the Directors and, at the date of this report, are in 
force for the beneﬁt of the Directors in relation to certain losses and 
liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in connection with 
their duties, powers or ofﬁce.
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the 
movements in the Company’s share capital during the year, are 
shown in note 20 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends 
when declared, to receive the Company’s report and accounts, to 
attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint 
proxies and exercise voting rights. There are no restrictions on the 
transfer of ordinary shares in the Company.
The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by the 
Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced by 
means of a special resolution of the Company in a General Meeting. 

by the Company’s Articles.
 
of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights except 
that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share unless  
all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid. There are no 
arrangements known to the Company by which ﬁnancial rights 
carried by any shares in the Company are held by a person other 
than the holders of the shares, nor are there any arrangements 
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights known to the Company. 
All issued shares are fully paid.
 
and may be traded through the CREST system. 
Directors’ Report – Governance www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 67
Allotment of shares
At the AGM held in 2009, the shareholders generally and 
unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities 
up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount of issued 
share capital. This authority was not exercised during the year. It is 
the Directors intention to renew this authority in line with guidance 
issued by the Association of British Insurers. The resolution is set  

Also at the AGM in 2009, the Directors were empowered by the 
shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Company’s 
issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of the Companies 
Act 2006. It is intended that this authority be renewed, up to 5%,  
at the forthcoming AGM.
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM held in 2009, shareholders generally and unconditionally 
authorised the Company to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary 
shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be 

to this authority. The Directors will seek to renew this authority for  
up to 10% of the Company’s issued share capital at the forthcoming 
AGM. This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisﬁed 
that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the 
ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly 
that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders. The Directors 
will also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company 
and its general ﬁnancial position. Any shares purchased in this way 
may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the 
Company with ﬂexibility in the management of its share capital. 
Where treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, 
they will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% 
limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a ten-year 
period under our relevant share plan rules.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers 
The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice 
but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers. Payment terms 
are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier  
and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly, 
subject to the terms and conditions being met. The Parent Company, 
Intertek Group plc does not trade and therefore has no trade payables.
Signiﬁcant relationships
The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships with 
any single party which are essential to the business of the Group and 
therefore, no such relationships have been disclosed. 
Social and community issues
We encourage our local managers to foster community links that 
are appropriate to the businesses they manage. Further details are 
given in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 35. 
Substantial shareholdings
The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights have 
been made (and have not been amended or withdrawn) to the 
Company pursuant to the requirements of the Financial Services 
Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5:
 
3 February 2010 that they had an indirect interest on 1 February 
2010 in 15,354,614 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, 
representing 9.67% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.


Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the 
ordinary shares in issue at that date.
 
19 October 2009 that they had an indirect interest on 19 October 
2009 in 6,1 10,000 Intertek Group plc ordinary shares, representing 
3.85% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Charitable and political donations
During 2009, the Group made charitable donations of £107,000 
(2008: £108,000), to a wide variety of charities, including  
support to employees in the Philippines and Vietnam affected  
by natural disasters. 
At the AGM in 2009 shareholders passed a resolution, on a 
precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations  
to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure  
(as such terms are deﬁned in the Companies Act 2006) not 
exceeding £90,000. During the year the Group did not make  
any political donations (2008: £nil). It is the Company’s policy not, 
directly or through any subsidiary, to make what are commonly 
regarded as donations to any political party. However, at the 
forthcoming AGM of the Company shareholders’ approval will  
again be sought to authorise the Group to make political donations 
and/or incur political expenditure (as such terms are deﬁned in 
Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006). Further details  

Auditors

continue in ofﬁce and a resolution that they be reappointed will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 489 
of the Companies Act 2006. 68 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Annual General Meeting
 
is available for download from the Company’s corporate website  

conducted at the meeting and include information concerning the 
deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in relation to voting rights.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the Group and Parent Company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that  
law, they are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards  
as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs) and applicable law and  
have elected to prepare the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements  
 

Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial 
statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and 
of their proﬁt or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements, the Directors are required to: 


 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;


to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent 
Company ﬁnancial statements; and 
 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the  
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the 
ﬁnancial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group  
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law 
and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s 

dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
annual ﬁnancial report
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:

applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of  
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report conﬁrm that, so far as they are aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors  
are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he  
or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This Directors’ Report comprising pages 8 to 68 has been approved  
by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser
Director
8 March 2010
Registered Ofﬁce
25 Savile Row

W1S 2ES

Directors’ Report – Governance Intertek Annual Report 2009 69
 70  Consolidated Income Statement
 71  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 72  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
 73  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 74 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 75  Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
 119  Intertek Group plc – Company Balance Sheet
 120  Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
 123 Independent Auditors’ Report
 1 2 4 Shareholder Information
 1 2 4 Financial Calendar
 IBC Corporate Information
Financial statements
Notes
 75 1 General
 75  2 Signiﬁcant accounting policies
 83 3 Operating segments
 86 4 Non-recurring costs
 86  5  Expenses and auditors’ 
remuneration
 86 6 Employees
 87 7 Net ﬁnancing costs
 88 8 Income tax expense
 89 9 Earnings per ordinary share
 90  10 Property, plant and equipment
 91  11  Goodwill and other  
intangible assets
 94 12 Investment in associates
 94 13 Other investments
 94  14  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
 95 15 Inventories
 96 16 Trade and other receivables
 96  17  Interest bearing loans 
and borrowings
 97 18 Trade and other payables
 97 19 Provisions
 98 20 Capital and reserves
 99 21 Minority interests
 99 22 Commitments
 99 23 Employee beneﬁts
 102 24 Acquisitions
 109 25 Share schemes
 110 26 Financial instruments
 116 27 Analysis of net debt
 117 28 Contingent liabilities
 117 29 Related parties
 118 30 Post balance sheet events
 118 31  Principal operating subsidiaries  
and associated companies 70 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2009
           2009 2008 
          Notes £m £m
Revenue           1,237.3 1,003.5
Cost of sales         (965.4) (792.6)
Gross profit         271.9 210.9
Administrative expenses        (85.2) (63.0)
Group operating profit       3 186.7 147.9
   
Analysis of Group operating profit
Adjusted Group operating profit        209.0 164.7
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles*      11 (12.8) (9.6)
Impairment of goodwill*       11 – (0.5)
Non-recurring costs*        4 (9.5) (6.7)
Group operating profit       3 186.7 147.9
Finance income        7 7.7 13.1
Finance expense        7 (25.2) (22.6)
Net financing costs         (17.5) (9.5)
Share of profit of associates        12 – 0.2
Profit before income tax        169.2 138.6
Income tax expense        8 (45.5) (36.4)
Profit for the year         123.7 102.2
Attributable to:   
 Equity holders of the Company        114.7 93.8
 Minority interest        21 9.0 8.4
Profit for the year         123.7 102.2
Earnings per share 
Basic          9 72.4p 59.5p
Diluted          9 71.2p 58.9p
*  included in administrative expenses www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 71
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2009
           2009 2008 
          Notes £m £m
Profit for the year         123.7 102.2
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations    7 (35.4) 138.4
Net exchange gain/(loss) on hedges of net investments in foreign operations   7 27.2 (110.9)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges     7 1.3 (3.7)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss     7 0.2 –
Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets     7 1.1 –
Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets transferred to profit or loss   7 (1.1) –
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes    23 (2.5) (12.3)
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income     8 (1.2) 0.1
Total other comprehensive income for the year      (10.4) 11.6
Total comprehensive income for the year       113.3 113.8
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company        104.9 101.9
 Minority interest        21 8.4 11.9
Total comprehensive income for the year       113.3 113.8 72 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2009
           2009 2008 
          Notes £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment       10 220.9 234.8
Goodwill         11 257.8 242.1
Other intangible assets        11 46.9 55.2
Investments in associates       12 0.2 1.3
Other investments        13 – 4.4
Deferred tax assets        14 22.6 15.7
Total non-current assets         548.4 553.5
Inventories        15 7.6 8.2
Trade and other receivables       16 265.9 284.4
Cash and cash equivalents        134.2 113.3
Total current assets         407.7 405.9
Total assets         956.1 959.4
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings      17 (8.2) (14.0)
Derivative financial instruments       26 (3.0) (4.5)
Current taxes payable         (29.2) (36.3)
Trade and other payables       18 (186.9) (184.4)
Provisions         19 (30.3) (26.4)
Total current liabilities        (257.6) (265.6)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings      17 (327.4) (407.6)
Deferred tax liabilities        14 (7.5) (6.4)
Net pension liabilities        23 (19.5) (18.5)
Other payables        18 (3.6) (3.4)
Provisions         19 (1.2) (0.2)
Total non-current liabilities        (359.2) (436.1)
Total liabilities         (616.8) (701.7)
Net assets          339.3 257.7
Equity
Share capital        20 1.6 1.6
Share premium          253.5 249.9
Other reserves         25.9 32.0
Retained earnings         40.3 (41.8)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company      321.3 241.7
Minority interest        21 18.0 16.0
Total equity         339.3 257.7
The financial statements on pages 70 to 118 were approved by the Board on 8 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser Bill Spencer 
Director Director www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 73
 Attributable to equity holders of the Company  
     Other reserves Total  
               before   
      Share  Share Translation Hedging Fair value  Retained minority Minority Total 
      capital premium  reserve reserve reserve Other  earnings* interest  interest equity 
     Notes  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2008  1.6 247.3 6.1 (0.8) – 6.4 (96.4) 164.2 11.6 175.8
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit   – – – – – – 93.8 93.8 8.4 102.2
Other comprehensive income   – – 24.0 (3.7) – – (12.2) 8.1 3.5 11.6
Total comprehensive income for the year   – – 24.0 (3.7) – – 81.6 101.9 11.9 113.8
Transactions with owners, recorded  
directly in equity
Contributions by and distributions  
to owners:
Dividends paid 20/21 – – – – – – (30.4) (30.4) (6.1) (36.5)
Issue of shares 20 – 2.6 – – – – – 2.6 – 2.6
Equity-settled transactions 25 – – – – – – 3.3 3.3 – 3.3
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 8 – – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Total contributions by and distributions  
to owners  – 2.6 – – – – (27.2) (24.6) (6.1) (30.7)
Changes in ownership interests  
in subsidiaries:
Additions to minority interest 21 – – – – – – – – 0.7 0.7
Purchase of minority interest 21 – – – – – – 0.2 0.2 (2.1) (1.9)
Total changes in ownership interests  
in subsidiaries  – – – – – – 0.2 0.2 (1.4) (1.2)
Total transactions with owners  – 2.6 – – – – (27.0) (24.4) (7.5) (31.9)
At 31 December 2008  1.6 249.9 30.1 (4.5) – 6.4 (41.8) 241.7 16.0 257.7
 
At 1 January 2009  1.6 249.9 30.1 (4.5) – 6.4 (41.8) 241.7 16.0 257.7
Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit   – – – – – – 114.7 114.7 9.0 123.7
Other comprehensive income   – – (7.6) 1.5 – – (3.7) (9.8) (0.6) (10.4)
Total comprehensive income for the year   – – (7.6) 1.5 – – 111.0 104.9 8.4 113.3
Transactions with owners, recorded  
directly in equity
Contributions by and distributions  
to owners:
Dividends paid 20/21 – – – – – – (34.7) (34.7) (6.3) (41.0)
Issue of shares 20 – 3.6 – – – – – 3.6 – 3.6
Equity-settled transactions 25 – – – – – – 4.9 4.9 – 4.9
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 8 – – – – – – 1.4 1.4 – 1.4
Total contributions by and distributions  
to owners  – 3.6 – – – – (28.4) (24.8) (6.3) (31.1)
Changes in ownership interests  
in subsidiaries:
Purchase of minority interest 21 – – – – – – (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) (0.6)
Total changes in ownership interests  
in subsidiaries  – – – – – – (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) (0.6)
Total transactions with owners  – 3.6 – – – – (28.9) (25.3) (6.4) (31.7)
At 31 December 2009  1.6 253.5 22.5 (3.0) – 6.4 40.3 321.3 18.0 339.3
* After £244.1m for goodwill written off to retained earnings as at 1 January 2004 in relation to subsidiaries acquired prior to 31 December 1997. This figure has not been 
restated as permitted by IFRS 1.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2009 74 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2009
           2009 2008 
          Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year        3 123.7 102.2
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charge        10 47.4 36.6
Amortisation of software       11 4.0 2.9
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles      11 12.8 9.6
Impairment of goodwill       11 – 0.5
Equity-settled transactions       25 4.9 3.3
Share of profit of associates       12 – (0.2)
Net financing costs        7 17.5 9.5
Income tax expense        8 45.5 36.4
Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software    5 0.4 0.6
Operating profit before changes in working capital and operating provisions    256.2 201.4
Change in inventories         0.3 (1.1)
Change in trade and other receivables       8.9 (20.1)
Change in trade and other payables       9.8 11.4
Change in provisions         5.2 5.4
Special contributions into pension schemes      23 (2.0) (3.0)
Cash generated from operations       278.4 194.0
Interest and other finance expense paid       (16.1) (16.5)
Income taxes paid         (59.6) (36.6)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities      202.7 140.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software     0.3 0.4
Interest received         1.0 1.5
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired      24 (23.9) (67.8)
Consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions     19 (10.2) (16.7)
Purchase of minority interests       21 (0.6) (1.9)
Sale/(purchase) of a listed investment      13 5.7 (4.4)
Sale/(purchase) of an associate       12 0.9 (0.1)
Acquisition of property, fixtures, fittings and equipment      10 (45.7) (63.9)
Acquisition of software       11 (7.1) (3.7)
Net cash flows used in investing activities       (79.6) (156.6)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital      20 3.6 2.6
Issue of shares by subsidiary undertaking to minority      – 0.5
Drawdown of borrowings        191.8 177.9
Repayment of borrowings        (250.5) (98.4)
Dividends paid to minorities       21 (6.3) (6.1)
Equity dividends paid        20 (34.7) (30.4)
Net cash flows (used in)/from financing activities      (96.1) 46.1
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents      27 27.0 30.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January      27 113.3 58.6
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held     27 (6.1) 24.3
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December       27 134.2 113.3
The notes on pages 75 to 118 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 75
1  General
Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2009 consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the Group) and equity account the Group’s interest in associates. The Parent Company financial statements present 
information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group’s activities are the testing, inspection and certification of products and commodities against a wide range of safety, regulatory, 
quality and performance standards. Note 3 provides a segmental analysis of the Group’s performance.
2  Significant accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation
Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 119 to 122. 
Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial 
assets are stated at fair value. 
Functional and presentation currency
These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. All information presented  
in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £100,000.
Changes in accounting policies 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements, 
except as explained below which addresses changes in accounting policies.
The Group has adopted in the year the following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations: 
(i)  IFRS 8 – Operating Segments
(ii)  IAS 23 (Revised) – Borrowing Costs
(iii)  IAS 1 (Revised) – Presentation of Financial Statements
(iv) Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2008
i) Operating Segments – As of 1 January 2009, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that  
is internally presented to the Board of Directors, who in their entirety are the Group’s chief operating decision maker. This change in 
accounting policy is due to the adoption of IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Previously operating segments were determined and presented  
in accordance with IAS 14 Segmental Reporting. Comparative segmental information has been re-presented in conformity with the 
transitional requirements of such standard. Since the change in accounting policy only impacts presentation and disclosure aspects,  
there is no impact on earnings per share.
ii) Borrowing Costs – In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation  
is on or after 1 January 2009, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production  
of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. Previously the Group immediately recognised all borrowing costs as an expense.  
The change in accounting policy was due to the adoption of IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (2007) in accordance with the transitional provisions 
of such standard; comparative figures have not been restated. The change in accounting policy has had no material effect on earnings  
per share.
iii) Presentation of Financial Statements – The Group applies revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (2007) which became 
effective as of 1 January 2009. As a result the Group presents in the consolidated statement of changes in equity all owner changes in 
equity, whereas all non-owner changes in equity are presented in two separate statements, the consolidated income statement displaying 
components of profit and loss and a consolidated statement of comprehensive income displaying components of comprehensive income. 
Comparative information has been re-presented so that it is also in conformity with the revised standard. Since the change in accounting 
policy only impacts presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
iv) Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards – There have been no impact on the financial statements from the 
application of these improvements.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 76 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2009, 
and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements:


endorsed by the EU in June 2009)

endorsed by the EU in November 2009) 
 
EU in November 2009) 

not yet endorsed by the EU) 

endorsed by the EU)
The adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the income, expenses, 
assets and liabilities of the Group, except as listed below:
IFRS 3 (Revised) – Although the Group has not early adopted IFRS 3 (Revised), acquisition-related costs have been incurred prior to the 
adoption of this standard in relation to acquisitions that will be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised). The Group has chosen 
to expense these acquisition-related costs as incurred, see note 4. Notwithstanding that IFRS 3 (Revised) is not yet effective, it is expected 
to be effective at the time that the related business combinations are expected to occur.
Under the new accounting policy, as mentioned above, transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, 
such as finder’s fees, legal fees, due diligence fees, and other professional and consulting fees are expensed as incurred. The change in 
accounting policy may have an impact on earnings per share.
IAS 27 (Revised) – Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity 
holders and therefore no goodwill is recognised on these transactions. The change in accounting policy will not have a significant impact 
on earnings per share.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European 
Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
Going concern
The Board has reviewed forecasts, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic conditions. The Board has also reviewed 
the Group’s funding requirements and considered the expiry of its sterling denominated multi-currency bank debt in December 2011. As  
a result of these reviews the Board remains satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity position. The Board believes that the Group is 
well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook. In addition, on the basis of its 
forecasts, both base case and stressed, and available facilities, which are described in note 17, the Board has concluded that the going 
concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
Further information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position is set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to 25. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the primary statements and note 17 to the financial statements. In addition note 26 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may 
differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected. 
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has applied judgement in the following areas that have a significant impact  
on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. Also discussed below, are key assumptions concerning the future and other key 
sources of estimation at the balance sheet date, that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year.
Non-recurring costs 
These are items which, in management’s judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incident in order for the user to obtain  
a proper understanding of the financial information. The determination of which items are separately disclosed as non-recurring costs 
requires a significant degree of judgement, see note 4. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 77
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Income tax 
The actual tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws and regulations  
is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial 
statements. The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which 
may take a number of years to resolve. The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected  
in the financial statements, see note 8.
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised. In particular, judgement  
is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of 
future taxable income, see note 14.
Intangible assets 
When the Group makes an acquisition, management reviews the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible assets 
should be recognised separately from goodwill. If such an asset is identified, then it is valued by discounting the probable future cash flows 
expected to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset. Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic 
benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation, see note 11.
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected 
future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill, at a determined discount rate to calculate the present value of 
those cash flows, see note 11. 
Contingent consideration 
When the Group acquires businesses, the total consideration may consist of an amount paid on completion plus further amounts payable 
on agreed post completion dates. These further amounts are contingent on the acquired business meeting agreed performance targets.  
At the date of acquisition, the Group reviews the profit and cash forecasts for the acquired business and estimates the amount of 
contingent consideration that is likely to be due, see note 19. 
Basis of consolidation 
Judgement is applied when determining if an entity acquired is controlled by the Group, and therefore is defined as a subsidiary. Control  
is presumed to exist when the Group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity. 
However, even if the Group owns half or less of the voting power of an entity, control may still exist. In assessing control, the Group 
considers whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually exercised. Specific 
examples of where the Group has control of subsidiaries are where it has the power to govern the entity’s financial and operating policies 
by virtue of statute or agreement and where it has the power to cast the majority of votes of the entity’s governing body, see note 24. 
Claims 
In making provision for claims, management bases its judgement on the circumstances relating to each specific event, internal and external 
legal advice, knowledge of the industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal precedents. The Group’s legal and warranty 
claims are reviewed, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis by senior management, see note 19.
Employee post-retirement benefit obligations 
The Group has three principal defined pension benefit plans. The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and 
represent the present value of the obligation calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These actuarial valuations 
include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These assumptions vary from time to 
time according to prevailing economic and social conditions, see note 23. 
Recoverability of trade receivables 
Trade receivables are reflected net of an estimated provision for impairment losses. This provision is based primarily on a review of all 
outstanding accounts and considers the past payment history and creditworthiness of each account and the length of time that the  
debt has remained unpaid. The actual amounts of debts that ultimately prove irrecoverable could vary from the actual provision made,  
see note 26. 
(b) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern  
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies of subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group. 
For purchases of minority interest in subsidiaries, the Group applies the ‘entity concept method’. Under this method, the entire difference 
between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary, and the minority interest’s share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the 
consolidated balance sheet at the date of acquisition of the minority interests, is reflected directly in the shareholders’ equity. 78 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. 
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. 
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost. The Group’s investment includes 
goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s 
share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, after adjustments to align the accounting 
policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.  
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Group’s carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil  
and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation or has made 
payments on behalf of an associate. The Group does not consider the associates to be an integral part of the Group’s operations and 
therefore its results are presented outside of the Group operating profit.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, 
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated 
against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(c) Foreign currency 
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate  
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated 
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income  
statement, except those arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, 
and on retranslation of available-for-sale equity instruments which are recognised directly in equity. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values 
were determined. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to  
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling  
at cumulative average rates of exchange during the year. 
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates:
      Income and expenses 
      Assets and liabilities Cumulative 
     Actual rates average rates
Value of £1        31 Dec 09 31 Dec 08 2009 2008
US dollar        1.60 1.46 1.56 1.87
Euro        1.11 1.02 1.12 1.26
Chinese renminbi       10.90 9.95 10.63 13.03
Hong Kong dollar       12.38 11.28 12.06 14.59
Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to equity in the 
translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal. The Group has taken advantage of relief available in IFRS 1, 
to deem the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be zero at the date of transition to IFRSs on 1 January 2004.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are discussed in accounting policy (e).
(d) Financial instruments
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are stated at their amortised cost less impairment losses (see 
accounting policy (i)). Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables. 
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash 
flows. Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
The Group’s investments in equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, they  
are measured at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment losses (which are recognised in the income statement), and  
foreign currency differences on available-for-sale monetary items (see note (c)), are recognised directly in equity. When an investment  
is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 79
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are stated at their amortised cost.
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge economically its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when 
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement 
to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, in which case the 
recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged (see accounting policy (e)). Derivatives that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of forward 
exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the difference between the quoted 
forward price and the exercise price of the contract. 
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet 
the following two conditions:
(i)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or 
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group; and
(ii)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments, or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s 
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified 
takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and 
share premium exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses. Finance payments associated with financial 
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
(e) Hedging
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly 
probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the 
hedging reserve. The ineffective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the 
hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in the income 
statement when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or 
loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same year 
that the hedged item affects the income statement.
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset  
or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined  
to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in  
the income statement. When the hedged net investment is disposed of, the cumulative amount in equity is transferred to the income 
statement as an adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal. 80 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and accumulated impairment 
losses (see accounting policy (i)).
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposal of items of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with  
the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in profit or loss.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable 
that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of the replaced part is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in 
profit or loss as incurred. 
Leased assets
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Where land and 
buildings are held under finance leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings. Leased 
assets acquired by way of finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the 
minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised on the Group’s balance sheet.
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and 
equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives, unless it is reasonably certain that the 
Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings   50 years
Short leasehold buildings         Term of lease 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment         3–10 years
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are re-assessed at each reporting date.
Borrowing costs 
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
(g) Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses. All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill 
represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses (see accounting policy (i)). Goodwill is 
allocated to cash generating units (CGUs) and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment. In respect of associates, the carrying 
amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investments in associates.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 
2004, the date of transition to IFRS. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under 
the Group’s previous accounting framework.
Purchased goodwill in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998 was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition, in accordance 
with the accounting standard then in force. 
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions. If at the balance sheet date the fair values of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be established provisionally, then these values are used. Any adjustments to these values made 
within 12 months of the acquisition date are taken as adjustments to goodwill. 
Other intangible assets
Other than goodwill, intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses. Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless 
of whether those rights are separable, and which have finite useful lives. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 81
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are  
as follows:
Computer software Up to 5 years
Customer relationships Up to 10 years
Know-how Up to 5 years
Licences Contractual life
Covenants not to compete  Con t r act u a l l i f e
(h) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of the inventories is based on the first-in-first-out (FIFO) 
principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing inventories to their present condition and 
location and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
(i) Impairment
Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial 
asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated 
future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, 
and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. Receivables with a short duration 
are not discounted.
Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed 
collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.  
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting 
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. The recoverable amount of goodwill is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash 
generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows 
from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the 
purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating  
unit to which the asset belongs. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed  
the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an 
indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
(j) Employee benefits
Defined contribution plan
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and 
will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans  
are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as incurred. 82 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. The Group’s net obligation in respect  
of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have 
earned in return for their service in the current and prior years; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised 
past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit- 
rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency 
in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit  
credit method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised  
past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of (i) an unconditional right to a refund from the  
plan or (ii) reductions in future contributions to the plan as measured by the estimated future service cost less the estimated minimum 
funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual of benefits in that year. An economic benefit is available to the Group  
if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities. In addition a provision for future minimum funding 
contributions is recorded to the extent that such payments are required to cover an existing shortfall, as measured on a minimum funding 
contribution basis, and having been paid will not be available as a refund or a reduction in future contributions to the plan.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged to  
the operating profit in the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value of the 
schemes’ liabilities, during the accounting period, are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised immediately in equity.
Share-based payment transactions
The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the 
employee services received in exchange for the grant of share options or shares, is measured at the grant date and is recognised as an 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The charge is calculated using the Monte Carlo method and expensed to the income 
statement over the vesting period of the relevant award. The charge for the share options and for the share awards is adjusted to reflect 
expected and actual levels of vesting where conditions are non-market based. The expense of the share awards under the deferred bonus 
plan is also adjusted for the probability of performance conditions being achieved. The Group has taken advantage of the provisions of 
IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, and has recognised an expense only in respect of share options 
and share awards granted since 7 November 2002.
Own shares held by ESOT trust
Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT trust are included in the Group financial statements. In particular, the trust’s purchases  
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
(k) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably 
as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
(l) Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions. Revenue 
from services rendered is recognised in the income statement when the relevant service is completed, usually when the report of findings  
is issued or in certain circumstances, in proportion to the stage of completion, normally determined by reference to costs incurred to date 
in proportion to the total anticipated costs of the transaction at the balance sheet date. 
(m) Expenses
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease 
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, facility fees, interest 
receivable on funds invested, net foreign exchange gains or losses on external income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities, 
and gains and losses on hedging instruments, that are recognised in the income statement (see accounting policy (e)). Interest income is 
recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest rate method. All borrowing costs are recognised in the income 
statement using the effective interest rate method. 
(n) Income tax 
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that  
it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 83
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences  
are not provided for: initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; overseas retained earnings, the distribution of which is under the control 
of the Group, and which are not likely to be distributed in the foreseeable future; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to 
the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and 
assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they 
intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the  
related dividend.
(o) Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid. Final dividends are reported as a movement in equity in the 
year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
(p) Operating segments 
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments 
operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and 
assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
3 Operating segments
From 1 January 2009, the Group is organised into six operating divisions each of which offer services to different industries and are 
managed separately: Consumer Goods, Commercial & Electrical, Oil, Chemical & Agri, Analytical Services, Industrial Services and Minerals. 
The costs of the corporate head office and other costs which are not controlled by the operating divisions are allocated to these divisions. 
Prior to 1 January 2009, Government Services was reported as a separate division. This division was restructured in 2008 and from 
1 January 2009 was incorporated into the Oil, Chemical & Agri division. Following the restructuring, a small number of companies have 
changed division to ensure a good strategic fit. Segmental information previously reported for periods prior to 1 January 2009 has been 
restated to show a like-for-like comparison.
These divisions are the operating segments that are reported to the chief operating decision maker and are the Group’s reportable 
segments. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. There is no significant seasonality in the Group’s operations. 
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable 
basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly borrowings, pension fund liabilities, corporate expenses and assets and tax. 
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the year to acquire property, plant and equipment, and computer software.
Principal activities are as follows:
Consumer Goods provides services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food, and retail industries. Services include testing, inspection, 
auditing, advisory services, quality assurance, and hazardous substance testing. 
Commercial & Electrical provides services including testing and certification, electromagnetic compatibility testing (EMC), outsourcing, 
benchmark and performance testing and environmental testing. These are provided to a wide range of industries including the home 
appliance, lighting, medical, building, industrial and HVAC/R (heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration), IT, telecom, 
renewable energy and automotive industries.
Oil, Chemical & Agri provides independent cargo inspection as well as non-inspection related laboratory testing, calibration and related 
technical services to the world’s energy, petroleum, chemical and agricultural industries. It also provides cargo scanning, fiscal support 
services and standards programmes to governments, national standards organisations and customs authorities.
Analytical Services provides expert laboratory services and consultancy to a broad range of industries including chemical, pharmaceutical, 
oil and gas, and automotive and aerospace. We have an established track record of success in laboratory outsourcing with many large 
internationally recognised companies. 
Industrial Services provides inspection, testing and auditing services, including management systems certification, second-party auditing, 
supplier evaluation, technical verification, conformity assessment, asset integrity management, dimensional control management, training, 
health and safety and risk consulting, and greenhouse gas services. 
Minerals provides complete analytical solutions to the world’s minerals, ore and mining industries. 84 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
3 Operating segments (continued) 
Year ended 31 December 2009
      Revenue    Amortisation 
      from Inter-  Adjusted of Non- 
      external segment Total operating acquisition recurring Operating 
      customers revenue revenue profit intangibles costs profit 
      £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Consumer Goods    320.9 0.8 321.7 105.5 (0.8) – 104.7
Commercial & Electrical   244.8 2.9 247.7 34.7 (3.1) – 31.6
Oil, Chemical & Agri    406.7 1.2 407.9 43.7 (0.8) (6.3) 36.6
Analytical Services    137.5 1.7 139.2 14.6 (4.1) – 10.5
Industrial Services    80.7 3.9 84.6 6.5 (2.8) – 3.7
Minerals     46.7 – 46.7 4.0 (1.2) – 2.8
Eliminations    – (10.5) (10.5) – – – –
Total     1,237.3 – 1,237.3 209.0 (12.8) (6.3) 189.9
Unallocated non-recurring costs         (3.2)
Group operating profit         186.7
Net financing costs          (17.5)
Profit before income tax         169.2
Income tax expense          (45.5)
Profit for the year          123.7
Year ended 31 December 2009
           Depreciation Capital 
           and expenditure 
         Segment Segment software including 
         assets liabilities amortisation software 
         £m £m £m £m
Consumer Goods       124.6 43.6 12.3 13.6
Commercial & Electrical      187.0 46.1 11.3 10.6
Oil, Chemical & Agri       180.8 65.5 16.2 15.4
Analytical Services       159.8 16.2 5.6 5.1
Industrial Services       62.2 11.9 0.7 0.4
Minerals         72.9 6.9 4.9 3.3
Central         9.9 14.7 0.4 4.4
Total allocated       797.2 204.9 51.4 52.8
Investments       – – – –
Unallocated        158.9 411.9 – –
Total         956.1 616.8 51.4 52.8
Year ended 31 December 2008
     Revenue    Amortisation 
     from Inter-  Adjusted of   
     external segment Total operating acquisition Impairment Non-recurring Operating 
     customers revenue revenue profit intangibles of goodwill costs profit 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Consumer Goods   242.5 0.5 243.0 75.1 (1.0) – – 74.1
Commercial & Electrical  203.5 2.6 206.1 29.2 (1.5) (0.5) – 27.2
Oil, Chemical & Agri*   348.6 7.3 355.9 39.3 (0.6) – (6.7) 32.0
Analytical Services   119.5 – 119.5 13.2 (3.9) – – 9.3
Industrial Services   45.6 1.8 47.4 2.8 (1.6) – – 1.2
Minerals    43.8 – 43.8 5.1 (1.0) – – 4.1
Eliminations   – (12.2) (12.2) – – – – –
Total    1,003.5 – 1,003.5 164.7 (9.6) (0.5) (6.7) 147.9
Net financing costs          (9.5)
Share of profit of associates         0.2
Profit before income tax         138.6
Income tax expense          (36.4)
Profit for the year          102.2 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 85
3 Operating segments (continued) 
Year ended 31 December 2008
           Depreciation Capital 
           and expenditure 
         Segment Segment software including 
         assets liabilities amortisation software 
         £m £m £m £m
Consumer Goods       139.2 47.3 9.3 14.3
Commercial & Electrical      198.8 47.2 8.8 16.3
Oil, Chemical & Agri*       202.4 61.5 13.6 17.0
Analytical Services       171.8 16.4 4.4 5.4
Industrial Services       33.9 4.8 0.4 0.5
Minerals         68.9 6.3 2.8 12.3
Central         6.5 8.0 0.2 1.8
Total allocated       821.5 191.5 39.5 67.6
Investments       5.7 – – –
Unallocated        132.2 510.2 – –
Total         959.4 701.7 39.5 67.6
*Oil, Chemical & Agri includes Government Services which was previously reported as a separate division. 
Geographic segments
All the business segments are managed on a worldwide basis but the main countries, which represent greater than 10% of either the 
Group’s external revenues or non-current assets, are Australia, China (including Hong Kong), the United Kingdom and the United States.
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of the entity generating that 
revenue. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
     Revenue from  
     external customers Non-current assets
         2009 2008 2009 2008 
         £m £m £m £m
China (including Hong Kong)      273.7 210.1 38.4 46.4
Australia        44.7 41.0 58.5 52.8
Other         142.3 115.7 38.8 42.5
Total Asia Pacific       460.7 366.8 135.7 141.7
United States       342.6 272.3 207.2 205.4
Other         81.4 68.8 13.9 10.7
Total Americas       424.0 341.1 221.1 216.1
United Kingdom       120.6 108.9 91.9 93.3
Other         232.0 186.7 76.9 81.0
Total Europe, Middle East and Africa     352.6 295.6 168.8 174.3
Unallocated       – – 22.8 21.4
Total        1,237.3 1,003.5 548.4 553.5
Major customers
No revenue from any individual customer exceeded 10% of total Group revenue in 2008 or 2009. 86 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
4 Non-recurring costs
The non-recurring costs of £9.5m in 2009 comprise acquisition costs of £2.5m and restructuring and other costs of £7.0m. Although the  
Group has not early adopted IFRS 3 (Revised), acquisition-related costs have been incurred prior to the adoption of this standard in relation to 
acquisitions that will be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised). The Group has chosen to expense these acquisition-related costs  
as incurred. Notwithstanding that IFRS 3 (Revised) is not yet effective, it is expected to be effective at the time that the related business 
combinations are expected to occur. The restructuring and other costs are principally related to employment costs, including redundancies, 
retirement costs and settlements to former employees. There are also some closure costs and asset write downs in underperforming 
businesses. The majority of the restructuring was in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division. 
The tax impact for these costs is a tax credit of £1.6m.
The non-recurring costs of £6.7m in 2008 comprised employee redundancies and settlements, lease terminations and consultancy and 
legal fees. The tax impact was a tax credit of £1.2m. The costs related primarily to the integration of the Government Services division  
with the Oil, Chemical & Agri division, following the Group’s strategic review of its operating segments. 
5 Expenses and auditors’ remuneration
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Included in profit for the year are the following expenses:
Property rentals         40.4 32.7
Lease and hire charges – fixtures, fittings and equipment      8.2 6.2
Depreciation and software amortisation       51.4 39.5
Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software     0.4 0.6
           2009 2008 
           £000’s £000’s
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit of these financial statements        349 313
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of:
 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     1,182 1,055
 Other services pursuant to such legislation – review of interim financial statements    80 79
 Taxation services          172 137
 Transaction advisory         397 –
 Pension services         – 22
 Other           137 52
Total          2,317 1,658
In addition the auditors and their associates were paid £10,000 (2008: £10,000) in respect of the audit of associated pension schemes.
6 Employees 
           2009 2008 
Employee costs          £m £m
Wages and salaries         477.4 383.7
Equity-settled transactions        4.9 3.3
Social security costs         47.6 37.6
Pension costs         19.8 16.3
Total employee costs        549.7 440.9
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report. Details of pension arrangements and equity-settled 
transactions are set out in notes 23 and 25 respectively.
Average number of employees by activity       2009 2008
Consumer Goods         8,843 7,895
Commercial & Electrical        3,507 3,259
Oil, Chemical & Agri         8,627 8,866
Analytical Services         1,352 1,166
Industrial Services         765 287
Minerals           1,323 1,141
Central*           163 65
Total average number for the year ended 31 December      24,580 22,679
Total actual number at 31 December       25,183 23,841
*IT staff reallocated from divisions to form part of the newly created central IT function, in addition to new staff recruited in the year.  www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 87
7 Net financing costs
           2009 2008 
Recognised in income statement        £m £m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances        1.0 1.6
Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets      0.1 –
Expected return on pension assets (note 23)       3.3 4.1
Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets transferred from equity    1.1 –
Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities    – 7.4
Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading (forward exchange contracts)   2.0 –
Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading (interest rate swaps)    0.2 –
Total finance income        7.7 13.1
Finance expense
Interest on borrowings         16.1 13.7
Pension interest cost (note 23)        3.7 3.9
Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges       – 0.1
Foreign exchange differences on interest accruals      – 0.8
Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading (forward exchange contracts)   – 3.5
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred from equity     0.2 –
Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities    4.7 –
Facility fees and other         0.5 0.6
Total finance expense        25.2 22.6
Net financing costs         17.5 9.5
           2009 2008 
Recognised directly in other comprehensive income       £m £m
Foreign currency translation differences of foreign operations      (35.4) 138.4
Net exchange gain/(loss) on hedges of net investment in foreign operations    27.2 (110.9)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges      1.3 (3.7)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred to profit or loss     0.2 –
Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets      1.1 –
Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets transferred to profit or loss    (1.1) –
Income tax on income and expense above recognised directly in equity     (0.4) 0.1
Finance (expense)/income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax   (7.1) 23.9
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company        (6.5) 20.4
 Minority interest         (0.6) 3.5
Finance (expense)/income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax   (7.1) 23.9
Recognised in:
 Hedging reserve         1.5 (3.7)
 Translation reserve and minority interests       (8.2) 27.5
 Retained earnings         (0.4) 0.1
Finance (expense)/income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax   (7.1) 23.9 88 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
8 Income tax expense
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
UK corporation tax at 28.0% (2008: 28.5%)       (2.7) (3.4)
Double taxation relief         (1.5) (0.7)
UK taxation         (4.2) (4.1)
Overseas taxation         58.6 47.8
Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities       (0.3) (1.8)
Current tax         54.1 41.9
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences     (8.6) (5.5)
Total tax in income statement        45.5 36.4
       2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 
           Tax  
       Before Tax Net Before credit/ Net 
       tax expense of tax tax (expense) of tax 
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations (35.4) – (35.4) 138.4 – 138.4
Net exchange gain/(loss) on hedges of net investments  
in foreign operations     27.2 – 27.2 (110.9) – (110.9)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  1.3 (0.4) 0.9 (3.7) 1.1 (2.6)
Net change in fair value of cash flow  
hedges transferred to profit or loss     0.2 – 0.2 – – –
Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets  – – – – – –
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes (2.5) (0.8) (3.3) (12.3) (1.0) (13.3)
Total other comprehensive income for the year  (9.2) (1.2) (10.4) 11.5 0.1 11.6
       2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 
       Before Tax Net Before Tax Net 
       tax credit of tax tax expense of tax 
Income tax recognised directly in equity    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equity-settled transactions    4.9 1.4 6.3 3.3 (0.1) 3.2
Total tax income/(expense) recognised directly in equity  4.9 1.4 6.3 3.3 (0.1) 3.2
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Reconciliation of the notional tax charge at UK standard rate of corporation tax of 28.0% (2008: 28.5%). 
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
 
Profit before taxation         169.2 138.6
Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 28.0% (2008: 28.5%)     47.4 39.5
Differences in overseas tax rates        (10.6) (2.8)
Tax on dividends          6.0 1.0
Non-deductible expenses        4.8 3.2
Tax exempt income         (0.6) (1.6)
Losses brought forward utilised        (4.2) (0.3)
Current year losses not recognised        1.5 1.1
Accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences not recognised     4.4 1.8
Brought forward accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences utilised    0.3 (2.1)
Recognition of previously unprovided accelerated capital allowances and temporary differences   (2.9) (1.3)
Recognition of previously unprovided losses       (0.3) (0.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years        (0.3) (1.8)
Total tax in income statement        45.5 36.4
During the year there was a current tax credit of £0.8m on equity-settled transactions (2008: credit of £0.1m) and deferred tax charge of 
£0.6m on pension deficit, interest rate swaps and equity-settled transactions (2008: charge of £0.1m) charged directly to equity (see note 14).
The effective tax rate was 26.9% (2008: 26.3%). The main reason for the increase in the effective tax rate was a change in the mix of 
profits and an increasing dividend withholding tax burden. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 89
9 Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33: Earnings Per Share,  
an adjusted earnings per share has also been calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles, goodwill impairment and non-recurring costs. It has been calculated to allow shareholders to have a better understanding  
of the trading performance of the Group. Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders        114.7 93.8
Adjusting items:
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles       12.8 9.6
Impairment of goodwill        – 0.5
Non-recurring costs         9.5 6.7
Adjusted earnings         137.0 110.6
Tax impact on adjusting items        (5.6) (3.7)
Adjusted earnings after tax impact       131.4 106.9
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares       158.4 157.7
Potentially dilutive share options*        2.8 1.7
Diluted weighted average number of shares       161.2 159.4
Basic earnings per share        72.4p 59.5p
Options          (1.2)p (0.6)p
Diluted earnings per share        71.2p 58.9p
Basic adjusted earnings per share after tax impact      83.0p 67.8p
Options          (1.5)p (0.7)p
Diluted adjusted earnings per share after tax impact      81.5p 67.1p
* The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of the diluted earnings per share for the year to 31 December 2009, excludes nil (2008: 780,343) contingently 
issuable shares as the performance conditions were not met. 90 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
10 Property, plant and equipment
           Fixtures,  
           fittings 
          Land and and  
          buildings equipment Total 
          £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2008        27.1 249.2 276.3
Exchange adjustments        10.1 92.1 102.2
Additions         2.1 61.8 63.9
Disposals         – (5.7) (5.7)
Businesses acquired (note 24)       4.2 5.7 9.9
At 31 December 2008       43.5 403.1 446.6
Depreciation
At 1 January 2008        3.9 123.2 127.1
Exchange adjustments        1.4 51.6 53.0
Charge for the year        0.8 35.8 36.6
Disposals         – (4.9) (4.9)
At 31 December 2008       6.1 205.7 211.8
Net book value at 31 December 2008      37.4 197.4 234.8
Net book value at 1 January 2008       23.2 126.0 149.2
Cost 
At 1 January 2009        43.5 403.1 446.6
Exchange adjustments        (2.5) (22.6) (25.1)
Additions         7.3 38.4 45.7
Disposals         – (11.9) (11.9)
Businesses acquired (note 24)       – 0.4 0.4
At 31 December 2009       48.3 407.4 455.7
Depreciation
At 1 January 2009        6.1 205.7 211.8
Exchange adjustments        (0.4) (12.8) (13.2)
Charge for the year        1.7 45.7 47.4
Disposals         – (11.2) (11.2)
At 31 December 2009       7.4 227.4 234.8
Net book value at 31 December 2009      40.9 180.0 220.9
Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes assets in the course of construction of £7.0m at 31 December 2009, (2008: £7.8m), comprising 
mainly of laboratories under construction. These assets will not be depreciated until they are brought into use. There are no significant 
borrowing costs capitalised within any qualifying assets (2008: £nil).
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:  
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Freehold          37.9 34.1
Long leasehold         0.1 0.6
Short leasehold         2.9 2.7
Total          40.9 37.4 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 91
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets
     Other intangible assets
          Other   
        Customer  acquisition Computer  
       Goodwill relationships Licences intangibles software Total 
       £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2008     160.3 27.9 5.1 7.6 10.5 51.1
Exchange adjustments     43.3 10.2 0.7 2.1 5.9 18.9
Additions      – – – – 3.7 3.7
Disposals      – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Businesses acquired (note 24)    53.4 9.9 2.9 5.7 – 18.5
At 31 December 2008     257.0 48.0 8.7 15.4 19.9 92.0
Amortisation and impairment losses     
At 1 January 2008     11.9 6.0 1.5 4.8 3.8 16.1
Exchange adjustments     2.5 3.1 0.3 1.4 3.4 8.2
Charge for the year     – 5.7 1.1 2.8 2.9 12.5
Impairment charge     0.5 – – – – –
At 31 December 2008     14.9 14.8 2.9 9.0 10.1 36.8
Net book value at 31 December 2008   242.1 33.2 5.8 6.4 9.8 55.2
Net book value at 1 January 2008    148.4 21.9 3.6 2.8 6.7 35.0
Cost
At 1 January 2009     257.0 48.0 8.7 15.4 19.9 92.0
Exchange adjustments     (9.0) (2.4) (0.5) (0.7) (2.0) (5.6)
Additions      – – – – 7.1 7.1
Disposals      – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Businesses acquired (note 24)    24.4 4.5 – – – 4.5
At 31 December 2009    272.4 50.1 8.2 14.7 24.8 97.8
Amortisation and impairment losses     
At 1 January 2009     14.9 14.8 2.9 9.0 10.1 36.8
Exchange adjustments     (0.3) (0.7) (0.2) (0.5) (1.1) (2.5)
Charge for the year     – 9.3 1.5 2.0 4.0 16.8
Disposals      – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2009    14.6 23.4 4.2 10.5 12.8 50.9
Net book value at 31 December 2009   257.8 26.7 4.0 4.2 12.0 46.9
The other acquisition intangibles of £4.2m (2008: £6.4m) consist of covenants not to compete of £1.3m (2008: £2.1m), know-how  
of £2.3m (2008: £3.2m) and guaranteed income of £0.6m (2008: £1.1m). The average remaining amortisation period for customer 
relationships is 3.3 years (2008: 4.1 years).
Computer software net book value of £12.0m at 31 December 2009 (2008: £9.8m) includes software in construction of £5.8m  
(2008: £2.2m). Borrowing costs capitalised within software in the course of construction is £nil (2008: £0.1m). 92 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year has been allocated to operating segments as follows:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Consumer Goods         1.2 13.6
Commercial & Electrical        2.6 13.0
Oil, Chemical & Agri         – 0.5
Analytical Services         – 8.0
Industrial Services         20.4  10.7
Minerals           0.2 7.6
Total goodwill          24.4 53.4
The total carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is as follows:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Consumer Goods         23.5 23.3
Commercial & Electrical        57.6 59.8
Oil, Chemical & Agri         23.4 24.4
Analytical Services         81.8 86.0
Industrial Services         34.4 16.2
Minerals           37.1 32.4
Total goodwill net book value at 31 December*      257.8 242.1
* All goodwill is recorded in local currency. Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end of the year is 
stated at closing exchange rates.
Cash generating units
At 31 December 2008, the carrying amount of goodwill was £242.1m allocated across 45 cash generating units (CGUs). Each acquired 
legal entity was treated as a separate CGU unless it was subsumed into an existing Intertek legal entity. 
As a result of the “Intertek as One” internal Group-wide initiative, various levels of restructuring occurred during 2008 and 2009 which have 
been noted below. Intertek as One was designed to facilitate greater cohesion and integration within the Group, to encourage significant 
cross-selling and to share common clients amongst operating units and globally. The restructuring was considered as part of the annual 
goodwill impairment test which included a re-assessment of not only the constitution of the CGUs but also the allocation of goodwill 
across those CGUs and operating segments (as required under the newly adopted standard, IFRS 8 – Operating Segments).

Oil, Chemical & Agri, Government Services, Analytical Services, Industrial Services and Minerals. 

operated in six divisions effective 1 January 2009.

and country basis, and senior management was responsible for divisional results globally. The internal reporting systems were also 
changed to support the new reporting structure. Previously, lines of responsibilities and ultimately decision-making were held at a more 
local level whereas in 2009, lines of responsibilities and decision-making were held at a global divisional level. 
The impact of the above restructuring has led to greater global operational control across divisions, improved management of global 
customer accounts, and more effective integration of acquired businesses into existing Intertek operations (which previously had more 
local, independent control over decision-making).
The above review has led to a change in the composition of the CGUs and also to a change in the level at which management monitors 
goodwill. There are now eight CGUs which generate cash inflows which are largely independent of other CGUs and to which goodwill has 
been allocated.  www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 93
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Impairment Review
The following table shows how the total Group goodwill of £257.8m (2008: £242.1m) is split into eight CGUs. 
           2009 2008 
Cash generating units (CGUs)        £m £m
Consumer Goods          23.5 23.3
Commercial & Electrical        57.6 59.8
Oil, Chemical & Agri         23.4 24.4
Analytical Services – Materials & Pharmaceutical Testing       57.5 62.2
Analytical Services – Upstream         24.3 23.8
Industrial Services – Systems Certification       3.2 3.3
Industrial Services – Technical Services       31.2 12.9
Minerals          37.1 32.4
Total goodwill net book value at 31 December      257.8 242.1
In order to determine whether impairments are required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each CGU. The calculation is 
based on projecting future cash flows over a five year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter. 
The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model which assumes long term growth rate on the operating cash flows of between 
2% and 5% reflecting the long term GDP growth forecasts in the various regions in which the respective CGUs operate. A discount factor 
is applied to obtain a ‘value in use’ which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount 
in excess of the ‘value in use’. 
The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the CGUs. The approved budget for the following 
financial year forms the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU. The cash flow projections in the four financial years following the 
budget year reflect management’s conservative expectations of the medium term operating performance of the CGUs and growth prospects 
in the various CGU’s markets and regions. 
Key assumptions
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the revenue and operating margin growth rates which directly influence the 
forecasted operating cash flows, as well as the discount rate applied. In determining the key assumptions, management have taken into 
account the current economic climate and the resulting impact on expected growth and discount rates. 
The calculation of the value in use is sensitive to the following key assumptions:
(i) Operating cash flow
One of the key drivers of the operating cash flow is revenue. The 2010 revenue figures for each CGU are based on the 2010 approved budget. 
For the years 2011 to 2014, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account of past experience 
and the GDP growth prospects. The average growth rates ranged from 3.5% to 8.4% (2008: 5%). In all cases it is considered the assumed 
growth rates are conservative. 
The other key driver of the operating cash flow is operating margin. The assumed weighted average operating margin growth rates, which 
are considered conservative, ranged from a decline of 3.2% to a growth of 5% (2008: 5%) reflecting management assessment of current 
and future market environment of the sectors and countries in which the CGUs operate. 
(ii) Discount rate applied 
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre tax rate that reflects the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the 
risks specific to the CGU. The discount rates applied to the CGU were in the range of 10.6% to 14.5% (2008: 10.9%).
Sensitivity Analysis
There are no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of each CGU to exceed its recoverable 
amount. Management has also considered the effect of the following extreme scenarios which management considers the likelihood of any 
or all occuring is low.
(i) Assuming revenues decline each year by 1% in 2011 to 2014 from the 2010 budgeted revenues, with margins increasing with base 
assumptions, all CGUs continue to show sufficiency of headroom with the exception of Minerals which shows a deficit of £6.8m. 
(ii) Assuming 0% growth in operating margins in 2011 to 2014, with revenues increasing per base assumptions, all CGUs continue to show 
positive headroom.
(iii) Assuming an increase in the discount rate of 1%, all CGUs continue to show positive headroom. 
For Minerals, currently, the price of commodities such as gold, uranium and other strategic metals remains high and this should continue to 
encourage exploration by the mining companies. Intertek has the expertise and capacity to take advantage of an upturn in activity. The 
Minerals division has reduced costs in 2009 and will concentrate on improving margins in those areas which are underperforming. In view  
of this, management believe that on the basis of reasonable assumptions used in the impairment review, there is no impairment in the 
Minerals CGU. 94 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
In 2008, an impairment charge of £0.5m was recognised within administrative expenses in the Commercial & Electrical division in respect  
of the goodwill of Intertek Testing and Certification Limited. This was necessitated by lower than expected trading results. The goodwill 
impairment was based on a calculation of the recoverable amount based on value-in-use, using projected cash flows for this business, 
discounted by a pre-tax rate of 10.9%. The charge of £0.5m represented the shortfall of the recoverable amount to the carrying value.  
The carrying amount of goodwill after the impairment was £5.5m.
There are no intangible assets with indefinite lives.
12 Investment in associates
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Cost
At 1 January          1.1 0.6
Additions          – 0.1
Disposals          (0.8) –
Exchange adjustments         (0.2) 0.4
At 31 December          0.1 1.1
Share of post-acquisition reserves
At 1 January          0.2 –
Share of profit for the year        – 0.2
Disposals          (0.1) –
Exchange adjustments         – –
At 31 December          0.1 0.2
Net book value at 31 December        0.2 1.3
On 28 October 2009, the Group disposed of its 40% interest in Allium LLC, a company registered in the USA. The Group’s interest in 
Allium LLC of £0.9m was sold for a consideration of £0.9m. The loss on sale, adjusted for exchange, was £nil.
The net book value at 31 December 2009 was wholly comprised of a 49% interest in Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC, Abu Dhabi.
Summary financial information on associates (100% basis) as at 31 December is set out below:
        Assets* Liabilities Equity Revenues Profit/(loss) 
        £m £m £m £m £m
2009       0.5 0.1 0.4 0.5 –
2008       14.5 13.1 1.4 23.1 0.4
*Excluding goodwill and intangibles of £nil (2008: £2.5m).
13 Other investments
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Available-for-sale financial assets        – 4.4
The Group’s equity investment, listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, was sold on a piecemeal basis during the year for £5.7m. The 
profit on disposal of the investment was £nil, after an exchange adjustment of £0.2m was realised in the year. The net change in fair value 
recycled from reserves was £1.1m, see note 7. 
14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
       Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Net Net 
       2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
       £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets     – – (8.7) (10.3) (8.7) (10.3)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment   2.6 1.5 (1.8) (2.2) 0.8 (0.7)
Pensions      0.4 1.2 (0.1) – 0.3 1.2
Equity-settled transactions    3.2 1.7 – – 3.2 1.7
Interest rate swaps     0.9 1.3 – – 0.9 1.3
Provisions and other temporary differences   16.4 14.6 (0.3) (0.1) 16.1 14.5
Tax value of losses     2.5 1.6 – – 2.5 1.6
Set-off of tax     (3.4) (6.2) 3.4 6.2 – –
Total      22.6 15.7 (7.5) (6.4) 15.1 9.3 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 95
14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued) 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Deductible temporary differences        4.8 2.4
Pensions          4.7 4.2
Tax losses          18.1 30.6
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment       3.4 8.6
Equity-settled transactions        0.9 –
Total          31.9 45.8
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which the Group can utilise the benefits from them.
There is a temporary difference of £11.7m (2008: £9.7m) which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings. No deferred tax is 
provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group and there is no intention to either 
repatriate from or sell the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.
          Recognised   
       1 January Exchange  in income Recognised 31 December 
       2009 adjustments Acquisitions statement in equity* 2009 
       £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets     (10.3) 0.2 (0.4) 1.8 – (8.7)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment   (0.7) – – 1.5 – 0.8
Pensions      1.2 – – (0.1) (0.8) 0.3
Equity-settled transactions    1.7 – – 0.9 0.6 3.2
Interest rate swaps     1.3 – – – (0.4) 0.9
Provisions and other temporary differences   14.5 (1.7) (0.4) 3.7 – 16.1
Tax value of losses     1.6 0.1 – 0.8 – 2.5
Total      9.3 (1.4) (0.8) 8.6 (0.6) 15.1
*See note 8.
          Recognised   
       1 January Exchange  in income Recognised 31 December 
       2008 adjustments Acquisitions statement in equity* 2008 
       £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets     (2.5) (2.5) (3.0) (2.3) – (10.3)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment   (2.1) – (0.5) 1.9 – (0.7)
Pensions      2.1 – – 0.1 (1.0) 1.2
Equity-settled transactions    1.9 – – – (0.2) 1.7
Interest rate swaps     0.2 – – – 1.1 1.3
Provisions and other temporary differences   6.6 3.0 0.1 4.8 – 14.5
Tax value of losses     0.4 0.1 0.1 1.0 – 1.6
Total      6.6 0.6 (3.3) 5.5  (0.1) 9.3
*See note 8.
15 Inventories
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Raw materials and consumables        6.3 6.6
Work in progress         0.7 1.1
Finished goods         0.6 0.5
Total inventories         7.6 8.2
The amount of inventory recognised as an expense in 2009 was £10.2m (2008: £6.9m). All inventories are expected to be recovered 
within 12 months. The amount of inventory written off in 2009 was £nil (2008: £nil). 96 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
16 Trade and other receivables
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Trade receivables         203.7 219.4
Other receivables         25.3 27.0
Prepayments and accrued income        36.9 38.0
Total trade and other receivables       265.9 284.4
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of £9.9m (2008: £10.0m) and are all expected to be recovered 
within 12 months. Impairment on trade receivables charged as part of costs of sales was £6.2m (2008: £4.4m).
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their short-term 
duration. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers which are 
internationally dispersed. 
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and further details on impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are 
disclosed in note 26.
17 Interest bearing loans and borrowings
         Current Current Non-current Non-current 
         2009 2008 2009 2008 
         £m £m £m £m
Senior term loans and notes      8.2 14.0 323.7 403.7
Other borrowings        –  – 3.7 3.9
Total borrowings       8.2 14.0 327.4 407.6
           2009 2008 
Analysis of debt         £m £m
Debt falling due:
In one year or less (senior term loans)       8.2 14.0
Between one and two years (senior term loans)       198.5 44.3
Between two and five years (senior term loans, notes and £3.4m of other borrowings)    19.0 222.0
Over five years (senior notes and £0.3m of other borrowings)      109.9 141.3
Total borrowings         335.6 421.6
Description of borrowings
In December 2004, the Group refinanced its existing £300.0m secured facility with a £300.0m non-secured facility. In August 2007, an 
additional £100.0m tranche was added making a total facility of £400.0m. In June 2008, the Group amended the facility to allow a further 
£120.0m to be borrowed under the same facility. Of this £120.0m, £75.0m was committed from three further banks to make a syndicate of 
13 banks. The committed i.e. contractually obligated amount of debt facilities from these 13 banks was £365.1m as at 31 December 2009. 
The facility was originally for five years expiring on 15 December 2009, with two one-year extension options to extend this up to a further 
two years. The facility was extended by a year in 2005 and by a further year in 2006. The facility now expires in December 2011.
The facility comprises four tranches. Facility A is a £14.0m multi-currency term loan, now repaid in full. Facility B is a £225.0m multi-currency 
revolving credit facility, available up to 15 December 2011. Facility C is a 364 day, £48.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility (original 
£80.0m less repayments to 31 December 2009 of £32.0m), with the option to convert this, at any time by written notice, into a term loan 
expiring 364 days from the date of notice. This amount has been included in debt falling due in less than one year. Facility D is a £92.1m 
multi-currency term loan facility (original £100.0m less repayments to 31 December 2009 of £7.9m) available up to 15 December 2011.
Advances under the facilities bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR, or other local currency equivalent, plus a margin. The margin over 
LIBOR for facility B is in the range of 0.4% to 0.6% in accordance with a leverage grid. As at 31 December 2009, the margin was 0.45%. 
The margin over LIBOR for facility C is in the range of 1.1% to 1.5% in accordance with a leverage grid. As at 31 December 2009, the 
margin was 1.2%. The margin over LIBOR for facility D is in the range of 0.3% to 0.5% in accordance with a leverage grid. As at 
31 December 2009, the margin was 0.35%. 
In June 2008, US$100.0m was raised by way of a senior note issue. This debt is repayable on 26 June 2015 and the interest rate is fixed at 
5.54%. In December 2008, a further US$100.0m was raised by way of a second senior note issue. This debt is repayable in two tranches 
with US$25.0m repayable on 21 January 2014 and the interest rate is fixed at 7.50% and the second US$75.0m repayable on 10 June 2016 
and the interest rate is fixed at 8.00%.
The undrawn committed borrowing facilities, which can be drawn down at any time, mature in December 2011 and amounted to £153.2m 
(2008: £97.8m), having taken into account £5.3m (2008: £8.9m) facility for letters of credit. 
In January 2010, the Group successfully negotiated a US$60.0m bilateral, multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Bank of China, 
London Branch, available up to 25 January 2013.  www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 97
18 Trade and other payables
         Current Current Non-current Non-current 
         2009 2008 2009 2008 
          £m £m £m £m
Trade payables       54.4 54.0  –  –
Other payables*       17.0 20.5  3.6 3.4
Accruals and deferred income      115.5 109.9 – –
Total trade and other payables      186.9 184.4 3.6 3.4
*There is £0.5m (2008: £1.8m) of contingent consideration included within other payables. 
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 26. All trade payables are expected to be paid within  
12 months.
19 Provisions
         Contingent     
         consideration Claims Other Total 
         £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009       11.4 11.6 3.6 26.6
Exchange adjustments       (1.2) (0.4)  – (1.6)
Provided in the year:         – 8.0 2.8 10.8
 in respect of current year acquisitions     6.9  –  – 6.9
 in respect of prior year acquisitions     4.6  –  – 4.6
Released during the year      (1.3) (0.5)  – (1.8)
Utilised during the year*      (8.9) (2.9) (2.2) (14.0)
At 31 December 2009      11.5 15.8 4.2 31.5
Included in:
Current liabilities       11.5 15.8 3.0 30.3
Non-current liabilities        –  – 1.2 1.2
At 31 December 2009      11.5 15.8 4.2 31.5
*In addition to the £8.9m, another £1.3m was also paid which was accrued within other payables at 31 December 2008. 
Contingent consideration represents the additional amounts payable on acquisitions which are uncertain in amount, since they are based 
on the acquired businesses achieving agreed future performance targets. They are expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance 
sheet date.
From time-to-time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The outcome  
of such litigation and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often subject to legal proceedings. Based on 
information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation  
is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future. 
The provision for claims of £15.8m (2008: £11.6m) represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identified claims 
from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs. The timing of the cash outflow relating to the provisions 
is uncertain but is likely to be within one year. Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in note 28.
The other provision of £4.2m (2008: £3.6m) comprises £2.5m (2008: £2.3m) for restructuring in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division  
(2008: integration of the Government services division into the Oil, Chemical & Agri division) and £1.7m (2008: £1.3m) in relation  
to onerous contracts. 98 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
20 Capital and reserves
Authorised share capital
Authorised share capital was abolished under the UK Companies Act 2006 with effect from 1 October 2009 and the necessary amendments 
to the Company’s Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
At 31 December 2008, the authorised ordinary share capital of Intertek Group plc was £2.0m divided into 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 
1p each.
At 31 December 2008, the authorised zero coupon redeemable preference shares of Intertek Group plc was £105.5m divided into 
105,478,482 preference shares of £1 each.
Issued shared capital        2009 2009 2008 
Group and Company        Number £m £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year      157,805,493 1.6 1.6
Employee share option schemes – options exercised (note 25)    569,428  –  –
Deferred Bonus Share Plan (note 25)      336,288  –  –
Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year      158,711,209 1.6 1.6
Shares classified in shareholders’ funds       1.6 1.6
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time-to-time and are entitled to vote at general meetings 
of the Company.
During the year, the Company issued 569,428 ordinary shares in respect of the share options exercised, for consideration of £3.6m settled 
in cash and issued 336,288 shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan for £nil consideration. 
Preference shareholders have the right to a return of capital on winding up but receive no priority over ordinary shareholders with respect 
to repayment of capital paid up and have no further rights to participate in the profits or assets of the Company.
The Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT) is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee. The total ESOT costs charged to 
the Group profits for 2009 were £9,700 (2008: £6,500). The ESOT did not hold any shares of the Company at 31 December 2009 (2008: nil). 
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations 
as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Fair value reserve
The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are 
derecognised or impaired.
Other 
This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital.
Dividends 
         2009 2009 2008 2008
          Pence per  Pence per 
         £m share £m share
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007     –  – 19.2 12.2
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008     –  – 11.2 7.1
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008    21.7 13.7  –  –
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009    13.0 8.2  –  –
Dividends paid       34.7 21.9 30.4 19.3
After the balance sheet date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 17.3p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009, which 
is expected to amount to £27.5m. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in 
accordance with IAS 10: Events after the Balance Sheet Date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. If approved, 
the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 18 June 2010.  www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 99
21 Minority interests 
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
At 1 January          16.0 11.6
Exchange adjustments         (0.6) 3.5
Share of profit for the year        9.0 8.4
Additions          – 0.7
Purchase of minority interests        (0.1) (2.1)
Dividends paid to minority interests        (6.3) (6.1)
At 31 December         18.0 16.0
On 12 February 2009, the Group acquired an additional 34% interest in Intertek Metering and Measurement Limited (IMML) (formerly 
known as Rhomax-ITS Limited) for £0.6m in cash, increasing its ownership from 66% to 100%. The total net assets of IMML on the date 
of acquisition was £0.4m. The Group recognised a decrease in minority interest of £0.1m and a decrease in retained earnings of £0.5m.
The purchase of minority interests of £2.1m in 2008 relates to the acquisition in November 2008 of the outstanding 15% interest in 
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited, a company registered in China for a cash consideration of £1.9m. The company is now a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Group. 
22 Commitments
At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows:
       2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
       Land and   Land and   
       buildings Other Total buildings Other Total 
       £m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year     32.4 5.0 37.4 29.0 5.6 34.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive    53.9 5.0 58.9 54.1 4.8 58.9
Over five years     29.3 – 29.3 31.6 – 31.6
Total      115.6 10.0 125.6 114.7 10.4 125.1
The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative offices and equipment under lease agreements which 
have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in these accounts amounted to £6.4m (2008: £4.7m).
23 Employee benefits
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. In most locations, these are defined contribution arrangements. 
However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and one in Hong Kong. The United Kingdom schemes are 
the Intertek Pension Scheme and the Capcis Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme that came into the Group through the acquisition 
of the Umitek group in January 2007. These are funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds. Other funded 
defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and are therefore accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes. 
The schemes in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were closed to new entrants in 2002 and 2000, respectively.
The Group recognises any actuarial gains and losses in each year in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
(a) The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Defined contribution schemes        17.8 14.4
Defined benefit schemes – current service cost       2.0 1.9
Pension cost included in operating profit (note 6)      19.8 16.3
(b) The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. The last full triennial 
actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom was carried out as at 1 April 2007, but this has been updated to 
31 December 2009 for IAS 19 purposes. The last full triennial actuarial valuation of the Capcis Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme in 
the UK was also carried out as at 1 April 2007 and this has been updated to 31 December 2009 for IAS 19 purposes. The last full actuarial 
valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2008, for local accounting purposes but this has been updated to 
31 December 2009 for IAS 19 purposes. 100 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
23 Employee benefits (continued)
The Group is currently making additional contributions into the pension schemes with the overall objective of paying off the deficits in line 
with actuaries’ recommendations.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were as follows:
          2009 2008 2007 
          £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets       73.0 58.6 66.6
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations     (92.5) (77.1) (73.9)
Net liability in the balance sheet       (19.5) (18.5) (7.3)
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Current service cost         (2.0) (1.9)
Pension interest cost (note 7)        (3.7) (3.9)
Expected return on scheme assets (note 7)       3.3 4.1
Total charge         (2.4) (1.7)
The current service cost is included in administrative expenses in the income statement and pension interest cost and expected return on 
scheme assets are included in net financing costs.
(c) Changes in the fair value of scheme assets:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January       58.6 66.6
Expected return on scheme assets        3.3 4.1
Normal contributions by the employer       2.2 1.5
Special contributions by the employer       2.0 3.0
Contributions by scheme participants       0.5 0.6
Benefits paid         (3.5) (3.0)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plan      (1.8) 3.2
Actuarial gains/(losses)         11.7 (17.4)
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December       73.0 58.6
(d) Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January       77.1 73.9
Current service cost         2.0 1.9
Interest cost         3.7 3.9
Contributions by scheme participants       0.5 0.6
Benefits paid         (3.5) (3.0)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas plan      (1.5) 4.9
Actuarial losses/(gains)         14.2 (5.1)
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December      92.5 77.1
(e) Actuarial losses recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Cumulative loss at 1 January        (13.3) (1.0)
Recognised losses in the year        (2.5) (12.3)
Cumulative loss at 31 December        (15.8) (13.3)
(f) Company contributions
In 2010, the Group expects to make normal contributions of £1.0m (2009: £1.1m) to the UK pension schemes and £0.6m (2009: £1.4m) to 
the Hong Kong pension scheme. Additionally, in February 2010, the Group made a special contribution of £1.2m (2009: £2.0m) to the UK 
pension schemes. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 101
23 Employee benefits (continued)
(g) Fair value of scheme assets in each category:
     United Kingdom Hong Kong 
     Schemes Scheme
Value of £1        2009 2008 2009 2008
Equities        71% 68% 68% 59%
Bonds        24% 28% 31% 39%
Cash/other       5% 4% 1% 2%
(h) The pension deficit of each scheme at 31 December 2009 was as follows:
          The Capcis  
          Limited  
          Pension Intertek 
         The Intertek and Life Hong Kong 
         Pension Assurance Retirement  
         Scheme Scheme Scheme Total 
         £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets      55.4 4.7 12.9 73.0
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations    (72.1) (6.0) (14.4) (92.5)
Deficit in schemes       (16.7) (1.3) (1.5) (19.5)
(i) Principal actuarial assumptions:
    United Kingdom Hong Kong Weighted 
    Schemes Scheme average
       2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Discount rate     5.50% 6.00% 2.60% 1.10% 5.00% 4.80%
Inflation rate     3.70% 3.00% n/a n/a 3.70% 3.00%
Rate of salary increases    4.20% 3.50% 3.00% 3.00% 4.00% 3.40%
Rate of pension increases    3.60% 2.90% n/a n/a 3.60% 2.90%
Annualised expected return on scheme assets   6.83% 5.96% 7.90% 7.30% 7.02% 6.20%
The expected rates of return on scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices which take into account the current level  
of expected returns on risk free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with equities and the expectation for future 
returns on such assets. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated 
balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long-term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on such 
assets at the balance sheet date. A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments. This is based on an out-performance 
assumption over gilt yields.
The actual return on scheme assets was as follows: 
     United Kingdom Hong Kong 
     Schemes Scheme
         2009 2008 2009 2008 
         £m £m £m £m
Actual return       10.9 (9.5) 4.1 (3.8)
(j) Life expectancy assumptions at year end for:
     United Kingdom Hong Kong 
     Schemes Scheme*
         2009 2008 2009 2008
Male aged 40       48.5 48.4 n/a n/a
Male aged 65       22.3 22.2 n/a n/a
Female aged 40       51.1 51.0 n/a n/a
Female aged 65       24.7 24.6 n/a n/a
*  The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays lump sums to members instead of pensions at the point they retire. Since the amount of the lump sum is not related to the life 
expectancy of the members, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong scheme.
The table above shows the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at  
31 December. The 2009 mortality tables adopted are the PNA00 projected by year of birth, with an allowance for the medium cohort 
effect and a minimum improvement of 1% (the same tables were used in 2008). 102 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
23 Employee benefits (continued)
(k) Sensitivity analysis
The table below sets out the sensitivity on the pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2009 of the two main assumptions. 
            Increase/  
            (decrease)  
         Liabilities Assets Deficit in deficit 
Change in assumptions       £m £m £m £m
No change       92.5 73.0 19.5 –
0.25% rise in discount rate      88.1 73.0 15.1 (4.4)
0.25% fall in discount rate      97.1 73.0 24.1 4.6
0.25% rise in inflation       95.0 73.0 22.0 2.5
0.25% fall in inflation       90.0 73.0 17.0 (2.5)
(l) History of experience gains and losses:
        2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
        £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets     73.0 58.6 66.6 56.4 55.0
Defined benefit obligations     (92.5) (77.1) (73.9) (71.6) (72.8)
Deficit       (19.5) (18.5) (7.3) (15.2) (17.8)
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities    (1.8) 0.4 1.5 1.6 (0.5)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets    11.7 (17.4) 2.1 1.3 4.3
24 Acquisitions
The Group made three acquisitions during the year, all of which were paid for in cash.
Provisional details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below. The analysis is provisional and amendments may  
be made to these figures in the 12 months following the date of each acquisition, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       0.4 – 0.4
Goodwill*        – 20.4 20.4
Other intangible assets        – 4.5 4.5
Trade and other receivables       10.6 – 10.6
Trade and other payables       (3.6) – (3.6)
Tax payable        (0.7) – (0.7)
Deferred tax liability        (0.4) (0.4) (0.8)
Net assets acquired        6.3 24.5 30.8
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        23.9
Contingent and deferred consideration (note 19)       6.9
Total consideration          30.8
*  Total goodwill additions per note 11 of £24.4m is made up of £20.4m in respect of 2009 acquisitions above and £4.0m in respect of the 2008 acquisitions (see note 24(f)). www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 103
24 Acquisitions (continued)
(a) WISco Enterprises LP
The largest acquisition was the purchase on 13 February 2009, of 100% of the share capital of the WISco group of companies (WISco), 
the largest of which is registered in the USA. WISco specialises in providing third-party inspection, expediting and coordination services to 
customers in the oil and gas industry.
Cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, was £20.5m. Cash acquired within the business was £0.4m. This acquisition expands the Intertek 
technical inspection business, providing it with a global platform and network.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: 
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       – – –
Goodwill         – 12.4 12.4
Other intangible assets        – 3.2 3.2
Trade and other receivables       6.2 – 6.2
Trade and other payables       (1.7) – (1.7)
Net assets acquired        4.5 15.6 20.1
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        20.1
Contingent consideration         –
Total consideration          20.1
The goodwill of £12.4m represents the benefit that Intertek expects to gain from leveraging the relationship with WISco customers and 
gain global contracts for a combined service offering. The other intangible assets of £3.2m represent the value placed on client relationships.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 12 February 2009 was £0.2m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date  
of acquisition to 31 December 2009 is £1.0m.
(b) Aptech Engineering Services, Inc.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Aptech Engineering Services, Inc., (Aptech) a company based in California, USA,  
on 10 February 2009, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of £3.9m and additional consideration of up to £6.9m  
payable contingent on the achievement of specified profit targets. Cash acquired within the business was £0.4m. Aptech is a full-service 
engineering consultancy company that specialises in the life management of facilities, equipment, and infrastructure for clients in energy-
related industries. This acquisition will strengthen the service offering of Intertek’s Industrial Services division. 
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: 
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       0.2 – 0.2
Goodwill         – 8.0 8.0
Other intangible assets        – 1.2 1.2
Trade and other receivables       4.4 – 4.4
Trade and other payables       (1.9) – (1.9)
Tax payable        (0.7) – (0.7)
Deferred tax liability        (0.4) (0.4) (0.8)
Net assets acquired        1.6 8.8 10.4
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        3.5
Contingent consideration         6.9
Total consideration          10.4
The goodwill of £8.0m represents the opportunity for Intertek to enter the US market for risk based inspection and specialist asset integrity 
services. The other intangible assets of £1.2m represent value placed on client relationships and the deferred tax thereon was £0.4m. 
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 9 February 2009 was £0.1m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date  
of acquisition to 31 December 2009 is £0.9m. 104 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
24 Acquisitions (continued)
(c) Other acquisitions
The other acquisition was that of the business and assets of Sagentia Catella AB (Sagentia). Sagentia, acquired on 30 April 2009, is an 
independent testing laboratory based in Sweden providing battery testing, battery forensics and battery application advisory services.  
The cash consideration was £0.3m representing acquisition of fixed assets for £0.2m and £0.1m for intangibles relating to the value placed 
on customer relationships. The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2009 to 29 April 2009 was £8,000. The profit attributable to the 
Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009 was £30,000.
(d) Acquisition of minority interest
On 12 February 2009, the Group acquired an additional 34% interest in Intertek Metering and Measurement Limited (IMML) (formerly 
known as Rhomax-ITS Limited) for £0.6m in cash, increasing its ownership from 66% to 100%. The total net assets of IMML on the date 
of acquisition was £0.4m. The Group recognised a decrease in minority interest of £0.1m and a decrease in retained earnings of £0.5m.
(e) Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits
The acquisitions made during the year contributed combined revenues of £24.1m and attributable profits of £1.9m to the Group from their 
respective dates of acquisition to 31 December 2009.
The Group revenue and attributable profit for the year ended 31 December 2009 would have been £1,247.0m and £124.0m respectively  
if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2009.
(f) Details of 2008 acquisitions
The Group made 14 acquisitions during 2008, all of which were paid for in cash.
The net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: 
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       7.2 2.7 9.9
Goodwill*        – 56.2 56.2
Other intangible assets        – 18.5 18.5
Inventories and work in progress       1.5 (0.2) 1.3
Trade and other receivables       8.9 (0.2) 8.7
Trade and other payables*       (6.1) (1.0) (7.1)
Tax payable        (0.9) (0.2) (1.1)
Deferred tax liability        (0.3) (3.0) (3.3)
Net assets acquired        10.3 72.8 83.1
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        67.8
Contingent and deferred consideration*        15.3
Total consideration          83.1
*  The 2008 reported figures have been adjusted for movements in 2009. Goodwill has been increased by £4.0m, from the previously reported figure of £52.2m to £56.2m as 
contingent and deferred consideration increased by £3.6m from the previously reported figure of £11.7m to £15.3m and there were £0.4m of fair value adjustments to trade 
and other payables increasing the previously reported figure of £6.7m to £7.1m. The £3.6m increase in consideration comprised an additional £4.6m provision offset by a 
£1.3m release as shown in note 19 and the remaining £0.3m increase is included in trade and other payables (note 18).
The other intangible assets of £18.5m represent the value placed on client relationships and certification marks. The fair value adjustment 
of £2.7m brings the property, plant and equipment to its approximate market value on acquisition. The £0.2m relates to impairment 
provision against inventories and the £0.2m relates to additional allowance for doubtful receivables. The £1.0m represents additional 
accruals and liabilities recognised on acquisition. The £0.2m represents additional tax liabilities recognised and £3.0m relates to deferred 
tax liability on intangibles. 
(i) The largest acquisition was the purchase on 24 September 2008, of 100% of the share capital of HP White Laboratory Inc, a company 
incorporated in the USA, which provides ballistic resistance testing of protective equipment and which also tests ammunition and firearms. 
This acquisition will strengthen the service offering of Intertek’s Commercial & Electrical division.
Initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, was £20.2m and additional contingent consideration of £1.5m was estimated to be payable 
at 31 December 2008. There was an increase of £2.6m to the consideration payable in 2009, of which £0.3m was included in trade and 
other payables. This acquisition fits within Intertek’s Life Safety Services strategy by not only expanding its capability in the personal protective 
equipment sector but more importantly enabling it to enter the ballistic testing services market. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 105
24 Acquisitions (continued)
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below:
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       1.0 2.8 3.8
Goodwill         – 13.1 13.1
Other intangible assets        – 6.5 6.5
Inventories and work in progress       0.6 (0.1) 0.5
Trade and other receivables       0.6 (0.1) 0.5
Trade and other payables       (0.1) – (0.1)
Net assets acquired        2.1 22.2 24.3
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        20.2
Contingent consideration         4.1
Total consideration          24.3
The goodwill of £13.1m represents the opportunity for Intertek to establish a market leading position in ballistics testing and to become 
firmly established in the military and defence service sectors. The other intangible assets of £6.5m represent the value placed on client 
relationships, accreditations and non-compete agreements. The fair value adjustment of £2.8m arises from the revaluation of land and 
buildings based on a professional valuation. The fair value adjustments in respect of inventories and trade receivables represent impairment 
provisions against these assets.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 23 September 2008 was £1.1m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date  
of acquisition to 31 December 2008 was £0.4m. 
(ii) On 9 April 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Hi-Cad Technical Services Ltd (Hi-Cad), a company registered in the 
UK, which provides specialist 3D data capture and measurement services, primarily to customers in the upstream and downstream oil and 
petroleum industry in the UK and the US. This acquisition strengthens Intertek’s Industrial Services division and the development of asset 
integrity management services.
Consideration paid, inclusive of expenses, was £14.0m and additional contingent consideration of £3.0m is estimated to be payable based 
on the future performance of Hi-Cad. Cash acquired within the business was £1.0m. 
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: 
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       0.4 – 0.4
Goodwill         – 12.2 12.2
Other intangible assets        – 4.5 4.5
Inventories and work in progress       0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables       3.1 – 3.1
Trade and other payables       (2.2) (0.3) (2.5)
Tax payable        (0.2) – (0.2)
Deferred tax liability        (0.3) (1.3) (1.6)
Net assets acquired        0.9 15.1 16.0
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        13.0
Contingent consideration         3.0
Total consideration          16.0
The goodwill of £12.2m represents the knowledge and expertise of the Hi-Cad workforce and the benefit that Intertek will gain from 
being able to offer a cohesive vendor assessment and quality inspection service to its customers globally. The other intangible assets of 
£4.5m represent the value placed on client relationships, know-how and an exclusive software distributorship. The fair value adjustment  
of £0.3m relates to additional accruals. The deferred tax liability fair value adjustment of £1.3m arises on intangibles. 
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 8 April 2008 was £0.2m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date of 
acquisition to 31 December 2008 was £0.9m. 106 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
24 Acquisitions (continued)
(iii) On 13 February 2008, the Group acquired 100% of CML Biotech Ltd (CML), a UK registered holding company for the Commercial 
Microbiology Group, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of £8.3m. Additional contingent consideration of £1.4m  
was estimated to be payable at 31 December 2008 based on the future performance of CML but was reduced by £0.2m in 2009.  
CML provides laboratory and consultancy services and sells testing kits related to the measurement and management of bacteria in the 
upstream oil and gas industries. This acquisition will strengthen the service offering of Intertek’s Analytical Services division. 
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below:
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       0.8 – 0.8
Goodwill         – 7.0 7.0
Other intangible assets        – 1.9 1.9
Inventories and work in progress       0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables       1.4 – 1.4
Trade and other payables       (0.9) – (0.9)
Tax payable        – (0.3) (0.3)
Deferred tax liability        – (0.5) (0.5)
Net assets acquired        1.4 8.1 9.5
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        8.3
Contingent consideration         1.2
Total consideration          9.5
The goodwill of £7.0m represents the knowledge and expertise of the CML workforce and the benefit that Intertek will obtain from 
expanding the suite of expert services that the Group can deliver as a partner to the oil and gas exploration industries globally. The other 
intangible assets of £1.9m represent value placed on client relationships. The fair value tax adjustment of £0.3m relates to a provision for 
additional tax liabilities. The deferred tax liability fair value adjustment of £0.5m arises on intangibles. 
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 12 February 2008 was £0.1m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date  
of acquisition to 31 December 2008 was £0.4m.
(iv) On 4 April 2008, the Group acquired 100% of 4-Front Research Limited, a holding company of a group of companies registered  
in the UK, France and India. Cash consideration paid, inclusive of expenses, was £7.3m and cash acquired within the business was £0.9m. 
Additional contingent consideration of £2.3m was estimated to be payable at 31 December 2008 based on the future performance of 
4-Front Research. This was increased by £1.5m in 2009. 4-Front Research provides analytical support for clinical research studies on cosmetic, 
personal care, functional food and over-the-counter pharmaceutical and medical products. With seven sites in England and sites in 
Hyderabad, India and Paris, France, 4-Front will form part of Intertek’s Consumer Goods division.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below:
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       0.5 – 0.5
Goodwill         – 8.2 8.2
Other intangible assets        – 1.7 1.7
Inventories and work in progress       0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other receivables       0.7 – 0.7
Trade and other payables       (0.5) (0.2) (0.7)
Tax payable        (0.1) – (0.1)
Deferred tax liability        – (0.5) (0.5)
Net assets acquired        1.0 9.2 10.2
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)        6.4
Contingent consideration         3.8
Total consideration          10.2 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 107
24 Acquisitions (continued)
The goodwill of £8.2m represents the additional value that Intertek will gain from adding new high-value services to support its consumer 
healthcare customers and from having a strategic position in the developing market for consumer healthcare products in India and other 
Asian countries. The other intangible assets of £1.7m represent value placed on client relationships. The fair value adjustment of £0.2m 
relates to additional accruals. The deferred tax liability of £0.5m arises on intangibles. 
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to 3 April 2008 was £0.1m. The profit attributable to the Group from the date of 
acquisition to 31 December 2008 was £0.3m.
(v) The other 10 acquisitions during the year were as follows:
Electrical Mechanical Instrument Services (UK) Ltd (EMIS), a UK registered company, was 100% acquired on 3 January 2008, for consideration, 
inclusive of expenses, of £1.2m. Cash acquired within the business was £0.4m. EMIS provides calibration services to the oil and gas industries 
in the UK and the Middle East. 
Epsilon Technical Services Ltd, a UK registered company was 100% acquired on 5 February 2008, for initial cash consideration, inclusive  
of expenses, of £2.1m. No contingent consideration is expected to be payable. Epsilon provides safety and advisory services to companies 
with products for use in potentially explosive atmospheres. 
Bioclin Research Laboratories Ltd, a company registered in the Republic of Ireland, was 100% acquired on 8 February 2008, for initial  
cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of £2.8m. Cash acquired within the business was £0.4m. Additional contingent consideration of 
£0.6m was estimated to be payable based on Bioclin’s performance in 2008. An additional £0.2m consideration became payable in 2009. 
Bioclin provides product quality testing and bio-analytical services to pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies, in 
Ireland and internationally. 
The Limburg Water Board of The Netherlands outsourced all laboratory activities of Waterschapsbedrijf Limburg to Intertek with effect 
from 3 March 2008, for a minimum period of five years and transferred employees to Intertek. Total consideration, inclusive of expenses, 
was £1.6m. Intertek will provide extended analytical testing and consultancy services in the areas of environmental science, regulation and 
complex analysis of silt, soil and water. 
100% of a company registered in the Philippines, was acquired on 2 April 2008, for cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of £3.0m. 
Cash acquired within the business was £0.2m. This company operates the largest commercial assay laboratory in the Philippines and offers 
geophysical surveys and inspection services to the minerals industries.
Applica GmbH, a food testing company, based in Germany was 100% acquired on 15 July 2008, for an initial cash consideration,  
inclusive of expenses, of £3.1m and a contingent consideration of £0.6m payable in March 2009 dependent on financial performance. 
Cash acquired within the business was £0.3m. 
Transworld Laboratories (Ghana) Limited, a company incorporated in the Republic of Ghana, was 100% acquired on 24 October 2008,  
for a cash consideration, inclusive of expenses, of £2.2m. The company provides analytical testing services to the minerals and exploration 
industry. An additional fair value adjustment of £0.4m was made in 2009 being recognition of additional accruals and liabilities.
Eko-Lab Sp. z.o.o, a company registered in Poland was 100% acquired on 27 November 2008, for an initial cash consideration, inclusive  
of expenses, of £2.1m and a contingent consideration of £1.4m dependent on future financial performance. The company provides testing 
services for the food, pharmaceutical and cosmetics industry.
The assets and the audit and inspection business of RQA, operating in the food industry in the USA, was acquired on 30 December 2008, 
for an initial cash consideration of £0.9m and a contingent consideration of £0.9m based on future financial performance. In 2009, after 
exchange adjustment, there was a reduction in consideration payable of £1.1m.
Porst & Partner GmbH, a company registered in Germany, was 100% acquired on 31 December 2008, for a cash consideration, inclusive  
of expenses, of £2.2m. An additional consideration of £0.6m became payable in 2009. The company provides chemical analysis of harmful 
substances in leather, textiles, toys and hard goods. 108 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
24 Acquisitions (continued)
The table below sets out the analysis of the net assets acquired and the fair value to the Group in respect of the ten acquisitions described above. 
          Book value   Fair value to 
          prior to  Fair value Group on 
          acquisition adjustments  acquisition 
          £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       4.5 (0.1) 4.4
Goodwill          – 15.7 15.7
Other intangible assets        – 3.9 3.9
Inventories and work in progress       0.3 (0.1) 0.2
Trade and other receivables       3.1 (0.1) 3.0
Trade and other payables        (2.4) (0.5) (2.9)
Tax payable        (0.6) 0.1 (0.5)
Deferred tax liability         – (0.7) (0.7)
Net assets acquired        4.9 18.2 23.1
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired)         19.9
Contingent consideration         3.2
Total consideration          23.1
The other intangible assets of £3.9m represent £2.8m for the value attributable to client relationships, £0.9m for guaranteed income and 
£0.2m for know-how. The other significant fair value adjustment of £0.7m relates to the deferred tax liability arising on the intangibles.
The goodwill of £15.7m arises as follows:
            £m
EMIS           0.4
Epsilon           1.8
Bioclin           2.3
Waterschapsbedrijf Limburg*         –
Minerals company in the Philippines         2.0
Applica            2.1
Transworld          2.4
Eko-Lab           2.7
RQA*           –
Porst & Partner          2.0
Total           15.7
*No goodwill arose on these acquisitions.
The goodwill of £15.7m represents the value to the Group of acquiring presence and increasing penetration in industry sectors and 
countries, value of the highly skilled workforce and the economies of scale gained by integrating these businesses.
The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2008 to the respective dates of purchase for these acquisitions was £1.3m. The profit 
attributable to the Group from these acquisitions from their respective dates of purchase to 31 December 2008 was £0.8m.
(vi) All the acquisitions made during the year contributed revenues of £26.0m and profits of £2.8m to the Group from their respective 
dates of acquisition to 31 December 2008.
The Group revenue and profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 would have been £1,019.8m and £105.9m respectively if all the 
acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2008. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 109
25 Share schemes
(a) Share option schemes 
The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997. The maximum number of options that can be 
granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued. In May 2002, the Intertek Group plc 2002 Share 
Option Plan (the 2002 Plan) and the Intertek Group plc 2002 Approved Share Option Plan (the Approved Plan) were established for 
employees to be granted share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. These plans have also been discontinued and  
the last grants under these plans were made in September 2005. 
(i) The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
         2009 2009 2008 2008
         Weighted   Weighted 
         average   average 
         exercise  Number exercise Number 
         price of options price of options
At beginning of year       642p 1,392,623 654p 2,026,004
Exercised        634p (569,428) 632p (405,884)
Forfeited        773p (9,738) 768p (227,497)
Outstanding options at end of year     646p 813,457 642p 1,392,623
Exercisable at end of year      646p 813,457 642p 1,392,623
The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 1,040p (2008: 971p).
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 359p to 778p and a weighted average contractual life  
of 4.7 years.
(ii) The outstanding options at 31 December 2009 are exercisable as follows:
  Number of options Exercise 
Option Scheme outstanding Price per share Exercisable between
2002 Plan 56,495 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012
  51,003 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
  10,231 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
  178,011 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
  6,108 607p 14 September 2007  14 September 2014
  420,606 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
  5,525 711p 13 September 2008  13 September 2015
  727,979   
Approved Plan 6,371 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012
  1,894 380p 17 July 2005 17 July 2012
  17,484 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
  262 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
  23,069 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
  1,000 607p 14 September 2007  14 September 2014
  34,548 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
  850 711p 13 September 2008  13 September 2015
  85,478   
Total 813,457    110 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
25 Share schemes (continued)
(b) Deferred Bonus Share Plan
As explained in the Remuneration Report on page 56, deferred and matching shares are awarded under this plan. The first awards were 
granted on 7 April 2006. The awards under this plan vest three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment of the performance conditions.
       2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
       Deferred  Matching Total Deferred Matching Total 
       shares shares shares shares shares shares
 
At beginning of year     866,571 535,056 1,401,627 490,126 273,028 763,154
Granted      784,098 513,240 1,297,338 427,876 262,028 689,904
Vested      (220,907) (115,381) (336,288) (9,400) – (9,400)
Forfeited      (72,807) (62,352) (135,159) (42,031) – (42,031)
Outstanding share awards at end of year   1,356,955 870,563 2,227,518 866,571 535,056 1,401,627
Details of the share option schemes and the Deferred Bonus Share Plan are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 and 57.
(c) Equity-settled transactions
In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for shares and share options granted to employees, is measured  
by reference to the fair value of shares and share options granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based 
on the Monte Carlo formula, a financial model used to calculate the fair value of shares and share options. 
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group recognised an expense of £4.9m (2008: £3.3m) in respect of outstanding share and 
share option awards granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
The fair values and the assumptions used in their calculations are set out below:
    Share awards 
     Deferred Matching Deferred Matching Deferred Matching Deferred Matching 
     shares shares shares shares shares shares shares shares
           10 Mar 10 Mar 
           2009 & 2009 & 
     7 April 7 April 10 April 10 April 11 Mar 11 Mar 2 April 2 April 
Date of shares awarded   2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009
Fair value at measurement date (pence) 795.9 435.0 887.6 498.8 906.9 619.8 839.3 697.8
Share price (pence)   827.6 827.6 931.0 931.0 959.5 959.5 899.5 899.5
Expected volatility   n/a 21.6% n/a 21.4% n/a 22.8% n/a 29.1%
Dividend yield   1.4% 1.4% 1.6% 1.6% 1.9% 1.9% 2.3% 2.3%
Risk free interest rate   n/a 4.4% n/a 5.4% n/a 3.9% n/a 1.8%
Time to maturity (years)  3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The deferred and matching shares, under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan, are granted under a service condition. Such condition is not  
taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date. The matching shares, under the Deferred Bonus Share Plan, are granted 
also under a performance related market condition and as a result this condition is taken into account in the fair value measurement at 
grant date. 
26 Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital and credit, liquidity, interest rate and 
currency risk are set out in the Directors’ Report – Financial Review on page 38 and Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 38 to 41.
(a) Credit risk
(i) Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance 
sheet date was as follows:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Available-for-sale financial assets        – 4.4
Trade receivables, net of allowance        203.7 219.4
Cash and cash equivalents        134.2 113.3
Total          337.9 337.1 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 111
26 Financial instruments (continued)
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region was as follows:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Americas          73.9 77.8
Europe, Middle East and Africa        71.8 75.3
Asia Pacific         58.0 66.3
Total          203.7 219.4
(ii) Impairment losses
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was as follows:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Under 3 months         173.5 188.3
Between 3 and 6 months        22.7 24.6
Between 6 and 12 months        10.8 10.5
Over 12 months         6.6 6.0
Gross trade receivables        213.6 229.4
Allowance for impairment        (9.9) (10.0)
Trade receivables, net of allowance       203.7 219.4
Included in trade receivables under three months of £173.5m (2008: £188.3m) are trade receivables of £101.1m (2008: £104.0m) which 
are not yet due for payment under the Group’s standard terms and conditions of sale.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
At 1 January         10.0 6.4
Exchange differences         (0.6) 1.6
Cash recovered         (0.4) (0.1)
Impairment loss recognised        6.2 4.4
Receivables written off         (5.3) (2.3)
At 31 December         9.9 10.0
There were no significant individual impairments of trade receivables.
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. The Group assesses 
periodically the creditworthiness of customers. The Group’s credit risk is diversified due to the large number of entities that make up the 
Group’s customer base and the diversification across many different industries and geographic regions.
Allowance for impairment is based on the risk profile of the trade receivable based on the likelihood of the amount being recovered.  
Based on historic default rates, reflecting the track record of payments by the Group’s customers, the Group believes that no impairment 
allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are specific circumstances 
such as the bankruptcy of a customer which would render the trade receivable irrecoverable. The Group provides fully for all trade 
receivables over 12 months old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable. Where recovery is in doubt, a provision is made  
against the specific trade receivable until such time as the Group believes the amount to be irrecoverable. At that time the trade  
receivable is written off.
(iii) Counterparty 
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties who have sound credit ratings. Given this, management  
does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations. 112 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(b) Liquidity risk
The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Group’s senior term loans and notes 
at 31 December 2009.
            Carrying 
        2010 2011 2012/2013 2014 2015+ amount  
Liabilities 2009     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating rate (USD)     8.2 78.3 – – – 86.5
Average interest rate     1.4% 0.8% – – – –
Fixed rate (USD)     – – – 15.6 109.6 125.2
Average interest rate     – – – 7.5% 6.6% –
Floating rate (GBP)     – 94.0 – – – 94.0
Average interest rate     – 0.9% – – – –
Floating rate (AUD)     – 26.2 – – – 26.2
Average interest rate     – 4.4% – – – –
Total       8.2 198.5 – 15.6 109.6 331.9
Of the other borrowings of £3.7m (2008 £3.9m), £3.4m (2008: £3.6m) relates to a variable rate loan denominated in Australian dollars 
with a contractual maturity of November 2013 and £0.3m (2008: £0.3m) relates to a fixed rate loan of 7.49% denominated in Australian 
dollars with a contractual maturity of November 2027. The current variable rate on the loan is 4.6% (2008: 6.2%).
The table below provides information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Group’s senior term loans at  
31 December 2008.
            Carrying 
       2009 2010 2011 2012 2013+ amount  
Liabilities 2008     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating rate (USD)     – 30.2 99.2 – – 129.4
Average interest rate     – 3.2% 3.4% – – –
Fixed rate (USD)     – – – – 137.4 137.4
Average interest rate     – – – – 6.7% –
Floating rate (HKD)     – 14.1 22.2 – – 36.3
Average interest rate     – 3.2% 2.2% – – –
Floating rate (SEK)     – – 16.0 – – 16.0
Average interest rate     – – 2.7% – – –
Floating rate (GBP)     14.0 – 38.0 – – 52.0
Average interest rate     2.9% – 3.3% – – –
Floating rate (EUR)     – – 35.2 – – 35.2
Average interest rate     – – 3.5% – – –
Floating rate (JPY)     – – 11.4 – – 11.4
Average interest rate     – – 1.3% – – –
Total       14.0 44.3 222.0 – 137.4 417.7 www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 113
26 Financial instruments (continued)
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities including interest:
      Carrying Contractual Six months    More than 
      amount cash flows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years 
2009     £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes   331.9 385.5 5.6 13.7 209.5 39.7 117.0
Other loans    3.7 4.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 3.6 0.5
Trade payables    54.4 54.4 54.4 – – – –
      390.0 444.4 60.1 13.8 209.7 43.3 117.5
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 – –
Forward exchange contracts:
 Outflow     – 28.4 28.4 – – – –
 Inflow     – (28.4) (28.4) – – – –
      3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 – –
Total     393.0 447.4 61.3 15.0 210.3 43.3 117.5
      Carrying Contractual Six months    More than 
      amount cash flows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years 
2008     £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes   417.7 507.6 16.0 16.0 61.9 256.6 157.1
Other loans    3.9 5.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.7 4.1
Trade payables    54.0 54.0 54.0 – – – –
      475.6 566.8 70.1 16.1 62.1 257.3 161.2
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  4.5 5.3 1.2 1.5 1.9 0.7 –
Forward exchange contracts:       
 Outflow     – 17.5 17.5 – – – –
 Inflow     – (17.5) (17.5) – – – –
      4.5 5.3 1.2 1.5 1.9 0.7 –
Total     480.1 572.1 71.3 17.6 64.0 258.0 161.2
Cash flow hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected  
to occur and expected to impact the profit or loss.
Interest rate swaps used for hedging – liabilities
      Carrying Expected Six months    More than 
      amount cash outflows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years five years 
      £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2009     3.0 3.0 1.2 1.2 0.6 – –
2008     4.5 5.3 1.2 1.5 1.9 0.7 – 114 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Interest rate risk
(i) Hedging
The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 33% and 67% of its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on a fixed 
rate basis. Interest rate swaps denominated in various currencies and an interest rate cap have been entered into to achieve an appropriate 
mix of fixed and floating rate exposure within the Group’s policy. The swaps mature over the next two years and have fixed swap rates 
ranging from 1.1% to 4.8%. At 31 December 2009, the Group had interest rate swaps with a notional contract amount of £88.5m (2008: 
£136.6m) and an interest rate cap with a notional value of £nil (2008: £19.6m).
The Group designates interest rate swaps as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. 
The net fair value of swaps at 31 December 2009, was £3.0m (2008: swaps and caps £4.5m) comprising liabilities of £3.0m  
(2008: £4.5m). These amounts were recognised as fair value derivatives.
Under the interest rate swap agreements, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between 
fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount. 
(ii) Profile
The information about the contractual maturities and interest rate profile of the Group’s borrowings is shown in section (b) liquidity risk. 
The interest rate profile of the Group’s short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2009 is set out below:
            Total carrying 
         Effective At floating  amount and 
         interest rates interest rates Interest free fair value 
Assets 2009        £m £m £m
Short-term deposits and cash*:
 Sterling        0.4% 5.2 0.7 5.9
 US dollar       0.2% 31.7 3.6 35.3
 Chinese renminbi       0.5% 41.5 – 41.5
 Hong Kong dollar       0.1% 6.7 0.4 7.1
 Euro        0.3% 7.7 1.3 9.0
 Other currencies       Various 16.1 19.3 35.4
Total cash and cash equivalents       108.9 25.3 134.2
*Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
The interest rate profile of the Group’s short-term deposits and cash at 31 December 2008 was as follows:
            Total carrying 
         Effective At floating  amount and 
         interest rates interest rates Interest free fair value 
Assets 2008         £m £m £m
Short-term deposits and cash*:
 Sterling        1.0% 5.7 0.5 6.2
 US dollar       0.3% 22.0 1.9 23.9
 Chinese renminbi       1.5% 33.5 0.7 34.2
 Hong Kong dollar       0.3% 4.3 0.1 4.4
 Euro        1.5% 8.5 1.2 9.7
 Other currencies       Various 29.4 5.5 34.9
Total cash and cash equivalents       103.4 9.9 113.3
*Short-term deposits are overnight deposits bearing interest at rates fixed daily in advance.
(iii) Sensitivity
At 31 December 2009, it is estimated that a general increase of 3% in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit before tax by 
approximately £0.5m (2008: £2.6m). Interest rate swaps have been included in this calculation. This analysis assumes all other variables 
remain constant.  www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 115
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(d) Foreign currency risk
The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a substantial percentage  
of the Group’s revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling. Because of the high proportion of international 
activity, the Group’s profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result: (i) translation risk, that is, the risk  
of adverse currency fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets and liabilities into sterling and  
(ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on the value of the Group’s commercial cash  
flows in various currencies. 
(i) Profile
The foreign currency profile of the trade receivables and payables at the balance sheet date were as follows:
      Carrying  US Chinese Hong Kong  Other 
      amount Sterling dollar renminbi dollar Euro currencies 
2009     £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables    203.7 25.4 60.9 19.4 8.9 28.0 61.1
Trade payables    54.4 7.2 13.1 11.5 3.5 6.4 12.7
2008
Trade receivables    219.4 26.4 64.8 23.8 11.7 30.5 62.2
Trade payables    54.0 7.7 12.8 11.0 4.1 7.7 10.7
(ii) Recognised assets and liabilities
Changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies  
and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement. 
At 31 December 2009, the fair value of forward exchange contracts was £nil (2008: £nil).
(iii) Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Group’s investment in its respective subsidiaries.  
The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2009 was £237.9m (2008: £365.7m). A foreign exchange gain of £27.2m  
(2008: loss of £110.9m) was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these loans to sterling.
(iv) Sensitivity
It is estimated that a general increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the US dollar (the main currency impacting the Group) would 
have decreased the Group’s profit before tax for 2009 by approximately £15.8m (2008: £10.8m). A 10% increase has been used to reflect 
the degree of volatility in the exchange rate in recent months. The forward exchange contracts have been included in this calculation. This 
analysis assumes all other variables remain constant. 
(e) Fair values
The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments by class. 
         Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 
         2009 2009 2008 2008 
         £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents      134.2 134.2 113.3 113.3
Trade receivables       203.7 203.7 219.4 219.4
Available-for-sale asset       – – 4.4 4.4
         337.9 337.9 337.1 337.1
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings     335.6 349.8 421.6 414.3
Interest rate swaps used for hedging     3.0 3.0 4.5 4.5
Trade payables       54.4 54.4 54.0 54.0
         393.0 407.2 480.1 472.8 116 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(f) Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:



            Total 
         Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 liabilities 
31 December 2009       £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps used for hedging     – (3.0) – (3.0)
Total        – (3.0) – (3.0)
            Total assets/ 
         Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (liabilities) 
31 December 2008       £m £m £m £m
Available-for-sale financial asset      4.4 – – 4.4
Interest rate swaps and caps used for hedging     – (4.5) – (4.5)
Total        4.4 (4.5) – (0.1)
The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of the Group’s financial instruments are summarised below.
(i) Interest rate swaps and caps used for hedging
Bank valuations are used to estimate the fair value of interest rate swaps and caps used for hedging. Valuations are tested by considering 
the equivalent swap and cap rate as at 31 December and calculating the difference in interest earned at this rate compared to the original 
swap and cap rates.
(ii) Forward exchange contracts
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their quoted market price, if available. If a quoted market price is not available, 
the fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the 
residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest rate.
(iii) Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of the floating interest bearing loans and borrowings is equal to the book value, since the floating interest rates were reset 
just prior to the year end. The fair value of the fixed interest bearing loans and borrowings has been calculated based on the present value 
of future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate at the reporting date. 
(iv) Trade receivables and payables
For trade receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.  
All others are estimated as the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
(v) Available-for-sale financial assets
The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to their quoted closing bid price at the reporting date. 
(vi ) Interest rates used for determining fair value
Prevailing market interest rates at the reporting date are used to discount future cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets 
and liabilities.
27 Analysis of net debt
         1 January  Exchange 31 December 
         2009 Cash flow adjustments 2009 
         £m £m £m £m
Cash        113.3 27.0 (6.1) 134.2
Borrowings       (421.6) 58.7 27.3 (335.6)
Total net debt       (308.3) 85.7 21.2 (201.4)
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk, currency risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 26. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 117
28 Contingent liabilities
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds      5.8 8.9
Litigation
From time to time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including claims  
for damages, negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing and disputes with employees and former employees. 
The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business.
The outcome of litigation to which the Intertek Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen as in some cases the facts are 
unclear or further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case. However, based on information currently available, the Directors 
consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect 
on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future. 
Tax
The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to a wide range of complex tax laws and regulations. At any point in time  
it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local authorities. Where 
the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which 
are recognised in the financial statements. The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but this can 
involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve. The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different 
from the estimates reflected in the financial statements. 
29 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its associates (see note 31) and with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
discussed in this note.
Transactions with associates
As stated in note 12, the Group holds a 49% interest in the associate Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC (Abu Dhabi), a company 
registered in the United Arab Emirates. The Group disposed of its 40% interest in the associate, Allium LLC, a company registered in the  
US on 28 October 2009.
Allium LLC and its subsidiaries manufacture testing equipment which it sells to certain Intertek Group companies. In 2009 up to the date  
of sale on 28 October, sales by Allium Group companies to Intertek Group companies amounted to £0.3m (2008: £0.6m). Intertek Group 
companies had lent dollar equivalent £nil to Allium LLC as at 31 December 2009 (2008: £1.9m). Interest on these loans was charged 
during 2009 up to the date of disposal at an average rate of 5.2% (2008: 5.6%). Intertek Group companies owed £nil at 31 December 
2009 (2008: £0.1m) to Allium LLC in respect of purchases of testing equipment. 
Euro Mechanical Instrument Services LLC (Abu Dhabi) provides calibration services to the oil industry. This company had no material 
transactions with Intertek Group companies in the year.
Transactions with key management personnel 
Key management personnel compensation, including the Group’s Executive Directors, is shown in the table below: 
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Short-term benefits         5.6 5.1
Post-employment benefits        0.3 0.3
Equity-settled transactions        1.5 1.5
Total           7.4 6.9
More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other long-term 
incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report. 
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group. 118 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 
30 Post balance sheet events
(a) In January 2010, the Group successfully negotiated a US$60.0m bilateral, multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Bank of China, 
London Branch, available up to 25 January 2013.
(b) At a Board meeting on 8 March 2010, the Directors proposed a dividend of 17.3p per ordinary share, which if approved, is payable  
to shareholders on 18 June 2010.
31 Principal operating subsidiaries and associated companies 
The Group comprises 219 subsidiary companies and one associated company. As permitted by Section 410 (1) of the Companies Act 2006, 
only the holding companies and the principal subsidiaries whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally 
affect the figures of the Group in 2009 and 2008 have been shown below. A full list of subsidiaries will be attached to the Company’s 
Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies. All the subsidiaries were consolidated at 31 December 2009. 
      Percentage of ordinary shares  
      held in 2009 and 2008
Company name Country of incorporation Activity by division* Group Company
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100
Intertek Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100
Intertek Testing Services UK Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 –
Intertek Finance plc England and Wales Finance 100 –
Intertek Testing Management Limited England and Wales Management company 100 –
Intertek International Limited England and Wales OCA, IS 100 –
ITS Testing Services (UK) Limited England and Wales OCA, AS 100 –
ITS Testing Holdings Canada Limited Canada Holding company 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Limited Shanghai China CG, C&E, OCA, IS, M 85 –
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Limited China CG, C&E, IS 100 –
Testing Holdings France EURL France Holding company 100 –
Testing Holdings Germany GmbH Germany Holding company 100 –
ITS Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong CG, C&E, OCA, IS 100 –
Yickson Enterprises Limited Hong Kong Holding company 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Taiwan Limited Taiwan CG, C&E, OCA 100 –
Intertek Holdings Nederland BV Netherlands Holding company 100 –
Testing Holdings Sweden AB Sweden Holding company 100 –
Semko AB Sweden C&E 100 –
ITS NA Inc USA C&E, IS 100 –
Intertek USA Inc USA OCA, AS, IS 100 –
Testing Holdings USA Inc USA Holding company 100 –
Genalysis Laboratory Services Pty Ltd  Australia M 100 –
      Percentage of shares  
      held in 2009 and 2008
Associates Country of incorporation Principal activity by division* Group Company
Allium LLC USA CG –** –
EMIS, Abu Dhabi (acquired 2008) United Arab Emirates OCA 49 –
 *  Consumer Goods (CG), Commercial & Electrical (C&E), Oil, Chemical & Agri (OCA), Analytical Services (AS), Industrial Services (IS) and Minerals (M).
** In 2009, the Group disposed of the 40% ownership of Allium LLC.  www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 119
Intertek Group plc – Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2009
           2009 2008 
          Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings      (d) 289.6 284.7
Current assets
Debtors due after more than one year      (e)  20.6 8.8
Debtors due within one year       (f) 0.8 1.5
           21.4 10.3
Cash at bank and in hand        0.8 0.3
           22.2 10.6
Creditors due within one year
Other creditors        (g) (0.3) (3.2)
Net current assets         21.9 7.4
Total assets less current liabilities       311.5 292.1
Creditors due after more than one year
Other creditors        (h) (0.1) (4.2)
Net assets         311.4 287.9
Capital and reserves 
Called up share capital        (i) 1.6 1.6
Share premium         (i) 253.5 249.9
Profit and loss account        (i) 56.3 36.4
Shareholders’ funds          311.4 287.9
The financial statements on pages 119 to 122 were approved by the Board on 8 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser Bill Spencer 
Director Director 120 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
(a) Accounting policies – Company  
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under the historical 
cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated 
accounts which it has prepared. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. All foreign exchange 
differences are taken to the profit and loss account. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and 
accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. Deferred tax 
assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits 
to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they 
meet the following two conditions:
(i) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or 
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
(ii) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments, or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s 
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified 
takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and 
share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges. Finance payments 
associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders’ funds are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation 
of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds 
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes 
to the financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intercompany financial guarantees
When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contract as 
a contingent liability, until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009 121
(a) Accounting policies – Company (continued)
Share-based payments
Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. In order to 
encourage share ownership, a share option scheme for senior management was established in March 1997. This option programme was 
discontinued in 2006 and was replaced by a new Long Term Incentive Plan.
The fair value of options and share awards granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding 
increase in equity. As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the corresponding increase  
in equity. However, the Company grants options and awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and therefore the 
Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries, equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge 
recognised in its subsidiary’s financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the 
options. The fair value granted is measured using the Monte Carlo model. This method, in calculating the fair value, takes into account 
various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan is also measured using the Monte Carlo model and is spread over the 
period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
See note 25 in the Group financial statements for further information on the share schemes. 
(b) Profit and loss account
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Company’s 
financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
(c) Dividends
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year    21.7 19.2
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year      13.0 11.2
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year     34.7 30.4
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2009 is £nil (2008: £nil). The aggregate 
amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2009 is £27.5m (2008: £21.7m).
(d) Investment in subsidiary undertakings
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January         284.7 280.9
Additions          – 0.5
Additions due to share-based payments       4.9 3.3
At 31 December          289.6 284.7
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made share awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-owned 
subsidiaries, and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of £4.9m (2008: £3.3m). Details  
of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 31 to the Group financial statements.
The Company had three direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2009. Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and Intertek 
Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.  
The company also owns a segregated account in the insurance captive of the Group, Leeward Insurance Company Limited which is 
registered in Bermuda. All interests are in the ordinary share capital and all are wholly owned. In the opinion of the Directors, the value  
of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments. 122 Intertek Annual Report 2009
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
(e) Debtors due after more than one year 
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings       20.6 8.8
The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the 
denomination of the borrowing currency.
(f) Debtors due within one year
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Corporation tax         0.4 0.4
Amounts owed by Group undertakings       0.4 1.1
           0.8 1.5
(g) Creditors due within one year
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings       0.1 3.0
Accruals and deferred income        0.2 0.2
           0.3 3.2
(h) Creditors due after more than one year
           2009 2008 
           £m £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings       0.1 4.2
The amounts owed to Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the 
denomination of the borrowing currency.
(i) Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
         Share  Share Profit 
         capital premium and loss Total 
         £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2008       1.6 247.3 31.4 280.3
Profit for the financial year      – – 32.1 32.1
Dividends paid       – – (30.4) (30.4)
Credit in relation to share-based payments     – – 3.3 3.3
Shares issued       – 2.6 – 2.6
At 31 December 2008      1.6 249.9 36.4 287.9
Profit for the financial year      – – 49.7 49.7
Dividends paid       – – (34.7) (34.7)
Credit in relation to share-based payments     – – 4.9 4.9
Shares issued       – 3.6 – 3.6
At 31 December 2009      1.6 253.5 56.3 311.4
Details of share capital are set out in note 20 and details of share options are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The 
profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of £34.7m (2008: £30.4m) was £49.7m (2008: £32.1m) which was 
mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
(j) Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 29 of the Group financial statements.
(k)  Contingent liabilities
The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement. This is a joint 
and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the pool which 
was £11.4m at 31 December 2009 (2008: £17.7m).
From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of subsidiary undertakings. www.intertek.com Intertek Annual Report 2009  123
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Intertek Group plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Intertek Group plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2009 on pages 70 to 122.  
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements is applicable law  
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted  
by the EU. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been  
applied in the preparation of the Parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the Company’s members,  
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give  
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁnancial statements is 
provided on the APB’s web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:

the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 
December 2009 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;

accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;

prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice;

the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:

been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and

for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:

Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or

Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 
are not made; or

require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:

concern; and

Report relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code speciﬁed for  
our review.
P Korolkiewicz (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
8 March 2010 124  Intertek Annual Report 2009
Shareholder Information
Shareholders’ Enquiries and Electronic Communications 
www.shareview.co.uk
Any shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding should, 
in the ﬁ rst instance, contact our Registrars, Equiniti.
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation electronically 
can elect to receive automatic notiﬁ cation by email each time 
the Company distributes documents, instead of receiving a paper 
version of such documents, by registering a request at the website, 
www.shareview.co.uk.
There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically 
receive conﬁ rmation that a request has been registered. Should 
you wish to change your mind or request a paper version of any 
document in the future, you may do so by contacting the Registrar 
by email or by post.
To access www.shareview.co.uk, you will need to have your 
shareholder reference available when you ﬁ rst log in, which may be 
found on your dividend voucher, share certiﬁ cate or form of proxy. 
The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding details, 
ﬁ nd out how to register a change of name or what to do if a share 
certiﬁ cate is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes 
of address, dividend mandates and share transfers.
Share dealing service
A share dealing service for the purchase or sale of shares in Intertek is 
available through J.P . Morgan Cazenove, whose details are as follows:
J.P. Morgan Cazenove (postal service)
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
t: +44 20 7155 5328
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation 
scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose 
value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme 
are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
t: +44 20 7930 3737.
Share price information
Information on the Company’s share price is available from the 
investor pages of www.intertek.com.
Financial Calendar
Financial year end 31 December 2009
Results announced 8 March 2010
Annual General Meeting 14 May 2010
Ex-dividend date for ﬁ nal dividend 2 June 2010
Record date for ﬁ nal dividend 4 June 2010
Final dividend payable 18 June 2010
Interim results announced 2 August 2010
Interim dividend payable November 2010 Our Business
Intertek is a leading provider of quality  
and safety solutions serving a wide range  
of industries around the world.
From auditing and inspection, to testing, quality 
assurance and certification, Intertek people are 
dedicated to adding value to customers’ products 
and processes, supporting their success in the  
global marketplace.
Intertek has the expertise, resources and global 
reach to support its customers through its network 
of more than 1,000 laboratories and offices and 
over 25,000 people in more than 100 countries 
around the world.
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the 
financial condition, results, operations and business of Intertek Group plc. These 
statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events  
and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number  
of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from  
those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.  
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Corporate Information
Board of Directors
Vanni Treves, Chairman*
David Allvey*
Edward Astle* (appointed 1 September 2009)
Gavin Darby* (appointed 1 September 2009)
Christopher Knight*
Debra Rade*
Wolfhart Hauser, Chief Executive Officer
Mark Loughead, Chief Operating Officer 
William Spencer, Chief Financial Officer 
* Non-Executive Directors
Company Secretary
Fiona Evans
Investor Relations
E: investor@intertek.com
T: +44 20 7396 3400
Registrars
Equiniti
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T: 0871 384 2653
T: +44 121 415 7047 (outside UK)
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
PO Box 486
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
T: +44 20 7311 1000
Registered Office
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London W1S 2ES
T: +44 20 7396 3400
F: +44 20 7396 3480
www.intertek.com
Registered number: 4267576
ISIN: GB0031638363
London Stock Exchange
Support Services
FTSE 100
Symbol: ITRK
Brokers
J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
T: +44 20 7588 2828
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
 133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
T: +44 20 7774 1000
Designed by 35 Communications.
Cover photograph by Charlie Fawell.
38113_Cover.indd   4-3 5/3/10   05:01:56 Success 
through 
quality
 Annual Report 2009
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
United Kingdom
t: +44 20 7396 3400
f: +44 20 7396 3480
e: info@intertek.com
www.intertek.com
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2009 
38113_Cover.indd   2-1 5/3/10   05:01:49
