 Annual Report 2011
Your Global  
Quality Partner Contents
Overview
 01 Financial Highlights 
 02 Intertek at a Glance 
 04 Chairman’s Statement
Directors’ Report – Business Review
 06 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
 12 Intertek Operations Committee 
 14 Operating Review 
 24 Financial Review 
 30 Sustainability and CSR Report 
Directors’ Report – Governance
 36 Board of Directors 
 38 Corporate Governance Report 
 45 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
 48 Remuneration Report 
 57 Other Statutory Information 
 59 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
 60 Independent Auditor’s Report
Financial Statements
 62 Consolidated Income Statement
 63  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 
 64  Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position
 65 Consolidated Statement of Changes  
  in Equity
 66 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 67 Notes to the financial statements
 
 107  Intertek Group plc Company Balance 
Sheet and Notes
Other
 111 Shareholder and Corporate Information
 112 Global Reporting Initiative Index 
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, 
operations and business of Intertek Group plc. These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because 
they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that 
could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-
looking statements and forecasts. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
About Intertek
Intertek (www.intertek.com) is a leading provider  
of quality and safety solutions serving a wide range 
of industries around the world. From auditing and 
inspection, to testing, quality assurance and 
certiﬁcation, Intertek people are dedicated to  
adding value to customers’ products and processes, 
supporting their success in the global marketplace. 
With a network of more than 1,000 laboratories  
and ofﬁces and over 30,000 people in more than 
100 countries, Intertek helps its clients to meet  
end users’ expectations across increasingly diverse 
quality, health, environmental, safety and social 
accountability aspects in virtually any market  
around the world.
About Intertek
Intertek (www.intertek.com) is a leading provider 
of quality and safety solutions serving a wide range 
of industries around the world. From auditing and 
inspection, to testing, quality assurance and 
certiﬁcation, Intertek people are dedicated to 
ad dd di in ng g value to customers’ products and processes, 
supporting g t th heir success in the global marketplace. 
W Wi it th h a a network o of f m more than 1,000 laboratories 
and ofﬁce es s a and over 30 0,0 00 00 people in more than 
1 100 countries, Int te er rt tek helps it ts s c cl li ients to meet 
end d u us se ers’ expectations a ac cr ross increas si in ng gly y diverse 
quality, heal lt th h, , environmental l, s sa af fety and soc ci ia al l 
accountability aspe ec ct ts s in virtually any m ma arket 
a ar ro ound the world. 79.3
85.3
2010 2011
89.4
107.2
2010 2011
227
281
2010 2011
1,374
1,749
2010 2011
25.5
28.1
33.7
2009 2010 2011
20.8
18.0
2007 2008
81.5
89.4
107.2
2009 2010 2011
67.1
48.8
2007 2008
2007
122
165
209
227
281
2008 2009 2010 2011
2007
775
1,004
1,237
1,374
1,749
2008 2009 2010 2011
1.  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin and adjusted diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) are stated before Separately Disclosed Items,  
which are described in note 3 to the financial statements.
2. Dividend per share for 2011 is based on the interim dividend paid of 10.7p (2010: 9.3p) plus the proposed final dividend of 23.0p (2010: 18.8p).
3. CAGR represents the five year compound annual growth rate. 
4. Growth at constant exchange rates compares both 2011 and 2010 at the average exchange rates for 2011.
Strong revenue and proﬁt 
performance in 2011  
> Revenue up 27%
> Organic revenue
4
 up 8.3%
> Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
 up 24%
> Adjusted operating margin
1
 16.1%
2011
Strong ﬁve year  
growth record  
> Revenue up 23%
> Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
 up 23%
> Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 up 22%
> Dividend per share
2
 up 17%
Five Year Trend
Revenue £m
+27%
Organic revenue +8.3% 
at constant exchange rates
4
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
 £m 
+24 %
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence)
+20%
Statutory diluted EPS (pence)
+8%
Revenue £m
+23%
CAGR
3
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1 
£m  
+23%
CAGR
3
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence)
+22%
CAGR
3
Dividend per share
2
 (pence)
+1 7 %
CAGR
3
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 01
Financial Highlights We are a market leading provider of services 
to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, 
food and retail industries. As partner to 
retailers, manufacturers and distributors, 
we offer expertise on issues ranging from 
restricted hazardous substance and 
sustainability to supply chain security and 
legislation relating to environmental, ethical 
and trade security issues. Services include 
testing, inspection, auditing, advisory 
services, quality assurance and hazardous 
substance testing. 
Consumer Goods 
Intertek is a leading provider of quality and safety solutions.  
From auditing and inspection to testing, quality assurance  
and certiﬁcation, we work in partnership with our clients  
to help them succeed in the global marketplace. 
Our Industries 
Aerospace & Automotive
Building Products
Chemicals
Consumer Goods & Retail
Electrical & Electronic
Energy
Food & Agriculture
Government & Trade
Industrial & Manufacturing
IT & Telecoms
Medical & Pharmaceutical
Minerals
Petroleum
Textiles, Apparel & Footwear
Toys, Games & Hardlines
Our global spread allows us to understand 
the local markets in which our clients 
operate, giving the benefit of local 
understanding on a global scale.
Our five divisions are aligned with the 
industries we service to support our clients 
with in-depth knowledge and experience.
Commodities
We provide independent cargo inspection, 
analytical assessment, calibration and  
related research and technical services to  
the world’s petroleum, mining, minerals and 
biofuels industries. We also provide services 
to governments and regulatory bodies to 
support trade activities that help the flow  
of goods across borders.
Using in-depth knowledge of the oil,  
gas, nuclear, power, renewable energy, 
construction, food, chemical and agricultural 
industries, we provide a diverse range of 
services to help customers meet global quality 
standards. These include asset integrity 
management, exploration and production 
support, consulting, training and third-party 
management systems auditing. We also 
provide certification services, second-party 
supplier auditing, sustainability data 
verification and process performance analysis. 
Industry & Assurance
32%
36%
32%
Americas 
Asia Paciﬁc 
EMEA 
Revenue by Region
01
02
04
03
05
01 Commodities – 30%   
02  Industry & Assurance – 27%   
03  Consumer Goods – 18%   
04  Commercial & Electrical – 17%   
05  Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals – 8%  
Revenue by Division
02 | www.intertek.com
Intertek at a Glance Our Global Operations
Chemicals & 
Pharmaceuticals
Serving a wide range of industries including 
chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas,  
and automotive and aerospace, we offer 
advanced laboratory measurement and 
expert consultancy related technical support 
services and sustainability solutions. We 
have an established track record of success 
in laboratory outsourcing with many large, 
internationally recognised companies and 
our world leading technical experts also 
support internal technical development. 
Commercial & Electrical 
Our global network of accredited facilities 
provides manufacturers and retailers with 
the most comprehensive scope of safety, 
performance and quality testing and 
certification services. We support customers 
in a wide range of industries including home 
appliances, consumer electronics, lighting, 
medical, building, industrial and HVAC/R 
(heating, ventilation, air conditioning  
and refrigeration), information and 
communications technology (ICT), 
renewable energy and automotive.
We work with over 200,000 customers ranging from the smallest business to the largest 
conglomerate, delivering customised commercial and compliance solutions, that cater to 
individual client requirements, everywhere they do business.


 

 

 

£ 1,7 49 m
Global scale, local knowledge
+27%
Strong organic growth supplemented  
by acquisitions
Outsourcing
Advisory
Training
Quality Assurance
Inspection
Certiﬁcation
Auditing
Testing
Our Services
Revenue
1,000+  
labs and  
ofﬁces
30,000+  
employees
100+  
countries across 
the globe
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 03
Our Customers Sir David Reid
Chairman 
Results
It was my great pleasure to join Intertek at the end of 2011 and  
I am delighted to announce strong full year growth. The Group 
generated revenue of £1,749m, an increase of 27% over the prior 
year. Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 8%.
Operating profit was £234m, up 13% over the prior year. 
Adjusted operating profit increased to £281m, up 24% and our 
adjusted operating margin was 16.1%. Excluding acquisitions, 
adjusted operating profit grew by 9%.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 86.8p, up 8% over the prior year 
and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 107.2p, up 20%.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 10.7p per share (2010: 9.3p) was paid to 
shareholders on 18 November 2011. The Directors will propose  
a final dividend of 23.0p per share at the Annual General Meeting 


will make a full year dividend of 33.7p per share (2010: 28.1p),  
an increase of 20%.
Acquisitions
We continue to make targeted acquisitions and in 2011 we 
completed the significant purchase of Moody International 
(‘Moody’), along with four smaller but strategically important 
acquisitions for a cash consideration of £460m (2010: £42m). 
Further details of these acquisitions are given in the Operating 
Review by division and in note 10 to the financial statements.  
Our strong financial position will allow us to continue to make 
advantageous bolt-on acquisitions in key industry sectors and  
to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to increase 
shareholder value. 
Moody International
When we presented our 2010 results in March 2011, we 
announced the £450m acquisition of Moody, a leading provider 
of technical services to the global energy industry and a provider 
of systems certification services. This acquisition has positioned 
Intertek at the forefront of the global energy market and has 
provided a platform for the provision of infrastructure services 
whilst extending the depth of our service portfolio for energy 
assets, processes and products. We have integrated Moody  
into our Industry & Assurance business and we are delighted  
to welcome the company and its 2,500 employees into the 
Intertek family. 
It was my great pleasure to join 
Intertek at the end of 201 1 and  
I am delighted to announce strong 
full year growth. 
04 | www.intertek.com
Chairman’s Statement The Board
It was my great pleasure to join Intertek at the end of last year 
and I am looking forward to chairing the Board and continuing  
its successful track record. Since joining the Board I have  
been impressed by the members’ mix of skills and business 
experience and their commitment to the highest standards  
of corporate governance.
During the year we welcomed Michael Wareing and Alan Brown 
to the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 15 April 2011. Further 
details of their business experience can be found in their 
biographies on page 37. 
Vanni Treves retired as Chairman and from the Board on  
31 December 2011. As Chairman of the Board over a period of 
ten years he made a major contribution to Intertek’s development 
and growth. The Board expresses their gratitude for his work  
and wishes him every enjoyment for the future. 
On 31 December 2011, David Allvey and Debra Rade stepped 
down from the Board after serving ten and six years respectively. 
They leave with our thanks for the invaluable role that they have 
played in positioning Intertek for continued strong growth.  
Gavin Darby chose not to seek re-election to the Board at the 
Annual General Meeting, effectively stepping down from the 
Board on 20 May 2011. 
Into 2012 the Board continues to have the strength and 
experience required to perform its duties effectively. 
Sustainability
In 2011 Intertek reviewed and reaffirmed its commitment  
to sustainability. Whilst being a service provider means that 
Intertek’s operations have a lower impact on the environment 
than other business sectors, we are mindful of the impact that 
our operations may have on our communities, employees, 
customers and the environment. 
Intertek is a global and local business with operations that span 
more than 1,000 laboratories and offices. The Group’s approach 
to sustainability reflects this diversity. Intertek has a global 
sustainability policy framework with programmes for 
implementation down to the local level. This enables local 
management to adapt these global policies and implement them 
appropriately in their respective areas and local environment. 
Since joining the Group I have been impressed by the many ways 
in which Intertek’s services are helping to protect human health 
and the environment. Intertek is helping companies to develop 
safer, greener products and to run safer operations with better 
integrity and a lower social and environmental impact. It plays  
an important role in helping companies achieve compliance with 
safety, quality and environmental regulations and helping them  
to adapt their products and processes to meet future regulations. 
Given the commitment of our people and their spirit of good 
corporate citizenship, our sustainability efforts will help underpin 
 
in this area in the Sustainability and CSR report which starts on 
page 30.
Integrity
As an enterprise where integrity, independent judgement and fair 
assessment are critical components of the services we provide, it 
is essential that we are committed to having good business ethics. 
The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures 
against corruption and bribery. These policies and procedures  
are well developed and are continually reviewed to align with  
best practice and ensure that they remain in step with the values 
and evolution of our business. 
Our people
Our people and their dedication to adding value to customers’ 
products and processes, are central to our success in the global 
marketplace. We strive to attract, develop and retain the best 
people who share in the mission, values and success of the Group 
and can help us to provide our customers with deep insight and 
understanding of quality issues in their industries from a local  
and global perspective. It is this network of skills and experience 
among our people that helps to set us apart from our competitors, 
providing valuable business support to our customers which, in 
turn, strengthens our partnership with them.
Through acquisitions and organic growth we added over 4,500 
new employees in 2011 and I would like to welcome them to  
the Group. More than 30,000 Intertek people now work to 
support our customers in over 100 countries every day. The 
dedication of our employees to customer service helped us to 
gain new business and strengthen our relationships with our 
customers in 2011. 
The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees around the 
world for their continuing commitment and work which has made 
2011 another successful year.
Outlook
Our strong growth drivers combined with our strategic focus on 
supporting global quality needs give us confidence that we will 
report another year of strong results in 2012 and extend our track 
record of growth delivery into the future. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 05
Chairman’s Statement Our mission 
Intertek’s mission is to provide solutions to our customers that 
allow them to improve the quality of their products, operations 
and processes. The world’s leading companies, their suppliers 
and partners trust us to add value to their brands by providing 
solutions that enable them to increase their competitive 
advantage and support their global trade. 
Whether we are looking at the largest piece of energy 
infrastructure or the smallest molecule or fibre, more than 
30,000 Intertek people are working in partnership with our 
customers across the length of their supply chains each day.  
Our customers rely on us to be with them at every step from 
product development to point of sale, wherever in the world  
that may be. Our mission requires us to understand the diverse 
local markets and supply chains and industries they operate in, 
whilst also giving them the benefit of global perspective. 
We deliver our services across a wide range of industries as 
shown in the ‘Intertek at a Glance’ section of this Report. 
The market for quality 
Intertek’s marketplace is the drive for quality. As organisations 
develop and pursue success, the quality of their products and 
processes becomes an increasingly important differentiator. 
Quality encompasses many dimensions; all of which Intertek  
sets out to serve. It may include establishing the safety of a  
new prototype or the performance of a new technological 
innovation. We may measure the technical accuracy of a piece  
of infrastructure or verify the sustainability of a supply chain. 
Intertek’s strategic focus is on meeting our customers’ need for 
quality wherever it arises in their organisations and processes.
The demand drivers for our services come from within our 
customers’ organisations and from external commercial, 
regulatory and macro-economic forces. Drivers of the quality 
market include the development of new technologies, the trend 
towards outsourcing non-core activities and the demands of 
consumers across a range of quality, safety and environmental 
criteria. Our clients are also under pressure to increase efficiency, 
speed up time-to-market and reduce costs, to increase their 
competitive edge. Global trade and the continual flux in sourcing 
patterns and supply chains, as well as end-user demand for 
higher quality and more sustainable products are also increasing 
the demand for our services. 
These drivers have shown resilience in times of global economic 
uncertainty, although like all companies we are also impacted by 
developments in the global economy. 
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Our strategy is well-established.  
It positions us to capture enduring 
drivers of growth for our business  
and to increase our value to 
shareholders and to our customers  
as their global quality partner. 
06 | www.intertek.com
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Differentiation
Intertek’s focus on quality and our service delivery to customers 
differentiates us in the marketplace. We aim to create a trusted 
partnership with our customers, providing solutions that can 
improve their competitive advantage. Our goal is to create  
added value to their business above and beyond the immediate 
services provided.
As a customer-focused organisation, we recognise that the  
way we deliver our services is as important as what we deliver.  
Our customers want to get their products to market today  
more quickly than they did yesterday. They want their cargoes 
transferred faster and their infrastructure projects completed 
ahead of schedule; and they want all of this with more 
reassurance and less risk than before. We continually develop  
our services to meet customer needs for more efficiency, lower 
cost, and greater assurance. 
Expanding capabilities
Intertek focuses on providing a range of complementary services 
to meet the needs of our clients along the entire supply chain. 
We continue to deepen our presence in each of our industries 
through a combination of organic investment, acquisitions and 
launching new products and services to meet customers’ present 
and future needs. 
In 2011 we opened over 20 new facilities in regions where  
our clients are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, 
producing new technologies or extracting and developing new 
resources. We extended our capabilities and expertise at over  
40 of our global locations in 2011, where our clients’ innovations 
continue to lead us to invest in new testing technologies, 
capabilities and knowledge. 
Our acquisition of the global energy infrastructure and  
business assurance services company, Moody International in 
2011 has significantly expanded our capabilities in the energy 
infrastructure market. We are now a leading provider of global 
technical inspection, consulting and safety services, supporting 
our energy-sector customers on their new and existing 
infrastructure projects. We also completed four further 
acquisitions in 2011, bringing us additional capabilities and 
geographic presence in the food, chemical, agriculture, oil  
and retail sectors. 
Intertek launched a number of new services in 2011. These 
included a dynamic online portal for our retail clients that  
enables them to better collect and collate data on the 
sustainability and quality of their suppliers’ factories, allowing 
continuous monitoring of operational performance inside their 
facilities. For our commodities clients, we launched new retail 
fuel quality management programmes in emerging markets, and 
extended our combined fuel additive and cargo transfer solutions 
into Central and South America. We doubled our testing 
capability for renewable energy testing technologies in North 
America and opened new energy storage and electrical vehicle 
battery testing laboratories in China, Europe and North America. 
We launched new expert analytical capabilities in the biologics 
pharmaceutical market. 
Our organisation
Intertek is connected by specialist divisions and by geography. 
Our customers benefit from global knowledge combined with 
local support and in-depth understanding of local market 
conditions. Our internal Intertek as One programme is enabling 
us to better combine and bundle services to our clients to meet  
a wider range of quality needs across their organisation. This 
programme is also allowing us to improve our operational 
efficiency with better operating platforms and connectivity 
between our people and business services. We continue to  
invest in our people and processes to provide our customers  
with even better delivery of quality. 
Going forward
Our strategy is well-established and continues to allow us to 
grow our business and to increase our value to shareholders. 
 
the increasing demand for our services, and to maintain 
differentiation which positions us as a sought-after and trusted 
partner to our clients.
Our broad portfolio of industry services and geographic diversity 
provides the platform to invest in fast growing sectors and 
markets and positions us well for future growth. 
 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 07
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Market drivers in our industries
As our customers develop new products, build new infrastructure and get 
their products and projects to market more quickly, we help them ensure 
that their business isn’t compromised by poor quality. Companies seek quality 
solutions for a wide variety of reasons. Some common ones are listed here. 
Our 
market 
Global quality services
The global marketplace for quality solutions is dynamic and diverse. As organisations in 
developed and developing economies pursue success, the need to develop and maintain 
the right quality in their products and processes arises. Below are some of the dynamics 
that create Intertek’s chosen marketplace: Quality. 
End-user expectations
Consumers in developed economies trust companies that deliver products, or 
perform, with consistent quality. This requires investment in quality solutions to 
maintain or increase their reputation for ‘quality’. Consumers in emerging markets  
are also demanding higher levels of quality across a diverse range of criteria, creating 
new markets for quality services from local and international brands.
New technologies 
Companies create new products and technologies to create new markets, increase 
sales and to respond to diverse end-user demands. Quality services are needed from 
the concept stage through to delivery to the end market. 
Regulations 
Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards continue to 
expand and change across companies and cultures. Companies utilise quality 
services to maintain compliance and navigate regulatory change. 
Supply chain dynamics 
Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers and components 
across multiple countries. They seek assurances on quality along the supply chain  
to reduce the risk of product, brand and operational failures, and to increase visibility 
and efﬁciency along the supply chain. 
Energy growth and development 
Global demand for energy is driving increased development and trading of energy 
resources and infrastructure. Our customers are requiring more quality, safety and 
environmental assurance support in their expanding resource production and 
trading activities. 
Safety
Reducing the risk of injuries and 
danger to life and health from 
products, materials, components 
and operations.
Sustainability
Helping companies to improve the 
social, health and environmental 
impact of their products and 
processes. 
Performance
Enabling organisations to optimise 
the technical output of their 
products or processes. 
Integrity
Evaluating the composition or 
reliability infrastructure, materials, 
commodities, components and 
systems. 
Desirability
Increasing the appeal of products, 
materials and new innovations to 
the varying preferences of end-users 
in different markets.
What is quality?
The need for quality arises at many 
separate and interrelated points across a 
customer’s organisation. Quality is diverse 
and may reﬂect one or many of the 
following dimensions – all of which 
Intertek serves.
08 | www.intertek.com
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Our growth opportunities
Macro-economic trends and opportunities in our sector create growth in the demand  
for quality services and add resilience to our business model. We see continuing 
opportunities to expand our business and increase value to shareholders due to  
the following enduring drivers of growth in our marketplace.
Intertek is positioned to capture the additional market created 
through growth and increasing interconnectedness in global 
trade as well as expanding regional trade among fast-growth 
nations. In creating, buying and selling products each day, our 
customers seek independent assurance on the quality of 
materials received from their trading partners. 
Global trade and 
emerging market  
trade growth
Our customers’ efforts to innovate, meet consumer demand  
for quality, develop energy resources, maintain efficient supply 
chains and comply with regulations create demand for quality 
services. Their ongoing development of new technologies, 
energy resources and quality in their products is increasing  
the demand for our solutions. 
Market drivers  
in our industries
Network and  
service expansion
Expanding our services into new markets and developing 
new services in existing markets will enable us to capture 
new business. We continue to invest in new services and 
capabilities to support our customers’ current and future 
needs and to expand in growing markets. 
Outsourcing and 
consulting services
By creating quality solutions that enhance our customers’ 
business, we can increase the outsourcing of quality services 
and related consultancy by companies to Intertek. Today, 
many companies address quality needs internally but at a 
higher cost with less flexibility and dedicated knowledge. 
Industry consolidation
By making value-adding acquisitions, we are consolidating 
our position in key industries. These also allow us to add 
complementary capabilities to our service portfolio and 
grow our business through a full-service offering for each 
customer in each industry. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 09
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review Global
Quality
Partner
Differentiate 
Intertek’s mission is to deliver quality solutions that add value to our customers’ 
processes, products and brands. Our business is differentiated through our strategic 
choice of target market, how and where we deploy our services in that market,  
and in the way we interact with our customers. 
Global trade model
Intertek has a unique and strategic focus on 
supporting organisations’ needs for quality as  
they arise in the context of global trade. Our 
business model targets the testing, inspection  
and certification of goods, commodities and 
infrastructure flowing along supply chains and 
between different markets and into global trade. 
Industry focus
We are organised around the industries that  
we operate in. This enables us to best meet the 
quality needs of each industry, which arise at many 
separate and interrelated points specific to their 
industries and organisations. 
Target whole  
supply chain
Different quality needs exist at each stage of the 
supply chain; from the sourcing of raw materials  
or prototype testing, to the manufacture and 
distribution of a finished product. We position  
our business along the length of the supply chain 
to support the needs of customers at each stage. 
Customer-oriented 
relationships
The way that we approach our customer relationships 
differentiates us. We aim to create a trusted 
partnership with our customers, becoming an integral 
part of their businesses and providing solutions that 
can improve their competitive advantage. We focus 
on understanding our customers’ businesses and 
their needs and pressures. Our strategy is to provide 
our solutions in a way that can help them better 
meet those needs and improve their businesses. 
Our  
strategy 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
10 | www.intertek.com Network expansion
 
in key industries
New services for the 
present and future
Investing in  
our people 
We continue to expand and deepen our network and 
knowledge in new regions and in new and existing industries 
to capture opportunities for growth. This enables us to meet 
demand from changes in global, interregional and local trade 
and deepen our position in established and growing markets. 
We develop our service lines to support quality needs along 
the length of the supply chain through organic investment 
and acquisition. We concentrate on industry sectors where 
we have the critical size to hold leading positions and 
provide our customers with world-class services. 
We create new services and innovations for our customers to 
help their businesses succeed. We develop capabilities along 
the frontier of science and innovation which drives market 
demand for quality services in the future. We develop new 
tools and interfaces in areas where we can support customers 
in new, smarter ways.
Our people are our core assets and we invest continually  
in them. They are chosen for their technical expertise,  
values and their understanding of local culture. Our people 
are experts and leaders in their fields, including engineers, 
chemists, biologists, consultants and geologists. Many are 
holders of research doctorates, are graduates or advisors  
to global institutions. Our talented and dedicated people 
provide our customers with the expertise they need  
to succeed.
Deliver 
Our strategy is to be the premier service provider in our chosen 
markets. We continue to invest in and develop our business 
delivery model in order to be our customers’ partner of choice. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 11 The day-to-day 
management of the  
Group is undertaken by 
the Intertek Operations 
Committee (‘IOC’).
The IOC currently 
comprises the two 
Executive Directors,  
the ﬁve Executive Vice 
Presidents who head up 
the operating divisions, the 
Vice President of Human 
Resources and the Chief 
Information Ofﬁcer. 
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  
 
the Board as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in 
March 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive 
Director since November 2002. Wolfhart 
Hauser was previously Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer and President of TÜV Süddeutschland 
AG for four years and Chief Executive  
Ofﬁcer of TÜV Product Services for 10 years. 
Starting his career with various research 
activities he went on to establish and lead  
a broad range of successful international 
service industry businesses. He has held 
several non-executive board director and 
chairman roles in a variety of technology 
companies. He is currently a Non-Executive 

Andrew Swift
Division Executive Vice President  
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals


was Vice President of Global Outsourcing 
within Intertek’s Oil, Chemical & Agri division, 
having originally started as Business 
Development Manager and then Director  
of Global Outsourcing. Andrew began  
 
he became Managing Director in 1993. 
Lloyd Pitchford 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  

Board as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in April 2010. 
 
with BG Group plc in various operational  

Middle East; including ﬁve years as Group 
Financial Controller. He previously worked  
for Mobil Oil Corporation in various ﬁnancial, 
 
is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants and holds an 
MBA from Heriot-Watt University. 
Gregg Tiemann
Division Executive Vice President
Commercial & Electrical


was President of Intertek’s Commercial & 
Electrical division in Europe and the Americas 
since 2004, having started as General 

laboratories in 1993. Before joining Intertek, 
Gregg worked in sales and marketing for the 
software industry. 
12 | www.intertek.com
Intertek Operations Committee Paul Yao
Group Executive Vice President
Consumer Goods

appointed a member of the Executive 
 
 
Vice President with responsibility for 
Consumer Goods in China and Taiwan. 
Before joining Intertek, Paul worked in 
Regional Sales & Marketing for companies 
such as Hitachi Chemical, Brent Plc and  
SISIR Singapore. 
Ann-Michele Bowlin
Chief Information Ofﬁcer

was appointed Chief Information Ofﬁcer  
of Intertek Group in September 2010 and 
 
is responsible for driving the Group’s IT  
strategy and its alignment with the wider 
organisation. Ann-Michele joined as Group 
Vice President, Shared Services, to work with 
business and ﬁnance leaders to develop  
the Group shared services strategy. Prior to 
joining Intertek, Ann-Michele held multiple 
leadership and operational positions in a 
variety of industries including manufacturing, 
technology, travel and professional services. 
Ann-Michele holds a BA from Wellesley 
College MA, USA.
Jay Gutierrez
Division Executive Vice President
Commodities




Previously, he was Vice President for the Oil, 
Chemical and Agri division in the Americas. 

inspection and testing industry. He began his 
career with Intertek with a focus to develop 
the Chemical business stream, later assuming 
responsibility for International Coordination 
and Sales & Marketing. Prior to joining 
Intertek he spent eight years as General 

Jonathan Lawrence
Group Executive Vice President
Human Resources

has many years experience as an international 
human resources director in the testing  
and inspection business and has been 
 
the USA. In addition to human resources, 

communications across the Intertek Group. 
Before moving to Intertek, he was Group 
Senior Vice President of Human Resources  
at Bureau Veritas and prior to this he was 
Group Director Management Development 
at Valeo Automotive.
Stefan Butz
Group Executive Vice President
Industry & Assurance
 
to Industry & Assurance, Stefan Butz has 
responsibility for the Group functions of 
Strategy, Corporate Development and 
Marketing. Stefan has held this role since 
 
from TÜV SÜD, where he held the position 
of CEO Americas, with an earlier role as 
Head of Corporate Development. Prior  
to this he was a Strategy Consultant with 
Accenture Germany. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 13
Intertek Operations Committee Our expertise assures 
the quality of products 
and commodities in the 
global marketplace.
Bringing quality  
to life
What we do 
The Commodities division provides 
testing, inspection and other technical 
services to the global petroleum and 
minerals industries, and supports trade 
activities that help the flow of goods 
across borders.
Our performance in 2011 
2011 was a strong year for Commodities 
with total revenue increasing 12% to 
£530.2m. This increase was mostly 
organic. At constant exchange rates 
revenue also grew by 12%. Total adjusted 
operating profit for the division was 
£67.0m up 23%. The adjusted operating 
margin was up 110 basis points at  
12.6% at both actual and constant 
exchange rates.
There was strong demand for cargo 
inspection services across all regions as 
global trade continued to recover, while 
clients also outsourced more of their 
analytical testing, improving lab utilisation 
in the division. The continued demand  
for raw materials in China drove growth 
in Brazil, Australia, Indonesia and  
South Africa.  
Our trade services programmes continued 
to support governments around the 
world, with both well-established and 
new programmes delivering good 
revenue growth. 
On 30 November 2011 we acquired  

based in Chile which allows the Group to 
expand its chemical and microbiological 
services in South America. This acquisition 
will benefit both the Commodities and 
Industry & Assurance divisions. 
We expect growth in the demand for 
energy and other commodities to continue 
to drive testing and inspection revenues 
and we expect government trade services 
to perform well. The market for oil 
inspection depends on underlying trade 
and consumer demand and is therefore 
more sensitive to economic circumstances.
Operating Review
473.2
530.2
2010 2011
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
+1 2 %
9,301
9,763
2010 2011
Employees
+5%
Financial Highlights
2011 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at  
constant
rates
Revenue 530.2 12% 12%
Adjusted 
operating profit
67.0 23% 23%
Adjusted 
operating margin 12.6% 110bps 110bps
Performance
Commodities
14 | www.intertek.com Local knowledge 
Our global standards 
combined with local  
service means customers  
get the right service in  
the right location.
Robotics
At our client’s remote 
location in Australia, our 
automated testing system 
analyses over 275,000 
mineral samples annually 
with just 14 staff. 
Lab testing
Our global network of 
laboratories provides quick 
turnaround on the testing  
of products ranging from jet 
fuels to industrial lubricants.
Operating Review
We literally go to the ends of the earth for 
our clients, working in some of the most 
isolated spots on the planet. We support 
our customers, wherever they are, with 
reliable testing, inspection, measurement 
and other vital technical services.  191.2
468.6
2010 2011
Bringing quality  
to life
Industry & 
Assurance
Performance
Financial Highlights
2011 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at  
constant
rates
Revenue 468.6 145% 145%
Adjusted 
operating profit
50.9 207% 208%
Adjusted 
operating margin 10.9% 220bps 230bps
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
+1 45 %
Employees
+11 8 %
portfolio of services for energy assets, 
processes and products, creating a new 
leading technical services platform for the 
global energy market and bringing global 
scale to the Group’s systems certification 
business. Approximately 2,500 people  
in over 80 offices and 60 countries have 
brought their experience and expertise  
into the Intertek Group and the integration 
has progressed smoothly. Moody 
benefitted from the structural recovery  
of the energy market and performed  
ahead of expectations in the period  
since acquisition. 



and microbiological services for food 


Testing S.A. as described in Commodities 
on page 14. 
Revenue growth in the division is  
driven by continued demand for energy, 
complexity in the supply chain and our 
clients’ need for high quality independent 
advice. The combined strength of the 
integrated division will enable it to compete 
in the global energy industry and systems 
certification market, providing a broader 
more comprehensive range of services  
to customers. Cost synergies from  
the integration of operations, support 
services and facilities will benefit future 
operating profit. 
What we do
The Industry & Assurance division  
provides a wide range of services including 
asset integrity management, engineering, 
inspection, auditing, certification, 
consulting, training, staffing, and testing 
services. We serve a wide variety of 
industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, 
power, renewable energy, and civil  
and infrastructure. We also provide 
services to customers in the food and 
agricultural sectors.
Our performance in 2011 
2011 has been a transformational year  
for the Industry & Assurance division 
following the acquisition of Moody on  
27 April. Total revenue was £468.6m,  
up 145% at both actual and constant 
exchange rates. Excluding acquisitions 
revenue growth was 7%. Total adjusted 
operating profit was £50.9m up 207%. 
Excluding acquisitions adjusted operating 
profit reported a marginal decline. The 
total adjusted operating margin increased 
220 basis points from 8.7% to 10.9%  
in 2011. The organic operating margin at 
constant exchange rates declined 60 basis 
points to 7.9%, mainly due to difficult 
trading conditions in the agri sector. 
Moody is a leading provider of quality  
and safety services to the energy industry. 
It also provides systems certification 
services to the manufacturing, construction 
and service markets. The acquisition, which 
was completed for a cash consideration of 
£450m, extends the depth of the division’s 
2,772
6,053
2010 2011
16 | www.intertek.com
Operating Review Our client was constructing an oil  
 
site construction support and technical 
inspection services we helped increase 
efﬁciency and quality control while 
reducing risk. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 17
Operating Review
Powering safer futures
Our engineers and specialists work with clients to ensure 
the highest quality, safety and reliability in the production 
and manufacture of goods and services across the entire 
supply chain. 303.9
315.7
2010 2011
Financial Highlights
2011 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at 
constant
rates
Revenue 315.7 4% 5%
Adjusted 
operating profit 106.3 – 1%
Adjusted 
operating margin 33.7% (120)bps (130)bps
Zero injuries have been reported following 
the implementation of our meticulous quality 
and safety programme for toys marketed by 
one of our leading global clients.
8,842
9,177
2010 2011
Bringing quality  
to life
Consumer  
Goods
Our expertise helps our 
customers gain faster, 
more efﬁcient entry to 
virtually any market in the 
world through our global 
network of accredited 
laboratories.
What we do 
The Consumer Goods division partners 
with global retailers, manufacturers and 
distributors to enhance clients’ products, 
processes, and brands. We provide 
services to the textiles, toys, footwear, 
hardlines and retail industries amongst 
others. Our services include testing, 
inspection, auditing, advisory services, 
quality assurance, and hazardous 
substance testing. 
Our performance in 2011
The Consumer Goods division continued 
to deliver growth, with total revenue of 
£315.7m, an increase of 4% (5% at 
constant exchange rates). The majority  
of the growth was organic. Total adjusted 
operating profit of £106.3m was flat  
year-on-year at actual exchange rates  
but up 1% at constant exchange rates. 
The adjusted operating margin decreased 
120 basis points to 33.7%, mainly due  
to difficult trading conditions at the start 
of 2011. Both revenue growth and the 
operating margin improved significantly  
in the second half. 
Growth in the Consumer Goods division 
was driven by the demand for testing  
of textiles and toys, which continued to 
increase despite concerns around global 
economic growth. While cost pressures 
saw some changes in manufacturers’ 
sourcing patterns away from China 
towards South East Asia and Eastern 
Europe, our global network of testing 
laboratories ensured we maintained close 
links with our customers and achieved 
good growth, notably in Vietnam, 
Bangladesh, Turkey and Guatemala.

Developpement & Consulting – Bruxelles 
SA a company based in Belgium which 
will enhance our environmental service 
offering in Europe and support our 
strategic focus on sustainable business 
practices across our client base.
The growth drivers in Consumer Goods 
remain strong, with increased consumer 
demand for quality and safety, product 
sourcing from lower cost manufacturers 
and legislative changes all creating a 
market for our services. The development 
of innovative solutions and delivery 
models for clients will also help to  
grow revenues. 
Performance
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
+4%
Employees
+4%
18 | www.intertek.com
Operating Review
18 | www.intertek.com Inspiring conﬁdence 
As products compete in an ever more crowded 
marketplace, testing by Intertek represents a 
mark of quality that customers can trust.
Integrating safety and quality Our extensive range of testing procedures 
ensures that products meet or exceed legislative requirements, providing safe 
products for families around the world.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 19
Operating Review
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 19 Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
+8%
Employees
+9%
269.2
291.0
2010 2011
3,560
3,897
2010 2011
Bringing quality  
to life
Performance
Commercial  
& Electrical
What we do 
The Commercial & Electrical division 
provides global manufacturers with the 
most comprehensive scope of safety, 
performance and quality testing and 
certification services. We support clients 
in a wide range of industries including 
home appliances, consumer electronics, 
lighting, medical, building, industrial and 
heating, ventilation, air conditioning and 
refrigeration (‘HVAC/R’), Information 
Communication & Technology (‘ICT’), 
renewable energy and automotive. 
Our performance in 2011
The Commercial & Electrical division 
delivered a strong result despite significant 
market uncertainty, with total revenue 
increasing 8% to £291.0m (9% growth  
at constant exchange rates). This growth 
was wholly organic. Total adjusted 
operating profit was £44.1m, up 15% 
(16% at constant exchange rates).  
The total adjusted operating margin  
was 15.2%, up 90 basis points (up 100 
basis points at constant exchange rates).
Growth was mainly in high tech sectors, 
particularly the ICT, HVAC/R and lighting 
business lines in North America and 
China. Our renewable energy business 
line also continued to grow strongly as 
consumer demand for these products 
increased. We increased our organic 
investment during 2011 to expand our 
service offering to clients, including new 
facilities for electric vehicle testing in 
Europe and Asia. 
Proprietary certification marks owned  
by Intertek and issued by the Commercial 
& Electrical division enable manufacturers  
to show proof of compliance to safety 
and quality requirements, as well as a 
means of differentiating their products. 
Innovations in technology, particularly  
the growth in mobile applications and 
high speed networks are helping to  
drive testing and certification revenues, 
alongside greater legislation. We expect 
consumer demand for ‘green’ products to 
continue to grow and we are helping our 
customers improve the energy efficiency 
of their products. Our investment in 
testing facilities for electric vehicles and 
charging stations will also generate 
growth in revenue. 
Financial Highlights
2011 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at 
constant
rates
Revenue 291.0 8% 9%
Adjusted 
operating profit 44.1 15% 16%
Adjusted 
operating margin 15.2% 90bps 100bps
20 | www.intertek.com
Operating Review Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 21
Operating Review
Our safety, performance and quality 
testing ensures that clients get to 
market ﬁrst – with innovation rather 
than imitation. 
Adding value to manufacturers’ products and shortening time-to-market 
is at the core of our business. Our expertise accelerates product development 
and makes our clients more competitive in global markets. Our innovative 
outsourcing business 
models enable our clients 
to beneﬁt from a better 
standard of service and 
higher quality laboratory 
support at a lower cost.
1,361
1,461
2010 2011
136.7
143.9
2010 2011
Performance
Financial Highlights
2011 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 143.9 5% 6%
Adjusted 
operating profit 12.8 8% 9%
Adjusted 
operating margin 8.9% 30bps 30bps
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
+5%
Employees
+7 %
What we do
The Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals  
division helps global industries to sharpen 
their competitive edge with expert 
measurement and consulting services that 
support core business processes, ranging 
from new drug development through  
to the development of new materials, 
polymers composites and packaging.  
Our expertise helps clients in industries  
as diverse as aerospace, automotive and 
pharmaceuticals to accelerate and de-risk 
new product research, improve efficiency 
and safety in manufacturing and to  
ensure regulatory compliance with  
the appropriate authorities. 
Our performance in 2011
The division achieved good growth in a 
market that was challenging for parts of 
the business, with total revenue increasing 
5% (6% at constant exchange rates) to 
£143.9m. Excluding acquisitions, organic 
revenue growth was 3% (4% at constant 
exchange rates). Total adjusted operating 
profit for the division was £12.8m, up  
8% (9% at constant exchange rates). 
Excluding acquisitions, organic adjusted 
operating profit growth was 16% (17%  
at constant exchange rates). 
The total adjusted operating margin  
was 8.9%, up 30 basis points and the 
organic operating margin at constant 
exchange rates was 10.7%, up 120 basis 
points. Growth in operating profit and  
the operating margin was reduced by  
high costs in a business acquired in 2010. 
The cost base of this business was 
restructured as planned at the end  
of 2011. 
The chemicals and materials business 
drove organic growth in the year notably 
in the Netherlands and the USA. Whilst 
both the pharmaceutical and regulatory 
services businesses faced challenging 
economic conditions, automotive,  
polymer testing and pilot plant services 
performed strongly.

outsourced the operations and assets of its 

to Intertek. This is an expert analysis and 
consulting business enhancing Intertek’s 
capabilities in energy and transport.
The market for pharmaceutical services is 
expected to remain challenging, however, 
the chemicals and materials sector is 
expected to continue growing well, and 
the demand for health and environmental 
services should increase as the 2013 
deadline for the EU REACH regulations 
begins to impact our customers. We will 
continue to support our customers 
through outsourcing opportunities. 
Bringing quality  
to life 
Chemicals & 
Pharmaceuticals
Operating Review
22 | www.intertek.com Medical integrity 
Using our expert services, 
we help our clients to 
identify counterfeit 
medicines on sale to  
the public.
Specialist knowledge 
Our experts help clients 
reduce the time-to-market 
for products such as; new 
drugs, medical devices, 
cosmetics, biocides and 
agrochemicals, by helping 
clients navigate through 
complex regulatory 
requirements.
Clinical quality 
In pharmaceuticals and 
healthcare we adhere to  
the strictest codes of good 
clinical, good laboratory and 
good manufacturing practice 

other ﬁelds we operate to  
the highest standards of 
laboratory quality.
Our product failure investigations  
can save clients time and money by 
determining the root cause of problems 
and validating quality control methods 
to meet the requirements of regulators. 
Our expertise provides critical 
support at key stages of drug 
development, saving our clients 
substantial time and cost as 
well as helping to accelerate 
the introduction of new and 
safer medicines.
Operating Review
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 23 Results for the year
The Group delivered significant growth in 2011 and reported  
an increase in adjusted diluted earnings per share of 20%. 
Revenue for the year was £1,749m, up 27% (28% at constant 
exchange rates) driven by strong organic revenue growth of 
7.9% (8.3% at constant exchange rates) and the successful 
acquisition and integration of Moody International (‘Moody’).  
All divisions recorded revenue and profit growth at both actual 
and constant exchange rates. 
The Group’s adjusted operating profit was £281m, up 24%  
on the prior year (24% at constant exchange rates). 
The adjusted operating margin was 16.1% compared with 
16.6% in the prior year. This change included the impact of  
the Moody acquisition and, excluding acquisitions, the organic 
operating margin increased 20 basis points (‘bps’).
The Group delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’)  
of 107.2p, an increase of 20%. Diluted EPS after Separately 
Disclosed Items (‘SDIs’) rose 8% to 85.3p per share.
During the year, in addition to the £450m acquisition of  
Moody, the Group paid £10m for four bolt-on acquisitions, 
complementing the existing service offering and targeting  
new growth areas. Organic capital investment was £81m  
as the Group invested in new facilities and new technologies. 
The Group also refinanced its borrowing facilities during  
the year and increased borrowings to fund the acquisition  
of Moody. At the end of 2011, net debt was £581m and  
the Group’s gross financing facilities had an average life 
exceeding six years. With strong continuing cash generation,  
this provides a robust financial position to fund the Group’s 
further growth opportunities.
Dividend
The Board recommends a full year dividend of 33.7p per share, 
an increase of 20%. This recommendation reflects the Group’s 
significant growth, strong financial performance and position, 
and the Board’s confidence in the Group’s outlook. 
The full year dividend of 33.7p represents a total cost of £54m  
or 31% of adjusted profit attributable to shareholders of the 
Group for 2011 (2010: £45m and 31%). The dividend is covered 
3.2 times by earnings (2010: 3.2 times), based on adjusted 
diluted earnings per share.
The underlying performance of the business, by division, is 
shown in the table opposite.
2011 Performance Highlights 
Revenue up 27% to £1,749m
Adjusted operating proﬁt up  
24% to £281m
Adjusted diluted EPS up 20%
Dividend per share up 20%
Completed transformational  
Moody acquisition for £450m
Renewed and extended the  
Group’s funding
The Group delivered signiﬁcant  
growth in 2011 and reported an 
increase in adjusted diluted earnings 
per share of 20%. 

Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
24 | www.intertek.com
Financial Review 2007
48.8
67.1
81.5
89.4
107.2
2008 2009 2010 2011
Adjusted diluted EPS (pence)
1
 107 .2
Five year compound 
growth of 22%
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
+24 %
+24% at constant exchange rates
+10% organic
2
 at constant exchange rates
227
281
2010 2011
Revenue
+27%
+28% at constant exchange rates
+8.3% organic
2
 at constant exchange rates
2007
18.0
20.8
25.5
28.1
33.7
2008 2009 2010 2011
Dividend per share (pence)
33.7
Five year compound  
growth of 17% 
1,374
1,749
2010 2011
Dividend per share (pence)
+20%
28.1
33.7
2010 2011
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
+20%
89.4
107.2
2010 2011
Divisional and group financial results – adjusted 
Revenue Adjusted operating profit
1
Notes
2011
£m
Change at 
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
2011
£m
Change at 
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
Commodities 2 530.2 12% 12% 67.0 23% 23%
Industry & Assurance 2 468.6 145% 145% 50.9 207% 208%
Consumer Goods 2 315.7 4% 5% 106.3 –1%
Commercial & Electrical 2 291.0 8% 9% 44.1 15% 16%
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 2 143.9 5% 6% 12.8 8% 9%
1,749.4 27% 28% 281.1 24% 24%
Net financing costs 14 (21.0) 35%
Adjusted profit before income tax 260.1 23%
Income tax expense 6 (73.3) 30%
Adjusted profit for the year 186.8 20%
Adjusted diluted EPS 7 107.2 20%
Current year performance
Five year performance
1.  Presentation of results
  To provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Group’s business, the figures discussed in this review  
are presented before Separately Disclosed Items (see note 3). A reconciliation between Adjusted operating profit and Profit for the year is set out in note 2 to the 
financial statements.
2. Organic growth excludes the results of acquisitions made in 2011 and 2010.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 25
Financial Review Key ﬁnancial  
performance indicators
Revenue
Up 27%
Organic revenue at constant exchange rates
Up 8.3%
Adjusted operating proﬁt
Up 24%
Organic adjusted operating proﬁt at constant  
exchange rates
Up 10%
Adjusted operating margin
16. 1 %
Adjusted cash ﬂow from operations
£315m
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
Up 20%
Dividend per share
Up 20%
Return on invested capital
17%
 
to monitor the financial performance of the Group and operating 
divisions. These metrics are adjusted to exclude the SDIs (see 
page 29), to enable a better understanding of the underlying 
trading performance of the Group. 

and are used to assess past performance and set targets for the 
future, including for management incentive schemes. Further 
information on management incentives is given in the 
Remuneration Report which starts on page 48. 
A critical performance indicator for the Group is the continuing 
expansion of the revenue base. Revenue grew 27%, with strong 
organic growth of 8.3% at constant exchange rates. This organic 
growth was supplemented by acquisitions made in 2010 and 
2011, of which Moody was the most significant. 
This material increase in revenue drove a 24% increase in 
adjusted operating profit (24% at constant exchange rates)  
with organic growth of 9% (10% at constant exchange rates).
For 2011 the adjusted operating margin was 16.1%  
(2010: 16.6%) and reflects the impact of the Moody acquisition. 
The underlying operating margin (excluding the effects of 
acquisitions) was up 20 basis points over the prior year.
The Group has a strong record of converting profits into cash  
to fund future growth and returns to shareholders. In 2011  
this trend continued, with £315m of adjusted cash flow from 
operations, an increase of 14%. This performance demonstrates 
the Group’s ability to generate strong cash flows across the 
economic cycle. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is a key measure of value 
creation used by the Board and is a component of the incentive 
targets for management. It is calculated as Adjusted operating 
profit divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares, including potentially dilutive share awards, in issue during 
the year. Adjusted diluted EPS increased 20% over the prior  
year, to 107.2p, reflecting the strong return delivered for  
our shareholders. 
The rate of return on invested capital (‘ROIC’) measures the 
efficiency of Group investments. This is a key measure to  
assess the efficiency of investment decisions and is also an 
important criteria in the decision making process when projects 
are competing for limited funds. ROIC in 2011 was 17%,  
(2010: 25%) with the year-on-year change primarily due to  
the goodwill and intangibles recognised on the acquisition  
of Moody. 
26 | www.intertek.com
Financial Review Acquisitions and investment
The Group’s strategy is to invest both organically and by 
acquiring complementary businesses; enabling it to continually 
offer the latest technologies and services in the locations 
demanded by clients. In 2011 the Group made a significant 
investment in the acquisition of Moody, providing a platform  
for future growth, whilst also targeting organic investment  
in growth sectors. The chart below shows the extent of the 
Group’s investment in 2011:
2007
44
68
53
66
81
2008 2009 2010 2011
Organic capital investment
(£m)
81
2007
86 85
34
51
464
2008 2009 2010 2011
Cash spent on acquisitions
(£m)
464
Acquisitions 
The Group made five acquisitions in the year: 
 Moody International, on 27 April 2011 for £450m on a cash 
and debt free basis. This strategic acquisition strengthened 
the Group’s global client offering in the Industry & Assurance 
division (see details below);
 Recherche, Developpement & Consulting – Bruxelles SA,  

impact consulting in the Consumer Goods division; 
 adding to the Group’s food testing service line in the Industry 
& Assurance division;
  
on 1 August 2011 which enhanced the Group’s capabilities  
in the energy and transport sector in the Chemicals & 
Pharmaceuticals division; and
  
a microbiological and environmental services business based 
in Chile, which broadens the geographic footprint of the 
Commodities and Industry & Assurance divisions.
These acquisitions provide valuable additional service lines and 
new geographic locations for the Group, and will help drive 
profitable revenue growth.
Moody International
The acquisition of Moody was a significant strategic step for  
the Group, being the largest acquisition in the Group’s history. 
Moody is a leading provider of technical services to the global 
energy industry and a provider of systems certification services. 

people in over 80 offices and 60 countries and the operations 
and employees have been integrated into the Industry & 
Assurance division. The acquisition of Moody extends the depth 
of the Group’s portfolio of services for energy assets, processes 
and products, creating a new leading technical services platform 
for the global energy market and bringing global scale to the 
Group’s systems certification business. 
Including the pre-acquisition results of Moody for 2011, revenue 
for the combined Group would have been £1,854m and adjusted 
operating profit would have been £292m. 
Organic investment 
The Group also invested £81m (2010: £66m) organically on  
the latest technology in new laboratories, capital equipment  
and other facilities. This investment represented 4.6% of revenue 
(2010: 4.8%) which was down slightly on the prior year due  
to the less capital intensive nature of the Moody business.
Intertek as One Finance and IT restructuring
The Group continues to focus on delivery of overall margin 
improvement under its Intertek as One programme. Margin 
improvement is targeted through a combination of economies  
of scale, high value service growth, revenue synergies and 
streamlining and improving the efficiency of operations and 
back-office support functions through organic investment.
In 2010 the Group implemented its first integrated shared service 
centre across North America. In 2011 the Group started the next 
step in transforming its business services support which is to 
implement a phased outsourcing of global IT applications and 
accounting back-office support. Working with Accenture, the 
programme will create a global shared services centre in Delhi, 
India for countries where English is the predominant business 
language, currently over 40% of revenue. The programme will  
be implemented in phases over the next two years. 
This move will provide a more scalable and efficient platform  
to support the Group’s strong growth at a lower cost and  
allow more efficient integration of acquisitions. The phased 
programme is expected to generate annual cost savings rising  
to approximately £10m per annum from 2014. As the change 
programme will involve significant staff and organisational 
changes, the Group has reported restructuring charges of £8m 
as a separately disclosed item in 2011 and will incur a further 
charge of approximately £3m in 2012. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 27
Financial Review 28 | www.intertek.com
Financial Review
Cash flow and net debt
The Group relies on a combination of debt and internal cash 
resources to fund its investment plans. One of the key metrics  
for measuring the ability of the business to generate cash is  
cash flow from operations. Due to the cash payments associated 
with the SDIs, and to provide a complete picture of the 
underlying performance of the Group, Adjusted cash flow  
from operations is shown below to measure the cash generated 
by the Group: 
Cash conversion
2011
£m
2010
£m Change
Cash flow from operations 289 271 7%
Add back: cash flow relating 
to SDIs 26 5
Adjusted cash flow from 
operations 315 276 14%
Net debt
Net debt has increased from £170m at 31 December 2010,  
to £581m at 31 December 2011, principally as a result of the 
acquisition of Moody. The acquisition was partly funded through 
the Group’s US$600m multicurrency revolving credit facility,  
and a new US$300m bridge facility signed in March 2011.  

adjusted for the Group’s ratio of net debt:EBITDA. 
In October 2011 the Group secured additional funding of 
US$265m by way of a senior note issue, which was drawn  
 
with US$20m repayable in 2019, US$140m repayable in 2022 
and US$105m repayable in 2024. These funds were used to 
repay the US$300m bridge facility, which was cancelled in 
February 2012. 
Under existing facilities the Group has available debt headroom 
of £149m at 31 December 2011. 
The components of net debt at 31 December 2011 are  
outlined below:
1 January 2011
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
adjustments
£m
31 December
2011
£m
Cash 217 (36) 1 182
Borrowings (387) (357) (19) (763)
Total net debt (170) (393) (18) (581)
Following the renewal and extension of the funding facilities 
available to the Group, the profile of the Group’s facilities and 
borrowings are outlined in the charts below.
2011
50%
50% Bonds 
Banks
Total facilities available
2011
13%
70%
17%
2012-2015 
2016-2020
2021+
Facility maturity proﬁle
To ensure the Group is not exposed to income statement 
volatility in relation to foreign currency translation on its debt, 
the Group ensures that any foreign currency borrowings are 
matched to the value of its overseas assets in that currency  
(an ‘efficient’ hedge). The Group borrows primarily in US dollars 
so that it can borrow at favourable interest rates, and any 
currency translation exposures on the borrowings are offset  
by the currency translation on the US dollar overseas assets of 
the Group. The composition of the Group’s gross borrowings  
in 2011, analysed by currency is as follows. In 2010 all borrowings 
were in US dollars:
2011
93% 3%
4%
US Dollar 
Euro
Other 
Currency of borrowings Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 29
Financial Review
Net interest charge
The Group had a net interest charge of £21m (2010: £16m) in 
the year. This comprised £8m (2010: £7m) of finance income, 
primarily pension asset returns and interest income on bank 
accounts, and £29m (2010: £23m) of finance expense, including 
£22m (2010: £15m) of interest on the Group’s debt facilities, 
£5m (2010: £5m) of pension liability interest expense and £1m 
(2010: £2m) due to foreign exchange differences. The net 
interest charge for 2012 will increase due to the higher average 
level of borrowings in place following the Moody acquisition  
and higher rates following the extension of the debt maturities. 
Tax
The global nature of the Group means that the Group’s exposure 
to income tax needs to be managed across a large number  
of fiscal regimes. The Group’s goal is to efficiently manage its  
tax affairs whilst fulfilling its responsibilities to the countries in 
which it operates. During 2011 the effective tax rate on adjusted 
operating profit was 28.2% (2010: 26.7%), resulting in an 
adjusted tax charge of £73m (2010: £57m), and a statutory  
tax charge, including the impact of SDIs, of £62m (2010: £51m). 
Separately disclosed items (‘SDIs’)
A number of items are separately disclosed in the financial 
statements as exclusion of these items provides readers with  
a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating 
performance of the Group’s business. 
When applicable, these separately disclosed items include 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill 
and other assets, the profit or loss on disposals of businesses or 
other significant fixed assets, costs of acquiring and integrating 
acquisitions, the cost of any fundamental restructuring of a 
business, material claims and settlements, significant recycling  
of amounts from equity to the income statement and unrealised 
market gains/losses on financial assets/liabilities.
In 2011 there were significant intangible assets recognised  
on the acquisition of Moody, which increased amortisation to  
£25m (2010: £13m). The cost associated with the acquisition  
and integration of Moody totalled £13m (2010: £nil). There were  
also costs relating to other acquisitions of £1m (2010: £5m).  
The ongoing initiative to restructure and outsource the Group’s 
back-office support functions cost £8m (2010: £nil). In the prior 
year there was also a £3m charge in relation to claims. 
Currency movements
The Group transacts in over 80 currencies, and revenue and 
profit are impacted by currency fluctuations, which have been 
significant during the year. However, the diversification of the 
Group’s revenue base mitigates this exposure.
At constant exchange rates, revenue grew 28% (actual exchange 
rates 27%) and adjusted operating profit grew 24% (actual 
exchange rates 24%).
The cumulative average exchange rates used to translate  
the income statement into sterling for the four most material 
currencies are shown below: 
Value of £1
2011
£m
2010
£m
US dollar 1.60 1.55
Euro 1.15 1.17
Chinese renminbi 10.35 10.47
 12.47 12.00
Significant accounting policies 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in  
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Details of the 
Group’s significant accounting policies are shown in note 1  
to the financial statements.  Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer
By focusing on quality in everything we do, we help our clients  
to meet end users’ expectations across increasingly diverse 
quality, health, environmental, safety and social accountability 
aspects in virtually any market around the world. In fact the work 
that we do for our clients has a major positive impact on the 
planet, people and business that far outweighs our own use  
of resources.
As a world leader in sustainability services, Intertek is committed 
to operating in a socially responsible manner and believes it is 
essential that our own standards are as high as those we provide 
to our customers. During 2011 we reviewed our approach to 
sustainability and corporate social responsibility to ensure that  
we focus on the environmental and social challenges which 
matter most to our key stakeholders. We implemented a 
common framework which enables us to record and monitor  
our performance in areas such as health and safety, energy 
consumption and emissions more effectively and consistently 
throughout the Intertek Group.
This report describes some of the work we are doing for our 
clients and the performance of our own operations in these  
areas during the year. 
Through the integrity and dedicated work of our 30,000 people 
around the world, Intertek ensures the quality and safety of the 
goods and services we all use – providing us with a better quality 
of life today and a more socially responsible and environmentally 
friendly world tomorrow.
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Officer
Contents
 30 Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer
 31 Our business
 32 Intertek people
 34  Our environment
 35  Our communities 
…providing a better quality of  
life today and a more socially 
responsible and environmentally 
friendly world tomorrow. 
30 | www.intertek.com
Sustainability and CSR Report Our business
In a world that is becoming increasingly complex, Intertek is  
well placed to help our clients adapt to the changes in global 
trade patterns. Our customers are constantly innovating in their 
industries, from creating safer and more environmentally friendly 
products, to groundbreaking technological advancements.  
As the environment in which they operate evolves, we help  
our clients to adapt their strategies, business models and supply 
chains to meet the challenges of increased diversity of consumer 
expectations and products. Intertek is changing with them,  
as we continue to execute our customer-focused Intertek as  
One strategy.
Consumers, governments and communities alike are rightly 
concerned with how services and the manufacturing, use  
and disposal of products impact the lives of workers, their 
communities and the environment. They expect goods to not 
only meet quality and safety requirements, but to be sourced  
and manufactured using sustainable practices. As a result,  
non-compliance within supply chains represents a huge 
reputational risk and concern for brand integrity. As retailers  
and brands work to demonstrate good corporate governance 
across their supply chains, their suppliers are concurrently being 
asked to continuously showcase their capabilities, capacity and 
performance in these areas.
Intertek’s Industry Community Programmes offer a full range  
of services for companies and facilities seeking to improve 
compliance in accordance with widely accepted industry 
standards and best practices. These standards have been 
extensively researched and developed in collaboration with  
the world’s largest consumer brands and retailers. Our services 
include Supplier Identity & Profile (‘iSupplier Intelligence’), Social 
Compliance (‘Workplace Conditions Assessment’), Environmental 
Sustainability (‘Think Green Initiative’), Quality Assurance 
(‘Supplier Qualification Program’), Security Compliance (‘Global 
Security Verification’), Fabric Quality (‘Mill Qualification Program’) 
and a range of other environmental impact assessment solutions 
covering products, packaging and supply chains. For example, 
we undertook a ‘life cycle analysis’ of carrier bags for one of the 
world’s largest retailers, resulting in a shift in policy to offering 
bags with a higher recyclable content.
In 2011, Intertek hosted the 10th annual Ethical Sourcing Forum 
in North America. The forum brings together manufacturers  
and retailers to explore how they can work together to achieve 
measurable ethical sourcing and sustainable business practices 
that are currently transforming global supply chains. We are  
also establishing fair trade relations in Brazilian cotton exporters’ 
supply chains through providing guidance on compliance to  
local labour legislation.
In 2011, Intertek acquired Recherche, Developpement & 
Consulting – Bruxelles SA (‘RDC’). Based in Belgium and France, 
RDC helps companies to improve their product packaging, 
organisation and the overall environmental impact of their supply 
chain. Services include lifecycle analysis, carbon foot printing, 
eco-labelling, greenhouse gas analysis and energy auditing,  
as well as a unique software tool to enable clients to calculate 
product environmental impacts instantly.
Intertek has introduced many training programmes to elevate 
and reinforce product safety in the consumer goods industry.  
In 2011, Intertek Consumer Goods was certified as the first 
training provider for international personnel and training 
certification body RABQSA Inc’s new Safe Design Professional 
(‘Saf-D-Pro’) Certification Scheme. Saf-D-Pro certifies qualified 
individuals in the discipline of design appraisal of consumer 
products based upon state-of-the-art design hazard analysis  
and risk assessment techniques and practices. 
Through our network of global safety experts, Intertek also 
conducts safety awareness seminars for those working in the 
chemical manufacturing industry, such as pharmaceutical, 
specialty chemicals, and agrochemicals. Our experts analyse  
a wide range of chemical processes and have recognised 
expertise in characterising fire and explosion properties of 
powders and dusts. 
We are supporting the move to hybrid domestic and commercial 
transportation through the testing of batteries and charging 
systems for electric vehicles. Furthermore, in 2011 we contributed 
to the first ever commercial flight using sustainable jet bio fuel. 
As well as testing and certifying the fuel, Intertek provided 
consultancy services on the testing and certification process  
to customers in the aviation industry.
In the Food and Agri sector, Intertek is an internationally 
recognised certification body for food safety programmes, 
including Global Food Safety Initiative (‘GFSI’) endorsed schemes, 
such as the Food Safety System Certification (‘FS22000’), British 
Retail Consortium Food Standard (‘BRC’), International Food 
Standard (‘IFS’), and Safe Quality Food (‘SQF’). 
With the global population estimated to reach nine billion by 
2050, the world will need to produce more safe, nutritious and 
affordable food which can be supplied and distributed to meet 
the needs of consumers in different economic, social and cultural 
contexts, while maintaining the ecosystem on which food 
production depends. Our comprehensive evaluations of food 
production, quality management systems, testing programs, 
factory environment, product and process controls, positions  
us to certify the entire supply chain. 
In 2011 we extended our Food and Agri testing capabilities by 


Testing S.A. based in Santiago, Chile, which provides a wide 
range of chemical and microbiology services for the fishing 
industry and the large supermarket chains. We also opened our 
second food testing lab in Turkey which has been authorised by 
the Turkish Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Breeding to operate 
as an official control laboratory and as a private laboratory for 
imported/exported food and feed control services in Turkey.
Intertek is playing a key role in helping the Global Alliance for 
Improved Nutrition (‘GAIN’) with their Premix Facility programme. 
As GAIN’s primary certification agent, Intertek tests and certifies 
the premix, which is a commercially prepared blend of essential 
micronutrients used in food fortification. More than 100 million 
people in developing countries are benefiting from improved 
nutrition as a result.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 31
Sustainability and CSR Report Stewardship and Governance
Intertek’s strategic direction and performance is overseen  
by the Board (see pages 36 and 37). With a mix of Executive  
and Non-Executive directors on the Board, Intertek has a wide 
range of experience and skills, bringing independent judgement 
to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and  
standards of conduct. The Board has overall responsibility for  
the establishment and oversight of Intertek’s risk management 
framework, details of which can be found on pages 43 to 44.
Intertek’s global operations are managed by the Group’s 
executive management team – the Intertek Operations 
Committee, as shown on pages 12 and 13, which includes  
the Divisional Executive Vice Presidents (‘EVPs’). 
Part of Intertek’s global strategy is to align our organisation  
with the many industries in which our customers trade, so that 
we can provide them with the support and expertise specific  
to their needs. We do this from five global divisions operating 
across more than 100 countries: Commodities, Industry & 
Assurance, Consumer Goods, Commercial & Electrical and 
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals. Intertek’s EVPs also have formal 
responsibility for regional business development.
Each of our major operating countries has a Country Manager, 
who is responsible for the cross-divisional development of 
Intertek’s overall operations and business in that country, 
including local sustainability actions. 
Intertek 
Operations 
Committee: 9
Senior Leadership Group: 300 
Intertek: 30,000 people
Intertek Group plc Board
Governance structure

compared with 83% and 17% respectively in 2010.
Intertek people
Intertek is a diverse company of more than 30,000 employees, 
operating in over 100 countries. It is this diversity in all we do and 
embrace as a company – our industries, services, geographies, 
people and cultures – that ensures our status as an economically 
sustainable business.
The Group is supportive of all the communities in which we  
are active and is committed to giving local, talented people  
the opportunity of employment and further development.  
It is Intertek’s policy that everyone should have an equal 
opportunity for employment, fair pay and career advancement 
on the basis of ability, necessary qualifications and  
attitude to work.
Intertek has framework policies in place which cover all issues of 
fair recruitment, performance management, remuneration and 
training and development. These policies enable respect and fair 
treatment of employees across the Group, while still giving local 
managers the authority and flexibility to adopt what is right for 
their local area.
We provide continuous learning opportunities and training for 
personal growth so that we remain up to date and highly expert 
in the services we deliver for our customers. Our management 
development initiatives focus on leadership workshops to 
develop our existing teams as well as identify and grow talent  
for the future.
 The American Society for Quality (‘ASQ’) created its first  

Responsibility Medal, in honour of Intertek’s former Senior Vice 
President for Risk Assessment and Management. In receiving 
the Award, Spencer Hutchens said: “I am proud and humbled 
to have this medal named in my honour. My hopes are  
that the development of this medal will provide continued 
inspiration for individuals and organisations to build their work 
on values of social responsibility – principles I’ve supported 
throughout my life and career at Intertek.” Sadly, ten months 
later, Spencer Hutchens passed away, but his legacy continues.
 In December 2011, Intertek Consumer Goods North America 
President, Gene Rider was awarded the prestigious Chairman’s 
Commendation Circle Award by the U.S. Consumer Product 
Safety Commission. The Award recognises people and groups 
who have contributed in an important way to the benefit  
of consumers by directly and significantly reducing deaths, 
preventing injuries, and improving consumer product safety.
32 | www.intertek.com
Sustainability and CSR Report Professional conduct
Our integrity is at the heart of our business. One of Intertek’s 
primary business objectives is to ensure compliance with local, 
national and international laws and the accuracy and validity of 
reports and certificates that it provides to customers. All Intertek 
employees receive training on the Intertek Compliance Code  
as part of their induction. Compliance training is available on  
our Group intranet in multiple languages. The objective of this  
code is to demonstrate how we approach compliance within  
our organisation to assure ethical behaviour and the integrity  
of our services. We also have a summary Code of Ethics,  
which employees are asked to sign as part of their terms  
of employment with the Company, confirming acceptance of  
the high standards expected of them in all business dealings.
The Code of Ethics is supported by regular in-service training, 
advice on ethical issues and an internally publicised telephone 
hotline, allowing protected reporting of concerns regarding  
non-compliance. Intertek has a strict policy of Zero Tolerance 
regarding breaches of compliance policy. 
During 2011 we received 24 reports of non-compliance which 
proved to be substantiated claims requiring remedial action.  
We continue to monitor these figures each year. Our Audit and 
Risk Committee regularly reviews the outcomes from hotlines 
and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
Compliance hotline incidents 2011
Number of incidents 
reported
Number of incidents 
further investigated
Number of substantiated 
incidents 
118 1 18 24
Health & Safety
Intertek considers the health, safety and welfare of its employees, 
clients and third parties connected with its business to be of 
paramount importance. We aim to provide a safe working 
environment and ensure that our employees have the 
information and resources to perform their duties safely. We are 
committed to maintaining high standards and complying with 
relevant local legislation and guidelines in any area in which we 
operate. We continually seek to minimise risk to our employees, 
clients and others who may be affected by our operations and 
our procedures are regularly monitored by our compliance team 
to ensure that they are being properly applied in practice.
We are very saddened to report however that during 2011 three 
employee fatalities occurred; two whilst travelling to work and 
one during business travel. While these incidents were not 
directly attributable to our operations we are taking steps to 
increase our safety awareness programmes for employees when 
travelling to their workplace.
 accidents requiring medical treatment and injuries resulting in 
lost working time.
Although we operate across many different industries, one  
of our key values is to act as one united company through 
promoting a co-operative working culture under our Intertek  
as One programme. By working together and integrating  
our knowledge and resources across our business lines, we  
are able to provide a complete package of services seamlessly  
to our customers under a single brand ethos of ‘Valued  
Quality. Delivered.’
At 31 December 2011 we employed 31,712 people, an increase of 17% over  
the prior year. The largest contributor to this growth in headcount over the past  
12 months was our acquisition of Moody International, which increased our 
headcount by approximately 2,500.
Intertek’s gender diversity is reflective of the general industries and qualification 
profiles of employment in our operating countries and business lines.
The increase in total number of Intertek employees over the last five years. 
EMEA
Female
Male Americas Asia
Male : Female
Ratio by regions
18,000
16,000
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
Female 
Male 
Total workforce
36%
64%
0.0
222.22
444.44
666.66
888.88
1111.1
1333.3
1555.5
1777.
777778
2000.0
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000 2,000
1,800
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Headcount
Revenue (£m)
Revenue and
headcount
Headcount Revenue
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 33
Sustainability and CSR Report Using 2011 as our base year, we will continue to monitor and 
record our emissions and energy consumption levels in our 
subsequent external reporting.
In order to reduce our travel emissions, we have continued where 
possible, to minimise business mileage by increasing the use of 
video and web technology for meetings. 
In our Automotive Research business, we use regenerative 
engine dynamometers when testing our client’s engines. 
Through these test programmes we offset our consumption  
by producing enough electricity to power 750 homes. Moreover, 
the emissions work we perform for major engine manufacturers 
means that the next generation truck engines will produce  
90% less particulate emissions than engines currently in use  
on public highways. 
Environmental initiatives continue throughout Intertek offices to 
reduce energy consumption, which include minimising electricity 
usage by switching off lights and other electrical appliances when 
not in use. Our businesses continue with their efforts to reduce 
paper usage and recycle all waste materials where possible. 
In 2011 Intertek’s Exploration & Production Services businesses 
relocated to a new state-of-the-art ‘green’ building in the 
Aberdeen Innovation Park in Bridge of Don, Scotland, where 
heating and hot water is provided from a biomass boiler  
and wind turbine. Intertek’s Centre of Excellence will support  
the energy sector, including renewable energy initiatives and  
will provide local employment to engineers, chemists and 
technical experts.
All Intertek employees are made aware of our environmental 
‘green’ initiatives and guidelines, as well as their responsibilities 
towards the environment as an employee for Intertek. 
Environment related activities are continuously increasing,  
with our employees actively participating, alongside their 
communities, in causes to help the environment. For example,  
in Mumbai, India, a team of Intertek volunteers spent their leisure 
time planting tree saplings in their local community to counter 
deforestation from building development. On China’s Arbor Day 
in March, Intertek adopted 25 trees for a tree planting event at 
Baiyun Shan Park in Ghangzhou, which saw the participation  
of over 70 employees, and in October more than 60 Intertek 
employees took part in an organised clean up of Rose Coast 
Beach in Shenzhen.
The health and safety of our people and activities is the 
responsibility of line management and employees themselves.  
All incidents are recorded and reported to the designated 
Country Health and Safety Representative who in turn reports 

Intertek Group.
We are committed to the continuous review and improvement of 
our health and safety performance and our aim is to achieve zero 
lost time accidents.
Our environment
We believe that, through the services we provide for our clients, 
the positive influences that we have on the world are far greater 
than any negative effect from our operations. However, we 
continually work to reduce energy consumption and other 
effects that our operations may have on the environment. For 
example, we have introduced electronic payslips for employees 
and e-certificates for many of our customers, both to improve 
operations and reduce our consumption of resources.
Our corporate Environmental Policy is implemented at a national 
level by Country Managers in compliance with local regulations 
and guidelines. The policy serves to ensure that employees at all 
levels in the organisation are aware of the environmental impact 
of their activities. It also outlines our objectives as a company to 
minimise any adverse environmental influences. 
For 2011 we have calculated our carbon emissions and energy 
consumption levels for the 20 largest Intertek countries by 
headcount, which together represent approximately 80%  
of Intertek’s total population. 
Electricity and gas consumption levels throughout the year  
were measured in order to monitor our energy consumption. 
Electricity consumption was reported to be 174,200 MWh  
(6.85 MWh per employee) and gas consumption was reported  
to be 47,051 MWh (1.85 MWh per employee).
The levels of greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using the 
guidelines of the GHG protocol. The calculated emissions include:
 Scope 1 emissions – Direct emissions which are a result of  
our testing and inspection services for clients as well as our 
business operations that occur at sources owned or controlled 
by Intertek; 
 Scope 2 emissions – Indirect emissions which are a result of 
our testing and inspection services for clients as well as our 
business operations that occur at sources not owned or 
controlled by Intertek.
CO
2
 emissions for top 20 Intertek countries by headcount 
Emission (tonnes CO
2
e ) 2011
Scope 1 9,399
Scope 2 108,169
Total 117,568
Per employee 4.62
(CO
2
e – Carbon Dioxide Equivalent) 
34 | www.intertek.com
Sustainability and CSR Report Our communities
While the very nature of the work that Intertek people do every 
day helps to minimise the health, social and environmental 
impact of thousands of products and processes around the 
world, many also give their personal time and energy to 
voluntary programmes in their local communities.
Our employees’ cultural values and relationships within the 
communities in which they live and work is important to  
them, as well as to our business and our clients. At Intertek  
we encourage our employees’ involvement in charitable and 
community activities. Volunteering not only helps them develop 
new skills and experiences but strengthens their relationships 
with colleagues through the teamwork involved.
These are just some of the good causes our people took part  
in during 2011:
 
projects for Habitat for Humanity, a charity which strives to 
energise neighbourhoods and communities by repairing and 
building environmentally ‘green’ homes for those in need.
 for WaterAid, an international non-governmental organisation 
that aims to transform lives by improving access to safe water, 
hygiene and sanitation in the world’s poorest communities.
 In celebration of Singapore’s 46th year of independence, 
Intertek employees paid tribute to the elderly who have 
contributed selflessly to the early years of building their 
nation. Four care homes for the elderly were asked for a ‘wish 
list’ of items needed by their residents. In just 10 days, over 
900 different items of daily necessities were collected from 
500 Intertek employees.
 In India, Intertek employees celebrated Diwali (‘Festival of 

giving sweets to the children and providing 200 blankets and 
sheets for the Institution.
As an organisation, Intertek also helps the communities in which 
we operate.
 Following the devastating earthquake in Eastern Turkey  
in October 2011, Intertek in Istanbul sent much needed 
clothing to people in the affected areas and Intertek 
employees also contributed by personally donating articles  
of clothing and blankets.
 In China, Intertek donated over 1,000 dictionaries and 
stationery to children in Guangdong. Our employees travelled 
 In Thailand, with the agreement of our customers, we 
organise the charitable distribution of rice samples that  
are no longer required following quality testing, so nothing 
goes to waste. 
 In 2011, Intertek in Australia, supported ‘Bicycles for 
Humanity’, to help establish a Bicycle Empowerment Centre  
in a village near Walvis Bay, Namibia.
  
scheme to help local graduates understand the role of an 
approvals engineer, not just in Intertek but also in the global 
marketplace. The programme covers all areas within the 
Commercial & Electrical industry, including hazardous 
locations testing, life safety, fire and security systems  
and medical equipment. Graduates are continually assessed 
and provided with professional support throughout  
the programme. 
Intertek’s Sustainability and CSR report was developed according to the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, which provide a recommended 
framework and indicators for reporting. A table outlining the GRI standard 
disclosures is provided at the end of this document. All data used for performance 
indicators is representative of the Group, unless stated otherwise. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 35
Sustainability and CSR Report 01
04
07
05 06
03 02
36 | www.intertek.com
Board of Directors 01 Sir David Reid (65) 
Chairman
Appointed to the Board in December 201 1 

Sir David Reid retired as Non-Executive 

after serving in that role since April 2004. 
Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of 

Board since 1985. David is the Senior 
Independent Director of Reed Elsevier Group 



Greenalls Group plc (now De Vere Group), 

plc. In November 2010 David was appointed 
one of Prime Minister David Cameron’s 
Business Ambassadors. 
02 Wolfhart Hauser (62)
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive 
Officer in March 2005 after serving as a 
Non-Executive Director since November 
2002. Wolfhart Hauser was previously 
Chief Executive Officer and President of 
TÜV Süddeutschland AG for four years 
and Chief Executive Officer of TÜV 
Product Services for 10 years. Starting  
his career with various research activities 
he went on to establish and lead a  
broad range of successful international 
service industry businesses. He has held 
several non-executive board director  
and chairman roles in a variety of 
technology companies. He is currently  

03 Lloyd Pitchford (40)
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial 

previously spent 10 years with BG Group 
plc in various operational and corporate 

including five years as Group Financial 
Controller. He previously worked for  
Mobil Oil Corporation in various financial, 
commercial and management roles.  

of Management Accountants and holds 
an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
04 Christopher Knight (65)
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director in March 2006. He was 
an investment banker for nearly 30 years, 
for much of that time with Morgan 
Grenfell and Deutsche Bank, of which  
he was a managing director until 2001.  
He is a Chartered Accountant and has 
extensive corporate finance experience 
gained during his banking career in 
 
He is Chairman of Brooks Macdonald 
Group plc. 
05 Edward Astle (58)
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director in September 2009. 
He is currently Pro Rector Enterprise  

oversees the university’s relationships  
with industry, and leads business 
 
and internationally. Edward was Executive 
Director of National Grid plc from 2001 
to 2008, a Managing Director at the 
BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 and  
an Executive and Regional Director at 
Cable & Wireless plc from 1989 to 1997. 
Previously he held senior business strategy 

06 Alan Brown (55)
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director in April 2011. He is 
currently Chief Executive Officer of 
Rentokil Initial plc, a position he has held 
since April 2008. Alan spent 25 years at 


Europe and then general management  
in Taiwan and China. His last four years 
were as Executive Chairman of Unilever 
China. Following this, Alan returned to the 


role in the divestment of the company. 
07 Michael Wareing (58)
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director in April 2011. He has 
major international and board level 
knowledge gained during an extensive 
global career up to senior partner level  

as International Chief Executive Officer,  
a position he occupied for four years.  
He is currently a Non-Executive Director 
and Audit Committee Chairman at 
Wolseley plc and at Cobham plc and  
is Chairman of the Iraq Advisory Board  
for G4S plc. He was appointed as the 
Economic Development Adviser to  
the Government of Afghanistan in  
August 2011. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 37
Board of Directors Chairman’s foreword
Having been Chairman only since the beginning of 2012, I have 
to thank Vanni Treves, the former Chairman, for his stewardship 
of Intertek’s corporate governance. I have conducted a review of 
our governance structures and am pleased to say that the Board 
of Intertek Group plc recognises and is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance. The Board believes that good 
governance is key to the long-term success of the Group and  
we shall continue to pursue the ‘comply or explain’ approach. 
This report gives more information on how we comply with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and explains where  
we do not.
Last year this report explained how the Board had reviewed  
the impending changes to the Code, now fully effective, and 
considered the application of the Code to Intertek. At the Annual 
General Meeting in 2011 all continuing directors stood for  
re-election and were re-elected with healthy majorities. 
Since last year the diversity of the membership of boards has 
become an important issue which is on its way to inclusion in  
the Code. In making any Board appointments, in addition to 
reviewing factors such as skill sets, breadth of experience and 
personality fit, the Nominations Committee is careful to ensure 
that it is presented with, and considers, a broad range of 
candidates. Steps are currently being taken to recruit an 
additional Non-Executive Director following the departure of 
Debra Rade from the Board. The nature of our business and the 
geographical spread of our operations mean that we employ  
a culturally and otherwise diverse group of people. More 
information on diversity, including the gender of employees 
within Intertek is provided on pages 32 to 33 of the Sustainability 
and CSR Report.
I am greatly looking forward to my service with the Board and 
am committed to ensuring the continuance of the high standards 
already set.
Sir David Reid
Chairman
Contents
38 Chairman’s foreword
39 Governance framework
39 Board attendance
39  Role of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior 
Independent Director
40 Board balance and independence
40 Professional development
40 Performance evaluation
41 Procedures to deal with Directors’ conflicts of interests
41 Consideration of the diversity of the Board
41 The Board and its Committees
 41 The Remuneration Committee
 42 The Nominations Committee
 42 The Audit and Risk Committee
43 Internal control
44 Shareholders
44 Going concern
38 | www.intertek.com
Corporate Governance Report Governance framework
This report describes our compliance with the provisions of  
the Code. The Code is available at www.frc.org.uk. Throughout 
2011 the Group complied with all provisions of the Code, save 
that from May 2011 the Remuneration Committee comprised 
two rather than three independent Directors in addition to  
the Chairman. 
The Board is responsible and accountable to shareholders for 
ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and that  
it achieves its objectives. The Board’s main role is to understand 
and meet its obligations to the Company’s shareholders and 
others; to lead the Group within a framework of prudent and 
effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed; 
to approve the Group’s strategic objectives; and to ensure that 
sufficient resources are available to enable it to meet those 
objectives. The Board also ensures that plans are in place  
for orderly succession for appointments to the Board and  
to senior management.
Alan Brown and Michael Wareing joined the Board in April 2011 
and Sir David Reid was appointed in December 2011. Gavin 
Darby resigned in May 2011 and David Allvey, Debra Rade and 
Vanni Treves retired at the end of December 2011. Currently  
the Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive 
Directors and four independent Non-Executive Directors.  
On 1 January 2012 Sir David Reid took over the Chairmanship 
from Vanni Treves. All Directors who served during 2011 had  
a wide range of experience and skills, bringing independent 
judgement to bear on a wide range of issues including strategy, 
performance, resources and standards of conduct. The current 
Directors’ biographies appear on page 37. 
During the year, the Board formally met eight times, but there 
was also frequent ad hoc contact between Directors to discuss 
the Group’s affairs and development of its business. Directors’ 
attendance at Board meetings is shown in the table on the right. 
On several occasions during 2011 the Chairman met with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being 
present. The Non-Executive Directors have also had discussions 
without the Chairman being present. 
If a Director has any concerns about the Group or a proposed 
action, then such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes  
as a matter of course. To enable the Board to discharge its  
duties, all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant 
information. Papers are circulated well before the Board and 
Committee meetings to ensure that Directors have the necessary 
time to read and review them. The Non-Executive Directors 
receive monthly Business Performance Reports and information 
which enables them to scrutinise the performance of the Group 
and management against agreed strategy and objectives and 
prior performance.
Board attendance during 2011
Name/Position Attendance*
Vanni Treves  
Chairman
8 (8)
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Officer
8 (8)
Lloyd Pitchford 
Chief Financial Officer
8 (8)
David Allvey 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
8 (8)
Edward Astle 
Independent Non-Executive Director
8 (8)
Alan Brown (appointed 15 April 2011) 
Independent Non-Executive Director
4 (5)
Gavin Darby (resigned 20 May 2011) 4 (4)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Christopher Knight 
Independent Non-Executive Director
8 (8)
Debra Rade 
Independent Non-Executive Director
8 (8)
Sir David Reid (appointed 1 December 2011) 
Independent Non-Executive Director
1 (1)
Michael Wareing (appointed 15 April 2011) 
Independent Non-Executive Director
5 (5)
*  Actual attendance (maximum number) of meetings a Director could attend as a 
Board member.
Role of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior 
Independent Director
In order to avoid any one individual having unfettered powers, 
there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer. These have been set out in 
writing and approved by the Board. 
Vanni Treves, the previous Chairman, became Chairman of the 
Board in May 2002, at which time he met the independence 
criteria as set out in the Code. Sir David Reid, upon his 
appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2012, also met the 
independence criteria set out in the Code. His responsibilities  
as Chairman include the leadership of the Board, ensuring its 
effectiveness and setting its agenda; ensuring that the Directors 
receive accurate, timely and clear information; ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders; facilitating the effective 
contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in 
particular; and ensuring constructive relationships between the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman’s other 
main commitments are detailed in his biography on page 37. 
Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Executive Officer, has direct charge of 
the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board 
for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 39
Corporate Governance Report All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional 
advice, at the Group’s expense, in the performance of their 
duties as Directors. No such advice was sought during the year. 
The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted 
by law, to each of the Directors and the Group Company 
Secretary. Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance is in place.
The Board believes that strong corporate governance improves 
the performance of the business and enhances shareholder 
value. During its meetings in 2011 the Board received and 
discussed reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer on strategy, debt financing, market reports, 
share trading reports, analysts’ forecasts, potential acquisitions, 
litigation reports, final and interim dividend recommendations, 
potential contract bids, road show and investor feedback, 
budgets, tax policy, treasury policy, Annual Report, Half Year 
Results, interim management statements, announcements and  
a wide range of other issues. 
Performance evaluation
Once again, the Board engaged in a performance evaluation 
process led by the Chairman comprising a series of detailed 
questionnaires which provide a framework for the evaluation 
process. This provides a source of information not just on the 
Board’s performance but also on that of the Chief Executive 
Officer, individual Directors and the Chairman. There are 
questionnaires for each of the following: the Board; each 
individual Director; and the Audit and Risk, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees. In 2011 no external facilitated 
evaluation was carried out as it was considered that an internal 
evaluation continued to be appropriate. The performance 
evaluation process will continue to be under review and it is 
currently proposed that an external evaluation will be undertaken 
in 2012. 
This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees ensures that the performance of each individual 
Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and 
each Committee are properly measured and debated. 
The Chairman assessed the individual performance of each 
Director. During 2011 the Senior Independent Director did  
not have discussions with the other Directors to appraise the 
Chairman’s performance during the year as Vanni Treves retired 
at the end of the year. An appraisal of the new Chairman,  
Sir David Reid, will be held in 2012 in accordance with the Code. 
Following feedback from the Board evaluation process, which  
was discussed by the Board in January 2011, presentations from 
senior management to the Board have continued throughout 
2011 and meetings have been held on regional strategy to 
increase the understanding of operations and opportunities. 
Each of the presentations made to the Board also includes a 
section on risk to ensure that all Directors are fully briefed in this 
area. The performance of the Board and each Director was, and 
is, effective, and all Directors demonstrate full commitment in 
their respective roles in the Company evidenced, inter alia, by the 
Board and Committee attendance records set out in this report. 
Following the recent changes to the Board membership the 
evaluations further demonstrate that the Board continues to 
maintain an appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors add 
value to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group, and 
that no significant issues have arisen out of the evaluation process. 
David Allvey was Senior Independent Director from May 2002  
until his retirement in December 2011. His responsibilities 
included leading the Non-Executive Directors’ annual 
consideration of the Chairman’s performance and holding 
discussions with the Non-Executive Directors without 
management present. Following David Allvey’s retirement, 
Michael Wareing was appointed Senior Independent Director.  
He is readily available to shareholders if they have concerns that 
remain unresolved after contacting the Group through the usual 
channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or where 
such contact is inappropriate. 
Board balance and independence
The Nominations Committee has reviewed the independence of 
all the Non-Executive Directors taking into account the criteria 
outlined in B.1.1 of the Code. As a result, there was no change  
to the independent status of the current Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors have 
and continue to demonstrate the necessary characteristics of 
independence expected by the Board and it has been determined 
that none of the Non-Executive Directors have any relationships 
or links to the business which would compromise or interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement. 
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to 
ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors 
are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best 
long-term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they 
take proper account of the interests of customers, employees 
and other stakeholders. The Non-Executive Directors are all 
experienced individuals and through their mix of skills and 
business experience they contribute significantly to the effective 
functioning of the Board and its committees, ensuring that 
matters are fully debated and that no one individual or group 
dominates the decision-making process.
Professional development
Upon appointment to the Board, new Non-Executive Directors 
receive a formal induction programme, co-ordinated by the 
Group Company Secretary, tailored to suit the individual’s 
previous experience. The formal induction also includes visiting 
laboratories and having meetings with employees and advisors. 
Ongoing training is provided to Directors as necessary, for 
example, on best practice and changes in legislation, 
developments in the economic and regulatory environment and 
on the Company’s businesses. In addition, visits to operational 
sites are arranged at least once a year and one Board meeting is 
held outside the UK which provides an opportunity for the Board 
to meet more senior managers across the Group and to further 
their knowledge of the Group’s operations. In November 2011 
meetings were held in Shanghai which focused on the markets  
in China and involved meetings with major customers. During 
the visit the Board met with members of the Intertek Operations 
Committee and other senior managers within the Group. The 
Non-Executive Directors also attend various seminars during the 
year on topics relevant to a publicly listed company.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group 
Company Secretary, who will assist in arranging any additional 
training and information as required. The appointment and 
removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the 
Board as a whole.
Corporate Governance Report
40 | www.intertek.com In order to operate effectively and to give appropriate attention 
and consideration to matters, the Board has established three 
Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, 
procedures and powers. These terms of reference are available 
on request from the Group Company Secretary at the registered 
office or can be downloaded from www.intertek.com. These 
Committees comprise the Remuneration Committee, the 
Nominations Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.  
The Board is kept informed by the Committee chairmen through 
the provision of a summary of the issues discussed and decisions 
taken by each Committee.
The following sections explain the responsibilities of each Board 
Committee and the areas that they covered during the year. 
The Remuneration Committee
During 2011 this Committee comprised independent  
Non-Executive Directors David Allvey (Chairman), Gavin Darby 
(resigned May 2011) and Christopher Knight, together with  
Vanni Treves. With effect from 1 January 2012, the Committee 
now comprises Christopher Knight (Chairman), Alan Brown and 
Sir David Reid. The Code requires the Remuneration Committee 
to have at least three independent Non-Executive Directors 
whilst allowing the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the 
Company, if considered independent on appointment, to be a 
member. Whilst mindful of its non compliance with the Code, 
the Board has considered and still believes that the Committee 
has the necessary skills and expertise required. However, this will 
be kept under review and steps taken to look at appointing an 
additional Non-Executive Director during the year. 
The Committee has responsibility for determining and  
agreeing with the Board the framework or Board policy for  
the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and 
senior executives and for the determination, within agreed terms 
of reference, of additional benefits for each of the Executive 
Directors, including pension rights and any compensation for  
loss of office. The Committee is also responsible for the 
implementation and operation of employee share incentive 
arrangements. Details of the matters discussed and actions  
taken by the Remuneration Committee, including the Group’s 
remuneration for Executive Directors, and details of benefits, 
share based payments, pension entitlements, service contracts 
and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration 
Report which starts on page 48.
Membership and attendance at meetings during the year was  
as follows:
Name Attendance*
David Allvey (Chairman) 7 (7)
Gavin Darby (resigned 20 May 2011) 4 (4)
Christopher Knight 7 (7)
Vanni Treves 6 (7)
*  Actual attendance (maximum number) of meetings a Director could attend as a 
Committee member.
The Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees 
also each held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness 
during the year, the results of which were reported to the Board 
by the Group Company Secretary. The reviews concluded that 
each Committee was operating in an efficient and effective 
manner. The Board will continue to develop the evaluation 
process in order to ensure that it can properly review, on an 
annual basis, its performance and that of its individual members 
and Committees. 
Procedures to deal with Directors’ conflicts of interests
The Board has a formal system to deal with conflicts of Directors’ 
interests. Each year all Directors complete a questionnaire in 
order to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts of interests. 
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be  
made by non-conflicted Directors, meaning those who have  
no interest in the matter being considered. The authorised 
decisions are reviewed on an annual basis or, where appropriate, 
authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new 
directors or if a new conflict arises. During 2011 this procedure 
operated effectively. 
Consideration of the diversity of the Board
The Board has given consideration to the content of Lord Davies’ 
recommendations for achieving greater diversity on Boards. 
Gender is one component of diversity and although no formal 
target for female representation on the Board was agreed, the 
Board is supportive of the recommendations’ aims, and continues 
to seek to ensure that in considering appointments to the Board 
a diverse range of candidates are presented. More information 
on diversity can be found in our Sustainability and CSR Report  
which starts on page 30.
The Board and its Committees
In order to review and monitor the performance of management 
the Group provides the Board with regular reports on a number 
of key areas. The Board also requests one-off reports on specific 
issues when necessary. A Board Approval Matrix is in place which 
formally outlines the matters specifically requiring the consent of 
the full Board. These matters include:
 Group strategy;
 Annual budget;
 Annual Report, Half Year Results and related announcements;
 Capital expenditure;
 Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside 
delegated limits;
 Changes in directors;
 Material contracts;
 Dividend policy; and
 Approval of tax, treasury and risk management policies.
The Board Approval Matrix also identifies areas where the  
Board has delegated authority to executive management, subject 
to certain financial limits. Where any of the activities involve 
amounts greater than those limits they are referred to the Board. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 41
Corporate Governance Report The Nominations Committee membership and attendance at 
meetings was as follows during the year:
Name Attendance*
Vanni Treves (Chairman) 4 (5)
David Allvey 5 (5)
Christopher Knight 5 (5)
Sir David Reid (Appointed 1 December 2011) 1 (1)
*  Actual attendance (maximum number) of meetings a Director could attend as a 
Committee member.
The Audit and Risk Committee
Throughout the year the composition of the Committee was  
in compliance with the Code. During 2011 the Committee 
comprised four Non-Executive Directors, David Allvey (Chairman), 
Edward Astle, Christopher Knight and Michael Wareing 
(appointed April 2011). Committee members have recent and 
relevant financial and business experience as detailed in their 
biographies on page 37. With effect from 1 January 2012,  
the Committee now comprises Michael Wareing (Chairman),  
Edward Astle and Christopher Knight.
The key functions of the Audit and Risk Committee are to 
monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, review 
any formal announcements relating to the Group’s performance 
and review the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal 
control and risk management. In accordance with its terms of 
reference, the Committee is responsible for:
 monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process  
and making recommendations to the Board in relation to  
the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the 
external auditors, and for ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship is maintained between the Group and its  
external auditors; 
 reviewing annually the effectiveness of the Group’s systems  
of internal control, risk management, the processes for 
monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group and  
the efficacy of the internal audit function; 
 monitoring the progress of internal audit activity against  
the annual plan, and reviewing the strategy, scope and 
approach of the internal audit and risk management teams; 
 reviewing the corrective action taken by management to 
address any control issues identified by the internal audit  
and risk management function; and
 approving the appointment and termination of the Vice 
President Risk Management and Internal Audit and meeting 
with him at least once a year without management present.
Committee meetings are usually attended by the Group’s 
external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
Vice President Financial Control and the Vice President Risk 
Management, Internal Audit and the Chairman. The Group’s 
external auditors meet with the members of the Audit and Risk 
Committee at least once a year without management present.
The Nominations Committee 
Throughout the year the composition of the Committee was  
in compliance with the Code. During 2011 the Committee 
comprised Vanni Treves (Chairman), David Allvey and  
Christopher Knight. During 2011 this Committee was evaluated 
and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was 
appropriate and effective. With effect from 1 January 2012,  
the Committee now comprises Sir David Reid (Chairman), 
Christopher Knight and Michael Wareing.
The main purpose of the Committee is to nominate candidates  
to fill Board vacancies, review talent mapping and succession 
planning for the Board and senior management and make 
recommendations on the balance and composition of the Board. 
In the event of any perceived conflict of interest, a sub committee 
comprising non-conflicted Directors is appointed.
Bearing in mind the balance of existing skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Board, a job description is prepared for any 
new Board position and when a Non-Executive Director is 
appointed, the Committee requires confirmation that he or  
she can devote sufficient time to fulfil the commitments of  
the role. The Committee ensures that the search for any Board 
candidate is conducted, on merit, against objective criteria  
and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, 
including gender. The terms and conditions of appointment  
of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by  
any person at the Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours and at the AGM. All Directors are subject  
to election by shareholders each year. 
Organisation and succession planning are important components 
in ensuring the continued success of the Group. As part of  
the strategy processes, our operations plan the future 
organisation needed and address the consequent talent  
pipelines for all key roles across the Group. Linked with the  
other HR frameworks in place across the Group, this delivers  
a pragmatic approach to talent management in a global and 
geographically dispersed business. 
Organisation and talent reviews are conducted by committees  
of the appropriate executives. The principal actions resulting from 
these reviews relate to development of executive capacity across 
Intertek. The Nominations Committee annually reviews the 
overall process and global priorities, as well as detailed plans at 
the most senior levels. In May 2011, due to the importance of 
this issue, there was a presentation to the Board on succession. 
During the year, a new Chairman and two new Non-Executive 
Directors were recruited to the Board as part of the process of 
succession to the Board and the need for continued refreshing  
of ideas, skills and experience on the Board.
Corporate Governance Report
42 | www.intertek.com There are a number of controls in place to ensure that the Group 
has robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and 
for financial reporting. Intertek has a clear set of Accounting 
Policies and Procedures available to all finance staff. This gives 
instructions and guidance on all aspects of accounting and 
reporting that are relevant to the Group. There are ongoing 
reviews of adherence to these policies by Group Internal Audit 
and by Finance Management. The Group’s external auditors are 
KPMG Audit Plc. 
The Board confirms that in addition to internal audits, there is  
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing  
any significant risks to the Group’s short and long-term value, 
including those arising from social, environmental and ethical 
matters. This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, 
has been in place for the year under review and up to the date  
of approval of the Annual Report. Any material breaches of  
the Group’s systems of internal and risk management controls 
identified by the Group’s control review procedures are reported 
to the Audit and Risk Committee and corrective action taken.  
In carrying out the risk review, the Board is satisfied that it 
received adequate information from the operations around  
the world. Training is provided to Directors on these matters 
where appropriate. 
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness  
of the systems of financial and non-financial internal control and 
risk management during the year. In particular, it has reviewed 
and continues to seek to improve the process for identifying  
and evaluating all significant risks affecting the business and  
the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed. 
The Group maintains a robust stance in regard to breaches of 
ethics and this is reinforced by the Intertek Compliance Code and 
Code of Ethics, which provide practical guidance and instruction 
for employees. The Codes are available at www.intertek.com.  
All employees are required to sign a certificate confirming their 
understanding that any breaches of the Group’s Code of Ethics 
will result in disciplinary action that may include summary 
dismissal of the employee concerned. To support Group  
policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or any other 
matters, the Group provides and publicises email, web and 
telephone hotlines so that staff or third parties may report 
anonymously any perceived inaccurate or unethical working 
practices. All complaints are investigated thoroughly with action 
taken as appropriate. The number of complaints received, 
together with the corrective actions taken, is reported to  
the Audit and Risk Committee. More information on hotline 
incidents is provided on page 33 of the Sustainability and  
CSR Report. The Group continues to publicise the existence of 
hotlines to internal and external parties, and sees hotlines as an 
important tool in eradicating isolated cases of poor behaviour.  
In 2011 most investigations concluded that the complaint was 
unfounded, but corrective action was taken where appropriate.
The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure the continued 
independence and objectivity of the Group’s external auditors. 
The policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external 
auditors, which seeks to ensure that auditors’ objectivity and 
independence are safeguarded, was revised in February 2011. 
The policy highlights those areas where the external auditor 
cannot provide services to the Group, including inter alia,  
the provision of Group management functions, internal audit 
outsourcing or co-sourcing services, provision of legal advice  
and appraisal or valuation services. The external auditors  
confirm by way of a letter to the Board that processes to ensure 
compliance with this policy are in place, and that these processes 
are monitored regularly. A breakdown of the audit and non-audit 
fees paid to the Group’s auditors during the year is set out in 
note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG 
Audit Plc be reappointed the Group’s external auditor at the 
forthcoming AGM.
At its meetings during 2011 the Committee reviewed and 
endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, the Group’s 2010 
Annual Report and 2011 Half Year Results. The Chairman and 
other Committee members also attend meetings with the 
external auditors and management to discuss any accounting 
issues associated with the annual audit. The Committee also 
reviewed the Group’s arrangements for the avoidance and 
detection of fraud, bribery and related matters, whistle-blowing 
and hotlines, compliance, training, quality assurance systems  
and potential claims affecting the Group.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the 
Annual Report and the Half Year Results announcement remains 
with the Board. 
Membership and attendance at meetings was as follows during 
the year: 
 
Name Attendance*
David Allvey (Chairman) 5 (5)
Edward Astle 5 (5)
Christopher Knight 5 (5)
Michael Wareing  
(Appointed 15 April 2011) 3 (3)
*  Actual attendance (maximum number) of meetings a Director could attend as a 
Committee member.
Internal control
The Group’s primary business objectives require adherence to 
local, national and international laws and require the Group’s 
employees to show integrity and honesty in all business dealings. 
Risk management and internal controls are therefore embedded 
in the running of each division and support function, assuring 
the accuracy and validity of reports and certificates that the 
Group provides to customers. The Board is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Such a system can realistically only manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives  
and can only provide reasonable assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 43
Corporate Governance Report The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on 
significant changes in the business and the external environment 
which could impact on risk. The Chief Financial Officer provides 
the Board with monthly financial information, which includes  
the comparison of key performance figures against budgets  
and forecasts. Information is also provided with regard to  
risk indicators. The Board approves the treasury policy and  
the Treasury department’s activities are also subject to  
internal audits. 
Shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective 
investor relations and communication programme as part of  
its ongoing relationship with the Company’s shareholders.  
The Group produces an Annual Report which is available to 
shareholders and also publishes Interim Management Statements 
and Half Year Results. The Group website www.intertek.com 
contains up-to-date information on its activities and published 
financial results. Shareholders can subscribe via the Investors’ 
section of www.intertek.com to receive email alerts of important 
announcements made by the Group. Communications with 
shareholders are available using electronic means, via the Group 
website or by email. The Group’s Annual Report, notices of 
meetings and proxy forms can be provided electronically. 
However, shareholders are also able to request paper copies  
of documents if they so choose.
Any significant comments received from institutional shareholders 
are communicated directly to the Board.
The Company’s AGM provides all shareholders with the 
opportunity to further develop their understanding of the 
Company and to ask questions of the full Board on the matters 
put to the meeting, including the Annual Report. All Board 
members attend the AGM and in particular, the Chairmen of  
the Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees 
are available to answer questions. At General Meetings a 
schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all 
shareholders and is also available on the Group website.  
The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially 
separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately. 
At this year’s AGM we shall be adopting a poll procedure in 
respect of all resolutions, as recommended by a number of 
shareholder groups.
Going concern
After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Group’s financial statements.
In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee 
endeavours to ensure that the Group has in place the most 
appropriate and effective controls, checks, systems and risk 
management techniques so as to be in line with best practice  
on such matters. The control environment within the Group is 
strengthened by two internal committees. The Risk Control and 
Assurance Committee (‘RCA’) has the remit of overseeing the 
development of the internal control framework, reviewing risk 
matrices and risk management procedures, monitoring issues 
and providing a conduit of information to senior management. 
The Committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Group 
Company Secretary, Chief Information Officer, Group Executive 
Vice President of Human Resources, Vice President Financial 
Control, Chief Financial Officer Asia and Vice President Risk 
Management and Internal Audit and meets approximately  
every three months. An Investment Committee has also been 
established with the remit of reviewing and approving requests 
for material expenditure and other key actions throughout the 
business within certain limits as outlined in the Board Approval 
Matrix. In 2011, this Committee comprised the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. 
Each operating division and support function is responsible for 
the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to 
that area of business, together with the design and operation of 
suitable internal controls. These risks are assessed on a continual 
basis and are reviewed by the RCA, and may be associated  
with a variety of internal or external factors including control 
breakdowns, disruption of information systems, litigation, loss  
of key facilities, retention of key staff, competition, natural 
catastrophe and regulatory requirements. Operation of the 
controls is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or its 
consequences. A separate review of the key financial controls  
is undertaken by the finance function. One of the Audit and Risk 
Committee’s main roles is to review, on behalf of the Board, the 
key risks inherent in the business and the system of controls 
necessary to ensure such risks are properly managed. 
A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical 
reporting has been established which provides a documented 
trail of accountability. These procedures are applied across Group 
operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given  
at increasingly higher levels of management and finally, to the 
Board. This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also 
provides assurance as to the operation and validity of the system 
of internal control and risk management. Planned corrective 
actions are monitored for timely completion.
Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the 
findings reported to divisional management. Each division has  
at least one compliance officer who undertakes investigations  
of issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or from 
other sources, such as the hotline. Reports of significant findings 
are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality 
and perceived risk. Reports of significant findings are presented 
to the Audit and Risk Committee which monitors and reviews 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function. The internal audit 
department was awarded ISO 9001 accreditation in 2003 which 
was successfully renewed for a further three years in 2009. An 
external accreditation body conducts surveillance audits of the 
internal audit department every year, and conducts a more 
detailed review every three years. 
Corporate Governance Report
44 | www.intertek.com Principal Risks and Uncertainties
internal audit and risk strategy. In addition to the risk register,  
all senior executives and their direct reports are required to 
complete an annual return to confirm that management controls 
have been effectively applied during the year. The return covers 
operations, compliance, risk management and finance. 
The Risk Control and Assurance Committee (‘RCA’), comprising 
senior Intertek executives, complements the work of the Audit 
and Risk Committee. The RCA oversees the development of the 
internal control framework, reviews the risk matrices and risk 
management procedures, monitors issues and provides guidance 
to management. The RCA makes recommendations to the 
Intertek Operations Committee where Group-wide policies  
are identified and develops the Group’s integrated responses  
to changes in the regulatory environment. 
Principal risks
The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of 
which, including macroeconomic risks, are outside the Group’s 
control. Some risks are particular to Intertek’s operations and  
the principal risks of which we are aware are detailed below 
including a commentary on how the Group mitigates these risks. 
These risks and uncertainties do not appear in any particular 
order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded 
as immaterial which could turn out to be material. Any of  
these risks could have the potential to impact the performance  
of the Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and  
its reputation. 
This section sets out a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that could 
have a material adverse effect on the 
Intertek Group’s strategy, performance, 
results, ﬁnancial condition and reputation. 
Risk framework
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and 
oversight of the Group’s risk management framework which  
is described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 
and 44. 
The Vice President of Risk Management and Internal Audit,  
who reports to the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit and  
Risk Committee, has accountability for reporting the key risks 
that the Group faces, the controls over these risks and any 
mitigating actions or controls in place. He attends the meetings 
of the Audit and Risk Committee, and meets with the members 
of that committee alone at least once a year. 
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for 
each operating division and support function. The risk register is 
updated at least twice each year and is used to plan the Group’s 
Operational 
Risk description
Loss of reputation
The risk that there is a breakdown in 
the Group’s quality standards which 
leads to a loss of confidence in the 
Group’s standards and reputation for 
quality and safety service excellence.
The risk that unethical behaviour  
by employees or representatives  
could have an adverse impact on  
the Group’s reputation. 
Mitigation
The Group has in place a comprehensive suite of detailed Quality Management 
Systems. Adherence to these is regularly audited and reviewed by external parties, 
including accreditation bodies.
The Group has a well defined Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who 
undergo regular training. The Group has a ‘whistle blowing’ programme, monitored 
by the Audit and Risk Committee where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, 
any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 
There is a zero tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any 
individual employed by the Group. 
 
Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so that senior 
management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on a timely basis.
Dependence on accreditation 
The Group relies on being awarded and 
retaining appropriate accreditations and 
affiliations around the world in order  
to provide its certification services.  
Failure to obtain or retain a particular 
accreditation could lead to a loss of 
business in the relevant industry and 
could damage the Group’s reputation.
The Group has extensive quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in its 
operations to ensure that it holds and maintains the necessary accreditations and that 
the required operational standards are applied. Operations are regularly subjected to 
audit and review by external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, 
trade affiliations, retailers, manufacturers and clients.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 45 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Operational risks continued
Risk description
Management expertise
The Group operates in specialised 
sectors and needs to attract and  
retain employees with relevant 
experience and knowledge.  
Failure to do so could impact  
our ability to compete effectively.
Mitigation
The Group operates a thorough development and reward program to identify future 
senior managers and to retain key staff.  
Political action
The Group operates in over 100 
countries including some where there  
is political instability which can result  
in disruption to operations and the 
change or termination of contracts  
at short notice. 
In addition, changes to local tax 
legislation can impact the Group’s 
effective tax rate.
The Group closely monitors any incidents of political or social unrest and where 
possible, takes mitigating action to prevent loss to the Group, including exiting the 
country if the risk is considered unacceptable.
The Group maintains close relationships with government representatives but the  
risk of adverse government action cannot be entirely mitigated. 
Legal and regulatory
Risk description
Litigation
From time-to-time, the Group is 
involved in claims and lawsuits, 
incidental to its normal business, 
including claims for damages, 
negligence and commercial disputes 
and disputes with current and former 
employees. There is a risk that a legal 
dispute could adversely affect the 
reputation of the Group and result  
in significant financial loss.
Mitigation
To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, the Group has extensive quality assurance 
procedures and controls in place. All incidents that could potentially result in a claim 
against the Group are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an 
incident database so that they can be properly managed. The Company Secretary 
reports any risk of significant claims to the Audit and Risk Committee. Legal counsel  
is appointed if appropriate. 
The Group mitigates the risk of financial loss arising from litigation by maintaining 
insurance cover covering potential claims although there is no certainty that this will  
be sufficient to cover any ultimate loss. 
Regulatory compliance
The Group is subject to local laws and 
regulations in each of the countries  
and jurisdictions in which it operates. 
These cover all aspects of the Group’s 
operations and functions including 
employment legislation and taxation.
The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal  
and regulatory compliance. There are also extensive internal compliance and audit 
systems to facilitate compliance. Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations  
are uncertain. 
46 | www.intertek.com Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Financial
Risk description
Foreign currency risks 
The Group reports its financial results in 
sterling but a significant majority of the 
Group’s revenue and operating costs 
are incurred in currencies other than 
sterling. Accordingly, the Group’s profit 
is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. 
Two types of risk arise as a result:
(i) Translation risk
The risk that the sterling value  
of net assets held in overseas 
subsidiaries is reduced due to  
exchange rate fluctuations.
(ii) Transaction risk
The risk of adverse exchange rate 
fluctuations affecting the sterling  
value of cash flows.
Mitigation
The Group’s Treasury function has responsibility for managing the Group’s cash,  
debt facilities and foreign currency exposures. The Group has established procedures 
for managing foreign currency risk including monitoring foreign currency cash 
balances on a daily basis and hedging foreign currency exposures on a monthly basis. 
The Group’s policy is to match the currency of external borrowings to the currency  
of expected cash flows and the currency of net investments. All overseas subsidiaries 
are required to hedge all significant foreign exchange transaction exposures with 
Group Treasury. 
Liquidity risk
The Group might be unable to meet  
its growth plans or financial obligations 
if it could not raise sufficient funding.
The Group manages its cash and borrowing facilities, ensuring sufficient liquidity 
through daily cash forecasting and by maintaining sufficient committed borrowing 
facilities from a range of investors. 
The Group is in regular contact with the banks and capital debt markets, as well as 
other potential providers of debt to ensure a proper and timely understanding of the 
availability and pricing of debt funding. The Group’s facilities are managed to ensure 
that borrowing facilities are of a mixed duration, mitigating the amount of borrowings 
that mature within a single period.
The Group regularly reviews its interest rate exposures and has a policy to ensure  
that over one third of its borrowings are on a fixed rate basis.
Risk of financial irregularities
The Group could suffer financial loss 
either through misappropriation of 
assets or the misrepresentation of 
financial results.
The Group has established financial and management controls in place to ensure  
that the Group’s assets are protected from major financial risks. 
A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly financial 
results are thoroughly reviewed. The Group also operates a rigorous programme  
of internal audits and management reviews. Independent external auditors review  
the Group’s half year results and audit the Group’s annual financial statements. 
Integration risk
The Group may acquire entities that do 
not achieve the anticipated return on 
capital, resulting in financial loss to the 
Group. There is also a risk that acquired 
assets are overstated. 
On 27 April 2011 the Group acquired 
Moody International for £450m,  
which is the largest and most complex 
acquisition completed to date.  
Apart from the risks noted above,  
there is a risk that the business is not 
effectively integrated. 
The Group applies a rigorous independent financial and legal due diligence process  
to all acquisitions to identify material issues during the negotiation period prior  
to completion. 
The Group has a dedicated integration team and appointed external advisors to  
help management ensure that the integration process is managed effectively. 
During 2011 we have successfully integrated Moody into our Industry & Assurance 
division.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 47 Commentary from the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee (‘Committee’)
The challenges for a Remuneration Committee include balancing 
prudence against appropriate reward for good performance, 
particularly so in the current economic environment. However,  
I am pleased to say that the Group’s results for 2011 as set out  
in the financial pages of this Annual Report have been such  
that we have been able to recommend good rewards for  
the exceptional performance achieved. Intertek’s successful 
growth strategy has been achieved by the continuing excellent 
performance of management and we believe that the agreed 
remuneration appropriately rewards that effort.
As previously explained, in 2011 we altered the performance 
criteria for future performance-related long term share awards 
for our forty or so most senior executives. These awards are 
based half on relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) and  
half on absolute Earnings Per Share growth (‘EPS’). Following  
the acquisition of Moody International (‘Moody’) we 
subsequently increased the previously declared EPS targets  
to take into account the expected earnings enhancement  
arising from that significant acquisition.
We continue to focus on ensuring that our remuneration  
policy is appropriate for the size and complexity of the Group, 
encourages our employees in the development of their careers 
and is directed to deliver the continued growth of the Group.
The Committee
On behalf of the Board, the Committee: 
 determines the Company’s policy on the remuneration of the 
Chairman, and the remuneration and incentives for Executive 
Directors and other senior executives (mainly the Intertek 
Operations Committee (the ’IOC’) which comprises the Group 
and Executive Vice-Presidents as listed on pages 12 and 13); 
 determines the remuneration packages of the above, 
including any compensation on termination of office; 
 reviews the remuneration arrangements for the wider 
employee population and considers issues relating to 
remuneration packages that may have a significant impact  
on the Group;
 provides advice to, and consults with, the Chief Executive 
Officer on major policy issues affecting the remuneration  
of other executives; and
 keeps remuneration policy under review in the light of 
regulatory and best practice developments and shareholder 
expectations. Due regard is given to the interests of 
shareholders and the requirements of the Listing Rules  
and associated guidance. 
The Committee met seven times during 2011. Attendance 
statistics appear in the Corporate Governance Report on page 
41; the Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Group’s website at www.intertek.com. 
Contents
48 This Report
48 Chairman’s commentary
48 The Committee
49 Policy on Remuneration
49 Advisors
50 Executive Directors’ and other executives’ remuneration
 50 Salaries
 51 Other benefits
 51 Pensions
 51 Cash bonuses 
 52 Share Plan awards
53 Policy on share retention
53 Service contracts and appointment arrangements
53 Policy on external appointments
54 Non-Executive Directors
54 TSR performance graph
55 Information required to be audited
This Report
This Report sets out the Group’s policy and disclosures in relation 
to Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 
2011. It will be subject to a separate shareholder vote at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). 
The Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and 
complies fully with the requirements of the Companies Act  
2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the 
‘Regulations’) and the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
’Code’) as applicable for the financial year and the elements 
specifically stated as having been audited, have been audited  
by KPMG Audit Plc in compliance with the requirements of  
the Regulations. 
The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate 
Governance relating to the remuneration of its Directors and  
this Report outlines how the Group has already complied with  
the provisions of the Code as well as the latest guidelines issued 
or proposed by institutional shareholder bodies.
Remuneration Report
48 | www.intertek.com The following Non-Executive Directors of the Company served 
on the Committee in 2011; David Allvey (Chairman), Gavin Darby, 
until his resignation in May 2011, Christopher Knight and Vanni 
Treves. Following David Allvey and Vanni Treves’ retirements, the 
Committee comprises Christopher Knight, now Chairman, Alan 
Brown and Sir David Reid.
David Allvey was independent in accordance with the Code and 
Vanni Treves was independent at the time of his appointment as 
Chairman of the Board. In the current Committee, Alan Brown 
and Christopher Knight are independent in accordance with the 
Code and Sir David Reid was independent at the time of his 
appointment as Chairman of the Board.
None of the Committee members have had any personal 
financial interest, except as shareholders, in the matters decided. 
Where executives are in attendance in an advisory capacity at a 
Committee meeting, they will absent themselves for matters 
relating to their own remuneration.
The remuneration of the Committee members is shown on  
page 55.
Policy on remuneration
Our remuneration strategy is to:
 align and recognise the individual’s contribution to success  
in our strategy and long-term business goals;
 attract, engage, motivate and retain the best available people 
by positioning total pay and benefits to be competitive in  
the relevant market and in line with the ability of the business 
to pay;
 reward people equitably for the size of their responsibilities 
and performance; and
 engage motivated high performers and, through variable 
bonus schemes and long-term incentive plans, share the 
Group’s success with those who build and lead Intertek  
as a world class business and encourage them to increase 
shareholder value.
Each year the Committee approves the overall reward strategy 
for the Group and considers the individual remuneration 
packages of the Executive Directors and certain senior executives. 
There are no executives whose remuneration exceeds that of the 
Executive Directors. 
The Committee reviews the balance between base salary and 
performance-related remuneration against the key objectives and 
targets so as to ensure performance is appropriately rewarded.  
It also ensures outcomes are a fair reflection of the underlying 
performance of the Group.
As a global service business, success is critically dependent on  
the performance and retention of our key people. Employment 
costs represent the major element of Group operating costs.  
As a global group our pay arrangements take into account  
both local and international markets. We operate a global 
Remuneration Policy Framework to achieve our reward strategy, 
with each operation retaining the freedom to navigate within 
that framework to find the best local solution.
When determining salaries for our executives we take account  
of pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, as 
well as the relevant general market. This is achieved by reviewing 
detailed information for the four areas (mainland China, USA,  
UK and Hong Kong) in which the Group employs the greatest 
number of employees. 
Our peer groups for the majority of our employees consist of 
international industrial or business service organisations and 
similar-sized businesses. In respect of our more senior executives 
we base our pay comparisons on a blend of factors, including 
sector, job complexity, location, responsibilities and performance, 
whilst recognising the Company is listed in the UK.
We believe that a significant proportion of remuneration for 
senior executives should be related to performance, with part  
of that remuneration being deferred in the form of shares and 
subject to continued employment. We also believe that share-
based remuneration should form a significant element of senior 
executives’ compensation so there is a strong link to the 
sustained future success of the Group. 
Advisors 
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices drive and 
support achievement of strategies and are market competitive, 
we obtain advice from various independent sources. The 
Committee has appointed and taken independent advice on 
ensuring that remuneration is ‘fit for purpose’, on share incentive 
arrangements and remuneration benchmarking from Kepler 
Associates (‘KA’), on remuneration matters from AON Hewitt 
New Bridge Street (‘AON’), and on UK pension matters from 
Premier Pensions Management Limited (‘PPM’). During 2011, 
PPM’s associate company provided additional FSA-regulated 
services in respect of UK pension and employee matters. PPM, 
KA and AON have no other connection with the Company or  
its senior officers.
Remuneration Report
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 49 The separate elements of remuneration are shown below:
1. Salaries
Salaries are reviewed annually, in accordance with the  
Group’s Remuneration Policy Framework. The policy is for 
salaries to reflect: 
 the growth in size, reach and complexity of the business; 
 demonstrable and sustained contribution of the executive  
to the development of Intertek’s strategy, and to driving 
increased synergy and efficiency; 
 retention; and
 market movement. 
Where a decision is made to increase a senior executive’s base 
salary we will require the individual, taking into account levels  
of experience and scale of responsibilities, to have demonstrated 
strong leadership combined with a results-orientated approach. 
Whilst the Committee takes benchmarking information into 
account, its discussions are based primarily on the performance 
of the individual concerned against the above factors to ensure 
that there is no unintended or unjustified upward ratchet in  
base remuneration.
Executive Directors’ and other executives’ remuneration
The following table sets out the elements that make up the remuneration of the two Executive Directors and other senior executives:
1 Fixed Base salary The base salary takes account of the size of the job in the 
appropriate market and the competence and contribution  
of the job holder. 
2 Fixed Other benefits These include car allowances, life and private medical insurance 
and annual medicals.
3 Fixed Pension Pension arrangements reflect the appropriate market. 
4  Performance: 
short-term
Annual cash performance bonus The cash bonus serves to drive and recognise short-term 
performance against targets which are a mix of shareholder, 
business and personal objectives, both numeric and non-
numeric. The criteria and targets are reviewed each year for 
strategic alignment and to fit changing business objectives  
and the economic environment.
5  Performance: 
long term
Share Plan awards For the purposes of retention, and to link reward clearly to 
shareholders’ interests in the long-term success of the Company, 
a significant element of reward is determined by business 
performance, and has a value dependent on our share price  
at the end of the deferral period. In addition there are holding 
requirements for the duration of employment.
In 2011 the total remuneration for our Executive Directors and the balance between the above elements was:
Wolfhart Hauser (£2,875k)
Lloyd Pitchford (£1,413k)
23% 28% 23% 18% 6% 2%
27% 2% 6% 23% 19% 23%
 Base salary  Beneﬁts  Pensions  Cash bonus  Share Awards  Performance Awards
The base salary, benefits, pensions, cash bonus and Share Awards are shown in the table on page 55. The Performance Award is half the fair value of the maximum 
potential number of Performance Shares that may vest subject to performance. Details of how the fair values of the share plan awards have been calculated are set out  
in note 17 to the financial statements. The remuneration for Lloyd Pitchford excludes the mirror share awards described on page 53. 
Remuneration Report
Salaries for the Executive Directors were increased in 2011  
and in 2012 (see the table below). Applying the above criteria, 
we considered that the performance of the individuals, taken  
in conjunction with the continuing growth and financial success  
of the Group, justified the increases. In the case of Wolfhart 
Hauser, the Board regards his leadership of the Group as 
exemplary. Lloyd Pitchford joined the Group in 2010 and his 
salary increase reflects the strong performance he is delivering  
in the role. 
The Executive Directors salaries are:
Base salary 
from 1 April 
2011
£000
Base salary 
from 1 April 
2012
£000 
Base salary 
% increase 
over 2011 
salary
Wolfhart Hauser 667 694 4%
Lloyd Pitchford 400 436 9%
Elsewhere in the Group, salary increases were also awarded 
where justified by the growth and performance of the relevant 
businesses, not just by market conditions.
50 | www.intertek.com process and annual budgets for the Group, which form the 
cornerstone of the Group’s results-focused culture. The divisional 
elements of bonus are based upon financial performance 
indicators appropriate to that division. The effect of exchange 
rate movements on earnings is one of the elements we consider 
before finalising bonus outcomes. 
The proportions of bonus elements in 2011 were:
Executive Directors
Divisional EVPs
Group Function EVPs
 Group performance
 Divisional performance/job-speciﬁc objectives  
 General contribution to strategy and synergies
80% 20%
40% 40% 20%
50% 30% 20%
The weightings and outcomes for the Group financial bonus 
criteria for 2011 were:
Business
outcome % of bonus
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 
growth
1
21% 50%
Adjusted operating profit growth
1
24% 25%
Operating cash flow % of adjusted 
operating profit
1
87% 15%
Return on invested capital 17% 10%
1 
Calculated using constant 2010 exchange rates. 
The non-financial general contribution element of up to 20%  
of total bonus has been determined by taking into account the 
overall personal contribution of the executive to the goals and 
results of the Group for the year, the development of the 
medium-term strategy of the Group, the achievement over the 
year of strategic objectives and demonstrable efforts and results 
in team-building and leadership.
The Committee can award additional discretionary payments  
to recognise very exceptional performance or to recognise that 
circumstances have occurred which were beyond the direct 
responsibility of the executive and the executive has managed 
and mitigated the impact of any loss, or to address key retention 
issues. The Committee has the ability to reduce bonus payments 
if it believes that short-term performance has been achieved at 
the expense of the Group’s long-term future success and it also 
retains the discretion to reclaim payments if the performance 
achievements are subsequently found to have been significantly 
misstated; no discretion was exercised in respect of the bonuses 
paid in 2011.
2. Other benefits
Other benefits include annual medicals, life assurance cover of 
four times base salary, allowances in lieu of a company car or 
other benefits and private medical insurance. 
3. Pensions
The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are as follows:
Group 
Company 
Pension 
Member
% Base 
salary
Contribution
2011
£000
Contribution
2010
£000
Wolfhart Hauser No 25% 163 143
Lloyd Pitchford No 20% 78 48
Intertek also operates a number of pension arrangements around 
the world for other executives and employees. Material schemes 
are disclosed in note 16 to the financial statements. 
4. Cash bonuses
The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible  
for annual cash incentive payments for performance against 
financial and strategic goals set for the Group and its businesses. 
These bonuses are not pensionable. They are based on a blend 
of financial and non-financial measures and are reviewed  
each year.
The annual cash bonus potential set for 2011 and 2012 is:
Percentage of base salary 2011 2012
Wolfhart Hauser 130% 130%
Lloyd Pitchford 90% 100%
Executive Vice Presidents 75% 75%
The award of the bonus in respect of 2011, to be paid in March 
2012, is as follows:
Percentage of base salary
2011 
Award
£000 Max % % of salary
Wolfhart Hauser 798 130% 120%
Lloyd Pitchford 331 90% 83%
Group and divisional bonus targets are established and reviewed 
by the Committee each year. They are set to ensure they are 
linked to strategic and immediate current business goals, and  
are sufficiently demanding, taking full account of economic 
conditions and risk factors. Achievement of business targets 
typically delivers half of the bonus opportunity so as to 
encourage and reward performance above expectations.  
The stretch targets, when met, reward exceptional achievement 
and contribution well beyond expectations.
Executive Directors’ bonus criteria for 2011 comprised the 
following: (i) Group performance elements; and (ii) non-financial 
elements. Senior executives’ bonus criteria for 2011 comprised 
the following: (i) Group performance elements; (ii) divisional 
performance elements, where the executive is responsible for 
divisional results, or function-specific objectives; and (iii) non-
financial elements. The goals derive from the three-year planning 
Remuneration Report
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 51 The Committee considers that EPS is an appropriate  
measure of Intertek’s long-term performance as it is a well 
recognised and well understood indicator of the Company’s 
financial performance.
EPS is fully diluted and adjusted for separately disclosed items.  
It will be calculated on the basis of foreign exchange rates 
adopted at the start of the cycle for internal budgeting purposes. 
This is an appropriate basis given the wide spread of operating 
currencies across the Group’s global activities.
Awards will vest as follows in respect of the EPS condition:
 
EPS growth outturn
% of Performance 
Award that vests
Below threshold None
Threshold EPS 25%
Between threshold and 
upper target
Pro-rata on a straight 
line between 25% and 100%
Upper target 100%
The TSR condition in 2011 was based on the Company’s TSR 
ranking relative to a peer group of companies in the FTSE Index. 
For grants made in 2011 the peer group of FTSE Index members 
51 to 150 (excluding investment trusts and banks) was used.  
For the grant in 2012 the peer group of FTSE index members  
31 to 130 (excluding investment trusts and banks) will be used.
The Committee considers that relative TSR is an appropriate 
measure of long-term performance as it is an indicator of 
earnings growth, the quality of earnings and dividends relative  
to Intertek’s FTSE comparators, and it aligns the interests of 
executives with those of Intertek shareholders.
For the TSR element to vest, the Committee will also need to  
be satisfied that the resulting outcome is a true reflection of 
underlying performance (which in general, we expect to be 
determined by reference to EPS growth).
Awards vest as follows in respect of the TSR condition: 
TSR Ranking
% of Performance 
Award that vests
Below median None
Median 25%
Between median and 
upper quartile
Pro-rata on a straight line 
between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile 100%
The Committee can set different performance conditions from 
those described above for future awards. Any such new targets 
will not, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, be 
materially less challenging in the circumstances than those 
described above.
ii) Deferred Bonus Plan 2005
Awards were granted under this plan between 2006 and 2010. 
Both Deferred Awards and Matching Awards (which were 
performance related) were granted. Vesting takes place three 
years after grant. 
5. Share plan awards
Executive Directors and other executives are awarded shares in 
the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (the ‘Plan’) and are 
subject to share holding requirements. 
Intertek share plans
Executive Directors and other key employees are eligible to 
participate in our share plans. Non-Executive Directors are not.  
In 2011 we replaced our Deferred Bonus Plan (’DBP’) with the 
Plan. The purpose and design of the Plan is similar to the DBP but 
it includes more flexible rules. We also changed the basis of the 
performance requirements to include a significant EPS element  
as described below.
i) Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan
The purposes of this Plan are the reward and retention of senior 
executives and key specialists and the alignment of their interests 
with shareholders by linking rewards to Intertek’s long term 
performance. 
The Plan has two elements:
 Share Awards are made to executives based on their annual 
performance. For the Executive Directors and the members  
of the IOC, who form the senior management of Intertek,  
the value of Share Awards will normally be equal to their  
cash bonus. We believe that this provides a simple and  
well-targeted form of reward. The awards normally vest  
three years after grant, on the condition that the participant  
is still employed in the Group.
 Performance Awards, which are subject to long-term 
performance requirements, are, at the discretion of the 
Committee, awarded to the most senior executives. 
Performance Awards for the Executive Directors and IOC are 
granted at the maximum ratio of two Performance Shares  
for every Share Award. For members of the Intertek Council 
Performance Awards are granted at the maximum ratio of  
one Performance Share for every Share Award. Performance 
Awards vest after three years, once the Committee has 
determined the extent to which the applicable performance 
conditions have been satisfied and on the condition that the 
participant is still employed in the Group. 
At the Group’s discretion, awards may be satisfied by the issue  
of new shares, by purchasing shares in the market, or in cash.
In respect of Share Awards and Performance Awards granted  
in 2012, further amounts, equivalent to dividends paid and 
payable during the vesting period, will be paid in cash or shares 
at vesting.
The vesting of half of each Performance Award is conditional  
on achieving an EPS target and half is conditional on achieving  
a TSR target. 
The EPS performance condition is set as a compound annual 
percentage growth over three years, measured against the base 
year, which is the year prior to the start of the measurement 
period. For each three-year cycle the Committee will determine  
a threshold level and an upper vesting target for EPS growth.  
For the 2011-2013 performance period, exceptionally, as a result 
of the mid year acquisition of Moody, the threshold level was set 
at 11% per annum and the upper target at 20% per annum.  
For the 2012-2014 performance period, the threshold level will 
be set at 6% per annum and the upper target at 16% per annum.
Remuneration Report
52 | www.intertek.com Service contracts and appointment arrangements
Wolfhart Hauser has an executive service contract, effective from 
1 March 2005, which is subject to 12 months’ notice on either 
side. It contains provisions by way of compensation for loss of 
office, limited to payment of salary over a 12-month period in 
lieu of notice. The contract permits payments in lieu of notice  
to be made, at the Company’s election, either (i) in full on 
termination or (ii) on a monthly basis, but only for so long as  
he receives no remuneration from any other business. If he does 
receive any such remuneration, the monthly amount payable  
will be reduced by that remuneration, determined on a monthly 
basis. The service contract contains no provisions regarding a 
change of control. 
Lloyd Pitchford has an executive service contract, effective from 
26 April 2010, which is subject to 12 months’ notice on either 
side. It contains provisions by way of compensation for loss of 
office, limited to payment of salary and pension contributions 
over a 12-month period in lieu of notice. The contract permits 
payments in lieu of notice to be made, at the Company’s 
election, either (i) in full on termination or (ii) in the amounts  
and at the times it would have been paid if he had continued  
to work throughout the period of notice but only for so long as 
he receives no remuneration from any other business. If he does 
receive any such remuneration, the monthly amount payable  
will be reduced by that remuneration, determined on a monthly 
basis. The service contract contains no provisions regarding a 
change of control and permits bonus payments to be reclaimed 
in the event that performance achievements are found to have 
been significantly misstated.
Policy on external appointments
The Company recognises that, during their employment with  
the Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become 
Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such duties 
can broaden their experience and knowledge. Executive Directors 
may, with the written consent of the Company, accept such 
appointments outside the Company, and the policy is that  
any fees may be retained by the Director. Wolfhart Hauser  
is a Non-Executive Director of Logica plc. His earnings for  
this appointment in 2011, which he retained, were £52,000. 
The performance condition for these earlier Matching Awards 
comprises only TSR ranking relative to a peer group of FTSE Index 
companies. The peer groups selected have varied from year to 
year to reflect the rise in Intertek’s ranking in the FTSE index. No 
Matching Award will vest unless an EPS underpin of 2% in excess 
of average growth per annum of UK Retail Prices Index is met.
Awards vest as follows in respect of the TSR condition: 
TSR Ranking % of Matching Award that vests
Below median None
Median 25%
Between median and 
upper quartile
Pro-rata on a straight line 
between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile 100%
The Company has undertaken to limit to 5% of the Company’s 
issued share capital the number of awards satisfied by newly 
issued shares under the Plan and the DBP in each ten-year 
period, from the time the DBP was adopted. As at 31 December 
2011, outstanding awards represented 1.66% of the Company’s 
issued share capital and 0.81% of issued share capital has been 
issued in satisfaction of awards. 
iii) Mirror share awards
As part of the arrangements made in respect of the hiring of 
Lloyd Pitchford, the Company agreed to compensate him for  
the loss of share incentive awards made to him by his previous 
employer by replacing each of his outstanding awards with an 
award (a ‘mirror share award’) over an appropriately adjusted 
number of Intertek Group plc shares. Details of these awards, 
and their performance criteria, were explained in detail in the 
2010 Annual Report. A summary appears on page 56. 
Policy on share retention
A shareholding retention requirement continues to be operated 
by the Committee. Executive Directors and the members of the 
IOC, who form the senior management of Intertek, are required 
to build up a shareholding in the Company worth at least 100% 
of base salary within five years. To assist in the building of  
this holding, we require that, after allowing for tax and similar 
liabilities, all the shares subject to each vested award under  
the Intertek Share Plans will be retained by the executive until  
the ownership target is attained.
Executive  
Director Number of shares held
Shareholding retention 
requirement met?
Wolfhart Hauser 87,677   Lloyd Pitchford 22,197   Remuneration Report
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 53 Non-Executive Directors
Current Non-Executive 
Directors’ appointment  
and fees
Original 
appointment 
Expiry of 
appointment
Annual
basic fee
from 1 April 
2011 or 
date of 
appointment 
£
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit and 
Risk 
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Additional
committee/
SID fee*
£
Total annual
 fees from 
1 January 2012
£
Amount of
 basic fee used
 to purchase
 shares 
each year 
£
Edward Astle 1 September 
2009
31 August 
2012
55,000 –   – 7,500 62,500 10,000
Alan Brown 15 April 
2011
14 April 
2014
55,000   – – 5,000 60,000 10,000
Christopher Knight 30 March 
2006
29 March 
2015
55,000     20,000 75,000 10,000
Sir David Reid 1 December 
2011
30 November 
2014
300,000   –   – 300,000 30,000
Michael Wareing
(Senior Independent 
Director)
15 April 
2011
14 April 
2014
55,000 –    29,500 84,500 10,000
* SID – Senior Independent Director
Pursuant to the policy of aligning directors’ interests with those of shareholders, a proportion of the fees due to the Non-Executive 
Directors is used each year to purchase shares in the Company. A summary of the Non-Executive Directors’ fees and the pre-tax 
amounts of those fees used to purchase shares in the Company each year is shown in the table above. 
With effect from 1 April 2011 the base fee for Non-Executive Directors was £55,000. Other than Sir David Reid, who receives a car 
allowance of £25,000 per annum, no other benefits are provided.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company. The letter of engagement for each Non-Executive 
Director states that they are appointed for an initial period of three years and all appointments are terminable by one month’s notice 
on either side. At the end of the initial period the appointment may be renewed for a further period, usually three years, if the 
Company and the Director agree and subject to annual reappointment at the AGM. Each letter of engagement states that if the 
Group were to terminate the appointment, the Non-Executive Director would not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office. 
TSR performance graph 
TSR, comprising the changes in value of a share and dividends distributed, can be represented by the value of a notional £100 
invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period.
The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the Company over five years. The TSR for the Company is compared with the TSR for 
the FTSE 100 Index. The Company joined the FTSE 100 in March 2009.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Intertek Group v FTSE 100
Intertek Group
Source: Thomas Reuters Datastream
FTSE 100 
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Information provided by J.P. Morgan Cazenove and calculated according to methodology that is compliant with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006. The performance of the Company, as indicated by the graph, is not indicative of vesting levels under 
Intertek’s Share Plans.
Remuneration Report
54 | www.intertek.com Information required to be audited
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following section of the Report.
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration and pension contributions for 2011 and the prior year for comparison. 
Directors’ remuneration summary
Base salary
 and fees
2011
£000
Cash
 bonuses
2011
£000
Other 
benefits
2011
£000
Pension 
contributions
2011
£000
Total 
emoluments
2011
£000
Total 
emoluments
2010
£000
Share
Awards
1
2011
£000
Share
Awards
1
2010
£000
Executive Directors
Wolfhart Hauser 652 798 69 163 1,682 1,575 667 606
Lloyd Pitchford 388 331 24 78 821 606 331 304
Non-Executive Directors
David Allvey
5
94 – – – 94 93 – –
Edward Astle 62––– 62 61 – –
Alan Brown
3
39––– 39 – – –
Gavin Darby
2,6
27––– 27 58 – –
Christopher Knight 70 – – – 70 68 – –
Debra Rade
5,6
57––– 57 53 – –
Sir David Reid
4
25 – 2 – 27 – – –
Vanni Treves
5
198 – 14 – 212 203 – –
Michael Wareing
3
44––– 44 – – –
Total 1,656 1,129 109 241 3,135 2,717 998 910
1.  The Share Awards normally vest three years after the date of grant, on condition that the participant is still employed in the Group. These figures exclude amounts 
relating to Performance Awards granted under the Plan. Details of those awards and their performance criteria are given on pages 52 and 53. 
2. Resigned 20 May 2011.
3. Appointed 15 April 2011.
4. Appointed 1 December 2011.
5. Retired 31 December 2011.
6. Debra Rade and Gavin Darby each received an extra payment of £2,500 in recognition of work undertaken in connection with the Chairman’s succession planning.
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year-end are set out below. Save as stated in this report, during 
the course of the year, no Director nor any member of his or her immediate family had any other interest in the ordinary share 
capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
Number of ordinary shares of 1p
31 December 
2010 or on 
appointment Acquired Disposed
31 December 
2011 or on 
leaving
David Allvey
1
6,966 297 – 7,263
Edward Astle 392 292 – 684
Alan Brown
2
––– –
Gavin Darby
3
3,753 292 – 4,045
Wolfhart Hauser 87,677 79,344 79,344 87,677
Christopher Knight 6,696 292 – 6,988
Lloyd Pitchford 19,166 14,852 11,821 22,197
Debra Rade
1
2,532 297 – 2,829
Sir David Reid
4
––– –
Vanni Treves
1
53,452 596 34,048 20,000
Michael Wareing
2
3,000–– 3,000
1. Retired 31 December 2011.
2. Appointed 15 April 2011.
3. Resigned 20 May 2011.
4. Appointed 1 December 2011.
No changes in the above Directors’ interests have taken place between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report.
Remuneration Report
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 55 Directors’ interests in Intertek Share Plans 
31 December 2010 
Number 
of shares
Granted 
in 2011
Number 
of shares
Award price
1
£
Vested
in 2011
Number 
of shares
2
Lapsed
in 2011 
Number 
of shares
31 December 
2011
Number  
of shares Date of vesting
3
Wolfhart Hauser 
2008 Deferred 26,448 –9.150(26,448) – – March 2011
Matching 52,896 –9.150(52,896) – –
2009 Deferred 46,152 –8.342–– 46,152 March 2012
Matching 92,304–8.342–– 92,304
2010 Deferred 43,316 –13.332 – – 43,316 March 2013
Matching 86,632 –13.332 – – 86,632
2011 Share – 31,938 18.986 – – 31,938 March 2014
Performance – 63,876 18.986 – – 63,876
Total 347,748 95,814 (79,344)
4
– 364,218
Lloyd Pitchford
2010 Deferred 8,313–14.434–– 8,313 May 2013
Matching 16,626 –14.434 – – 16,626
2011 Share – 16,034 18.986 – – 16,034 March 2014
Performance – 32,068 18.986 – – 32,068
Total 24,939 48,102 – – 73,041
1.  Awards made are based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant. On the grant date  
8 March 2011 the share price was £19.55. No payment is made by participants in the Plan or the DBP.
2.  Awards vested on 11 March 2011, on which date the closing market price of shares was £19.13 having been granted on 11 March 2008 on which date the closing 
market price was £9.595. 
3.  Awards normally vest three years after grant. The vesting of Matching and Performance Awards is subject to additional performance conditions described on  
page 52 and 53.
4. The aggregate gain made by Directors on the vesting of awards was £1,511,503.
Mirror share awards
On 14 May 2010 Lloyd Pitchford was granted conditional rights to acquire 49,039 1p shares in Intertek Group plc under a one-off 
arrangement as a condition of his recruitment as Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The principal terms of the awards are 
summarised below. The award comprised eight parts (tranches A to H). Tranche A vested in 2010. The number of Intertek Group plc 
shares within each tranche is noted in the table below together with details of each tranche’s normal vesting date:
31 December 2010
Number of shares
Vested in 2011
Number of shares
Lapsed in 2011
Number of shares
31 December 2011
Number of shares
Vesting date  
of award 
Tranche B 8,497 (6,315) (2,182) – March 2011
Tranche C 1,378 (1,378) – – September 2011
Tranche D 4,429 (4,429) – – September 2011
Tranche E 2,730 (2,730) – – September 2011
Tranche F 1,723 – – 1,723 September 2012
Tranche G 5,170–– 5,170 September 2012
Tranche H 3,006 – – 3,006 September 2012
Total 26,933 (14,852) (2,182) 9,899
Each tranche will ordinarily vest on its normal vesting date subject to Lloyd Pitchford’s continued employment with Intertek.  
In addition, in the case of tranche G the extent to which such tranche may vest is also contingent on the satisfaction of performance 
criteria. The awards may only be satisfied with market purchased shares or cash. No newly issued shares or treasury shares will be 
used in connection with the awards. The gain made on vesting during 2011 was £297,048.
Share information
On 30 December 2011 (the last working day of the year) the closing market price of Intertek Group plc’s ordinary shares was 
£20.35. The highest and lowest prices of the shares during the year were £21.48 and £17.15 respectively. 
Approval of the Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 2 March 2012.
Christopher Knight
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Report
56 | www.intertek.com In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
(the ‘Act’) and UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, the following section describes the matters that are 
required for inclusion in the Directors’ Report and were approved 
by the Board. Further details of matters required to be included 
in the Directors’ Report that are incorporated by reference into 
this report are set out below.
Directors
The Directors who held office during the year are set out below. 
Vanni Treves Chairman (retired 31 December 2011)
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial Officer 
David Allvey Senior Independent Director 
(retired 31 December 2011)
Edward Astle Non-Executive Director 
Alan Brown Non-Executive Director  
(appointed 15 April 2011)
Gavin Darby Non-Executive Director  
(resigned 20 May 2011)
Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director
Debra Rade Non-Executive Director  
(retired 31 December 2011)
Sir David Reid* Non-Executive Director  
(appointed 1 December 2011)
Michael Wareing**Non-Executive Director  
(appointed 15 April 2011)
* Appointed Chairman from 1 January 2012.
** Appointed Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2012.
The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are  
set out on page 37.
The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions relating 
to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors but,  
in accordance with best practice, all directors will stand for  
re-election at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’).
Directors’ powers and Articles of Association
The Directors are responsible for the management of the 
Company and their powers to do so are determined by the 
provisions of the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. 
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the 
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, 
the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the 
Board and general meetings. Copies are available upon request 
from the Group Company Secretary and are available at the 
Company’s AGM. Further powers are granted by members in 
general meeting and those currently in place are set out in detail 
within the appropriate section of this report.
Directors’ interests 
Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the 
Company had a personal interest in any business transactions  
of the Company or its subsidiaries. The terms of the Directors’ 
service contracts and the Directors’ interests in the shares and 
share awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions 
are notifiable to the Company under the UK Listing Authority 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.2 are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56.
Directors’ indemnities
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to 
attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced 
directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including 
the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the 
applicable statutory provisions. Qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Act), were 
accordingly in force during the course of the financial year  
ended 31 December 2011, for the benefit of the Directors  
and, at the date of this report, are in force in relation to certain 
losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred)  
in connection with their duties, powers or office.
Principal activities and business review
The Group’s principal activities, business and principal risks and 
uncertainties are contained in the Business Review, on pages 6  
to 35 and the Corporate Governance section, on pages 38 to 44 
which are incorporated by reference into this report. 
Dividend
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 23.0p per 
ordinary share (2010: 18.8p) making a full year dividend of 33.7p 
per ordinary share (2010: 28.1p) which will, if approved at the 
AGM, be paid on 22 June 2012 to shareholders on the register  
at close of business on 8 June 2012. 
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the 
movements in the Company’s share capital during the year,  
are shown in note 15 to the financial statements. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends 
when declared, to receive the Company’s report and accounts,  
to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to 
appoint proxies and exercise voting rights. A waiver of dividend 
exists in respect of 414,770 shares held by the Intertek Group 
Employee Share Ownership Trust at 31 December 2011. There 
are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in 
the Company.
The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by 
the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced 
by means of a special resolution of the Company in a General 
Meeting. The Directors’ powers are conferred on them by UK 
legislation and by the Company’s Articles of Association.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control 
of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights 
except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a 
share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid. 
There are no arrangements known to the Company by which 
financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by 
a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are there any 
arrangements between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights 
known to the Company. All issued shares are fully paid.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange 
and may be traded through the CREST system. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 57
Other Statutory Information Allotment of shares
At the AGM held in 2011 the shareholders generally and 
unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant 
securities up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount 
of issued share capital. It is the Directors intention to renew  
this authority in line with guidance issued by the Association  
of British Insurers. The resolution will be set out in the Notice 
of AGM. 
Also at the AGM in 2011 the Directors were empowered by  
the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the 
Company’s issued share capital, for cash under section 570  
of the Act. It is intended that this authority be renewed, up  
to 5%, at the forthcoming AGM.
Purchase of own shares
Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company  
to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market 
purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year. 
The Directors will seek to renew this authority for up to 10%  
of the Company’s issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM. 
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that 
any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary 
share capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly, that  
the purchase is in the interests of shareholders. The Directors will 
also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company 
and its general financial position. Any shares purchased in this 
way may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, will 
provide the Company with flexibility in the management of its 
share capital. Where treasury shares are used to satisfy share 
options or awards, they will be classed as new issue shares for 
the purpose of the 10% limit on the number of shares that  
may be issued over a ten-year period under our relevant share 
plan rules.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers 
The Group does not follow a single standard on payment 
practice but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers. 
Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business 
with each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment 
is made accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions being 
met. The holding company, Intertek Group plc, does not trade 
and therefore has no trade payables.
Significant relationships
The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships 
with any single party which are essential to the business of the 
Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed. 
Social and community issues
We encourage our local managers to foster community links 
appropriate to the businesses they manage. Further details  
are given in our Sustainability and CSR Report on page 35. 
Material interests in shares
The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights have 
been made (and have not been amended or withdrawn) to the 
Company pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing 
Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5:
 BlackRock Inc. gave notice on 2 December 2010 that they  
had an indirect interest on 30 November 2010 in 7,965,320 
ordinary shares, representing 4.99% of the ordinary shares  
in issue at that date.
 Capital Research and Management Company gave notice  
on 1 November 2010 that they had an indirect interest on  
29 October 2010 in 8,064,491 ordinary shares, representing 
5.06% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
 Legal and General Group plc gave notice on 18 November 
2009 that they had a direct interest on 17 November 2009  
in 6,340,736 ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the 
ordinary shares in issue on that date.
Charitable and political donations 
During 2011 the Group made charitable donations of £117,000 
(2010: £103,000) to a wide variety of charities.
At the AGM in 2011 shareholders passed a resolution, on a 
precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make 
donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political 
expenditure (as such terms are defined in the Act) not exceeding 
£90,000. During the year the Group did not make any political 
donations (2010: £nil). It is the Company’s policy not, directly or 
through any subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded  
as donations to any political party. However, at the forthcoming 
AGM of the Company, shareholders’ approval will again be 
sought to authorise the Group to make political donations and/or 
incur political expenditure (as such terms are defined in Sections 
362 to 379 of the Act). Further details of this will be contained  
in the Notice of AGM. 
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness  
to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with 
Section 489 of the Act.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held on 17 May 2012,  
will be available for download from the Company’s corporate 
website at www.intertek.com/investors. The Notice will detail the 
business to be conducted at the meeting and include information 
concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in 
relation to voting rights.
Statement of Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or 
she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Other Statutory Information
58 | www.intertek.com The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of  
the annual financial report
Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed  
on page 37, confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that  
they face.
This Directors’ Report comprising pages 6 to 59 has been 
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2012
Registered Office
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
Registered Number: 4267576
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company 
and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
 for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the Parent Company financial statements; and
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and  
the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy  
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Act. They have general responsibility for taking such steps  
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are  
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement  
that complies with that law and those regulations.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 59
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities We have audited the financial statements of Intertek Group plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages 62 to 
110. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial 
statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and  
the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 59, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements  
is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/
private.cfm
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2011 and of the Group’s profit for the year  
then ended;
  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
  the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice;
  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to  
you if, in our opinion:
  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by  
law are not made; or
  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
  the directors’ statement, set out on page 44, in relation  
to going concern;
  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the  
Directors’ Report relating to the Company’s compliance with  
the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review; and
  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
P Korolkiewicz (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
2 March 2012
60 | www.intertek.com
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Intertek Group plc Financial Statements
Contents
62 Consolidated Income Statement 
63  Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 
64  Consolidated Statement  
of Financial Position 
65  Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity 
66  Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows 
67 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 
107  Intertek Group plc Company  
Balance Sheet  
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
Page  Note
67  1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies
69   2 Operating segments and presentation of results
72   3 Separately disclosed items
73   4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
73   5 Employees
74   6 Taxation
77  7 Earnings per ordinary share
78   8 Property, plant and equipment
80  9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
84  10 Acquisitions
87   11 Trade and other receivables
88  12 Trade and other payables
88  13 Provisions
89  14 Borrowings and ﬁnancial instruments
96  15 Capital and reserves
9 7   1 6 E mployee beneﬁt s
102  17 Share schemes
104  18 Subsequent events
104  19 Capital management
104  20 Non-controlling interest
105  21 Related parties
105  22 Contingent liabilities
106  23 Principal subsidiary undertakings Notes
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 disclosed 
items* 
£m
Total
2011 
£m
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 disclosed 
items* 
£m
Total
2010 
£m
Revenue 2 1,749.4 – 1,749.4 1,374.2 – 1,374.2
Operating costs (1,468.3) (47.1) (1,515.4) (1,146.7) (21.0) (1,167.7)
Group operating profit 2 281.1 (47.1) 234.0 227.5 (21.0) 206.5
Finance income 14 8.2 – 8.2 7.2 – 7.2
Finance expense 14 (29.2) – (29.2) (22.8) (1.0) (23.8)
Net financing costs (21.0) – (21.0) (15.6) (1.0) (16.6)
Profit before income tax 260.1 (47.1) 213.0 211.9 (22.0) 189.9
Income tax expense 6 (73.3) 11.4 (61.9) (56.6) 5.7 (50.9)
Profit for the year 2 186.8 (35.7) 151.1 155.3 (16.3) 139.0
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company 174.5 (35.7) 138.8 144.9 (16.3) 128.6
 Non-controlling interest 20 12.3 – 12.3 10.4 – 10.4
Profit for the year 186.8 (35.7) 151.1 155.3 (16.3) 139.0
Earnings per share**
Basic 7 86.8p 80.7p
Diluted 7 85.3p 79.3p
* See note 3.
** Earnings per share on the adjusted results is disclosed in note 7.
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2011
62 | www.intertek.com Notes
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit for the year 2 151.1 139.0
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 14 (2.2) 30.1
Net exchange loss on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 14 (21.5) (6.3)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 14 – 0.9
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss 14 – 2.1
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 16 (7.9) 15.0
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 6 1.0 (1.0)
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (30.6) 40.8
Total comprehensive income for the year 120.5 179.8
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company 108.3 168.2
 Non-controlling interest 20 12.2 11.6
Total comprehensive income for the year 120.5 179.8
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 63 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2011
Notes
2011
£m
2010
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 265.0 243.1
Goodwill 9 637.0 301.5
Other intangible assets 9 169.5 44.1
Investments in associates 0.7 –
Deferred tax assets 6 27.6 26.4
Total non–current assets 1,099.8 615.1
Inventories 12.3 9.9
Trade and other receivables 11 442.6 315.2
Cash and cash equivalents 14 181.9 217.0
Total current assets 636.8 542.1
Total assets 1,736.6 1,157.2
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (38.7) (93.6)
Derivative financial instruments 14 – (1.0)
Current taxes payable (44.1) (22.5)
Trade and other payables 12 (295.5) (220.3)
Provisions 13 (17.1) (23.5)
Total current liabilities (395.4) (360.9)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (723.9) (293.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (49.2) (7.6)
Net pension liabilities 16 (11.3) (5.5)
Other payables 12 (9.0) (7.3)
Provisions 13 (1.3) (0.8)
Total non-current liabilities (794.7) (314.3)
Total liabilities (1,190.1) (675.2)
Net assets 546.5 482.0
Equity
Share capital 15 1.6 1.6
Share premium 256.7 256.3
Other reserves 27.9 51.5
Retained earnings 236.3 149.5
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 522.5 458.9
Non-controlling interest 20 24.0 23.1
Total equity 546.5 482.0
The financial statements on pages 62 to 106 were approved by the Board on 2 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser  Lloyd Pitchford 
Director    Director
64 | www.intertek.com Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Share
 premium 
£m
Other reserves
Retained
 earnings*
£m
Total 
before 
non-
controlling
 interest 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Translation
 reserve
£m
 
Hedging
 reserve
£m
Other 
£m
At 1 January 2010 1.6 253.5 22.5 (3.0) 6.4 40.3 321.3 18.0 339.3
Comprehensive income for the year – – 22.6 3.0 – 142.6 168.2 11.6 179.8
Dividends paid 15 ––––– (42.5) (42.5) (6.6) (49.1)
Issue of shares 15 – 2.8 –––– 2.8 – 2.8
Purchase of own shares 15 ––––– (0.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
Equity-settled transactions 17 ––––– 7.4 7.4 – 7.4
Income tax on equity-settled 
transactions 6 ––––– 2.2 2.2 – 2.2
Additions to non-controlling interest 20 –––––– – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2010 1.6 256.3 45.1 – 6.4 149.5 458.9 23.1 482.0
At 1 January 2011 1.6 256.3 45.1 – 6.4 149.5 458.9 23.1 482.0
Comprehensive income for the year – – (23.6) – – 131.9 108.3 12.2 120.5
Dividends paid 15 ––––– (47.2) (47.2) (10.4) (57.6)
Issue of shares 15 – 0.4–––– 0.4 – 0.4
Purchase of own shares 15 ––––– (7.8) (7.8) – (7.8)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 20 ––––– (0.6) (0.6) (1.2) (1.8)
Equity-settled transactions 17 ––––– 9.5 9.5 – 9.5
Income tax on equity-settled 
transactions 6 ––––– 1.0 1.0 – 1.0
Additions to non-controlling interest 20 –––––– – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2011 1.6 256.7 21.5 – 6.4 236.3 522.5 24.0 546.5
*  After £244.1m for goodwill written off to retained earnings as at 1 January 2004 in relation to subsidiaries acquired prior to 31 December 1997. This figure has not 
been restated as permitted by IFRS 1.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 65 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Notes
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 2 151.1 139.0
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charge 8 56.4 51.1
Amortisation of software 9 3.8 4.2
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 9 25.3 12.9
Equity-settled transactions 17 9.5 7.4
Net financing costs 14 21.0 16.6
Income tax expense 6 61.9 50.9
Loss on disposal of property, plant, equipment and software 0.1 0.2
Operating profit before changes in working capital and operating provisions 329.1 282.3
Change in inventories (2.1) (1.3)
Change in trade and other receivables (34.8) (32.5)
Change in trade and other payables 3.8 22.7
Change in provisions (6.1) 1.4
Special contributions into pension schemes 16 (1.2) (1.2)
Cash generated from operations 288.7 271.4
Interest and other finance expense paid (22.3) (15.4)
Income taxes paid (53.4) (61.7)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 213.0 194.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and software 1.6 0.8
Interest received 2.0 0.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 (459.7) (41.9)
Consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 13 (2.6) (9.3)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 20 (1.8) –
Acquisition of property, plant, equipment and software 8,9 (80.6) (65.9)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (541.1) (115.4)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.4 2.8
Purchase of own shares 15 (7.8) (0.5)
Drawdown of borrowings 692.8 355.2
Repayment of borrowings (335.5) (310.8)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 20 (10.4) (6.6)
Equity dividends paid 15 (47.2) (42.5)
Net cash flows used in financing activities 292.3 (2.4)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 14 (35.8) 76.5
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 14 217.0 134.2
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 14 0.7 6.3
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 14 181.9 217.0
The notes on pages 67 to 106 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Cash outflow relating to separately disclosed items was £26.1m for year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: £5.3m).
66 | www.intertek.com Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
1 Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
Accounting policies applicable to more than one section of the financial statements are shown below. Where accounting policies 
relate to a specific note in the financial statements, they are set out within that note, to provide readers of the financial statements 
with a more useful layout to the financial information presented.
Statement of compliance
Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2011 consolidate those of the Company and its 
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and include the Group’s interest in associates. The Group financial statements have 
been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
(IFRSs). The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its 
Group. The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are 
presented on pages 107 to 110.
Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as discussed in the relevant accounting policies. 
Functional and presentation currency
These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. All information 
presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Changes in accounting policies 
The accounting policies set out in these financial statements have been applied consistently to all years presented. 
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2011 but do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 
Going concern
The Board has reviewed forecasts, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic conditions. The Board has also 
reviewed the Group’s funding requirements and has taken into consideration the issuance of US$265m notes in January 2012 and  
the available debt facilities. As a result of these reviews the Board remains satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity position  
and believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. In addition, on the basis of its forecasts, both base 
case and stressed, and available facilities, which are described in note 14, the Board has concluded that the going concern basis of 
preparation continues to be appropriate.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to  
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential 
voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included 
in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting 
policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group. 
For purchases of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries, the difference between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary 
and the non-controlling interest’s share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position at  
the date of acquisition, is reflected directly in shareholders’ equity.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group 
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way  
as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency 
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities (for example cash, trade receivables, trade payables) denominated 
in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on translation are generally recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
For the policy on hedging of foreign currency transactions see note 14.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 67 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to 
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date. 
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at cumulative average rates of exchange during the year. 
Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations are taken directly to equity in the translation reserve. They are 
released to the income statement upon disposal. For the policy on net investment hedging see note 14.
The Group has taken advantage of relief available in IFRS 1, to deem the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations 
to be zero at the date of transition to IFRSs on 1 January 2004.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates:
Value of £1 
Assets and liabilities
Actual rates
Income and expenses
Cumulative average rates
31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 2011 2010
US dollar 1.55 1.55 1.60 1.55
Euro 1.20 1.17 1.15 1.17
Chinese renminbi 9.77 10.26 10.35 10.47
Hong Kong dollar 12.04 12.05 12.47 12.00
Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements and estimates that 
affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results  
may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected. 
Judgements
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has applied judgement in the following areas that have a significant impact 
on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
Judgement is applied when determining if the Group ‘controls’ a subsidiary or associate. In assessing control, the Group  
considers whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually exercised;  
see note 1 above. 
Intangible assets 
When the Group makes an acquisition, management determine whether any intangible assets should be recognised separately from 
goodwill; see note 9.
Income Tax
The tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws and regulations is 
unclear, judgements are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid; see note 6.
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised, with consideration 
given to the timing and level of future taxable income; see note 6.
Estimates
Discussed below are key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation at the reporting date, that have a 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group determines on an annual basis whether goodwill is impaired. This requires an estimation of the future cash flows of the 
cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated; see note 9. 
Claims
In making provision for claims, management bases its estimate on the circumstances relating to each specific event, internal and 
external legal advice, knowledge of the industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal precedents; see note 13.
Contingent consideration
When the Group acquires businesses, the total consideration may consist of an amount paid on completion plus further amounts 
payable on agreed post completion dates. These further amounts are contingent on the acquired business meeting agreed 
performance targets. At the date of acquisition, the Group reviews the profit and cash forecasts for the acquired business  
and estimates the amount of contingent consideration that is likely to be due; see note 13.
68 | www.intertek.com Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Employee post-retirement benefit obligations 
For material defined benefit plans, the actuarial valuation includes assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary 
progression and mortality rates; see note 16. 
Recoverability of trade receivables 
Trade receivables are reflected net of an estimated provision for impairment losses. This provision considers the past payment history 
and creditworthiness of each account and the length of time that the debt has remained unpaid; see note 11. 
Accounting policies relating to a specific note in the financial statements are set out within that note as follows:
 Note
Revenue 2
Separately disclosed items 3
Taxation 6
Property, plant and equipment 8
Goodwill and other intangible assets 9
Trade and other receivables 11
Trade and other payables 12
Provisions  13
Borrowings and financial instruments 14
Capital and reserves 15
Employee benefits 16
Share schemes 17
Non-controlling interest 20
2 Operating segments and presentation of results
Accounting policy
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra group transactions. 
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income statement when the relevant service is completed, usually when the 
report of findings is issued.
The Group records transactions as sales on the basis of value of work done, with the corresponding amount being included in trade 
debtors if the customer has been invoiced or in accrued income if billing has yet to be completed. Expenses are recharged to clients 
where permitted by the contract. 
Operating segments
The Group is organised into five divisions, each of which offer services to different industries and are managed separately: 
Commodities; Industry & Assurance; Consumer Goods; Commercial & Electrical and Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals. The costs  
of the corporate head office and other costs which are not controlled by the operating divisions are allocated to these divisions. 
The divisions noted above are the operating segments that are reported to the Board of Directors, the chief operating decision 
maker, and are the Group’s reportable segments. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. There is no significant 
seasonality in the Group’s operations. 
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.  
The performance of the segments is assessed based on adjusted operating profit which is before separately disclosed items. 
Unallocated items include group-wide projects that do not sit in any one division. A reconciliation to operating profit by division,  
and Group profit for the year is included overleaf.
Principal activities are as follows:
Commodities – provides independent cargo inspection, analytical assessment, calibration and related research and technical 
services to the world’s petroleum, mining, minerals and biofuels industries. The division also provides services to governments  
and regulatory bodies to support trade activities that help the flow of goods across borders.
Industry & Assurance – using in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, nuclear, power, renewable energy, construction, food, chemical 
and agricultural industries, the division provides a diverse range of services to help customers meet global quality standards. These 
include asset integrity management, exploration and production support, consulting, training and third-party management systems 
auditing. The division also provides certification services, second-party supplier auditing, sustainability data verification and process 
performance analysis. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 69 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Consumer Goods – the division is a market leading provider of services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food and retail 
industries. As partner to retailers, manufacturers and distributors it offers expertise on issues ranging from restricted hazardous 
substance and sustainability, to supply chain security and legislation relating to environmental, ethical and trade security issues. 
Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality assurance and hazardous substance testing. 
Commercial & Electrical – the global network of accredited facilities provides manufacturers and retailers with the most 
comprehensive scope of safety, performance and quality testing and certification services. The division supports customers in a wide 
range of industries including home appliances, consumer electronics, lighting, medical, building, industrial and HVAC/R (heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration), ICT, renewable energy and automotive.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals – serving a wide range of industries including chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and automotive 
and aerospace, the division offers advanced laboratory measurement and expert consultancy related technical support services and 
sustainability solutions. It has an established track record of success in laboratory outsourcing with many large, internationally 
recognised companies and the division’s world leading technical experts also support internal technical development. 
As described in the Annual Report for 2010, from 1 January 2011 the Group’s operational structure was reorganised to improve  
the alignment of business lines with those of the Group’s customers. Certain divisions were also renamed to describe better their 
core activities. The results for the 12 months to 31 December 2011 are reported in the new structure and all prior period comparative 
figures have been restated to show a like-for-like comparison.
The results of these divisions for the year ending 31 December 2011 are shown below:
Year ended 31 December 2011 
Revenue
from external
 customers
£m
Inter-
segment
 revenue
£m
Total 
revenue
£m
Depreciation
 and software
 amortisation*
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 disclosed
 items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Commodities 530.2 2.7 532.9 (22.0) 67.0 (2.7) 64.3
Industry & Assurance 468.6 2.0 470.6 (5.4) 50.9 (28.9) 22.0
Consumer Goods 315.7 1.2 316.9 (11.7) 106.3 (0.9) 105.4
Commercial & Electrical 291.0 4.5 295.5 (12.6) 44.1 (2.7) 41.4
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 143.9 1.9 145.8 (5.6) 12.8 (3.6) 9.2
Eliminations – (12.3) (12.3) ––––
Total 1,749.4 – 1,749.4 (57.3) 281.1 (38.8) 242.3
Unallocated separately disclosed items – (8.3) (8.3)
Group operating profit 281.1 (47.1) 234.0
Net financing costs (21.0) – (21.0)
Profit before income tax 260.1 (47.1) 213.0
Income tax expense (73.3) 11.4 (61.9)
Profit for the year 186.8 (35.7) 151.1
* Depreciation and software amortisation of £60.2m (2010: £55.3m) includes unallocated charges of £2.9m (2010: £1.7m). 
Year ended 31 December 2010 (as restated)
Revenue 
from external
 customers
£m
Inter-
segment
 revenue
£m
Total 
revenue
£m
Depreciation
 and software
 amortisation
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 disclosed
 items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Commodities 473.2 3.0 476.2 (21.9) 54.5 (5.6) 48.9
Industry & Assurance 191.2 0.8 192.0 (1.8) 16.6 (3.2) 13.4
Consumer Goods 303.9 1.3 305.2 (13.2) 106.2 (0.4) 105.8
Commercial & Electrical 269.2 3.4 272.6 (11.3) 38.4 (3.0) 35.4
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 136.7 1.7 138.4 (5.4) 11.8 (5.2) 6.6
Eliminations – (10.2) (10.2) ––––
Total 1,374.2 – 1,374.2 (53.6) 227.5 (17.4) 210.1
Unallocated separately disclosed items – (3.6) (3.6)
Group operating profit 227.5 (21.0) 206.5
Net financing costs (15.6) (1.0) (16.6)
Profit before income tax 211.9 (22.0) 189.9
Income tax expense (56.6) 5.7 (50.9)
Profit for the year 155.3 (16.3) 139.0
70 | www.intertek.com Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2010 (as previously reported)
Revenue 
from external
 customers
£m
Inter-
segment
 revenue
£m
Total 
revenue
£m
Depreciation
 and software
 amortisation
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 disclosed
 items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Consumer Goods 341.5 1.3 342.8 (13.3) 109.2 (0.7) 108.5
Commercial & Electrical 269.2 3.4 272.6 (11.3) 38.2 (3.0) 35.2
Oil, Chemical & Agri 452.7 2.8 455.5 (16.1) 51.0 (3.9) 47.1
Analytical Services 151.5 1.7 153.2 (6.1) 14.5 (5.1) 9.4
Industrial Services 93.8 0.8 94.6 (0.8) 7.3 (3.3) 4.0
Minerals 65.5 0.2 65.7 (6.0) 7.3 (1.4) 5.9
Eliminations – (10.2) (10.2) ––––
Total 1,374.2 – 1,374.2 (53.6) 227.5 (17.4) 210.1
Unallocated separately disclosed items – (3.6) (3.6)
Group operating profit 227.5 (21.0) 206.5
Net financing costs (15.6) (1.0) (16.6)
Profit before income tax 211.9 (22.0) 189.9
Income tax expense (56.6) 5.7 (50.9)
Profit for the year 155.3 (16.3) 139.0
Geographic segments 
Although the Group is managed through a divisional structure, which operates on a global basis, under the requirements of IFRS 8 
the Group must disclose any specific countries that are important to the Group’s performance. The Group considers the following  
to be the material countries in which it operates; Australia, China (including Hong Kong), the United Kingdom and the United States.
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of the entity generating 
that revenue. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Revenue from external customers Non-current assets
 2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
China (including Hong Kong) 317.3 293.6 51.0 37.3
Australia 85.3 60.3 60.1 63.2
Other 223.9 166.2 25.6 44.9
Total Asia Pacific 626.5 520.1 136.7 145.4
United States 438.8 358.0 398.4 220.5
Other 130.8 99.5 12.4 21.4
Total Americas 569.6 457.5 410.8 241.9
United Kingdom 153.0 122.0 325.8 104.1
Other 400.3 274.6 198.9 97.3
Total Europe, Middle East and Africa 553.3 396.6 524.7 201.4
Unallocated – – 27.6 26.4
Total 1,749.4 1,374.2 1,099.8 615.1
Major customers
No revenue from any individual customer exceeded 10% of total Group revenue in 2010 or 2011.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 71 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
3 Separately disclosed items
Accounting policy
Adjusted results
In order to present the performance of the Group in a clear, consistent and comparable format, certain items are disclosed separately 
on the face of the income statement.
Separately disclosed items are items which by their nature or size, in the opinion of the Directors, should be excluded from the adjusted 
result to provide readers with a clear and consistent view of the business performance of the Group and its operating divisions. 
When applicable, these items include amortisation of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the profit  
or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost of any 
fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims and settlements, significant recycling of amounts from equity to the income 
statement and unrealised gains/losses on financial assets/liabilities. 
Separately disclosed items
The separately disclosed items are described in the table below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating costs:
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (a) (25.3) (12.9)
Acquisition and integration costs (b) (14.1) (5.3)
Project costs (c) (7.7) –
Claims and settlements (d) – (2.8)
Total operating costs (47.1) (21.0)
Fair value of interest rate swaps recycled from equity (note 14) – (1.0)
Total costs (47.1) (22.0)
Income tax credit on separately disclosed items 11.4 5.7
Total (35.7) (16.3)
(a)  Of the amortisation of acquired intangibles in the current year, £13.2m relates to the customer contracts and customer 
relationships acquired with the purchase of Moody International Limited (‘Moody’).
(b)  Acquisition and integration costs comprise £9.0m (2010: £4.8m) for costs in respect of acquisitions and £5.1m (2010: £0.5m)  
in respect of integration costs.
(c) Project costs relate to the Group’s Business Process Outsourcing initiative. 
(d) In 2010 the £2.8m settlement related to a claim from a group of employees in the USA in the Commodities division. 
72 | www.intertek.com 4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
Certain expenses are outlined below, including fees paid to the auditors of the Group: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Included in profit for the year are the following expenses:
Property rentals 43.1 45.0
Lease and hire charges – fixtures, fittings and equipment 15.9 8.8
Depreciation and software amortisation 60.2 55.3
Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software 0.1 0.2
2011
£m
2010
£m
Auditor’s remuneration: 
Audit of these financial statements 0.3 0.3
Amounts receivable by the auditors and their associates in respect of: 
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.8 1.3
Other services pursuant to such legislation – review of interim financial statements 0.1 0.1
Total fees payable pursuant to legislation 2.2 1.7
Taxation services 0.6 0.8
Transaction advisory 0.7 0.8
Other 0.7 0.6
Total 4.2 3.9
In addition the auditors and their associates were paid £10,000 (2010: £10,000) in respect of the audit of associated pension schemes.
5 Employees 
Total employee costs are shown below:
Employee costs 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 636.8 501.0
Equity-settled transactions 9.5 7.4
Social security costs 68.0 54.3
Pension costs 29.2 22.7
Total employee costs 743.5 585.4
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report. Details of pension arrangements and equity-
settled transactions are set out in notes 16 and 17 respectively.
Average number of employees by division* 2011 2010
Commodities 9,889 9,390
Industry & Assurance 5,745 2,804
Consumer Goods 9,237 8,725
Commercial & Electrical 3,916 3,710
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 1,513 1,382
Central 221 220
Total average number for the year ended 31 December 30,521 26,231
Total actual number at 31 December 31,712 27,043
* The 2010 figures have been restated to reflect the new divisional structure.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 73
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
6 Taxation 
Accounting policy
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the same primary statement as the 
accounting transaction to which it relates.
Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at  
the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due. 
Amounts are accrued based on management’s interpretation of specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement. Where the outcome 
of discussions with tax authorities is different from the amount initially recorded, this difference will impact the tax provisions in the 
period the determination is made.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for:
 initial recognition of goodwill; 
 the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting 
nor taxable profit; and
 differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interest in joint ventures, the reversal of which is under 
the control of the Group and where it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date when the asset is realised  
or the liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities 
and assets and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities 
which intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset 
to be utilised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend.
Tax expense
Intertek is a global business and operates across many different tax jurisdictions. Income and profits are earned and taxed in the 
individual countries in which they occur. 
The income tax expense for the total profit before tax for the year end 31 December 2011 is £61.9m (2010: £50.9m). The Group’s 
consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2011 is 29.1% (2010: 26.8%). 
The income tax expense for the adjusted profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2011 is £73.3m (2010: £56.6m).  
The Group’s adjusted consolidated effective tax rate for the 12 months ended 31 December 2011 is 28.2% (2010: 26.7%). 
Differences between the consolidated effective tax rate of 29.1% and the notional statutory UK rate of 26.5% include, but are  
not limited to; the mix of profits, the effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, non deductible expenses, the effect of utilised tax 
losses and under/over provisions in previous periods.
74 | www.intertek.com 6 Taxation (continued)
Tax charge
The total income tax charge, comprising the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax, recognised in the income 
statement is analysed as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK corporation tax at 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) 3.5 2.6
Double taxation relief (3.5) (3.1)
UK taxation – (0.5)
Overseas taxation 70.6 54.3
Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities (4.0) 0.8
Current tax 66.6 54.6
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences (4.7) (3.7)
Total tax in income statement 61.9 50.9
Tax on adjusted result 73.3 56.6
Tax on separately disclosed items (11.4) (5.7)
Total tax in income statement 61.9 50.9
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The following table provides a reconciliation of the UK statutory corporation tax rate to the effective tax rate of the Group on profit 
before taxation.
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit before taxation 213.0 189.9
Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) 56.4 53.2
Differences in overseas tax rates (9.9) (12.4)
Tax on dividends 3.5 5.0
Non deductible expenses 12.8 3.4
Tax exempt income (1.4) (0.4)
Unrecognised deferred tax 2.0 1.3
Other 0.2 –
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.7) 0.8
Total tax in income statement 61.9 50.9
The effective tax rate on the profit before tax for the year was 29.1% (2010: 26.8%) and for the adjusted profit before tax was 
28.2% (2010: 26.7%).
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period  
of four years from 2011. A further 1% reduction to the UK corporation tax rate was announced in the Budget on 29 March 2011. 
The reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 26% was enacted on 5 July 2011 and was effective from 1 April 2011, and the 
further reduction to 25% was enacted on 27 July 2011 and is effective from 1 April 2012. 
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax recognised 
on items recorded in other comprehensive income is shown below: 
2011
Before tax
£m
2011
Tax credit
£m
2011
Net of tax
£m
2010
Before tax
£m
2010
Tax expense
£m
2010
Net of tax
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign 
operations (2.2) – (2.2) 30.1 – 30.1
Net exchange loss on hedges of net investments in foreign 
operations (21.5) – (21.5) (6.3) – (6.3)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges ––– 0.9 (0.2) 0.7
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to 
profit or loss ––– 2.1 (0.6) 1.5
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension 
schemes (7.9) 1.0 (6.9) 15.0 (0.2) 14.8
Total other comprehensive income for the year (31.6) 1.0 (30.6) 41.8 (1.0) 40.8
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 75
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
6 Taxation (continued)
Income tax recognised directly in equity
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax on items 
recognised in equity is shown below:
2011
Before tax
£m
2011
Tax credit
£m
2011
Net of tax
£m
2010
Before tax
£m
2010
Tax credit
£m
2010
Net of tax
£m
Equity-settled transactions 9.5 1.0 10.5 7.4 2.2 9.6
Deferred tax
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
Assets
2011
£m
Assets
2010
£m
Liabilities 
2011
£m
Liabilities
2010
£m
Net
2011
£m
Net
2010
£m
Intangible assets 0.7 – (57.4) (10.8) (56.7) (10.8)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 4.4 3.3 (2.2) (2.0) 2.2 1.3
Pensions 1.4 0.2 – – 1.4 0.2
Equity-settled transactions 5.5 5.2 – – 5.5 5.2
Interest rate swaps – 0.3 – – – 0.3
Provisions and other temporary differences 20.1 18.6 (3.1) (0.4) 17.0 18.2
Tax value of losses 9.0 4.4 – – 9.0 4.4
Tax set-off (13.5) (5.6) 13.5 5.6 – –
Total 27.6 26.4 (49.2) (7.6) (21.6) 18.8
Movements in deferred tax temporary differences during the year
The movement in the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below:
1 January 
2011
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity
£m
31 December
 2011
£m
Intangible assets (10.8) (2.3) (45.2) 1.6 – (56.7)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 1.3 – – 0.9 – 2.2
Pensions 0.2 – – 0.1 1.1 1.4
Equity-settled transactions 5.2 – – 0.7 (0.4) 5.5
Interest rate swaps 0.3 – – (0.3) – –
Provisions and other temporary differences 18.2 (0.3) 2.1 (3.0) – 17.0
Tax value of losses 4.4 (0.1) – 4.7 – 9.0
Total 18.8 (2.7) (43.1) 4.7 0.7 (21.6)
1 January 
2010
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity
£m
31 December
 2010
£m
Intangible assets (8.7) (0.3) (1.2) (0.6) – (10.8)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 0.8 – – 0.5 – 1.3
Pensions 0.3 – – 0.1 (0.2) 0.2
Equity-settled transactions 3.2 – – 0.6 1.4 5.2
Interest rate swaps 0.9 – – 0.2 (0.8) 0.3
Provisions and other temporary differences 16.1 0.7 – 1.4 – 18.2
Tax value of losses 2.5 0.4 – 1.5 – 4.4
Total 15.1 0.8 (1.2) 3.7 0.4 18.8
76 | www.intertek.com 6 Taxation (continued)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2011
£m
2010*
£m
Deductible temporary differences 13.5 13.3
Pensions 3.0 3.4
Tax losses 45.7 46.3
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 25.9 20.8
Equity-settled transactions 3.0 5.0
Total 91.1 88.8
*  The 2010 comparative figures have been restated to show the gross amount of unrecognised temporary differences, as these were previously stated as deferred tax 
asset amounts in 2010. 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which the Group can utilise the benefits from them.
There is a temporary difference of £174.7m (2010: £172.8m) which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings.  
No deferred tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group and  
there is no intention to either repatriate from or sell the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.
7 Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33: Earnings Per Share, an adjusted earnings per share has also been calculated 
and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and other separately 
disclosed items. It has been calculated to allow shareholders a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.  
Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 138.8 128.6
Separately disclosed items after tax (note 3) 35.7 16.3
Adjusted earnings 174.5 144.9
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 159.9 159.3
Potentially dilutive share awards 2.9 2.8
Diluted weighted average number of shares 162.8 162.1
Basic earnings per share 86.8p 80.7p
Potentially dilutive share awards (1.5)p (1.4)p
Diluted earnings per share 85.3p 79.3p
Adjusted basic earnings per share 109.1p 91.0p
Potentially dilutive share awards (1.9)p (1.6)p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 107.2p 89.4p
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 77
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
8 Property, plant and equipment
Accounting policy
Property, plant and equipment
Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposal of items of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal 
with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in the income statement.
Leased assets
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Where  
land and buildings are held under finance leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the 
buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position.
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant 
and equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 50 years
Short leasehold buildings Term of lease 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 – 10 years
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are re-assessed at each reporting date.
Impairment
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated to determine the level of any impairment.
78 | www.intertek.com 8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Property, plant & equipment
The property, plant and equipment employed by the business is analysed below:
Land and
buildings
£m
Fixtures,
fittings
and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2010 48.3 407.4 455.7
Exchange adjustments 2.5 20.9 23.4
Additions 3.6 56.6 60.2
Disposals (0.4) (10.3) (10.7)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 1.2 2.5 3.7
At 31 December 2010 55.2 477.1 532.3
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 7.4 227 .4 234.8
Exchange adjustments 0.4 12.6 13.0
Charge for the year 1.7 49.4 51.1
Disposals (0.4) (9.3) (9.7)
At 31 December 2010 9.1 280.1 289.2
Net book value at 31 December 2010 46.1 197.0 243.1
Cost
At 1 January 2011 55.2 477.1 532.3
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (3.7) (4.0)
Additions 1.5 73.6 75.1
Disposals – (7.8) (7.8)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 1.3 4.6 5.9
At 31 December 2011 57.7 543.8 601.5
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 9.1 280.1 289.2
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (2.9) (3.0)
Charge for the year 2.1 54.3 56.4
Disposals –(6.1) (6.1)
At 31 December 2011 11.1 325.4 336.5
Net book value at 31 December 2011 46.6 218.4 265.0
Fixtures, fittings and equipment include assets in the course of construction of £10.7m at 31 December 2011, (2010: £5.6m), mainly 
comprising of laboratories under construction. These assets will not be depreciated until they are available for use. 
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Freehold 43.3 42.7
Long leasehold 0.6 0.6
Short leasehold 2.7 2.8
Total 46.6 46.1
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 79
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Commitments
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease 
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows:
2011
Land and
 buildings
£m
2011
Other
£m
2011
Total
£m
2010
Land and
 buildings
£m
2010
Other
£m
2010
Total
£m
Within one year 42.1 6.0 48.1 37.9 6.3 44.2
In the second to fifth years inclusive 78.5 6.3 84.8 59.1 4.4 63.5
Over five years 40.1 – 40.1 41.2 0.5 41.7
Total 160.7 12.3 173.0 138.2 1 1.2 149.4
The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative offices and equipment under lease agreements 
which have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in the financial statements amounted to £11.2m (2010: £5.6m).
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Accounting policy
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the  
Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. All business combinations  
are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs) and is not 
amortised but is tested annually for impairment. 
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
From 1 January 2010, the Group has applied IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations (revised 2008)’. The change in accounting policy has 
been applied prospectively.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control  
is obtained.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred (including 
the fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquiree) and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured 
as of the acquisition date. 
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. 
Costs relating to acquisitions are shown in separately disclosed items.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised in profit 
or loss.
If at the reporting date the fair values of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be established 
provisionally, then these values are used. Adjustments to the fair values can be made within 12 months of the acquisition date and 
are taken as adjustments to goodwill. 
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition  
over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of the acquiree. When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with 
business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to  
1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount 
recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework.
80 | www.intertek.com 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Other intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible 
assets should be recognised separately from goodwill. If, based on management’s judgement, such an asset is identified, then it is 
valued by discounting the probable future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset. 
Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation.
Intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of 
whether those rights are separable, and which have finite useful lives.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives  
are as follows:
Computer software Up to 7 years
Customer relationships Up to 10 years
Know-how Up to 5 years
Licences Contractual life
Covenants not to compete Contractual life
Impairment
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment and when circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may be impaired. 
Other intangible assets are subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the amount carried in the statement of financial position is less than its recoverable amount. 
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount 
of each asset or cash generating unit (or group of cash generating units) to which the goodwill relates. Assets are grouped at the 
lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (a ‘cash generating unit’ or ‘CGU’).
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The estimation process is complex 
due to the inherent risks and uncertainties and if different estimates were used this could materially change the projected value of 
the cash flows. 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. An impairment loss in respect of other assets is reversed if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the 
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, 
if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 81
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Intangibles
The intangibles employed by the business are analysed below: 
Other intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
 
Customer
 relationships
£m
Licences
£m
Other
 acquisition
 intangibles
£m
Computer
 software
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2010 272.4 50.1 8.2 14.7 24.8 97.8
Exchange adjustments 9.9 1.8 0.3 0.4 0.9 3.4
Additions –––– 5.7 5.7
Disposals –––– (0.1) (0.1)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 33.5 5.0 – 2.1 – 7.1
At 31 December 2010 315.8 56.9 8.5 17.2 31.3 113.9
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2010 14.6 23.4 4.2 10.5 12.8 50.9
Exchange adjustments (0.3) 1.0 0.2 0.3 0.4 1.9
Charge for the year – 9.6 1.4 1.9 4.2 17.1
Disposals –––– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2010 14.3 34.0 5.8 12.7 17.3 69.8
Net book value at 31 December 2010 301.5 22.9 2.7 4.5 14.0 44.1
Cost
At 1 January 2011 315.8 56.9 8.5 17.2 31.3 113.9
Exchange adjustments 6.9 1.5 (0.2) (0.1) – 1.2
Additions –––– 5.5 5.5
Disposals –––– (0.2) (0.2)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 328.3 147.1 – – 0.4 147.5
At 31 December 2011 651.0 205.5 8.3 17.1 37.0 267.9
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2011 14.3 34.0 5.8 12.7 17.3 69.8
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) 0.2 (0.3)
Charge for the year – 22.7 0.8 1.8 3.8 29.1
Disposals –––– (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2011 14.0 56.6 6.3 14.4 21.1 98.4
Net book value at 31 December 2011 637.0 148.9 2.0 2.7 15.9 169.5
The other acquisition intangibles of £2.7m (2010: £4.5m) consist of covenants not to compete, know-how and guaranteed income. 
The average remaining amortisation period for customer relationships is nine years (2010: three years).
Computer software net book value of £15.9m at 31 December 2011 (2010: £14.0m) includes software in construction of £4.8m 
(2010: £3.2m). 
82 | www.intertek.com 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year (2010 restated for changes in organisational structure in 2011) has 
been allocated to operating segments as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Commodities 0.1 4.6
Industry & Assurance 325.3 11.2
Consumer Goods 3.2 0.4
Commercial & Electrical (0.4) –
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 0.1 17 .3
At 31 December 328.3 33.5
The total carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment (2010 restated for changes in organisational structure in 2011) is as 
follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Commodities 68.5 68.8
Industry & Assurance 406.7 73.8
Consumer Goods 9.7 6.7
Commercial & Electrical 59.6 59.7
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 92.5 92.5
Net book value at 31 December* 637.0 301.5
*  All goodwill is recorded in local currency. Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end of 
the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment review
The following table analyses the total Group goodwill of £637.0m (2010 restated for changes in organisational structure in 2011) 
between eight identified cash generating units (CGUs). 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Commodities – Minerals 43.3 43.4
Commodities – Cargo and others 25.2 25.4
Industry & Assurance – Exploration and Production Services* 20.2 20.4
Industry & Assurance – Industry Services 325.3 38.8
Industry & Assurance – Systems Certification 61.2 14.6
Consumer Goods 9.7 6.7
Commercial & Electrical 59.6 59.7
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 92.5 92.5
Total goodwill net book value at 31 December 637.0 301.5
* Formerly known as Upstream.
In order to determine whether impairments are required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each CGU. The calculation 
is based on projecting future cash flows over a five year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth 
thereafter. The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model which assumes long term growth rates of operating cash flows 
of between 2.5% to 3.9% (2010: 2.5% to 4.1%) reflecting the long term GDP growth forecasts in the various regions in which the 
respective CGUs operate. A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value 
less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount in excess of the value in use. 
The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the CGUs. The approved Group Business 
Plans for the 3 years 2012 to 2014 form the basis for the cash flow projections for each CGU. The cash flow projections for the 
succeeding 2 years 2015 to 2016 reflect management’s conservative expectations of the medium term operating performance  
of the CGUs and growth prospects in the various CGUs’ markets and regions. 
Key assumptions
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the revenue and operating margin growth rates which directly influence the 
forecasted operating cash flows, as well as the discount rate applied. In determining the key assumptions, management have taken 
into account the current economic climate and the resulting impact on expected growth and discount rates. 
The calculation of the value in use is sensitive to the following key assumptions:
Operating cash flow
One of the key drivers of the operating cash flow is revenue. The 2012 to 2014 revenues for each CGU are based on the approved 
business plans. For the years 2015 and 2016, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking 
account of past experience and GDP growth prospects. The compound annual growth rates for each CGU ranged from 7.3%  
to 16.8% (2010: 8.3% to 13.9%). In all cases it is considered the assumed growth rates are realistic. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 83
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The other key driver of the operating cash flow is operating profit. The compound annual growth rates, which are considered 
realistic, ranged from 6.8% to 23.9% (2010: 7.6% to 22.1%) reflecting management assessment of current and future market 
environment of the sectors and countries in which the CGUs operate. 
Discount rate applied 
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre tax rate that reflects the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for 
the risks specific to the CGU. The discount rates applied to the CGU were in the range of 9.1% to 12.7% (2010: 9.8% to 14.3%). 
Sensitivity analysis
There are no realistic changes that could be made to the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of each CGU to 
exceed its recoverable amount. Management have also considered the effect of the following scenarios: 
(i)  Assuming revenues decline each year by 1% in 2013 to 2016 from the 2012 budgeted revenues, with margins increasing with 
base assumptions, all CGUs continue to show sufficient headroom. 
(ii)  Assuming zero growth in operating profit margins in 2013 to 2016, with revenues increasing per base assumptions, all CGUs 
continue to show sufficient headroom.
(iii)  Assuming an increase in the discount rates used by 1%, all CGUs continue to show sufficient headroom.
Management consider that the likelihood of any or all of the above scenarios occurring is low. 
10 Acquisitions
Acquisitions in 2011
Moody International
On 27 April 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the equity of Moody (comprising Moody International (Holdings) Limited, Inspection 
Services (US) Inc and Inspection Services Italy SRL) for a cash consideration of £449.9m, on a cash and debt free basis. Moody was 
headquartered in the UK and operates in over 60 countries. It is a leading provider of quality and safety services to the energy 
industry. It also provides systems certification services to the manufacturing, construction and service markets. This acquisition  
has been integrated into the Industry & Assurance division. 
Provisional details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out in the following table. The analysis is provisional and 
amendments may be made to these figures in the 12 months following the date of the acquisition:
Moody International
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 5.1 – 5.1
Goodwill –322.7 322.7
Other intangible assets –145.9 145.9
Trade and other receivables* 95.9 (7.2) 88.7
Trade and other payables (43.2) (7.0) (50.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges** (5.6) (1.3) (6.9)
Corporation tax payable (3.9) (7.1) (11.0)
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 1.2 (44.7) (43.5)
Non-controlling interest (0.9) – (0.9)
Net assets acquired 48.6 401.3 449.9
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 449.9
Total consideration 449.9
* Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of £54.7m with a fair value of £51.4m.
** Provisions for liabilities and charges include amounts that are classified as accruals in the Intertek reporting environment.
The goodwill of £322.7m represents the value of the assembled workforce and the benefits Intertek expects to gain from becoming  
a leading provider of quality and safety services for the energy market, creating a global platform for the provision of Industry Services, 
extending existing European and American positions and extending the depth of the service portfolio for energy assets, processes  
and products.
The intangible assets of £145.9m represent the value placed on customer contracts and relationships and the deferred tax thereon  
was £44.7m.
84 | www.intertek.com 10 Acquisitions (continued)
The revenue for the period 27 April 2011 to 31 December 2011 was £251.8m. The revenue for the period 1 January 2011 to  
26 April 2011 was £104.7m. The profit after tax for the period 27 April 2011 to 31 December 2011 was £14.1m. The profit after  
tax for the period 1 January 2011 to 26 April 2011 was £2.6m. 
Other acquisitions
In addition to Moody, there were four other acquisitions in the year:
(a) Recherche, Developpement & Consulting – Bruxelles SA (‘RDC’)
On 29 July 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of RDC, a company based in Belgium for a cash consideration of 
£3.0m. In addition, contingent consideration of up to £1.6m will become payable on the achievement of specified performance 
targets. Fixed assets of £0.1m and other net tangible assets of £0.9m were acquired. Intangibles, being the value placed on customer 
relationships, of £0.5m were identified. Goodwill arising was £3.1m and represents the value placed on the benefits Intertek expects 
from the opportunity to expand the environmental impact services in Europe. The acquisition has been integrated into the Consumer 
Goods division. 
(b) Food Analytical Laboratories Limited
On 31 July 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Food Analytical Laboratories Limited, a company based in the  
UK for a cash consideration of £6.0m. An amount of £0.4m is estimated to be receivable from the escrow account in respect of 
adjustments to consideration based on performance targets. The acquisition represents an opportunity to increase the Group’s food 
testing capabilities in the UK. Fixed assets of £0.7m and other net tangible assets of £1.2m were acquired. Intangibles, being the 
value placed on customer relationships, of £0.7m were identified. Goodwill arising was £3.0m and represents the value placed on  
the benefits in expanding the food testing services in the Industry & Assurance division.
(c) Business acquired from QinetiQ Limited
On 1 August 2011, the Group acquired the oil and lubricants testing business from QinetiQ Limited, a company based in the UK  
for £0.5m. Net tangible assets acquired were £0.1m and there was goodwill of £0.4m identified representing the opportunity to 
enhance the Group’s capabilities in the energy and transport sector in the Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division.
(d) Labs and Testing Chile SA
On 30 November 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Labs and Testing Chile SA, a company based in Chile, for  
a cash consideration of £0.3m. In addition, contingent consideration of up to £0.2m will become payable on the achievement of 
specified performance targets. The acquisition represents an opportunity for the Group to expand its chemical and microbiology 
services in South America. Net tangible liabilities acquired were £0.2m. Goodwill arising was £0.7m representing the value placed  
on the opportunity to enhance the Group’s microbiological and environmental services business in the Commodities and Industry  
& Assurance divisions.
Goodwill 
The total goodwill arising on acquisitions noted above made during 2011 was £329.9m. In addition there was a reduction of £1.6m 
to goodwill in respect of prior years’ acquisitions arising out of adjustments to contingent consideration. 
Consideration paid
The total cash consideration paid for the acquisitions in the year was £459.7m (2010: £41.9m).
Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits
In total the acquisitions made during 2011 contributed revenues of £255.6m and profit after tax of £14.4m from their respective 
dates of acquisition to 31 December 2011.
The Group revenue and profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2011 would have been £1,860.9m and £154.6m respectively 
if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2011.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 85
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
10 Acquisitions (continued)
Acquisitions in 2010
The Group made seven acquisitions during the prior year, all of which were paid for in cash.
Details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below for all seven acquisitions. At December 2010 this analysis 
was provisional but has now been finalised with no material adjustment.
 
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Fair 
value
 adjustments 
£m
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 4.6 (1.0) 3.6
Goodwill –34.534.5
Other intangible assets –7.1 7.1
Inventory 0.6 – 0.6
Trade and other receivables* 7.2 – 7.2
Trade and other payables (6.4) (2.5) (8.9)
Net pension liability (2.1) 0.4 (1.7)
Deferred tax liability –(1.2) (1.2)
Net assets acquired 3.9 37.3 41.2
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 41.9
Deferred consideration (1.3)
Contingent consideration 0.6
Total consideration 41.2
* Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of £7.2m at acquisition date.
Expert Services
The largest acquisition, which was a combined share and asset deal, was that of the regulatory and safety testing businesses  
of Expert Services headquartered in Switzerland and operating in several countries, from BASF SE on 31 March 2010, for a cash 
consideration of £21.4m. A deferred consideration receivable from the vendor of £2.5m, outstanding at 31 December 2010, was 
received in 2011. Cash acquired within the business was £0.2m. The acquisition related costs amounted to £0.5m and have been 
charged to operating costs. 
The goodwill of £17.3m represents the benefits that the Group expects to gain from strengthening its competitive position in 
mainland Europe, adding new niche services to the Group’s portfolio of services, gaining access to a sales force in strategically 
important countries and strengthening the relationship with BASF globally. The other intangible assets of £3.0m represent value 
placed on customer relationships and the deferred tax thereon was £0.3m. 
The revenue for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 March 2010 was £5.4m. The revenue attributable to the Group from the date  
of acquisition to 31 December 2010 was £16.9m. The profit after tax for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 March 2010 was £0.4m. 
The profit attributable to the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2010 was £1.1m.
Norca Ingenieria de Calidad, S.L
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Norca Ingenieria de Calidad, S.L, a company based in Spain, on 4 May 2010,  
for a cash consideration of £4.3m. Cash acquired in the business was £0.5m. 
Expertises Technologies & Services Analyses S.A
On 1 July 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Expertises Technologies & Services Analyses S.A, a company based 
in France, for a cash consideration of £7.5m. Cash acquired in the business was £1.4m.
Metoc Limited
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Metoc Limited, a company based in the United Kingdom, on 27 October 2010,  
for a cash consideration of £7.5m and additional estimated deferred consideration of £0.9m. 
Profitech Limited
The Group acquired, on 1 October 2010, 100% of the share capital of Profitech Limited, a company based in the United Kingdom. 
The initial cash consideration was £0.5m with additional consideration of up to £0.6m payable contingent on the achievement of 
specified targets. Cash acquired in the business was £0.2m. 
Pacifica Limited
The Group acquired, on 10 November 2010, the business and assets of Pacifica Limited, a company based in Papua New Guinea  
that provides petroleum and agricultural inspections and marine consultancy services and forms part of the Commodities division.  
The cash consideration was £0.9m. 
86 | www.intertek.com 10 Acquisitions (continued)
American Analytical Chemistry Laboratories Corporation
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of American Analytical Chemistry Laboratories Corporation, a company based in 
Illinois, USA, on 31 December 2010, for an initial cash consideration of £4.5m; and additional deferred consideration of up to £0.5m.
Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits
In total the acquisitions made during 2010 contributed revenues of £24.1m and profits of £1.8m to the Group from their respective 
dates of acquisition to 31 December 2010.
The Group revenue and profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2010 would have been £1,395.4m and £145.0m respectively  
if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2010.
11 Trade and other receivables
Accounting policy
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered 
recoverable (amortised cost). 
Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected. Based on historic 
default rates, reflecting the track record of payments by the Group’s customers, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is 
necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are specific circumstances such as 
the bankruptcy of a customer which would render the trade receivable irrecoverable. 
The Group provides fully for all trade receivables over 12 months old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable. Where 
recovery is in doubt, a provision is made against the specific trade receivable until such time as the Group believes the amount  
to be irrecoverable. At that time the trade receivable is written off.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are analysed below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables 320.6 235.7
Other receivables 50.9 38.1
Prepayments and accrued income 71.1 41.4
Total trade and other receivables 442.6 315.2
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of £15.4m (2010: £10.3m) and are all expected to be 
recovered within 12 months. Impairment on trade receivables charged as part of operating costs was £6.1m (2010: £4.8m) and  
a fair value adjustment of £3.4m was made in relation to the acquisition of Moody.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their  
short-term duration. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number  
of customers who are internationally dispersed. 
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Under 3 months 272.0 205.2
Between 3 and 6 months 34.8 21.8
Between 6 and 12 months 17.1 11.7
Over 12 months 12.1 7.3
Gross trade receivables 336.0 246.0
Allowance for impairment (15.4) (10.3)
Trade receivables, net of allowance 320.6 235.7
Included in trade receivables under three months of £272.0m (2010: £205.2m) are trade receivables of £151.2m (2010: £118.2m) 
which are not yet due for payment under the Group’s standard terms and conditions of sale.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 87
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 11 Trade and other receivables (continued)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January 10.3 9.9
Acquisitions 3.4 –
Exchange differences (0.3) 0.3
Cash recovered (0.4) (0.4)
Impairment loss recognised 6.1 4.8
Receivables written off (3.7) (4.3)
At 31 December 15.4 10.3
There were no material individual impairments of trade receivables.
12 Trade and other payables
Accounting policy
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier. The carrying value of trade payables is considered 
approximate to fair value.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are analysed below:
Current
2011
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-current
2011
£m
Non-current
2010
£m
Trade payables 52.7 36.7 – –
Other payables* 44.6 22.8 0.8 2.2
Accruals and deferred income 198.2 160.8 8.2 5.1
Total trade and other payables 295.5 220.3 9.0 7.3
* Other payables include £nil (2010: £1.8m) of deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions. 
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 14. 
13 Provisions
Accounting policy
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated 
reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions 
Contingent
consideration
£m
Claims
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 2.4 17.9 4.0 24.3
Exchange adjustments – (0.2) 0.2 –
Provided in the year: – 3.1 7.5 10.6
in respect of current year acquisitions 1.8 0.5 0.3 2.6
in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.6 – – 0.6
Released during the year (2.2) (4.4) (1.3) (7.9)
Utilised during the year (0.8)* (10.8) (0.2) (11.8)
At 31 December 2011 1.8 6.1 10.5 18.4
Included in:
Current liabilities 1.0 6.1 10.0 17.1
Non-current liabilities 0.8 – 0.5 1.3
At 31 December 2011 1.8 6.1 10.5 18.4
* In addition to the £0.8m paid above, another £1.8m was paid during the year discharging amounts shown in trade and other payables last year. 
From time-to-time the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The outcome  
of such litigation and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often subject to legal proceedings.  
Based on information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising  
from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future. 
88 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
13 Provisions (continued)
The provision for claims of £6.1m (2010: £17.9m) represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identified claims 
from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs. The timing of the cash outflow relating to the 
provisions is uncertain but is likely to be within one year. Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in note 22.
The other provision of £10.5m (2010: £4.0m) includes restructuring provisions, onerous contracts and acquisition integration costs.
14 Borrowings and financial instruments
Financial instruments
Accounting policy 
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, facility fees, interest receivable on funds invested, net foreign exchange 
gains or losses, interest income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities and gains and losses on hedging instruments 
that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income and interest expense are recognised as they accrue using the effective 
interest rate method. 
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables. Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses (including bad debt provision). 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
statement of cash flows. Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently are stated at their amortised cost. 
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, to hedge 
economically its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.  
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised  
in profit or loss when incurred. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value at each period end is recognised immediately in  
the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the 
balance sheet date. 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the 
difference between the quoted forward price and the exercise price of the contract. 
Hedging
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset 
or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement in 
the same caption as the foreign exchange on the related item.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined 
to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the income statement. 
The Group has external borrowings denominated in foreign currencies which are used to hedge the net investment in its  
foreign operations.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 89 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Impairment
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.  
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect  
on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying 
amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. All impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement. 
Net financing costs 
Net financing costs are shown below:
Recognised in income statement
2011
£m
2010
£m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances 2.5 0.9
Expected return on pension assets (note 16) 5.7 5.2
Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges* – 0.9
Change in fair value of financial instruments held for trading (forward exchange contracts) – 0.2
Total finance income 8.2 7.2
Finance expense
Interest on borrowings (22.1) (14.5)
Pension interest cost (note 16) (4.7) (5.1)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred from equity* – (1.9)
Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities (0.6) (1.6)
Facility fees and other (1.8) (0.7)
Total finance expense (29.2) (23.8)
Net financing costs (21.0) (16.6)
* Net effect of £nil (2010: £1.0m) is shown in note 3.
Recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations (2.2) 30.1
Net exchange loss on hedges of net investment in foreign operations (21.5) (6.3)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – 0.9
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss – 2.1
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income – (0.8)
Finance (expense)/income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (23.7) 26.0
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (23.6) 24.8
Non-controlling interest (0.1) 1.2
Finance (expense)/income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (23.7) 26.0
Recognised in:
Hedging reserve – 3.0
Translation reserve and non-controlling interest (23.7) 23.8
Retained earnings – (0.8)
Finance (expense)/income recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (23.7) 26.0
90 | www.intertek.com 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Analysis of net debt
The components of net debt are outlined below:
1 January 
2011
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2011
£m
Cash 217.0 (35.8) 0.7 181.9
Borrowings:
Principal bank facility (93.6) 89.9 3.7 –
Revolving credit facility US$600m – (293.6) (10.8) (304.4)
Bridge facility US$300m – (143.5) (11.6) (155.1)
Bilateral multi-currency facility – (14.4) 1.0 (13.4)
Senior notes US$25m 2014 (16.1) – – (16.1)
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (64.6) – – (64.6)
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (48.5) – – (48.5)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 (64.6) – – (64.6)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 (96.8) – – (96.8)
Other* (2.5) 4.3 (0.9) 0.9
Total borrowings (386.7) (357.3) (18.6) (762.6)
Total net debt (169.7) (393.1) (17.9) (580.7)
* Includes other borrowings of £2.2m (2010: £3.1m) and facility fees.
1 January 
2010
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2010
£m
Cash 134.2 76.5 6.3 217 .0
Borrowings:
Principal bank facility (206.6) 115.9 (2.9) (93.6)
Senior notes US$25m 2014 (15.7) – (0.4) (16.1)
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (62.6) – (2.0) (64.6)
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (47.0) – (1.5) (48.5)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 – (64.8) 0.2 (64.6)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 – (97.1) 0.3 (96.8)
Other* (3.7) 1.6 (0.4) (2.5)
Total borrowings (335.6) (44.4) (6.7) (386.7)
Total net debt (201.4) 32.1 (0.4) (169.7)
* Includes other borrowings and facility fees.
Borrowings
Borrowings are split into current and non current as outlined below:
Current
2011
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-current
2011
£m
Non-current 
2010
£m
Senior term loans and notes 38.7 93.6 721.7 290.0
Other borrowings – – 2.2 3.1
Total borrowings 38.7 93.6 723.9 293.1
Analysis of debt
2011
£m
2010
£m
Debt falling due:
In one year or less 38.7 93.6
Between one and two years 115.9 –
Between two and five years 447.1 80.8
Over five years 160.9 212.3
Total borrowings 762.6 386.7
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 91
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Description of borrowings
Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2011 were £149m (2010: £336m). 
Principal bank facility
The remaining £94m of Facility D of the principal bank facility was repaid in February 2011. Advances under this facility bore interest 
at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 0.3% from December 2010 until it was repaid. 
US$600m revolving credit facility
In February 2011 the Group successfully signed a new principal bank facility. The new syndicated facility comprises a US$600m  
multi-currency revolving credit facility available to 31 March 2016. Advances under the new facility bear interest at a rate equal  
to LIBOR, or their local currency equivalent, plus a margin, depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at  
31 December 2011 were £304.4m.
US$300m bridge facility 
On 4 March 2011 the Group signed a US$300m facility with a group of banks to part fund the Moody International acquisition.  
This facility matures on 31 March 2013 with part principal repayments of US$60m made on 31 December 2011 and US$60m due  
on 31 December 2012. Advances under this facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, depending on the Group’s 
leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2011 were £155.1m.
Bilateral multi-currency facility
In December 2010 the Group signed a multi-currency facility available to March 2016. The facility comprises a £20m multi-currency 
revolver facility and a €12m multi-currency term loan facility. On 22 March 2011 the £20m multi-currency revolver facility was 
increased by £10m to £30m. Drawings under these facilities at 31 December 2011 were £13.4m (2010: £nil).
Private placement bonds
In June 2008 the Group raised US$100m by way of a senior note issue. The notes are repayable on 26 June 2015 and pay a fixed 
annual interest rate of 5.54%. 
In December 2008 the Group issued a further US$100m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$25m 
repayable on 21 January 2014 at a fixed annual interest rate of 7.5% and US$75m repayable on 10 June 2016 at a fixed annual 
interest rate of 8.0%.
In December 2010 the Group issued a further US$250m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$100m 
repayable on 15 December 2017 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.2% and US$150m repayable on 15 December 2020 at a fixed 
annual interest rate of 3.91%.
Other facilities
The Group also has a US$60m bilateral, multi-currency facility that was signed in January 2010 and is available to 25 January 2013. 
Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2011 were £nil (2010: £nil).
2012 Private placement bonds
In October 2011 the Group secured funding of US$265m by way of a senior note issue. The funds were received in January 2012. 
These notes were issued in three tranches with US$20m repayable on 18 January 2019 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.0%, 
US$140m repayable on 18 January 2022 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.75% and US$105m repayable on 18 January 2024  
at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.85%.
These funds were used to repay and cancel the US$300m bridge facility with effect from 27 February 2012.
92 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Financial risks 
Details of the Group’s treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital and credit, liquidity, interest 
rate and currency risk are set out below, in the Directors’ Report – Financial Review that starts on page 24 and Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on pages 45 to 47. 
Credit risk
Exposure to credit risk
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. The Group monitors 
the creditworthiness of customers on an ongoing basis. The Group’s credit risk is diversified due to the large number of entities, 
industries and regions that make up the Group’s customer base.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. At the reporting date this was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables, net of allowance 320.6 235.7
Cash and cash equivalents 181.9 217.0
Total 502.5 452.7
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Americas 105.7 74.8
Europe, Middle East and Africa 124.1 85.9
Asia Pacific 90.8 75.0
Total 320.6 235.7
Counterparty risk
Cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing facilities are at risk in the event that the counterparty is not able to meet its 
obligations in regards to the cash held or facilities available to the Group. The Group also enters into transactions with counterparties 
in relation to derivative financial instruments. If the counterparty was not able to meet its obligations, the Group may be exposed to 
additional foreign currency or interest rate risk. 
The Group, wherever possible, enters into arrangements with counterparties who have robust credit standing, which the Group 
defines as a financial institution with a credit rating of at least A-. The Group has existing banking relationships with a number of 
‘relationship banks’ that meet this criterion, and seeks to use their services wherever possible while avoiding excessive concentration 
of credit risk. Given the diverse geographic nature of the Group’s activities, it is not always possible to use a relationship bank. 
Therefore the Group has set limits on the level of deposits to be held at non-relationship banks to minimise the risk to the Group.  
It is also Group policy to remit any excess funds from local entities back to Group Treasury in the UK. Given the controls in place,  
and based on a current assessment of our banking relationships, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet  
its obligations.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 93
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its obligations as and when they fall due. The Group’s policy is to:
 ensure sufficient liquidity is available to Group companies in the amounts, currencies and locations required to support the 
Group’s operations; 
 ensure the Group has adequate available sources of funding to protect against unforeseen internal and external events; and
 avoid excess liquidity which restricts growth and impacts the cost of financing.
To ensure this policy is met, the Group monitors cash balances on a daily basis, projects cash requirements on a rolling basis and 
funds itself using debt instruments with a range of maturities.
The following are the contractual cash flows of financial liabilities including interest (for floating rate instruments, interest payments 
are based on the interest rate at 31 December 2011):
2011
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes 760.4 871.3 13.5 44.8 135.4 499.4 178.2
Other loans 2.2 2.2 – – 2.2 – –
Trade payables 52.7 52.7 51.8 0.9–––
815.3 926.2 65.3 45.7 137.6 499.4 178.2
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts:
Outflow – 73.0 73.0––––
Inflow – (73.0) (73.0) ––––
–––––––
Total 815.3 926.2 65.3 45.7 137.6 499.4 178.2
2010
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes* 383.6 477.6 7.5 101.1 14.5 119.8 234.7
Other loans 3.1 4.0 0.1 0.1 0.2 3.0 0.6
Trade payables 36.7 36.7 36.7 ––––
423.4 518.3 44.3 101.2 14.7 122.8 235.3
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2 – – –
Forward exchange contracts:
Outflow – 34.2 34.2––––
Inflow – (34.2) (34.2) ––––
1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2 –––
Total 424.4 519.3 45.1 101.4 14.7 122.8 235.3
* £94m of the senior term loan contractually liable to be repaid in six to twelve months was repaid in February 2011.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s objective is to manage the risk to the business from movements in interest rates, and to provide stability and 
predictability of the near term (12 month horizon) interest expense. To achieve this, the Group’s policy is for the debt portfolio to 
include between 30% and 70% of fixed rate debt. To do this the Group uses hedging instruments where considered appropriate.
94 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Hedging
During 2010 and 2011 the Group entered into swaps to maintain an appropriate level of fixed and floating rate interest payments. 
Under the interest rate swap agreements, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference 
between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount. 
During 2011 the Group held a number of fixed rate interest rate swaps, where the Group paid a fixed rate of interest, ranging from 
0.3% to 3.8% (2010: 3.5% to 3.8%) and received a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR. These swaps matured before year end. 
These swaps had a notional contract value of £64.6m at 31 December 2010. The net fair value of these swaps at 31 December 2010 
was a liability of £1.0m.
Sensitivity
At 31 December 2011, it is estimated that a general increase of 3% in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit before tax  
by approximately £9.4m (2010: £0.4m). Interest rate swaps have been included in this calculation. This analysis assumes all other 
variables remain constant. 
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s objective in managing foreign currency risk is to safeguard the Group’s financial assets from economic loss due to 
fluctuations in foreign currencies, and to protect margins on cross currency contracts and operations. To achieve this, the Group’s 
policy is to hedge its foreign currency exposures where appropriate.
The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a substantial percentage 
of the Group’s revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling. Because of the high proportion of 
international activity, the Group’s profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result: (i) translation  
risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets and liabilities 
into sterling and (ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on the value of the Group’s 
commercial cash flows in various currencies. 
The foreign currency profile of cash, trade receivables and payables at the reporting date were as follows:
2011
Carrying
 amount 
£m
Sterling 
£m
US dollar 
£m
Chinese
 renminbi 
£m
Hong Kong
 dollar 
£m
Euro 
£m
Other 
currencies 
£m
Cash 181.9 17.4 17.3 66.2 6.8 5.8 68.4
Trade receivables 320.6 35.9 92.0 28.0 9.5 38.2 117.0
Trade payables 52.7 12.5 8.0 2.9 2.1 10.5 16.7
2010
Cash 217.0 4.0 112.5 52.6 2.7 10.6 34.6
Trade receivables 235.7 25.8 65.2 23.6 9.4 32.8 78.9
Trade payables 36.7 9.1 6.2 2.5 1.5 7.7 9.7
Recognised assets and liabilities
Changes in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign 
currencies and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement. 
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Group’s investment in its respective subsidiaries. 
The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2011 was £757.6m (2010: £383.6m).
A foreign exchange loss of £21.5m (2010: loss of £6.3m) was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these 
loans to sterling.
Sensitivity
It is estimated that a general increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the US dollar (the main currency impacting the Group) 
would have decreased the Group’s profit before tax for 2011 by approximately £13.4m (2010: £13.8m). This analysis assumes all 
other variables remain constant. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 95
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Fair values
The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments 
by class. 
Book value
2011
£m
Fair value
2011
£m
Book value
2010
£m
Fair value
2010
£m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 181.9 181.9 217.0 217.0
Trade receivables 320.6 320.6 235.7 235.7
Total financial assets 502.5 502.5 452.7 452.7
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 762.6 786.5 386.7 397.3
Interest rate swaps –– 1.0 1.0
Trade payables 52.7 52.7 36.7 36.7
Total financial liabilities 815.3 839.2 424.4 435.0
The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of the Group’s financial instruments are summarised below.
Interest rate swaps 
Bank valuations are used to estimate the fair value of interest rate swaps. Valuations are tested by considering the equivalent swap 
rate as at 31 December and calculating the difference in interest earned at this rate compared to the original swap rates. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of the floating interest bearing loans and borrowings is equal to the book value, since the floating interest rates were 
reset just prior to the year end. The fair value of the fixed interest bearing loans and borrowings has been calculated based on the 
present value of future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate at the reporting date. 
Trade receivables and payables
For trade receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. 
All others are estimated as the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
15 Capital and reserves 
Accounting policy
Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid. Final dividends are reported as a movement in equity 
in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares 
in the Company are debited directly in equity to retained earnings.
Share capital 
Group and Company
2011
Number
2011
£m
2010
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 159,554,209 1.6 1.6
Employee share option schemes – options exercised (note 17) 72,839 – –
Deferred Bonus Plan (note 17) 533,917 – –
Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 160,160,965 1.6 1.6
Shares classified in shareholders’ funds 1.6 1.6
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and are entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company.
During the year, the Company issued 72,839 (2010: 423,749 ) ordinary shares in respect of the share options exercised, for 
consideration of £0.4m (2010: £2.8m) settled in cash and issued 533,917 (2010: 419,251) shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan  
for £nil consideration. 
96 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 15 Capital and reserves (continued)
Purchase of own shares for trust
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company financed the purchase of 420,332 (2010: 31,000) of its own shares  
with an aggregate nominal value of £4,203 (2010: £310) for £7.8m (2010: £0.5m) which was charged to retained earnings in  
equity and was held by the EBT. This trust is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee. During the year,  
14,852 shares were utilised to satisfy the vesting of mirror awards and 2,544 shares to satisfy the vesting of share awards (note 17).  
At 31 December 2011, the EBT held 414,770 shares with an aggregate nominal value of £4,148 (2010: 11,834 shares held).  
The associated cash out flow of £7.8m (2010: £0.5m) has been presented as a financing cash flow. 
Another employee benefit trust, Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘ESOT’) is also managed and controlled by an independent offshore 
trustee. The total ESOT costs charged to the income statement in 2011 were £5,386 (2010: £6,200).
Dividends 
2011
£m
2011
Pence per
 share
2010
£m
2010
Pence per
 share
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 –– 27.6 17.3p
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 –– 14.9 9.3p
Final dividend for the year ending 31 December 2010 30.1 18.8p ––
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 17.1 10.7p ––
Dividends paid 47.2 29.5p 42.5 26.6p
After the reporting date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 23.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, 
which is expected to amount to £36.8m. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and 
therefore, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial 
statements. If approved, the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 22 June 2012. 
Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Other 
This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital.
16 Employee benefits 
Accounting policy
Pension schemes
Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate  
entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution 
pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. 
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years; that benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 97
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 16 Employee benefits (continued)
In calculating the defined benefit deficit, the discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit-rated bonds that have 
maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the 
benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service 
costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of:
(i) an unconditional right to a refund from the plan; or 
(ii)  reductions in future contributions to the plan as measured by the estimated future service cost less the estimated minimum 
funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual of benefits in that year. An economic benefit is available to  
the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities. In addition a provision for future 
minimum funding contributions is recorded to the extent that such payments are required to cover an existing shortfall, as 
measured on a minimum funding contribution basis, and having been paid will not be available as a refund or a reduction  
in future contributions to the plan.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged 
to the operating profit in the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value of 
the schemes’ liabilities, during the accounting period, are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively. 
The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. In most locations, these are defined contribution 
arrangements. However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Switzerland. These are 
funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds. The schemes in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were 
closed to new entrants in 2002 and 2000, respectively. Other funded defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and 
are therefore accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses in each year in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income.
Total pension cost
The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Defined contribution schemes (26.8) (20.3)
Defined benefit schemes – current service cost (2.4) (2.4)
Pension cost included in operating profit (note 5) (29.2) (22.7)
The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. The last full 
triennial actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom was carried out as at 1 April 2010, but this  
has been updated to 31 December 2011 for IAS 19 purposes. The Capcis Scheme in the UK was merged into The Intertek Pension 
Scheme during the year. The last full actuarial valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2010, for local 
accounting purposes but this has been updated to 31 December 2011 for IAS 19 purposes. The Swiss scheme was actuarially valued  
for IAS 19 purposes at 31 December 2011.
The Group is currently making additional contributions into The Intertek Pension Scheme with the overall objective of paying off the 
deficit in line with actuary’s recommendations.
Defined benefit schemes
The cost of defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current service cost (2.4) (2.4)
Expected return on scheme assets (note 14) 5.7 5.2
Pension interest cost (note 14) (4.7) (5.1)
Total charge (1.4) (2.3)
The current service cost is included in operating costs in the income statement and pension interest cost and expected return on 
scheme assets are included in net financing costs.
98 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 16 Employee benefits (continued)
Actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cumulative loss at 1 January (0.8) (15.8)
Recognised (losses)/gains in the year (7.9) 15.0
Cumulative loss at 31 December (8.7) (0.8)
Company contributions
In 2012 the Group expects to make normal contributions of £2.1m (2011: £1.9m). Additionally, in February 2012, the Group made a 
special contribution of £0.6m (2011: £1.2m) to the UK pension scheme.
Pension liability for defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position for defined benefit schemes were as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 96.7 96.3 73.0
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (108.0) (101.8) (92.5)
Net liability in the statement of financial position (11.3) (5.5) (19.5)
The fair value changes in the scheme assets are shown below: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 96.3 73.0
Acquisitions – 9.3
Swiss scheme – 1.9
Expected return on scheme assets 5.7 5.2
Normal contributions by the employer 1.9 1.9
Special contributions by the employer 1.2 1.2
Contributions by scheme participants 0.9 0.7
Benefits paid (3.2) (3.1)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes 0.1 1.3
Actuarial (losses)/gains (6.2) 4.9
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 96.7 96.3
Composition of scheme assets in each category:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Swiss Scheme
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Equities 61% 63% 58% 67% – –
Bonds 30% 30% 39% 31% 100% 100%
Cash/other 9% 7% 3% 2% – –
The actual return on scheme assets was as follows: 
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Swiss Scheme
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Actual return (0.5) 8.4 (0.8) 1.6 0.8 0.2
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 99
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 16 Employee benefits (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 101.8 92.5
Acquisitions – 11.0
Swiss scheme – 1.9
Current service cost 2.4 2.4
Interest cost 4.7 5.1
Contributions by scheme participants 0.9 0.7
Benefits paid (3.2) (3.1)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes (0.3) 1.4
Actuarial losses/(gains) 1.7 (10.1)
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 108.0 101.8
The pension deficit of each scheme at 31 December 2011 was as follows:
United
 Kingdom
 Scheme
£m
 Hong Kong
 Scheme
£m
Swiss
Scheme
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 68.9 13.9 13.9 96.7
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (71.7) (20.6) (15.7) (108.0)
Deficit in schemes (2.8) (6.7) (1.8) (11.3)
Principal actuarial assumptions:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Swiss Scheme Weighted average
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Discount rate 4.9% 5.4% 1.5% 3.1% 2.5% 3.0% 3.9% 4.7%
Inflation rate (based on CPI)* 2.0% 3.1% n/a n/a 0.0% 0.5% 1.7% 2.7%
Rate of salary increases 3.0% 4.1% 4.0% 3.0% 1.5% 1.5% 3.0% 3.5%
Rate of pension increases:
CPI subject to a maximum of 5% p.a 2.0% 3.1% n/a n/a n/a n/a 2.0% 3.1%
Increases subject to a maximum  
of 2.5% p.a 1.7% 2.5% n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.7% 2.5%
Annualised expected return on 
scheme assets 5.0% 6.0% 6.5% 7.8% 3.5% 4.0% 5.0% 6.0%
*  The revaluation of benefits in deferment and pension increases in payment under the United Kingdom scheme were, with effect from January 2011, based on the CPI 
instead of the RPI. For pensions accrued after 5 April 2005, pension increases in payment are subject to a cap of 2.5% per annum. For pensions accrued prior to 5 
April 2005, pension increases in payment are subject to a cap of 5% per annum. The effect of the change to the CPI of £2.7m was reflected within actuarial gains in 
the financial statements in 2010.
 The retirement arrangements in Hong Kong pays lump sums to members instead of pensions and the Swiss scheme is an insured plan.
The expected rates of return on scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices which take into account the current 
level of expected returns on risk free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with equities and the expectation  
for future returns on such assets. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance  
with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long-term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing  
on such assets at the reporting date. A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments. This is based on an out-performance 
assumption over gilt yields.
100 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 16 Employee benefits (continued)
Life expectancy assumptions at year end for:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme* Swiss Scheme
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Male aged 40 46.6 46.5 n/a n/a 41.6 40.2
Male aged 65 21.1 21.0 n/a n/a 18.9 17 .9
Female aged 40 48.8 48.7 n/a n/a 44.6 44.2
Female aged 65 23.7 23.6 n/a n/a 21.4 20.9
*  The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays lump sums to members instead of pensions at the point they retire. Since the amount of the lump sum is not  
related to the life expectancy of the members, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong scheme.
  The table above shows, for the United Kingdom scheme, the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at  
31 December. The 2011 mortality tables adopted for the United Kingdom scheme are the S1PA projected by year of birth, with an allowance for the medium  
cohort effect and a minimum improvement of 1% (the same tables were used in 2010). For the Swiss scheme, the mortality table adopted is the BVG 2010  
(an updated version of BVG 2005 adopted last year), an industry standard in Switzerland which is based on statistical evidence of major Swiss pension funds.
Sensitivity analysis
The table below sets out the sensitivity on the pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2011 of the two main assumptions: 
 
Change in assumptions
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Deficit
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
in deficit
£m
No change 108.0 96.7 (11.3) –
0.25% rise in discount rate 103.7 96.7 (7.0) (4.3)
0.25% fall in discount rate 112.5 96.7 (15.8) 4.5
0.25% rise in inflation 110.5 96.7 (13.8) 2.5
0.25% fall in inflation 105.7 96.7 (9.0) (2.3)
History of experience gains and losses:
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 96.7 96.3 73.0 58.6 66.6
Defined benefit obligations (108.0) (101.8) (92.5) (77.1) (73.9)
Deficit (11.3) (5.5) (19.5) (18.5) (7.3)
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities (1.4) 2.8 (1.8) 0.4 1.5
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme assets (6.2) 4.9 11.7 (17.4) 2.1
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 101
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 17 Share schemes
Accounting policy 
Share-based payment transactions
The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of 
the employee services, received in exchange for the grant of share options or shares, is measured at the grant date and is recognised 
as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The charge is calculated using the Monte Carlo method and expensed to  
the income statement over the vesting period of the relevant award. The charge for the share options and for the share awards is 
adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting where conditions are non-market based. The expense of the Performance 
Awards, (previously Matching Awards), is also additionally adjusted for the probability of performance conditions being achieved. 
The Group has taken advantage of the provisions of IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards,  
and has recognised an expense only in respect of share options and awards granted since 7 November 2002.
Share option schemes 
The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997. The maximum number of options that  
can be granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued. In May 2002, the Intertek Group plc 
2002 Share Option Plan (the 2002 Plan) and the Intertek Group plc 2002 Approved Share Option Plan (the Approved Plan) were 
established for employees to be granted share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. These plans have also been 
discontinued and the last grants under these plans were made in September 2005. 
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
2011 2010
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
At beginning of year 631p 379,347 646p 813,457
Exercised 659p (72,839) 599p (423,749)
Forfeited 578p (21,244) 769p (10,361)
Outstanding options at end of year 628p 285,264 631p 379,347
Exercisable at end of year 628p 285,264 631p 379,347
The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 1,956p (2010: 1,534p). The options 
outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 359p to 778p and a weighted average contractual life of 2.6 years.
The outstanding options at 31 December 2011 are exercisable as follows:
Option Scheme
Number of options
 outstanding Exercise price per share Exercisable between
2002 Plan 24,908 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012
28,583 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
4,977 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
71,574 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
3,600 607p 14 September 2007 14 September 2014
138,755 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
2,125 711p 13 September 2008 13 September 2015
274,522
Approved Plan 343 437p 30 May 2005 30 May 2012
– 380p 17 July 2005 17 July 2012
477 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
262 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
5,266 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
4,394 778p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
10,742
Total 285,264
102 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 17 Share schemes (continued)
Share Plans
As explained in the Remuneration Report on page 48, the Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 was replaced in 2011 with the Intertek 2011 
Long Term Incentive Plan. Share awards from 2011 (previously deferred share awards) and Performance awards (previously matching 
share awards) have been granted under this plan. The first awards were granted on 7 April 2006. The awards under these plans vest 
three years after grant date, subject to fulfilment of the performance conditions.
2011 2010
Share 
Awards
Performance 
Awards Total awards
Share 
Awards
Performance 
Awards Total awards
At beginning of year 1,505,095 1,014,440 2,519,535 1,356,955 870,563 2,227,518
Granted 399,467 297,754 697,221 501,849 358,779 860,628
Vested (336,285) (200,176) (536,461)* (262,120) (157,131) (419,251)
Forfeited (27,902) – (27,902) (91,589) (57,771) (149,360)
Outstanding share awards at end of year 1,540,375 1,112,018 2,652,393 1,505,095 1,014,440 2,519,535
* Of the 536,461 awards vested in 2011, 533,917 were satisfied by issue of shares and 2,544 by the transfer of shares from the EBT (see note 15).
Mirror share awards
On 14 May 2010, Lloyd Pitchford was granted conditional rights to acquire 49,039 shares of 1p in Intertek Group plc under a one-off 
arrangement to facilitate his recruitment as Chief Financial Officer of the Company. In 2011, 14,852 shares vested (2010: 19,166) and 
2,182 lapsed (2010: 2,940). At 31 December 2011, there were 9,899 shares outstanding (2010: 26,933 shares). Further details are 
shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56.
Equity-settled transactions
In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for shares granted to employees, is measured by reference  
to the fair value of shares granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Monte Carlo 
formula, a financial model used to calculate the fair value of shares and share options. 
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group recognised an expense of £9.5m (2010: £7.4m).
The fair values and the assumptions used in their calculations are set out below:
Share awards
Share Awards
(previously
Deferred
Share Awards)*
Performance
 Awards TSR
 element
 (previously
 Matching 
Share Awards)
Deferred
Share 
Awards
Matching
Share 
Awards
Deferred
Share 
Awards
Matching
Share 
Awards
Year shares awarded 2011 2011 2010 2010 2009 2009
Fair value at measurement date (pence) 1,872.3 1,252.6 1,249.5 854.7 839.3 697.8
Share price (pence) 1,955.0 1,955.0 1,324.0 1,324.0 899.5 899.5
Expected volatility n/a 30.8% n/a 30.8% n/a 29.1%
Dividend yield 1.4% 1.4% 1.9% 1.9% 2.3% 2.3%
Risk free interest rate n/a 1.4% n/a 3.0% n/a 1.8%
Time to maturity (years) 33 3333
* The fair values and assumptions are also the same for the EPS element of the Performance awards. 
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly  
available information.
All Share Awards (previously Deferred Share Awards) are granted under a service condition. Such condition is not taken into  
account in the fair value measurement at grant date. The Performance awards (TSR element, previously Matching Awards) are 
granted under a performance related market condition and as a result this condition is taken into account in the fair value 
measurement at grant date. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 103
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
18 Subsequent events
2012 Private placement bonds
In October 2011 the Group secured funding of US$265m by way of a senior note issue. The funds were received in January 2012. 
These notes were issued in three tranches with US$20m repayable on 18 January 2019 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3%, 
US$140m repayable on 18 January 2022 at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.75% and US$105m repayable on 18 January 2024  
at a fixed annual interest rate of 3.85%. These funds were used to repay and cancel the US$300m bridge facility with effect  
from February 2012. 
19 Capital management 
The Directors have to determine the appropriate capital structure of Intertek; specifically how much is raised from shareholders 
(equity) and how much is borrowed from financial institutions (debt) in order to finance the Group’s activities. These activities include 
ongoing operations as well as acquisitions as described in note 10.
The Group’s policy is to maintain a robust capital base (including cash and debt) to ensure the market and key stakeholders retain 
confidence in the capital profile. Debt capital is monitored by Group Treasury assessing the liquidity buffer on a short and longer 
term basis as discussed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section.
The Group uses KPIs, including return on invested capital and diluted adjusted earnings per share to monitor the capital position  
of the Group to ensure it is being utilised effectively.
The dividend policy also forms part of the Board’s capital management policy, and the Board ensures there is appropriate earnings 
cover for the dividend proposed at both the interim and year end.
20 Non-controlling interest 
Accounting policy
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore  
no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. The purchase of non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate 
amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Non-controlling interest
An analysis of the movement in non-controlling interest is shown below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January 23.1 18.0
Exchange adjustments (0.1) 1.2
Share of profit for the year 12.3 10.4
Additions 0.3 0.1
Purchase of non-controlling interest* (1.2) –
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (10.4) (6.6)
At 31 December 24.0 23.1
*  In 2011, the Group purchased a non-controlling interest for cash consideration of £1.8m and recognised a decrease in a non-controlling interest of £1.2m and a 
decrease in retained earnings of £0.6m.
104 | www.intertek.com 21 Related parties 
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
discussed in this note.
Transactions with key management personnel 
Key management personnel compensation, including the Group’s Directors, is shown in the table below: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Short-term benefits 5.9 6.2
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4
Equity-settled transactions 2.1 2.3
Total 8.4 8.9
More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other  
long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report. 
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
22 Contingent liabilities
2011
£m
2010
£m
Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 11.4 7.4
Litigation
From time-to-time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including claims 
for damages, negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing and disputes with employees and former employees. 
The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business.
The outcome of litigation to which the Intertek Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen as in some cases the facts are 
unclear or further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case. However, based on information currently available, the 
Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially 
adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future. 
Tax
The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to a wide range of complex tax laws and regulations. At any point  
in time it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local 
authorities. Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to  
be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements. The Group considers the estimates, assumptions and 
judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve. The final 
determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in the financial statements. 
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 105
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
23 Principal subsidiary undertakings 
The Group comprises 302 subsidiary companies. As permitted by Section 410 (1) of the Companies Act 2006, only the principal 
subsidiaries whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures of the Group in 2011  
and 2010 have been shown below. A full list of subsidiaries will be attached to the Company’s next Annual Return filed with the 
Registrar of Companies. All the subsidiaries shown were consolidated at 31 December 2011. 
Company name Country of incorporation Activity
Percentage of ordinary 
shares held in 2011 and 2010*
Group Company
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Ltd China Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Ltd Shanghai China Trading 85 –
Intertek USA Inc USA Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services NA Inc USA Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited England Holding 100 100
Intertek Finance plc England Finance 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Trading 100 –
Testing Holdings USA Inc USA Holding 100 –
Intertek USD Finance Ltd England Finance 100 –
Intertek Holdings Limited England Holding 100 100
RCG-Moody International Ltd* England Holding 100 –
* Acquired 27 April 2011.
106 | www.intertek.com Intertek Group plc Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2011
Notes
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings (d) 305.1 295.2
Current assets
Debtors due after more than one year (e) 54.0 43.6
Debtors due within one year 2.6 1.7
56.6 45.3
Cash at bank and in hand 0.6 0.2
57.2 45.5
Creditors due within one year
Other creditors (1.3) (0.2)
Net current assets 55.9 45.3
Total assets less current liabilities 361.0 340.5
Creditors due after more than one year
Other creditors – (0.1)
Net assets 361.0 340.4
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (f) 1.6 1.6
Share premium (f) 256.7 256.3
Profit and loss account (f) 102.7 82.5
Shareholders’ funds 361.0 340.4
The financial statements on pages 107 to 110 were approved by the Board on 2 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser  Lloyd Pitchford 
Director  Director
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 107 Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
(a) Accounting policies – Company 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation 
to the Company’s financial statements.
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under  
the historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the 
consolidated financial statements which it has prepared. 
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets  
and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. All foreign 
exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required  
by FRS 19. Deferred tax assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there 
will be suitable taxable profits to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds 
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in  
the notes to the financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intercompany financial guarantees
When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats  
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability, until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make  
a payment under the guarantee. 
Share-based payments
Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company. Details of  
the share schemes are given in note 17 of the Group financial statements.
The fair value of options and share awards granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with 
a corresponding increase in equity. As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the 
corresponding increase in equity. However, the Company grants options and awards over its own shares to the employees of  
its subsidiaries and therefore the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries, equivalent to the  
equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in respect of employees of the subsidiaries, with the corresponding credit 
being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled 
to the options. The fair value granted is measured using the Monte Carlo model. This method, in calculating the fair value, takes into 
account various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan is also measured using the Monte Carlo model and 
is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
108 | www.intertek.com (b) Profit and loss account
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the 
Company’s financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
The Company does not have any employees. 
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
(c) Dividends
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 30.1 27.6
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 17.1 14.9
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 47.2 42.5
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2011 is £nil (2010: £nil). The aggregate 
amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2011 is £36.8m (2010: £30.0m).
(d) Investment in subsidiary undertakings
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 295.2 289.6
Additions due to share-based payments 9.5 7.4
Adjustments/(disposals) 0.4 (1.8)
At 31 December 305.1 295.2
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made share awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-owned 
subsidiaries, and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of £9.5m (2010: £7.4m). 
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 23 to the Group financial statements.
The Company had two direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2011. Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and Intertek 
Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and 
Wales. All interests are in the ordinary share capital and all are wholly owned. In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the 
investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
(e) Debtors due after more than one year 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 54.0 43.6
The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the 
denomination of the borrowing currency.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 109
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements (f) Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Profit 
and loss
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 1.6 253.5 56.3 311.4
Profit for the financial year – – 61.8 61.8
Dividends paid – – (42.5) (42.5)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 7.4 7.4
Purchase of own shares – – (0.5) (0.5)
Shares issued –2.8 –2.8
At 31 December 2010 1.6 256.3 82.5 340.4
Profit for the financial year – – 65.7 65.7
Dividends paid – – (47.2) (47.2)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 9.5 9.5
Purchase of own shares – – (7.8) (7.8)
Shares issued –0.4 –0.4
At 31 December 2011 1.6 256.7 102.7 361.0
Details of share capital are set out in note 15 and details of share based payments are set out in note 17 to the Group  
financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of £47.2m (2010: £42.5m) was £65.7m (2010: £61.8m) which 
was mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company purchased, through its Employee Benefit Trust, 420,332 (2010: 31,000)  
of its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of £4,203 (2010: £310) for £7.8m (2010: £0.5m) which was debited to profit  
and loss in equity.
(g) Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 21 of the Group financial statements.
(h) Contingent liabilities
The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement. This is  
a joint and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the 
pool which was £20.0m at 31 December 2011 (2010: £14.1m).
From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of  
subsidiary undertakings.
(i) Post balance sheet events
Details of post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and the Group are given in note 18 of the Group financial statements.
110 | www.intertek.com 110 | www.intertek.com
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 111
Shareholder and Corporate Information
Shareholders’ Enquiries
Any shareholder with enquiries relating to their shareholding 
should, in the first instance, contact our Registrars, Equiniti using 
the address on this page. 
Electronic Shareholder Communications
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation 
electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by  
email each time the Company distributes documents, instead  
of receiving a paper version of such documents. Registering  
for electronic communication is very straightforward and can be 
done via shareview, www.shareview.co.uk. Shareview is Equiniti’s 
suite of online services that helps shareholders to manage their 
holdings and give access to a wide range of useful information.
There is no fee for using this service and shareholders will 
automatically receive confirmation that a request has been 
registered. To request a paper version of any document in  
the future, shareholders may contact the Registrar by email  
or by post. 
The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding details, 
find out how to register a change of name or what to do if a 
share certificate is lost, as well as download forms in respect  
of changes of address, dividend mandates and share transfers.
Share Dealing Service
A share dealing service for the purchase or sale of shares in 
Intertek is available through J.P. Morgan Cazenove, whose  
details are as follows:
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
2nd Floor
London EC2V 7RF
T: +44 20 7155 5338
ShareGift
If you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell, 
you may want to consider donating it to ShareGift. The Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation 
scheme. Details of the scheme are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
T: +44 20 7930 3737
Share Price Information
Information on the Company’s share price is available from the 
investor pages of www.intertek.com
Financial Calendar
Financial year end 31 December 2011
Results announced 5 March 2012
Annual General Meeting 17 May 2012
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 6 June 2012
Record date for final dividend 8 June 2012
Final dividend payable 22 June 2012
Interim results announced 26 July 2012
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 31 October 2012
Record date for interim dividend 2 November 2012
Interim dividend payable 16 November 2012
All future dates are indicative and subject to change.
Investor relations
E: investor@intertek.com
T: +44 20 7396 3400
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House 
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA
T: 0871 384 2653 (UK)*
T: +44 121 415 7047 (outside UK)
*  Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT 
landline, other providers costs may vary. Lines open 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
T: +44 20 7311 1000
Brokers
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
2nd Floor
London EC2V 7RF
T: +44 20 7155 5338
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
T: +44 20 7774 1000
Registered Office
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London W1S 2ES
T: +44 20 7396 3400
F: +44 20 7396 3480
www.intertek.com
Registered number: 4267576
ISIN: GB0031638363
London Stock Exchange
Support Services
FTSE 100
Symbol: ITRK  112 | www.intertek.com
Global Reporting Initiative Index
Profile Disclosures Inclusion Location Comments
1 Strategy & Analysis
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation   p.4-7
2 Organisational Profile
2.1 Name of the organisation   Front 
cover
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services   p.2
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions   p.2-3
2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters   p.59
2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates   p.3
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form   p.111 Intertek Group plc is a publicly listed 
company 
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,  
and types of customers/beneficiaries)
  p.3
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation   p.1-3
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership   p.14-23 Operating Review
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period – – No awards received in 2011
3Report Parameters
3.1 Reporting period   – January – December 2011
3.2 Date of most recent previous report   – 2010 Annual Report
3.3 Reporting cycle   –Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents   p.111 Intertek Group plc
3.5 Process for defining report content   p.35
3.6 Boundary of the report   p.35
3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report   p.35
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries and other entities   p.35
3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports – – 2011 is base year for CSR reporting
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary  
or measurement methods applied in the report
– – 2011 is base year for CSR reporting
3.12 GRI Content Index   p.112 GRI Content Index
4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement
4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under  
the highest governance body
  p.38-44 Corporate Governance Report
4.2 Independence of the Chair of the highest governance body   p.39
4.3 Details of the organisation’s unitary board structure, if applicable   p.39
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations  
or direction to the highest governance body
  p.111
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation   p.2-3
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage   p.2-3
Level C Performance Indicators
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed   p.24-29
EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations   p.97-101
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source   p.34
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source   p.34
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight   p.34
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken   p.33
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract & region P p.32 Data on employment contract and 
type is not part of our data collection 
system but we will work towards 
including this in the future
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including 
whether it is specified in collective agreements. 
  – Minimum notice periods, where 
applicable, are governed by local law
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of 
work-related fatalities
  p.33
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 
according to gender, age group and minority group membership
P p.32-33 We do not report figures for age or 
ethnic groups as stated in lines 6-11  
on page 33 of the CSR report
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and 
procedures
  p.33
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption   p.33
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, 
and related institutions by country.
  p.58 Charitable & Political Donations
‘P’ indicates partial reporting.
The above index indicates the section references for the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) requirements and supports our alignment to a level ‘C’ of reporting.  
Some requirements include references to our governance and organisational structure which are included throughout the Annual Report content.  Designed and produced by  
This report has been printed in the UK by Pureprint Group,  
a CarbonNeutral® company, using their environmental printing 
technology. Vegetable based inks were used throughout. 
The paper is Amadeus 50% Recycled and the pulp is bleached  
using a totally chlorine free (TCF) process. Both printer and paper  
mill are ISO14001 and registered to EMAS. Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
United Kingdom
t: +44 20 7396 3400
f: +44 20 7396 3480
e: info@intertek.com
www.intertek.com
