 Your global  
quality partner
Annual Report 2012 Contents
Overview
Inside cover – Intertek at a glance
1 Financial highlights 
2 Chairman’s statement
Directors’ report – Business review
4 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review 
10 Intertek Operations Committee 
12 Operating review 
22 Financial review 
28 Sustainability and CSR 
Directors’ report – Governance
36 Board of Directors 
38 Corporate governance 
47 Principal risks and uncertainties 
51 Remuneration report 
63 Other statutory information 
65 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
66 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement
69  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 
70  Consolidated statement  
of ﬁnancial position
71 Consolidated statement 
 of changes in equity
72 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
73 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
113  Intertek Group plc company balance  
sheet and notes
Other
117 Shareholder and corporate information
118 Global reporting initiative index 
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking 
statements with respect to the ﬁnancial condition, 
results, operations and business of Intertek Group plc. 
These statements and forecasts involve risk and 
uncertainty because they relate to events and depend 
upon circumstances that will occur in the future.  
There are a number of factors that could cause actual 
results or developments to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements and forecasts. Nothing in this Annual 
Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.  Intertek is the leading quality solutions provider to industries worldwide. From auditing 
and inspection, to testing, training, advisory, quality assurance and certiﬁcation, Intertek 
adds value to customers’ products, processes and assets. With a network of more than 
1,000 laboratories and ofﬁces and over 35,000 people in more than 100 countries, 
Intertek supports companies’ success in a global marketplace. Intertek helps its customers 
to meet end users’ expectations for safety, sustainability, performance, integrity and 
desirability in virtually any market worldwide. Visit www.intertek.com.
Industry & Assurance
Using in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, nuclear,  
power, renewable energy, construction, food, chemical  
and agricultural industries, we provide a diverse range of 
services to help customers meet global quality standards. 
These include technical inspection services, asset integrity 
management, exploration and production support, 
consulting, training and third-party management systems 
auditing. We also provide certiﬁcation services, second-party 
supplier auditing, sustainability data veriﬁcation and process 
performance analysis.
of revenue
 32%
Key business areas




of revenue
 28%
Commodities
We provide independent cargo inspection, analytical 
assessment, calibration and related research and technical 
services to the world’s petroleum, mining, minerals and 
biofuels industries. We also provide services to governments 
and regulatory bodies to support trade activities that help 
the ﬂow of goods across borders.
Key business areas




Intertek at a glance





We work with over 200,000 customers ranging from the smallest 
business to the largest conglomerate, delivering customised commercial 
and compliance solutions that cater to individual client requirements, 
everywhere they do business.
Overview
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our services
Inspection Advisory Auditing Quality Assurance
Testing Outsourcing Certiﬁcation Training
Commodities
Consum
Industry  
& Assurance
Group 
£2,0
 Global scale, l Americas 
Asia Paciﬁc
EMEA 
33%
35%
32 %
Revenue by region
Commercial & Electrical
Our global network of accredited facilities provides 
manufacturers and retailers with the most comprehensive 
scope of safety, performance and quality testing and 
certiﬁcation services. We support customers in a wide  
range of industries including home appliances, consumer 
electronics, lighting, medical, building, industrial and  

 
technology, renewable energy and automotive.
 of revenue
 15%
Key business areas




Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
Serving a wide range of industries including chemical, 
pharmaceutical, oil and gas, automotive and aerospace, we 
offer advanced laboratory measurement, expert consultancy 
related technical support and sustainability solutions. We 
have an established track record of success in laboratory 
outsourcing with many large, internationally recognised 
companies and our world leading technical experts also 
support internal technical development.
 of revenue
 8%
Key business areas



Consumer Goods
We are a market leading provider of services to the  
textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines and retail industries.  
As a partner to retailers, manufacturers and distributors,  
we offer expertise on issues ranging from restricted 

security and legislation relating to environmental, ethical  
and trade security issues. Services include testing, inspection, 

substance testing.
 of revenue
 17%
Key business areas




 
 
 
 

 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Americas 
Asia Paciﬁc
EMEA 
33%
35%
32 %
er Goods
Commercial 
& Electrical
Chemicals & 
Pharmaceuticals
revenue
54m
ocal knowledge
Our global operations Overview
Strong revenue and proﬁt  
performance in 2012 
> Revenue up 17%
> Organic revenue
4
 up 8.6%
> Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
 up 19%
> Adjusted operating margin
1
 16.3%
2012
Five year trend
Strong ﬁve year compound 
growth record 
> Revenue up 20%
> Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
 up 19%
> Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 up 18%
> Dividend per share
2
 up 18%
Revenue (£m)
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
 (£m)
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence)
Dividend per share
2
 (pence)
CAGR
3
CAGR
3
CAGR
3
CAGR
3
Revenue (£m)
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
 (£m)
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence)
Statutory diluted EPS
5
 (pence)
Organic revenue +8.6% 
at constant exchange rates
4
2,054 2012
1,749 201 1
106.7 2012
85.3 201 1
335 2012
281 201 1
131.2 2012
107 .2 201 1
2,054 2012
1,749 201 1
1,374 2010
1,237 2009
1,004 2008
335 2012
281 201 1
227 2010
209 2009
165 2008
131.2 2012
107 .2 201 1
89.4 2010
81.5 2009
67.1 2008
41.0 2012
33.7 201 1
28.1 2010
25.5 2009
20.8 2008
1.  Adjusted operating proﬁt, adjusted operating margin and adjusted diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) are stated before Separately Disclosed Items,  
which are described in note 3 to the ﬁnancial statements.
2. Dividend per share for 2012 is based on the interim dividend paid of 13.0p (2011: 10.7p) plus the proposed ﬁnal dividend of 28.0p (2011: 23.0p).
3. CAGR represents the ﬁve year compound annual growth rate. 
4. Growth at constant exchange rates compares both 2012 and 2011 at the average exchange rates for 2012. 
5.  Statutory basic EPS also increased 25% to 108.2p (2011: 86.8p). 
Financial highlights
+18%
+18%
+22%
+25%
+20%
+19%
+17%
+19%
1 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 I am pleased to announce another year of strong growth 
by Intertek and the continued delivery of the Group’s 
successful strategy. 
Intertek’s customers include some of the world’s leading brands 
and companies, as well as their suppliers and governments in 
developing and developed countries. Intertek helps customers  
to assess their products, processes and assets against a wide 
range of quality and related safety, regulatory and performance 
standards. Our services include testing, certiﬁcation, auditing, 
inspection, advisory, training, outsourcing and quality assurance. 
Our work takes us into almost every ﬁeld imaginable, including 
consumer products, electronics, petroleum, minerals, 
pharmaceuticals, chemicals and food.
Results
The Group generated revenue of £2,054m, an increase of 17% 
over the prior year. Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 
8.6% at constant exchange rates. Operating proﬁt was £283m, 
up 21% over the prior year. Adjusted operating proﬁt increased  
to £335m, up 19%, and our adjusted operating margin was 16.3%. 
Excluding acquisitions, adjusted operating proﬁt was up 12%.
Earnings and returns to shareholders
The Company’s share price registered another year of strong 
performance in 2012 increasing by 52% and outperforming  
the wider UK market. Looking on a one, three or ﬁve year basis, 
the total shareholder return of Intertek shares also shows the 
Company’s excellent delivery of growth to shareholders on a 
sustained basis. 
Basic earnings per share were 108.2p, up 25% over the prior year 
and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 131.2p, up 22%.
An interim dividend of 13.0p per share (2011: 10.7p) was paid  
to shareholders on 16 November 2012. The Directors will  
propose a ﬁnal dividend of 28.0p per share at the Annual  
General Meeting which will make a full year dividend of 41.0p  
per share (2011: 33.7p), an increase of 22%.
Capital allocation
Intertek continues to generate good cash ﬂow, with 2012 
adjusted cash ﬂow from operations of £345m, an increase  
of 10% on the prior year. The Group increased organic capex  
over the prior year, spending £115m, which represents 5.6% of 
revenue, up from 4.6% of revenue in 2011. This ratio sits within 
our usual range of between 5% and 6% of revenue spent on 
capital investment.
The Group’s allocation of capital aims to pursue organic 
investment to drive sustained growth and shareholder value 
across the medium and longer term. It also aims to ensure we 
pay dividends and to progress the amount of that dividend  
in line with earnings per share growth and to complete  
bolt-on and strategic acquisitions. 
Sir David Reid Chairman 
“ I am pleased to announce another year 
of strong growth by Intertek and the 
continued delivery of the Group’s 
successful strategy.” 
Chairman’s statement
2 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Acquisitions
We continue to make targeted acquisitions and in 2012 
completed six acquisitions for a cash consideration of £40m 
(2011: £460m including the strategic acquisition of Moody 
International for £450m). Further details of these acquisitions  
are given in the Operating Review by division and in note 10  
to the ﬁnancial statements. 
With our strong ﬁnancial position we will continue to make 
advantageous bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic 
acquisition opportunities to increase shareholder value.
The Board
On 1 July 2012 we welcomed Louise Makin and Lena Wilson 
to the Board as Non-Executive Directors. Further details of 
their business experience can be found in their biographies  
on page 37.
In line with the Corporate Governance Code and the 2011 
Davies Report, the Board is composed of members with a wide 
range of complementary skills and business experience and is 
comprised of 22% female and 78% male members. The Board 
continues to have the strength and experience required to 
perform its duties effectively and is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance.
Sustainability
Intertek’s work is helping to improve the quality and safety of the 
products and services used by people around the world every day. 
By helping companies to produce greener, safer products and to 
operate in a more sustainable way, Intertek makes a substantial 
positive impact on the planet and human health that far 
outweighs our own use of resources.
We are committed to the continuous development of our  
own sustainability. Whilst being a service provider means that 
Intertek’s operations have a lower impact on the environment 
than other business sectors, we have an ongoing commitment to 
sustainability and are mindful of the impact our operations have 
on our communities, employees, customers and the environment. 
In 2012, we increased the monitoring and reporting of our 
sustainability performance. This included increased health  
and safety measurement and the introduction of new personal 
and workplace safety initiatives. We extended our environmental 
impact monitoring and emissions reporting. Further details  
can be found in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 28. 
Integrity
As a provider of independent quality solutions, the integrity  
and ethical conduct of our people and businesses is central  
to our values as an organisation and is critical to our customers 
and to the success of our businesses. 
The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures 
to ensure that good business ethics are embedded throughout 
our organisation. These policies, procedures and our internal 
performance against them are continually reviewed and aligned 
with best practice. Our compliance initiatives cover a range 
of dimensions including internal training and communications, 
independent internal and external auditing, whistle-blowing 
hotlines, external communication and collaboration with industry 
partners and customers. 
We have increased our disclosure on ethical compliance in 2012, 
and further details can be viewed in the Sustainability and CSR 
report on page 28. 
Our people
Intertek’s people, their skills and experience, and the way  
in which they work together to support our customers are 
qualities that are at the heart of the Group’s success. More than 
35,000 Intertek people work to support our customers in over 
100 countries. 
As a growth company Intertek offers interesting careers and 
professional development for our people. We are proud to  
be able to create new employment opportunities in the many 
different communities in which we work. In 2012, we welcomed 
over 3,000 new employees to the Group through organic growth 
and acquisitions. 
The ongoing development and training of our people is essential 
to Intertek’s continuing success and to fulﬁlling our long-term 
growth potential. During 2012, the Group introduced the Intertek 
Executive Academy to support and develop the talent and 
capabilities of Intertek’s next generation of global leaders.  
We also extended our internal online training programmes,  
which give employees access to more than 100 courses,  
webinars and instructor led training programmes. 
I am pleased to report that Intertek completed its ﬁrst global 
Group-wide employee satisfaction survey in the year, to 
benchmark workplace culture, employee sentiment and 
satisfaction. 62% of employees surveyed responded, with results 
indicating a good performance in many areas but also identifying 
areas for improvement. Another survey is planned for 2013. 
The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees for their  
hard work and endeavour in 2012 which has allowed the Group 
to achieve continued success.
Outlook
The Group continues to implement its clear strategy in delivering 
global quality solutions in a market with strong structural growth 
drivers. This, together with experienced management and a 
sound ﬁnancial position, means that Intertek remains able to 
capture opportunities to deliver resilient growth and performance 
despite times of economic uncertainty. The Board is conﬁdent 
that the Group will deliver on its growth plan in 2013 and into  
the future. 
Sir David Reid 
Chairman
3 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 “ The world’s leading companies,  
their suppliers and partners trust 
us to add value to their brands. 
Critical to our success is our ability to 
deliver solutions that bring beneﬁts 
to our customers’ organisations.” 
2012 saw Intertek deliver another year of strong growth despite  
a difﬁcult global economic environment. We achieved this growth 
through consistent implementation of our well-established 
mission and strategy. This remains at the centre of our ability  
to systematically capture the growth opportunities arising from 
our different markets. 
Our mission and strategy 
Our mission is ‘to provide solutions to our customers that allow 
them to improve the quality of their products, operations and 
processes’. The world’s leading companies, their suppliers and 
partners trust us to add value to their brands. We do this by 
providing solutions based on their desired quality level that 
enables them to increase their competitive advantage and 
support their global trade objectives. Intertek’s strategic  
focus is on meeting our customers’ need for quality across  
their organisations and along their complex supply chains. 
Our strategy also allows us to drive growth in our business in  
the future since the needs of our customers and the marketplace 
for quality solutions is an ever changing environment. 
The market for quality
Our marketplace is the desire for quality by organisations  
as they develop and pursue success across their businesses  
and operations. Quality encompasses many dimensions, from 
safety and performance through to integrity, desirability and 
sustainability. The demand drivers for our quality services come 
from within our customers’ organisations and from external 
commercial, consumer, regulatory and macro-economic forces. 
Global trade and the continual ﬂux in sourcing patterns and 
supply chains, as well as end-users’ changing perceptions on 
quality and desire to use more sustainable products are steadily 
expanding the demand for our services.
Our customers
Intertek has over 200,000 customers, ranging from the smallest 
business with unique local needs, to the largest conglomerate 
seeking multinational support. As the trusted partner of many  
of the world’s leading brands and their suppliers, we help local 
companies to meet local and international quality standards  
and to trade successfully with local and global partners. We help 
global companies achieve higher quality standards across their 
complex international supply chains and in the local markets 
where they seek to do business.
The diverse quality aspects that our customers need to consider  
in their assets, production, products and services is increasing  
and presenting a more complex challenge for them to achieve 
without expert help. This diversity is driven by the development  
of new technologies, the trend towards outsourcing of non-core 
activities and by their desire to meet the changing demands and 
tastes of their end-users across a range of quality, safety and 
environmental criteria. 
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
4 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review Our customers are also under pressure to increase their 
competitive edge through increasing efﬁciency, speeding up 
time-to-market and reducing costs. This means that they are 
constantly looking for better, smarter ways to conduct their 
testing, inspection and certiﬁcation activities which creates 
opportunities for us to increase our support to them by  
evolving our capabilities. 
Critical to our success is our ability to deliver quality solutions that 
add value and beneﬁt to our customers. The following pages of 
this report describe examples of the range of ways that Intertek’s 
solutions are bringing beneﬁts to our customers.
Evolving industries
In 2012 we supported a number of emerging industry 
developments and new technologies. These range from 
‘unconventional’ gas developments in the USA and Australia,  
to the physical and technological developments of energy grid 
networks and the spread of wireless and smart-phone controlled 
technologies into new consumer and industrial product areas.
It is important in delivering our strategy that our capabilities keep 
step with the evolving needs of each industry. Thus we invest in 
new technologies in many different areas to capture organic 
growth opportunities.
Strategic alignment
Intertek operates across a wide portfolio of industry segments.  
In late 2012 we conducted a strategic review of our portfolio of 
more than 20 different global business lines operating within  
our ﬁve divisions. We reviewed the alignment of our capabilities 
against present and anticipated demand within each industry  
and across our different geographical markets. 
As a result, in 2013 we have increased our global strategic focus 
on our key business lines and our operational focus around our 
countries. This model ensures that we are building the right 
knowledge and capabilities to serve the developing needs of  
each industry at a global level, whilst also ensuring our services 
are delivered in a way that recognises local market customs and 
the different operational needs of each country. 
Expanding capabilities
We focus on meeting the needs of our customers by delivering  
a range of complementary services along the entire supply chain. 
Through a combination of new service initiatives, organic 
investment and acquisitions, we continue to deepen our 
capabilities in each of our industries. 
We launched Tradegood in late 2012 which is a new online 
platform helping to match suppliers with buyers and giving buyers 
access to reliable data on suppliers’ qualiﬁcations and credentials 
globally. In the commodities arena, we extended our relationship 
with oil services group Baker Hughes, creating new efﬁciencies  
for our customers by delivering cargo inspection services in 
tandem with Baker Hughes’ treatment of customers’ cargo.  
We also expanded our capabilities in ‘4G’ telecommunications 
and electric vehicle related testing and hold market leading 
positions in those areas. Our new strategic relationship with the 
Quality and Conformity Council of Abu Dhabi will expand our 
capability in the Emirate and support the region’s increasing 
demand for quality in the years to come. 
We opened new facilities in 2012 in regions where our clients  
are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing 
new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
In addition to our organic investments, the Group completed  
a series of complementary bolt-on acquisitions in 2012. These 
included 4th Strand, a product quality and benchmarking business 
and Automation Technology, asset integrity support experts, both 
located in the USA. 
We expanded our minerals sector capabilities with the acquisition 
of Vigalab Mineral Laboratory in Chile and of Laboratory Services 
International in the Netherlands. Materials Testing & Inspection 
(‘NDT Services’) and Tickford International in the UK also joined 
the Group. These have brought new industrial testing capabilities 
within the aerospace and engine markets respectively along with 
capabilities in surrounding markets. 
Enhancing performance
Intertek is continuing to pursue operational efﬁciencies and 
establish platforms allowing it to better capture growth at a  
lower cost and to integrate acquisitions more efﬁciently. In 2012 
the Group continued the outsourcing of its global IT applications 
and accounting back-ofﬁce support. This is a phased programme 
covering countries in which English is the predominant business 
language, representing nearly 40% of revenue. 
The Group’s 2012 full year adjusted underlying operating margin 
of 16.3% reﬂects a 20 basis point improvement on the prior year, 
achieved through efﬁciency initiatives and economies of scale 
achieved through business growth.
Going forward
Looking ahead to 2013 and beyond we will continue with our 
established strategy, allowing us to grow our business and to 
increase our value to shareholders.
By maintaining our focus on delivering services that add beneﬁt  
to our customers’ organisations, we will continue to be a 
sought-after and trusted partner to our clients.
Our portfolio of industry services, geographic diversity and 
continual development and alignment of our capabilities around 
our mission, will ensure that we have a broad platform to invest  
in fast growing sectors. We are well prepared to capture early 
opportunities arising in the markets of the different industries we 
are serving and are positioned to continue our successful growth 
pattern in the future.
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
5 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Whether our customers are developing new products, building 
new infrastructure and/or trying to get their products, services 
and projects to market more quickly, we help them ensure that 
their business is not compromised by poor quality. Companies 
seek quality solutions for a wide variety of reasons. 
The need for quality arises at 
many separate and interrelated 
points across a customer’s 
organisation. Quality is diverse 
and may reﬂect one or many  
of the following dimensions 
– all of which Intertek serves.
Safety
Reducing the risk of injuries 
and danger to life and health 
from products, materials, 
components and operations.
Sustainability
Helping companies  
to improve the social,  
health and environmental 
impact of their products  
and processes. 
Performance
Enabling organisations to 
optimise the technical output 
of their products or processes. 
Integrity
Evaluating the composition  
or reliability of infrastructure, 
materials, commodities, 
components and systems. 
Desirability
Increasing the appeal of 
products, materials and  
new innovations to the varying 
preferences of end-users in 
different markets.
Our market
The global marketplace for quality solutions is dynamic and diverse. As organisations  
in developed and developing economies pursue success, it creates the need to develop 
and maintain the right quality in their products and processes. Below are some of the 
dynamics that create Intertek’s chosen marketplace: Quality. 
s.
h 
.
ut 
es. 
e, 
ng 
Market  
drivers in our 
industries
Regulations 
New
technologies 
Energy  
growth and 
development
End-user
expectations
Supply chain  
complexity 
What is quality? Market drivers in our industries
6 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued Macro-economic trends and opportunities in our sector create growth in the demand  
for quality services. These also add resilience to our business model. We have a range  
of opportunities to expand our business and increase value to shareholders with the 
enduring drivers of growth in our marketplace.
Our growth opportunities
Regulations 
Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards 
continue to expand and change across companies and cultures. 
Companies utilise quality services to maintain compliance and  
navigate regulatory change.
Network and service expansion 
Expanding our services into new markets and developing  
new services in existing markets will enable us to capture  
new business. We continue to invest in new services and  
capabilities to support our customers’ current and future  
needs and to expand in growing markets.
New technologies 
Companies develop new products and technologies to create new 
markets, increase sales and to respond to diverse end-user demands. 
Quality services are needed from the concept stage through to  
delivery to the end market. 
Market drivers in our industries 
Our customers’ efforts to innovate, meet consumer demand 
for quality, develop energy resources, maintain efﬁcient supply 
chains and comply with regulations create demand for quality 
services. Their ongoing development of new technologies,  
energy resources and quality in their products is increasing  
the demand for our solutions.
Supply chain complexity 
Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers  
and components across multiple countries. They seek assurances  
on quality along the supply chain to reduce the risk of product, brand 
and operational failures, and to increase visibility and efﬁciency along 
the supply chain.
Outsourcing and consulting services
By creating quality solutions that enhance our customers’ 
businesses, we can increase the outsourcing of quality services  
and related consultancy by companies to Intertek. Today, many 
companies address quality needs internally but at a higher cost  
with less ﬂexibility and dedicated knowledge.
Energy growth and development  
Global demand for energy is driving increased development and 
trading of energy resources and infrastructure. Our customers are 
requiring more quality, safety and environmental assurance support  
in their expanding resource production and trading activities.
Industry consolidation
By making value-adding acquisitions, we are consolidating  
our position in key industries. These also allow us to add 
complementary capabilities to our service portfolio and grow  
our business through a full-service offering for each customer  
in each industry.
End-user expectations
Consumers in developed economies trust brands and companies  
that deliver products, or perform, with consistent quality. This requires 
investment in quality solutions to maintain or increase their reputation 
for quality. Consumers in emerging markets are also demanding higher 
levels of quality across a diverse range of criteria, creating new markets 
for quality services from local and international brands. 
Global trade and emerging market trade growth 
Increasing interconnectedness in global trade and expanding 
regional trade among fast-growth nations is expanding the market 
for Intertek’s services. In creating, buying and selling products each 
day, our customers seek independent assurance on the quality of 
materials received from their trading partners.
7 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Global
Quality
Partner
Our strategy
Intertek’s mission is to deliver quality solutions that add value to our customers’ processes, 
products and brands. Our business is differentiated through our strategic choice of target 
market, how and where we deploy our services in that market, and in the way we interact 
with our customers. 
Global trade model 
Intertek has a unique and strategic focus on supporting 
organisations’ needs for quality as they arise in the context  
of global trade. Our business model targets the testing,  
inspection and certiﬁcation of goods, commodities and 
infrastructure ﬂowing along supply chains and between  
different markets and into global trade. 
Industry focus 
We are organised around the industries that we operate in.  
This enables us to best meet the quality needs of each industry, 
which arise at many separate and interrelated points speciﬁc  
to their industries and organisations. 
Target whole supply chain 
Different quality needs exist at each stage of the supply chain; 
from the sourcing of raw materials or prototype testing, to the 
manufacture and distribution of a ﬁnished product. We position 
our business along the length of the supply chain to support  
the needs of customers at each stage. 
Customer-oriented relationships 
The way that we approach our customer relationships 
differentiates us. We aim to create a trusted partnership with 
our customers, becoming an integral part of their businesses and 
providing solutions that can improve their competitive advantage. 
We focus on understanding our customers’ businesses and their 
needs and pressures. Our strategy is to provide our solutions in  
a way that can help them better meet those needs and improve 
their businesses. 
8 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued Network expansion 
We continue to expand and deepen our network and knowledge in new  
regions and in new and existing industries to capture opportunities for growth.  
This enables us to meet demand from changes in global, interregional and local 
trade and deepen our position in established and growing markets. 
Leading positions in key industries 
We develop our service lines to support quality needs along the  
length of the supply chain through organic investment and acquisition. 
We concentrate on industry sectors where we have the critical size  
to hold leading positions and provide our customers with  
world-class services. 
New services for the present and future 
We create new services and innovations for our customers to help their 
businesses succeed. We develop capabilities along the frontier of science 
and innovation which drives market demand for quality services in the 
future. We develop new tools and interfaces in areas where we can  
support customers in new, smarter ways.
Investing in our people 
Our people are our core assets and we invest continually in them. 
They are chosen for their technical expertise, values and their understanding 
of local culture. Our people are experts and leaders in their ﬁelds, including 
engineers, chemists, biologists, consultants and geologists. Many are holders 
of research doctorates, are graduates or advisors to global institutions. 
Our talented and dedicated people provide our customers with the expertise 
they need to succeed.
Our strategy is to be the premier service provider in our chosen markets.  
We continue to invest in and develop our business delivery model in order  
to be our customers’ partner of choice. 
9 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Intertek Operations Committee
Andrew Swift
Division Executive Vice President  
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
Jonathan Lawrence
Group Vice President
Human Resources
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The day-to-day management of the  
Group is undertaken by the Intertek 
Operations Committee (‘IOC’).
The IOC currently comprises the 
two Executive Directors, the ﬁve  
Executive Vice Presidents who head 
up the operating divisions, the Group  
Vice President Human Resources  
and the Chief Information Ofﬁcer.
Joined Intertek in 2002. Appointed to the  
Board as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in March  
2005 after serving as a Non-Executive Director 
since November 2002. Wolfhart Hauser was 
previously Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and President 
of TÜV Süddeutschland AG for four years and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of TÜV Product Services 
for 10 years. Starting his career with various 
research activities he went on to establish and 
lead a broad range of successful international 
service industry businesses. He has held several 
non-executive board director and chairman 
roles in a variety of technology companies. 
Joined Intertek in 2001. Prior to assuming  
his current role in January 2008, Andrew  
Swift was Vice President of Global  
Outsourcing within Intertek’s Oil, Chemical  
& Agri division, having originally started as 
Business Development Manager and then 
Director of Global Outsourcing. Andrew  
began his career by launching CSMA Ltd,  
where he became Managing Director in  
1993. He is a member of the Royal Society  
of Chemistry.
Joined Intertek in 2005. Jonathan Lawrence  
has many years experience as an international 
human resources director in the testing and 
inspection business and has been previously 
based in the UK, France and the USA. In 
addition to human resources, Jonathan directs 
sustainability and internal communications 
across the Intertek Group. Before moving to 
Intertek, he was Group Senior Vice President  
of Human Resources at Bureau Veritas. 
Jonathan began his career as a Chartered 
Manufacturing Engineer in industry.
10 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review Stefan Butz
Group Executive Vice President
Industry & Assurance
Ann-Michele Bowlin
Chief Information Ofﬁcer
Paul Yao
Group Executive Vice President
Consumer Goods
Jay Gutierrez
Division Executive Vice President
Commodities
Lloyd Pitchford
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Gregg Tiemann
Division Executive Vice President 
Commercial & Electrical
Joined Intertek in 2010. Appointed to the  
Board as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in April 2010. 
Lloyd Pitchford previously spent 10 years with 
BG Group plc in various operational and 
corporate ﬁnance roles in the UK and Middle 
East; including ﬁve years as Group Financial 
Controller. He previously worked for Mobil Oil 
Corporation in various ﬁnancial, commercial 
and management roles. 
Joined Intertek in 1993. Prior to assuming  
his current role in January 2008, Gregg 
Tiemann was President of Intertek’s  
Commercial & Electrical division in Europe  
and the Americas since 2004, having started  
as General Manager of the Los Angeles and 
Mexico City laboratories in 1993. Before  
joining Intertek, Gregg worked in sales  
and marketing for the software industry.
Joined Intertek in 2008. In addition to Industry 
& Assurance, Stefan Butz has responsibility for 
the Group functions of Strategy, Corporate 
Development and Marketing. Stefan has held 
this role since January 2008, when he joined 
Intertek from TÜV SÜD, where he held the 
position of CEO Americas, with an earlier  
role as Head of Corporate Development.  
Prior to this he was a Strategy Consultant  
with Accenture Germany. 
Joined Intertek in 2009. Ann-Michele Bowlin 
was appointed Chief Information Ofﬁcer of 
Intertek in September 2010 and joined the 
IOC on 1 January 2012. She is responsible for 
driving the Group’s IT strategy and its alignment 
with the wider organisation. Ann-Michele 
joined as Group Vice President, Shared Services, 
to work with business and ﬁnance leaders to 
develop the Group shared services strategy. 
Prior to joining Intertek, Ann-Michele held  
leadership and operational positions in a  
variety of industries including manufacturing,  
technology, travel and professional services. 
Joined Intertek in 1994. Paul Yao was 
appointed a member of the Executive 
Management Team on 1 July 2006. Prior to 
this, from January 2003 he was Vice President 
with responsibility for Consumer Goods in 
China and Taiwan. Before joining Intertek,  
Paul worked in Regional Sales & Marketing  
for companies such as Hitachi Chemical,  
Brent Plc and SISIR Singapore.
Joined Intertek in 1997. Jay Gutierrez assumed 
his current role in January 2008, and added 
Government Services in January 2009 and 
Minerals in January 2011. Previously, he was 
Vice President for the Oil, Chemical and Agri 
division in the Americas. Jay has 30 years 
experience in the cargo inspection and testing 
industry. He began his career with Intertek  
with a focus to develop the Chemical business 
stream, later assuming responsibility for 
International Coordination and Sales & 
Marketing. Prior to joining Intertek he  
spent eight years as General Manager  
for C.J. Thibodeaux, Inc.
11 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Powering safer futures
Directors’ report – Business review
Operating review – Industry & Assurance
Financial highlights 2012
£m
Change at
 actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 665.6 42% 43%
Adjusted operating profit 77.4 52% 54%
Adjusted operating margin 11.6% 70bps 70bps
Employees
7,329 2012
6,053 201 1
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
665.6 2012
468.6 201 1
What we do 
The Industry & Assurance division provides a wide range of 
services to clients across its global business lines, which include 
Industry Services, Exploration and Production and Business 
Assurance as well as Food and Agriculture. These services  
include asset integrity management, engineering, inspection, 
auditing, certiﬁcation, consulting, training and stafﬁng,  
provided to a wide variety of industries including oil, gas, 
petrochemical, power, renewable energy, and construction.
Our performance in 2012 
Performance in 2012 has been strong as the full beneﬁts  
from the acquisition and integration of Moody, purchased  
in April 2011, have been delivered. 
Total revenue was £665.6m, up 42% at actual exchange rates 
and 43% at constant exchange rates. Excluding acquisitions 
revenue growth was 9%. Total adjusted operating proﬁt was 
£77.4m up 52%. Excluding acquisitions adjusted operating  
proﬁt was up 18%. The total adjusted operating margin increased 
70 basis points to 11.6% at actual exchange rates. The organic 
adjusted operating margin at constant exchange rates increased 
60 basis points.
During the year there was signiﬁcant revenue growth from the 
Industry & Assurance division as the joint Intertek Moody offering 
drove signiﬁcant contract wins in the industrial Technical 
Inspection market, driven by expenditure by clients on both  
capex and opex related energy projects. The Food business has 
expanded its network and continues to deliver strong growth, 
while the Business Assurance and Agri sectors continue to 
support growth in the division.
In April 2012 Intertek acquired Automation Technology, a provider 
of asset integrity support services to the US Power industry for 
£10.0m and in September 2012 the Group acquired Materials 
Testing and Inspection (‘NDT Services’) in the UK for £14.3m 
which offers a range of non-destructive testing services to  
the aerospace, power and petrochemical sectors. 
As global energy demand continues to grow, the demand  
for inspection services will continue to drive revenue growth.
12 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Plugging in to  
renewable energy 
With one of the largest offshore 
wind markets, Germany is racing 
to connect its burgeoning offshore 
facilities to the onshore grid so that 
it can meet its offshore energy 
targets for 2020. Intertek’s 
specialist expertise in delivering 
offshore solutions enabled our 
client, a European electricity grid 
operator, to help ensure its 
interconnections were completed 
to the highest possible standards 
within a short time-frame.
Intertek’s ﬂexibility and 
openness to new and 
different approaches has 
helped to add value through 
the audit process.
Director,
global foodservice retailer
Transparency in food supply 
The food industry is increasingly 
subject to scrutiny, and so food 
production customers have greater 
demands placed upon them to 
demonstrate the safety and quality 
of their processes to consumers. 
With our portfolio of food testing, 
auditing, certiﬁcation, training and 
advisory services we are helping 
our customers move from a 
‘quality control’ approach at the 
production stage, to a ‘quality 
assurance’ approach along the 
supply chain from ‘farm to fork’. 
A reputation for quality
When China’s largest oil and gas producer and supplier 
looked for a partner to certify and provide extended 
technical inspection services, Intertek met this need,  
having already established a reputation as a world leading 
provider of technical inspection services to the global 
energy market. The work included oil and gas storage  
and transmission pipeline inspections, in addition to 
chemical, petrochemical and equipment inspections.  
These inspections are critical to ensuring a supply chain  
that minimises risk, reduces cost and potential delays, 
improves product quality and safety and ensures our  
client complies to local and international standards. 
13 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Supporting global trade
What we do 
The Commodities division provides testing, inspection and other 
technical services to the global petroleum and minerals industries, 
and supports trade activities that help the ﬂow of goods across 
borders. Its key business lines include Cargo, Analytical 
Assessment, Government & Trade Services and Minerals.
Our performance in 2012 
Revenue in the Commodities division increased 8% to  
£572.3m at actual exchange rates, and 9% at constant  
exchange rates. This strong increase was mostly organic.  
Total adjusted operating proﬁt for the division was £77.2m  
up 15% at actual exchange rates. The adjusted operating  
margin was 13.5% up 90 basis points at actual exchange  
rates and the organic adjusted operating margin was up  
80 basis points at constant exchange rates.
There was strong growth in demand for cargo inspection  
and analytical assessment within Asia, while the US market  
was steady. Demand for cargo inspection services continued  
to expand as global trade patterns evolve. Demand for minerals 
testing was particularly strong during the ﬁrst half of the year, 
especially in Australia, Indonesia and Africa which supply minerals 
to meet demand from China. Our trade services programmes 
continued to increase the support to governments around the 
world, with both well-established and new programmes 
delivering high revenue growth.
In May 2012 Intertek acquired Vigalab Mineral Laboratory in Chile 
for £3.3m which complements Intertek’s growing international 
minerals capability and supports the expansion of quality and 
safety services in Latin America. 
In November 2012 the Group acquired a majority stake in 
Laboratory Services International Rotterdam for £4.1m, which 
provides analytical testing for commodities traded on the London 
Metal Exchange. 
Growth in the commodities market is largely driven by underlying 
global trade and growth in consumer demand in local markets. 
We expect long-term growth in the demand for energy and other 
commodities to continue to drive testing and inspection revenues.
Financial highlights 2012
£m
Change at
 actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 572.3 8% 9%
Adjusted operating profit 77.2 15% 15%
Adjusted operating margin 13.5% 90bps 80bps
Directors’ report – Business review
Operating review – Commodities
Employees
10,352 2012
9,763 201 1
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
572.3 2012
530.2 201 1
14 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Supporting global trade 
Intertek works closely with 
Governments to assess the quality 
of regulated products entering or 
exiting the country; whether  
from a safety, authenticity or 
performance perspective Intertek 
provides assurance in accordance 
with strict standards.
A quality discovery 
As mining companies search for 
new deposits of minerals, the 
speed and accuracy of sample 
analysis becomes a critical part  
of the discovery process. Intertek’s 
network of mine laboratories 
ensures there is a short lead time 
until results are available.
Intertek’s oil assay testing 
provides us with important 
shale oil composition data 
which is vital in optimising 
the quality and value of 
our oil and gas production.
Feedstocks Quality Manager,
petroleum reﬁning and distribution company
Enabling the shale oil and gas revolution 
Innovative fracking technologies have unlocked vast 
amounts of shale crude oil and natural gas in North 
America. The resulting tsunami of new production has 
caused radical changes in global and domestic trading 
patterns and generated challenges in transportation, 
distribution and reﬁning.
Intertek’s in-depth knowledge of the shale oil and gas  
supply chain has allowed us to provide crucial expertise  
to meet these challenges. We have provided on-site support 
in major shale projects such as the Bakken and Eagle Ford.  
Our personnel work with inland pipeline, rail, and storage 
networks to ensure the quality and quantity of shale oil and 
gas products through sampling and quality control testing  
in our laboratories. In addition, our high-value bulk cargo 
inspection services assist reﬁneries, traders and logistic 
providers to process, trade and store their products better. 
15 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Satisfying the demand for quality
Financial highlights 2012
£m
Change at
 actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 343.4 9% 8%
Adjusted operating profit 112.8 6% 5%
Adjusted operating margin 32.8% (90)bps (120)bps
Directors’ report – Business review
Operating review – Consumer Goods
Employees
10,047 2012
9,177 201 1
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
343.4 2012
315.7 201 1
What we do 
The global business lines, including Textiles, Toys & Hardlines,  
Risk Management, and Auditing, that comprise the Consumer 
Goods division, partner with global retailers, manufacturers  
and distributors. Our services include testing, inspection,  
auditing, advisory services, quality assurance, and hazardous 
substance testing.
Our performance in 2012 
The Consumer Goods division delivered strong growth in 2012, 
with total revenue of £343.4m, an increase of 9% at actual 
exchange rates and 8% at constant exchange rates. Organic 
revenue growth was 8%. Total adjusted operating proﬁt of 
£112.8m was up 6% at actual exchange rates. The adjusted 
operating margin was 32.8% a decline of 90 basis points at 
actual exchange rates. The organic adjusted operating margin  
at constant exchange rates decreased 90 basis points principally 
due to investment in the new Tradegood service line. Excluding this 
development, the adjusted operating margin was broadly stable.
The demand for textiles testing continued to grow well, with 
growth in China supplemented by strong growth in other parts  
of our network, including Turkey, Korea, Vietnam, Bangladesh, 
India and Mexico. Slower growth in Toys & Hardlines testing was 
more than offset by progress in our Risk Management and Auditing 
business lines, which provide testing across the supply chain. 
During the year the Group launched ‘Intertek Tradegood’ a new 
online platform to help match suppliers with buyers which gives 
buyers access to reliable data on suppliers’ qualiﬁcations and 
credentials globally. 
In March 2012 Intertek acquired 4th Strand for £4.1m, a provider 
of product quality and benchmarking services to the retail 
industry in North America. This company brings expert product 
procurement knowledge and experience to the Group that will 
support the drive to increase the range of services to the retail 
industry initially to North America and then to Europe and  
other geographies.
The growth drivers in Consumer Goods are strong, with increased 
consumer demand for quality and safety, product sourcing from 
lower cost manufacturers and legislative changes all creating a 
market for our services. The development of innovative solutions 
and delivery models for clients will also help to grow revenues.
16 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Time-to-market has 
improved while overall 
product cost has decreased 
and continues to do so.
Executive Director,
consumer product retailer
Supply chain assurance  
Intertek was charged with 
monitoring and auditing the 
conditions of the factories that 
produce this retailer’s organic 
cotton shirts. Intertek observed 
and evaluated working conditions, 
the workers’ wages and workﬂow 
safety measures to determine  
if they met both the customer’s 
and regulatory standards.  
Intertek also evaluated production 
capabilities and standards 
including assessments of 
machinery and contracts with 
third-party manufacturing 
companies, producing a report 
with recommendations to 
enhance performance.
Design analysis  
Our customer, a leading toy 
manufacturer, sought Intertek’s 
assistance to ensure the integration 
of safety precautions in its product 
designs. Using our Design Hazard 
Analysis® programme we used 
historical data analysis, physical 
simulations and laboratory 
evaluations to help them 
understand potential hazards  
and to mitigate associated 
manufacturing and supply chain 
delay risks caused by design issues. 
A strategic partnership 
A global retailer wanted to focus their energies on their  
core business – bringing new and innovative products to 
market in a timely fashion, while entrusting quality to the 
experts at Intertek.
The retailer was so pleased with Intertek’s ability to stay true 
to its overall mission that Intertek was awarded the primary 
responsibility of managing the retailer’s future product 
development analysis, testing criteria, vendor capability 
development, social responsibility auditing, and all existing 
and future quality management programmes.
17 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Supporting the technical revolution
Financial highlights 2012
£m
Change at
 actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 318.2 9% 9%
Adjusted operating profit 50.6 15% 13%
Adjusted operating margin 15.9% 70bps 60bps
Directors’ report – Business review
Operating review – Commercial & Electrical
Employees
4,092 2012
3,897 201 1
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
318.2 2012
291.0 201 1
What we do 
The Commercial & Electrical division provides global 
manufacturers with the most comprehensive scope of safety, 
performance and quality testing and certiﬁcation services.  
We support clients in a wide range of industries including  
home appliances, consumer electronics, lighting, medical, 
building, industrial and heating, ventilation, air conditioning  
and refrigeration, information communication and technology, 
renewable energy and automotive. Core business lines include 
Electrical, Automotive, Building and Wireless. 
Our performance in 2012 
The Commercial & Electrical division delivered strong growth,  
with total revenue increasing 9% to £318.2m at actual exchange 
rates, and 9% at constant exchange rates. This growth was 
wholly organic. Total adjusted operating proﬁt was £50.6m,  
up 15%. The total adjusted operating margin was 15.9%, up  
70 basis points (up 60 basis points at constant exchange rates).
Growth was mainly in high tech sectors, particularly medical 
products, lighting and renewables across North America and 
China. We invested in new technologies in the USA, Germany 
and China in areas including ‘4G’ mobile services and electric 
vehicle battery technology as we continue to expand our service 
offering to clients. 
Proprietary certiﬁcation marks owned by Intertek and issued 
by the Commercial & Electrical division enable manufacturers 
to show proof of compliance to safety and quality requirements, 
as well as a means of differentiating their products. Innovations 
in technology, particularly the growth in mobile applications 
and high speed networks are helping to drive testing and 
certiﬁcation revenues, alongside greater legislation. We expect 
consumer demand for ‘green’ products to continue to grow 
and we are helping our customers improve the energy 
efﬁciency of their products.
18 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Quality is what you do 
when no one is looking, 
and Intertek proved that 
they have the highest 
level of quality and 
customer service.
Director of Compliance, 
electrical/electronics manufacturer
Committed to our client’s success
A mobile ‘apps’ client that provides a digital radio  
service required immediate quality assurance testing  
and certiﬁcation to meet all phone platforms and  
mobile operating systems. Intertek quickly scaled its  
global resources to test the software against a wide array  
of mobile technologies, enabling the company to meet  
wireless carrier requirements and get to market within strict 
deadlines. The result was a highly popular and successful 
all-in-one digital radio application that lets users stream 
more than 1,500 live stations or create custom stations 
featuring similar songs and artists.
Fast, expert service 
A leading electrical/electronics 
manufacturer needed immediate 
testing and certiﬁcation to meet  
a critical product delivery deadline, 
and Intertek committed 100%  
to meeting their schedule.
Global research and 
certiﬁcations 
As home and commercial 
appliances become more  
energy efﬁcient, their electronics 
become increasingly more 
sophisticated. The challenge  
for one global leader in laundry 
systems is staying abreast of  
the ever-changing regulatory 
requirements. Intertek’s experts 
regularly work with the client – 
daily, when needed – to address 
regulations for every country in 
which they sell their products. 
19 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ report – Business review
Operating review – Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
At the cutting edge of research
Financial highlights 2012
£m
Change at
 actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 154.8 8% 10%
Adjusted operating profit 17.1 34% 36%
Adjusted operating margin 11.0% 210bps 210bps
154.8 2012
143.9 201 1
Revenue – at actual rates (£m)
1,516 2012
1,461 201 1
Employees
What we do 
Our expertise in the Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division  
helps clients in industries as diverse as aerospace, automotive, 
healthcare and beauty and medical and pharmaceutical to 
accelerate and de-risk new product research, improve efﬁciency  
in manufacturing and to ensure ﬁnal product safety and 
compliance with the appropriate regulatory authorities.  
We support core business processes, ranging from new  
drug development through to innovation in new materials  
including metals, polymers and composites. 
Our performance in 2012 
The division achieved strong growth, particularly in the second 
half of the year, with total revenue increasing 8% to £154.8m  
at actual exchange rates and 10% at constant exchange rates. 
Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 7%. Total adjusted 
operating proﬁt for the division was £17.1m, up 34%. The total 
adjusted operating margin was 11.0% up 210 basis points. 
Excluding acquisitions, adjusted operating proﬁt growth was  
up 180 basis points at constant exchange rates.
During the year Intertek entered into partnership with the Abu 
Dhabi Government Quality and Conformity Council (‘QCC’) to 
support the quality programme for the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 
Intertek will initially provide advisory services for the development 
of more effective quality conformity schemes for speciﬁed 
products and systems. 
There was strong growth in the USA, notably in the automotive 
business and advanced materials, while the QCC outsourcing 
contract also beneﬁted the second half. The next stage of the 
European Union REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation also improved 
performance in the regulatory services sector. 
On 31 December 2012 the Group acquired Tickford Test 
Technology in the UK for a cash consideration of £3.8m.  
This expands the range of services provided to vehicle 
manufacturers for engine and lubricant testing. 
A positive US economy and continuing environmental controls  
will continue to drive growth in the automotive fuels and 
lubricants sector, while the REACH regulation should beneﬁt  
the European market. The QCC agreement will provide an 
opportunity to deliver on a high proﬁle contract and act as  
a model for future outsourcing contracts.
20 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic quality partnership
Intertek has entered into 
partnership with the Abu Dhabi 
Government Quality and 
Conformity Council (‘QCC’) to 
support the quality programme  
for the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 
Intertek will provide advisory 
services for the development  
of more effective quality 
conformity schemes for speciﬁed 
products and systems. This  
will be followed by operational 
management services and quality 
assurance support for QCC’s 
existing testing and certiﬁcation 
resources whilst underpinning the 
establishment of new testing 
capabilities for an extended range 
of products. Intertek will then 
work with QCC to establish centres 
of excellence in Abu Dhabi 
covering major sectors such as 
food and water, pharmaceuticals, 
medical devices, building materials 
and electrical appliances.
We contracted Intertek  
to help comply with  
REACH registration 
deadlines, making it 
possible for us to continue 
selling our products in 
Europe without interrupting 
the supply chain.
Leader, Product Integrity Group,
plastics and chemicals producer
Safer health and 
beauty products
Recently the European Commission 
concluded that REACH has 
improved the safe use of chemicals 
both for human health and the 
environment. Numerous ﬂavours 
and fragrances companies are 
working with Intertek to meet 
their REACH obligations, ensuring 
the safe use of their specialty 
chemicals in all applications, 
including in healthcare and beauty 
products. Intertek also provides 
expert testing and product 
assessment services to ensure that 
cosmetic products are safe for 
consumers worldwide.
Expertise through collaboration
When Air Products, a leading global supplier in industrial 
gases and speciality materials looked for measurement 
support in their research and development to continue to 
enable their customers to be productive, energy efﬁcient 
and sustainable, Intertek met their challenge. Our team of 
analytical experts worked closely with Air Products’ own 
R&D and engineering teams, providing problem solving, 
method development, modiﬁcation and testing services in 
order to accelerate R&D programmes and reﬁne 
manufacturing processes for a wide range of applications.
21 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Results for the year
The Group continued its strong growth trajectory in 2012 
and reported an increase in adjusted diluted earnings per share 
of 22%.
Revenue for the year was £2,054m, up 17% (18% at constant 
exchange rates) driven by strong organic revenue growth of 8.1% 
(8.6% at constant exchange rates) and the continued successful 
performance of the Moody International (‘Moody’) business 
acquired part way through 2011. All divisions recorded revenue 
and proﬁt growth at both actual and constant exchange rates.
The Group’s adjusted operating proﬁt was £335m, up 19%  
on the prior year (19% at constant exchange rates). The Group’s 
proﬁt for the year was £188m, up 25%. 
The adjusted operating margin was 16.3% compared with 16.1% 
in the prior year. This change included the dilutive impact of the 
Moody acquisition and, excluding acquisitions, the organic 
operating margin increased 60 basis points (‘bps’) (40 bps at 
constant exchange rates).
The Group delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) of 
131.2p, an increase of 22%. Diluted EPS after Separately Disclosed 
Items (‘SDIs’) rose 25% to 106.7p per share, and basic EPS also 
rose 25% to 108.2p.
During the year, the Group made six bolt-on acquisitions, 
complementing the existing service offering and targeting new 
growth areas. Organic capital investment was £115m as the 
Group invested in new facilities and new technologies.
After strong growth delivery in recent years and rapid expansion 
into new services and locations, the Group is conducting a review 
of a number of its businesses and locations and will restructure 
part of its operations accordingly. The 2012 restructuring charge  
is included within SDIs in note 3 to the ﬁnancial statements.
The Group has further strengthened its ﬁnancing with new 
facilities in early 2013. Net debt was £551m and the Group’s gross 
ﬁnancing facilities had an average life of six years. With strong 
continuing cash generation, this provides a robust ﬁnancial 
position to fund the Group’s further growth opportunities.
Dividend
The Board recommends a full year dividend of 41.0p per share,  
an increase of 22%. This recommendation reﬂects the Group’s 
signiﬁcant growth, strong ﬁnancial performance and position, 
and the Board’s conﬁdence in the Group’s outlook.
The full year dividend of 41.0p represents a total cost of £65.9m 
or 31% of adjusted proﬁt attributable to shareholders of the 
Group for 2012 (2011: £54.1m and 31%). The dividend is covered 
3.2 times by earnings (2011: 3.2 times), based on adjusted proﬁt 
attributable to equity shareholders.
Financial review
Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Revenue up 17% to £2,054m
Adjusted operating proﬁt up 19% to £335m
Adjusted diluted EPS up 22% 
Dividend per share up 22%
Group ﬁnancing further extended
“ The Group continued its strong 
growth trajectory in 2012 and 
reported an increase in adjusted 
diluted earnings per share of 22%.”
22 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
2012 performance highlights 131.2 2012
107 .2 201 1
89.4 2010
81.5 2009
67.1 2008
41.0 2012
33.7 201 1
28.1 2010
25.5 2009
20.8 2008
The underlying performance of the business, by division, is shown in the table below:
Revenue Adjusted operating profit
1
Notes
2012
£m
Change at
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
2012
£m
Change at
actual rates
Change at
constant rates
Industry & Assurance 2 665.6 42.0% 43.3% 77.4 52.1% 53.6%
Commodities 2 572.3 7.9% 9.0% 77.2 15.2% 15.4%
Consumer Goods 2 343.4 8.8% 8.3% 112.8 6.1% 4.6%
Commercial & Electrical 2 318.2 9.3% 8.7% 50.6 14.7% 12.9%
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 2 154.8 7.6% 9.9% 17.1 33.6% 35.7%
2,054.3 17 .4% 18.0% 335.1 19.2% 18.6%
Net financing costs 14 (26.7) 27.1%
Adjusted profit before income tax 308.4 18.6%
Income tax expense 6 (80.3) 9.5%
Adjusted profit for the year 228.1 22.1%
Adjusted diluted EPS 7 131.2 22.4%
Current year performance
Revenue (£m)
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1 
(£m)
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence)
Dividend per share (pence)
+18% at constant exchange rates  
+8.6% organic
2
 at constant exchange rates
+19% at constant exchange rates  
+11.2% organic
2
 at constant exchange rates
2,054 2012
1,749 201 1
+17%
335 2012
281 201 1
+19%
131.2 2012
107 .2 201 1
+22%
41.0 2012
33.7 201 1
+22%
Five year performance
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence) Dividend per share (pence)
Five year compound 
growth of 18%
Five year compound 
growth of 18%
+18% +18%
1. Presentation of results
  To provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Group’s business, the ﬁgures discussed in this review 
are presented before Separately Disclosed Items (see note 3 of the ﬁnancial statements). A reconciliation between Adjusted operating proﬁt and Proﬁt for the 
year is set out in note 2 to the ﬁnancial statements.
2. Organic growth excludes the results of acquisitions made in 2012 and 2011.
23 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators  
(‘KPIs’) to monitor the ﬁnancial performance of the Group  
and operating divisions. These metrics are adjusted to exclude  
the SDIs (see page 78), to enable a better understanding of  
the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The KPIs are regularly reviewed by the Board and management 
and are used to assess past performance and set targets for the 
future, including for management incentive schemes. Further 
information on management incentives is given in the 
Remuneration Report which starts on page 51.
A critical performance indicator for the Group is the continuing 
expansion of the revenue base. Revenue grew 17%, with strong 
organic growth of 8.6% at constant exchange rates. This organic 
growth was supplemented by acquisitions made in 2011 and 
2012, of which Moody was the most signiﬁcant.
This material increase in revenue drove a 19% increase in 
adjusted operating proﬁt (19% at constant exchange rates)  
with organic growth of 12.1% (11.2% at constant exchange 
rates). For 2012 the adjusted operating margin was 16.3% 
(2011: 16.1%). The underlying operating margin (excluding the 
effects of acquisitions) was up 60 bps over the prior year  
(40 bps at constant exchange rates).
The Group has a strong record of converting proﬁts into cash  
to fund future growth and returns to shareholders. In 2012  
this trend continued, with £345m of adjusted cash ﬂow  
from operations, an increase of 10%. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is a key measure of  
value creation used by the Board and is a component of the 
incentive targets for management. It is calculated as adjusted 
operating proﬁt divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares, including potentially dilutive share awards, in 
issue during the year. Adjusted diluted EPS increased 22% over 
the prior year, to 131.2p, reﬂecting the strong return delivered  
for our shareholders.
The rate of return on invested capital (‘ROIC’) measures the 
efﬁciency of Group investments. This is a key measure to assess 
the efﬁciency of investment decisions and is also an important 
criteria in the decision making process when projects are 
competing for limited funds. ROIC in 2012 was 19% (2011: 17%).
+17%
+8.6%
+19%
+1 1.2%
16.3%
£345m
+22%
+22%
19%
Key ﬁnancial performance indicators
Revenue
Organic revenue at 
constant exchange rates
Adjusted operating proﬁt
Organic adjusted  
operating proﬁt  
at constant  
exchange rates
Adjusted operating margin
Adjusted cash ﬂow  
from operations
Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share
Dividend per share
Return on invested capital
24 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Financial review continued Acquisitions and investment
The Group’s strategy is to invest both organically and by acquiring 
complementary businesses, enabling it to continually offer the 
latest technologies and services in the locations demanded by 
clients. The chart below shows the extent of the Group’s 
investment in 2012:
Acquisitions
The Group made six acquisitions in the year:
In March 2012 the Group acquired 4th Strand for £4.1m,  
a provider of product quality and benchmarking services  
to the retail industry in North America. 
In April 2012 the Group acquired Automation Technology,  
a provider of asset integrity support services to the US Power 
industry, for £10.0m. 
In May 2012 the Group acquired Vigalab Mineral Laboratory  
in Chile for £3.3m, which complements Intertek’s growing 
international minerals capability and supports the expansion  
of quality and safety services in Latin America. 
In September 2012 the Group acquired Materials Testing and 
Inspection in the UK for £14.3m, expanding the Group’s range  
of non-destructive testing services to the aerospace, power  
and petrochemical sectors.
Organic capital investment (£m)
115
11 5 2012
81 201 1
66 2010
53 2009
68 2008
Cash spent on current year acquisitions (£m)
40
40 2012
460 201 1
42 2010
24 2009
68 2008
In November 2012 the Group acquired a majority stake in 
Laboratory Services International Rotterdam for £4.1m, which 
provides approved facilities for analytical testing of minerals 
traded on the London Metal Exchange.
In December 2012 the Group acquired Tickford Test Technology, 
a provider of engine and lubricant testing services to 
manufacturers in the UK, for £3.8m.
These acquisitions provide valuable additional service lines and 
new geographic locations for the Group, and will help drive 
proﬁtable revenue growth.
Organic investment
The Group also invested £115m (2011: £81m) organically on  
the latest technology in new laboratories, capital equipment  
and other facilities. This investment represented 5.6% of  
revenue (2011: 4.6%) which was up on the prior year as the 
Group continues to invest in new countries, facilities and services.
Restructuring
Following the acquisition of Moody in 2011, the Group  
worked quickly to integrate the acquired business into the 
Industry & Assurance division. This has resulted in strong revenue 
and proﬁt growth in the period post acquisition. To achieve this 
integration, costs of £4m (2011: £5m) have been recognised in 
relation to restructuring. The integration activities were completed 
by year end.
The outsourcing of back ofﬁce processes, started in 2010, 
continued in 2012, driving savings in ﬁnance and IT costs as  
the Group continues to focus on margin improvement activities.  
This programme will continue in 2013 as the Group takes 
advantage of the economies of scale within the business.
At the end of 2012 the Group reviewed its portfolio of  
businesses, locations and services following a sustained period  
of growth. A number of businesses and locations identiﬁed  
as underperforming or non-strategic have been identiﬁed for 
restructuring, with a particular focus on our European operations. 
The programme includes business closures, asset write downs  
and redundancies. The total cost of the restructuring activities  
is expected to be £22m, of which £14m has been recorded  
in SDIs in 2012, and a further £8m will be provided in 2013. 
25 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Cash ﬂow and net debt
The Group relies on a combination of debt and internal cash 
resources to fund its investment plans. One of the key metrics  
for measuring the ability of the business to generate cash is cash 
ﬂow from operations. Due to the cash payments associated with 
the SDIs, and to provide a complete picture of the underlying 
performance of the Group, adjusted cash ﬂow from operations  
is shown below to measure the cash generated by the Group:
Cash conversion
2012
£m
2011
£m
Change
%
Cash flow from operations 332 289 15
Add back: cash flow relating to SDIs 13 26
Adjusted cash flow from operations 345 315 10
Net debt
Net debt has decreased from £581m at 31 December 2011, to 
£551m at 31 December 2012 principally as a result of good cash 
generation in the business.
In January 2012 the Group drew US$265m of additional funding 
through a senior note issue, which was used to repay a US$300m 
bridge facility, which was subsequently closed. In October 2012 
the Group secured additional funding of US$80m by way of a 
senior note issue, which was drawn in February 2013 and used  
to pay down existing facilities. In November 2012 the Group 
cancelled its US$60m Bank of China facility, which had remained 
undrawn during the year. This was replaced by two new facilities 
in December 2012, when the Group completed the signing of 
US$40m of facilities with Bank of America and the Royal Bank  
of Scotland. These facilities were undrawn at year end.
Under existing facilities the Group has available debt headroom  
of £164m at 31 December 2012. The components of net debt  
at 31 December 2012 are outlined below:
1 January
 2012
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
adjustments
£m
31 December
2012
£m
Cash 182 (10) (5) 167
Borrowings (763) 16 29 (718)
Total net debt (581) 6 24 (551)
Following the renewal and extension of the funding facilities 
available to the Group after year end, the proﬁle of the Group’s 
facilities and borrowings are outlined in the charts opposite.
To ensure the Group is not exposed to income statement volatility 
in relation to foreign currency translation on its debt, the Group 
ensures that any foreign currency borrowings are matched to the 
value of its overseas assets in that currency (an ‘efﬁcient’ hedge).
Total facilities available
Bonds
Banks
53%
47%
Facility maturity proﬁle
2013–2015
2016–2020
2021+
11 %
67%
22%
26 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Financial review continued The Group borrows primarily in US dollars and any currency 
translation exposures on the borrowings are offset by the 
currency translation on the US dollar overseas assets of the 
Group. The composition of the Group’s gross borrowings in 
2012, analysed by currency is as follows:
Net interest charge
The Group had a net interest charge of £27m (2011: £21m) in the 
year. This comprised £7m (2011: £8m) of ﬁnance income, primarily 
pension asset returns and interest income on bank accounts, and 
£34m (2011: £29m) of ﬁnance expense, including £26m (2011: 
£22m) of interest on the Group’s debt facilities, £4m (2011: £5m) 
of pension liability interest expense and £3m (2011: £1m) due to 
foreign exchange differences. 
Tax
The global nature of the Group means that the Group’s exposure 
to income tax needs to be managed across a large number of 
ﬁscal regimes. The Group’s goal is to efﬁciently manage its tax 
affairs whilst fulﬁlling its responsibilities to the countries in which 
it operates. During 2012 the effective tax rate on adjusted 
operating proﬁt was 26.0% (2011: 28.2%), resulting in an 
adjusted tax charge of £80m (2011: £73m), and a statutory  
tax charge, including the impact of SDIs, of £68m (2011: £62m).
Separately disclosed items (‘SDIs’)
A number of items are separately disclosed in the ﬁnancial 
statements as exclusion of these items provides readers with  
a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating 
performance of the Group’s business.
When applicable, these separately disclosed items include 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill 
and other assets, the proﬁt or loss on disposals of businesses or 
other signiﬁcant ﬁxed assets, costs of acquiring and integrating 
acquisitions, the cost of any fundamental restructuring of a 
business, material claims and settlements, signiﬁcant recycling  
of amounts from equity to the income statement and unrealised 
market gains/losses on ﬁnancial assets/liabilities.
Currency of borrowings  
(excluding swaps)
USD
GBP
Other
96%
2%
2%
In 2012 there were intangible assets of £7m recognised on the 
acquisitions in the year, which, combined with a full year of 
amortisation on the Moody intangibles, increased amortisation 
expense to £29m (2011: £25m). The remaining cost associated 
with the acquisition and integration of Moody totalled £4m 
(2011: £13m). There were also costs relating to other acquisitions 
of £2m (2011: £1m). The ongoing initiative to restructure and 
outsource the Group’s back-ofﬁce support functions cost £3m 
(2011: £8m).
There were also costs of £14m expensed in relation to the 
Group’s restructuring plan, which identiﬁed a number of 
operations to be closed down or streamlined. The £14m 
includes goodwill and asset write offs of £5m, staff costs  
of £4m and other costs of £5m.
Currency movements
The Group transacts in over 80 currencies, and revenue  
and proﬁt are impacted by currency ﬂuctuations. However,  
the diversiﬁcation of the Group’s revenue base mitigates this 
exposure.
At constant exchange rates, revenue grew 18% (actual exchange 
rates 17%) and adjusted operating proﬁt grew 19% (actual 
exchange rates 19%).
The cumulative average exchange rates used to translate the 
income statement into sterling for the four most material 
currencies are shown below:
Value of £1 2012 2011
US dollar 1.59 1.60
Euro 1.23 1.15
Chinese renminbi 10.01 10.35
Hong Kong dollar 12.31 12.47
Signiﬁcant accounting policies
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared in  
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Details of the  
Group’s signiﬁcant accounting policies are shown in note 1  
to the ﬁnancial statements.
27 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Intertek works with some of the world’s largest companies and 
their suppliers and, by the very nature of the work that Intertek 
people do every day, we help to minimise the health, social and 
environmental impact of thousands of products and processes 
around the world.
Intertek’s CSR and sustainability expertise helps our customers 
implement social responsibility programmes to similar standards 
in every market. Since 2002, Intertek’s annual Ethical Sourcing 
Forum has provided companies with the business intelligence 
and data they need to make informed decisions on their 
increasingly offshore, outsourced supply chains. The forum  
brings together manufacturers and retailers to explore how  
they can work together to achieve measurable ethical sourcing 
and sustainable business practices that are currently transforming 
global supply chains.
During 2012 we continued to implement our sustainability 
strategy throughout Intertek and have increased the scope of  
our emissions reporting for 2012 to a further ﬁve countries. I am 
pleased to report that our CO
2
 emissions per employee reduced 
by 2% on the previous year across the top 20 countries.
Intertek’s continued business success has enabled us to provide 
employment to an increasing number of people around the world 
each year. At the date of this report, our employee numbers had 
grown to over 35,000 people, an increase of 10% compared with 
the same period last year.
In 2012 we undertook our ﬁrst ever global employee survey, 
giving our people the opportunity to inﬂuence the decisions we 
take about how we run our organisation and provide them with  
a better working experience. We are now responding to the ideas 
raised and feedback given and will conduct a further survey in 
2013 to measure progress.
This report describes Intertek’s sustainability performance for 
2012 and highlights some of the work we are doing to help  
our customers operate more efﬁciently towards a safer,  
more sustainable future for business, people and the planet.
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Our business
How we are making a positive contribution to the planet 
through our work for clients.
See page 29
Intertek people
Our commitment to inclusion and diversity and making 
Intertek a great place to work.
See page 30
Our environment
Taking responsibility for our impact on the environment.
See page 33
Our communities
Giving back to the communities touched by our business.
See pages 34-35 
“ Intertek’s continued business success 
has enabled us to provide employment 
to an increasing number of people 
around the world each year.”
In this section
Sustainability and CSR
28 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review Throughout 2012, Intertek was recognised for its services  
with a number of awards. In January, we received the Continued 
Commitment Award at the Cathay Paciﬁc China Business Awards. 
The award recognises the Company’s work in supporting the 
development of product quality, sustainability, supply chain 
assurance and trading relationships between Chinese vendors and 
overseas buyers. In May, Intertek was presented with the Prêmio 
MasterCana award by ProCana Brasil, for expert services to the 
biofuels industry. Intertek operates biofuels laboratories in Santos, 
Paranaguá, and Salvador. In September, Incentra, a major 
maritime industry association representing 40 Norwegian 
shipping companies, awarded Intertek ‘Supplier of the Year’  
for the fourth year in a row.
Water is a precious resource that must be preserved. With 
increasing water scarcity and water pollution, the availability  
of this raw material in sufﬁcient quantities, of sufﬁcient quality,  
is threatened. We help our customers in the water and related 
industries with a range of services that span the entire water life 
cycle. We conduct environmental impact assessment and 
modelling studies for desalination plants to provide vital drinking 
water, assess reservoir quality and assess the impact of treated, 
discharged wastewater.
In November, Intertek was presented with the Positive 
Environmental Impact Award at the Kelda Excellence Awards 
2012. Intertek is working with Yorkshire Water (part of the  
Kelda Group) and its partners to address the requirements of  
the European Bathing Water Directive, the objective of which  
is to protect public health through monitoring the quality of sea 
water along Europe’s coastlines. We have also conducted a study 
on behalf of Guernsey Water for their waste water disposal 
upgrades, helping them to maintain their high quality, blue  
ﬂag bathing waters.
Also in November, Intertek was chosen from among leading  
FTSE 100 businesses to receive the prestigious Coutts FTSE 100 
Business of the Year title at the UK National Business Awards. 
Intertek was described by the judges as having “exceptional 
leadership, customer focus, staff engagement and innovation.”
Our business
The veriﬁcation services we provide to our customers on the 
quality, safety and performance of their products, as well as the 
social and environmental sustainability of their supply chains, not 
only strengthen their competitive edge but help to ensure a more 
sustainable and safe environment for us all. 
We help customers such as Carrefour, Dell and Nestlé Waters,  
to calculate the environmental footprint of their products and 
packaging and assist them in their internal and external 
sustainable environment communication. We also help many 
public authorities across Europe in deﬁning their waste 
management policies.
We provide design and sourcing advice to encourage and ensure 
environmental and social responsibility along the full product 
life-cycle, from conception through to recycling and disposal.  
Through the skill and commitment of 35,000 Intertek people 
worldwide, many of whom are world experts in their ﬁeld,  
we initiate, improve and promote industry and sector  
regulatory frameworks.
Our Workplace Conditions Assessment (‘WCA’) programme 
enables companies and facilities to improve workplace conditions 
efﬁciently and in accordance with widely accepted industry 
standards and best practices. The WCA standard is aligned  
with the Global Social Compliance Programme (‘GSCP’), which  
in turn is endorsed by the world’s largest retail association.  
The programme is supported by a web-based platform that 
automates and streamlines the audit process, increasing 
efﬁciencies for all supply chain partners.
Intertek manages the McDonald’s Supplier Workplace 
Accountability Programme which focuses on workplace 
conditions within their supply chain. Our global team works  
with suppliers before and after the audit to help them meet 
rigorous social compliance standards.
Through our highly experienced process safety professionals, 
Intertek provides a full range of Process Safety Management 
services. In 2012, following a detailed audit of our Health, Safety, 
Security and Environmental (‘HSSE’) programme, Intertek was 
approved for work with a global oil client to help ensure the 
safety and well-being of its employees and facilities and minimise 
its impact on the environment.
In Germany, our Asset Integrity Management (‘AIM’) Services 
undertook a risk-based inspection of a chemical processing  
plant acquired by a major client. Not only did the work result  
in reduced plant downtime costs but it further supported the  
client’s commitment to the health and safety of its people  
and the environment.
Intertek is a leading global provider of REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals – 
EC1907/2006) services, helping manufacturers, importers and 
users of chemicals to comply with the European Union’s complex 
REACH Regulations. Intertek has recently added granulometry to 
its suite of physico-chemical property tests. This measures particle 
size distribution to assess the possible health effects resulting 
from inhalation of airborne particles.
Aston Swift, Intertek VP Investor Relations, accepts the Coutts 
FTSE 100 Business of the Year award from Michael Morley, 
Coutts CEO and Sky News business presenter, Jeff Randall. 
29 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Intertek people
We believe that everyone should have an equal opportunity of 
employment, fair reward and career advancement on the basis  
of ability, performance, necessary qualiﬁcations and conduct.
We recognise and harness the value that individuals of different 
backgrounds and capabilities bring to our business. Our diverse 
workforce helps us to understand, communicate and trade with 
our vast client base through their understanding of local issues 
and cultures.
Intertek’s employment policies and practices operate within  
a framework which reﬂects a culture of merit where decisions  
are based on the individual’s ability to perform in relation to the 
needs of the business. These policies complement and conform  
to local and national laws, regulations and codes of practice.  
We act to apply all employment policies and practices, including 
recruitment, promotion, reward, working conditions and 
performance management, in a way that is informed, fair  
and objective. Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy acts to eliminate 
discrimination so that all our employees are treated fairly and  
feel respected and included in our workplaces. 
Intertek considers the training and development of our employees 
essential to their personal development and for the continuing 
success of the business. It enables people to grow with the 
organisation by learning new skills and knowledge and enhances 
the services we offer to our customers. During the year, we 
upgraded and extended our online training programmes, giving 
employees access to more than 100 courses, webinars and 
instructor led training. We also introduced the Intertek Executive 
Academy to support and develop Intertek’s next generation  
of global leaders. 
Our ﬁrst Group-wide employee satisfaction survey was 
undertaken in 2012, providing us with a benchmark for 
measuring future changes in satisfaction. 62% of employees 
surveyed responded, with results indicating that we are 
performing well in some areas but need to work on others.  
These were:
Organisation Direction. We will be launching a communications 
exercise throughout 2013 to help employees understand better 
Intertek’s future strategy and how they ﬁt within it.
Social and Environmental Responsibility. We will continue  
to improve our data collection in individual country reporting  
and clarify our policies in this area to employees.
Performance Management and Rewards. We are taking steps  
to ensure our performance appraisal processes are more robust  
in all countries where we operate and ensure that reward and 
development are aligned with performance. 
We will be conducting another survey in 2013 to  
measure progress.
Stewardship and governance
The Board of Directors has oversight and responsibility for the 
Group’s strategy, performance and risk management (see pages 
39 to 40). Intertek is committed to building a sustainable business 
and recognises that a diverse range of experiences and skill sets 
underpin the effectiveness and support the robustness of the  
role and activities of the Board (see pages 40 to 42). As at  
31 December 2012, the gender mix of the Board of Directors was 
22% female and 78% male and for the senior leadership group 
(285 people at the end of 2012), 19% female and 81% male.  
To read more about our Board Diversity Policy see page 50. 
Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through policy 
distribution and awareness. Our operations and support functions 
are responsible for the identiﬁcation and evaluation of signiﬁcant 
risks applicable to that area of the business, together with the 
design and operation of suitable internal controls (see pages 
43 to 49). Strategies in different areas of the globe reﬂect the 
nuances of marketplaces, employees’ interests and societal 
concerns. The Board has overall accountability for Intertek’s 
sustainability and CSR, with Group-wide strategy and 
implementation being the responsibility of the Group Vice 
President Human Resources.
Intertek business managers across Malaysia join together 
in a leadership and management training programme to 
strengthen working relationships in the region. 
30 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Sustainability and CSR continued Professional conduct
Our integrity is at the heart of our business. One of Intertek’s 
primary business objectives is to ensure compliance with local, 
national and international laws and the accuracy and validity of 
reports and certiﬁcates that it provides to customers. We have an 
induction programme for new employees which includes training 
on the Intertek Compliance Code. Compliance training is available 
on our Group intranet in multiple languages. The objective of this 
code is to demonstrate how we approach compliance within our 
organisation to assure ethical behaviour and the integrity of our 
services. We also have a summary Code of Ethics, which 
employees are asked to sign as part of their terms of employment 
with the Company, conﬁrming acceptance of the high standards 
expected of them in all business dealings.
The Code of Ethics is supported by regular in-service training, 
advice on ethical issues and an internally publicised ‘hotline’, 
allowing conﬁdential reporting of concerns regarding non-
compliance. Intertek has a strict policy of Zero Tolerance regarding 
breaches of compliance policy.
During 2012 we received 17 reports of non-compliance which 
proved to be substantiated claims requiring remedial action. We 
continue to monitor these ﬁgures each year. Our Audit and Risk 
Committee regularly reviews the outcomes from the hotline and 
compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
7,4 1 7 Americas
5,316
2,101
Male
Female
17,767 Asia
10,364
7,403
9,698 EMEA
6,639
3,059
At 31 December 2012 we employed 34,882 people, an increase of 10% over 
the prior year.
Male : Female 
Ratio by regions
Male
Female
36%
64%
Intertek’s gender diversity is reﬂective of the general industries and 
qualiﬁcation proﬁles of employment in our operating countries and 
business lines.
Total workforce
34,882
2012
31,712
201 1
27 ,044
2010
25,183
2009
23,841
2,054
1,749
1,374
1,237
1,004
2008
Headcount
Revenue (£m)
Total number of Intertek employees over the last ﬁve years in relation 
to revenue. 
Revenue and headcount
Safety is our priority
Intertek employees in Singapore take part in a quiz during 
their safety awareness day.
31 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Health and safety
Intertek considers the health, safety and welfare of its employees, 
clients and third parties connected with its business to be of 
paramount importance. We aim to provide a safe working 
environment and ensure that our employees have the information 
and resources to perform their duties safely. We are committed  
to maintaining high standards and complying with relevant local 
legislation and guidelines in any area in which we operate.  
We continually seek to minimise risk to our employees, clients  
and others who may be affected by our operations and our 
procedures are regularly monitored by our compliance team  
to ensure that they are being properly applied in practice.
As promised in our 2011 Sustainability and CSR report, we have 
increased our measurement of health and safety incidents across 
the Group. Our health and safety reporting now includes injuries 
requiring medical treatment and injuries resulting in lost working 
time as an indicator of our activities. We are very saddened to 
report one employee fatality during 2012. This occurred whilst  
the employee was working on a client’s site. 
2012 2011
Occupational fatalities 1 3
Lost time injuries rate 0.43 –*
Medical treatment injuries rate 0.38 –*
Rates refer to the number of lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries 
occurring per 200,000 hours worked.  
* 2011 data not available.
The health and safety of our people and activities is the 
responsibility of line management and employees themselves.  
All incidents are recorded and reported to the designated Country 
Health and Safety Representative who in turn reports through  
to the respective Country Line Management and Intertek Group. 
This enables us to take targeted action in reducing health and 
safety risks to our employees, clients and others.
During the year we introduced a number of travel safety 
awareness initiatives throughout the Group, such as vehicle safety 
checks and personal safety advice programmes inside and outside 
Intertek workplaces. We intend to extend these initiatives further 
during 2013.
We are committed to the continuous review and improvement of 
our health and safety performance and our aim is to achieve zero 
accidents. In 2013, we will improve the reach and quality of our 
health and safety reporting.
All Intertek employees are fully trained in safety practices and 
procedures and are provided with appropriate protective 
clothing and equipment. 
32 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Sustainability and CSR continued Many Intertek sites use renewable energy sources such as photo 
voltaic technology and wind turbines. In 2012, through new plant 
investments, Intertek is incorporating construction techniques  
that reduce energy consumption. For example, our new site in 
Thorigné-Fouillard, near Rennes, France, has been constructed to 
use on average just 50 kWh/m
2
 per year. This is possible through 
the design, construction and installation of numerous energy 
efﬁcient technologies that regulate air and water temperatures. 
At existing sites, initiatives are in place to reduce energy 
consumption through switching off lights and electronic 
appliances when not in use, installing occupancy sensing lighting 
in rooms and introducing smart metering to monitor energy 
usage, identifying where reductions can be made.
A number of Intertek sites have environmental management 
systems in place that are ISO 14001 accredited. These monitor 
areas such as waste management and energy consumption, 
enabling us to control and continuously improve our 
environmental performance and reduce costs.
Intertek aims to manage its waste responsibly, recycling paper  
and cardboard and, where possible, electronic appliances. Water 
treatment procedures are in place in our laboratories that use 
local water supplies to test samples, ensuring they are free of 
contaminants before being released back into the local supply.
Intertek has become the ﬁrst certiﬁcation body to offer climate 
balanced audits in Sweden. We do this by calculating the amount 
of carbon emissions produced from the travel undertaken 
through our auditing work and investing the equivalent monetary 
amount back into renewable energy programmes for countries 
with a high dependency on fossil fuels. The carbon footprint of 
this year’s annual report has also been offset in collaboration with 
the Carbon Neutral Company and through achieving their Gold 
Standard, we will be contributing funds to the Basa Magogo 
project in South Africa. 
All Intertek employees are made aware of our environmental 
‘green’ initiatives and guidelines, as well as their responsibilities 
towards the environment as an employee of Intertek.
Intertek’s Sustainability and CSR report was developed with reference to the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, which provide a recommended 
framework and indicators for reporting. A table outlining the GRI standard 
disclosures is provided at the end of this document. All data used for performance 
indicators is representative of the Group, unless stated otherwise.
Our environment
The nature of the work that Intertek does for its clients has a 
direct beneﬁt in reducing harm to the environment and tackling 
climate change. In our own operations, we are committed to 
minimising our impact on the environment through reducing 
energy consumption at our sites, utilising renewable energy 
sources, implementing ‘green’ waste management practices, 
minimising travel, undertaking carbon offsetting and operating 
quality management systems. Our Corporate Environmental  
Policy is implemented by country managers at a national level in 
compliance with local guidelines and regulations. Communication 
with Intertek employees is also an important element for 
implementing our Environmental Policy. 
Using 2011 as our base year, in 2012 we have continued to 
monitor and record our emissions and energy consumption based 
on the 20 largest Intertek countries by headcount and we have 
added a further ﬁve countries to increase the coverage of our 
monitoring and recording as a part of Intertek’s commitment  
to tackling climate change. This represents approximately 85%  
of Intertek’s total employee population and 84% of revenue.
In 2012, electricity consumption was reported to be 190,849 
MWh (6.44 MWh per employee) and gas consumption was 
reported to be 56,064 MWh (1.89 MWh per employee).
The levels of greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions were calculated 
using the guidelines of the GHG protocol. The calculated 
emissions include:
 Scope 1 emissions – Direct GHG emissions which are a result 
of our testing and inspection services for clients as well as our 
business operations that occur at sources owned or controlled 
by Intertek;
 Scope 2 emissions – Indirect GHG emissions that occur  
from the generation of purchased electricity, heat or steam 
consumed at sources owned or controlled by Intertek as a 
result of our business operations or our testing and inspection 
services for clients. 
CO
2
 emissions for top 20 and top 25 Intertek countries  
by headcount:
Emission (tonnes CO 2e)
2012 2011
Top 25 Top 20 Top 20
Scope 1 11,529 10,903 9,399
Scope 2 116,542 112,928 108,169
Total 128,071 123,831 1 17 ,568
Per employee 4.32 4.51 4.62
(CO 2e – Carbon dioxide equivalent)
In relation to our scope 3 GHG emissions (indirect GHG emissions 
from sources not owned or directly controlled by Intertek but 
which relate to our activities), we are committed to reducing  
our travel emissions via third parties. We have continued where 
possible, to minimise business mileage by increasing the use  
of video and web technology for meetings.
33 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Intertek encourages and supports  
its employees’ local community 
engagements across the world.  
Here are some examples of the  
good work undertaken during 2012.
USA 
Employees: c.4,500
Employees participated in National Women Build  
Week as a part of Habitat for Humanity’s goal  
to eliminate housing poverty.
Intertek donated audit and certiﬁcation services  
to Sign Fracture, helping assure the quality of  
orthopaedic implants in the developing world.
Argentina
Employees: c.125
Intertek provided support to an association helping  
blind and deaf people. Employees also helped disabled 
children through organising stimulating activities.
Americas
UK 
Employees: c.2,100
Intertek scientists supported local schools through 
demonstrating how the science skills and knowledge 
students learn at school can lead to varied and  
fascinating careers.
South Africa 
Employees: c.475 
Intertek donated to local charities and employees 
participated in volunteering to support disadvantaged 
children and adults. 
EMEA
USA
Argentina
UK
34 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Business review
Sustainability and CSR continued China 
Employees: c.8,000 
Intertek and its employees donated to the ‘Free Lunch Fund’, 
which provides food to over 30,000 children in less 
privileged areas of China.
 
Hong Kong 
Employees: c.1,500
Intertek was presented with the Caring Company award by 
the Hong Kong Council of Social Services in recognition of 
its participation in initiatives such as volunteering, mentoring 
and partnership that build a strong caring community. 
Philippines
Employees: c.500
Intertek employees planted 75 Kupang trees at La Misa 
Watershed. The 2,700-hectare eco-park houses the last 
forest in Manila and is built around the La Mesa Dam,  
which provides drinking water for the whole city.
India 
Employees: c.1,700
Intertek helped prepare students for the world of  
work through organising competitions and events at 
colleges, universities and a leading business school.
Australia 
Employees: c.900
Employees participated in ‘Movember’ to raise awareness 
about cancer and to help fund prostate cancer research and 
associated charities.
Asia 
South Africa
Australia
Philippines
India
Hong Kong
India India
ong Ho H
China
35 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board of Directors
Lloyd Pitchford
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Sir David Reid
Chairman
Christopher Knight
Non-Executive Director
Alan Brown
Non-Executive Director
Edward Astle
Non-Executive Director
Lena Wilson
Non-Executive Director
Louise Makin
Non-Executive Director
Michael Wareing CMG
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
36 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Governance Sir David Reid
Chairman
Appointed to the Board in December 2011 and became Chairman 
in January 2012. Sir David Reid retired as Non-Executive Chairman 
of Tesco PLC in November 2011 after serving in that role since 
April 2004. Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of Tesco  
PLC and had served on the Tesco Board since 1985. David is  
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier 
Group PLC and Chairman of the charity Whizz-Kidz. He was 
formerly Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-Executive Director 
at Greenalls Group Plc (now De Vere Group), Legal & General  
Group Plc and Westbury plc. In November 2010 David  
was appointed one of Prime Minister David Cameron’s  
Business Ambassadors. 
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer 
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in March 2005 
after serving as a Non-Executive Director since November 2002. 
Wolfhart Hauser was previously Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and 
President of TÜV Süddeutschland AG for four years and Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer of TÜV Product Services for 10 years. Starting 
his career with various research activities he went on to establish 
and lead a broad range of successful international service industry 
businesses. He has held several non-executive board director and 
chairman roles in a variety of technology companies. He was a 
Non-Executive Director of Logica plc until August 2012. 
Lloyd Pitchford
Chief Financial Officer 
Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in April 2010. 
Lloyd Pitchford previously spent 10 years with BG Group plc in 
various operational and corporate ﬁnance roles in the UK and 
Middle East; including ﬁve years as Group Financial Controller.  
He previously worked for Mobil Oil Corporation in various 
ﬁnancial, commercial and management roles. Lloyd is a Fellow  
of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and  
holds an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
Christopher Knight
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 
2006. He was an investment banker for nearly 30 years, for much 
of that time with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank. He is a 
Chartered Accountant and has extensive corporate ﬁnance 
experience gained during his banking career in London, New York 
and Hong Kong. He is Chairman of Brooks Macdonald Group plc, 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Powerﬂute Oyj  
and a Trustee of the Churches Conservation Trust. 
Edward Astle
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September 
2009. He is currently Pro Rector (Enterprise) at Imperial College 
London where he oversees the university’s relationships with 
industry, and leads business development opportunities in the UK 
and internationally. Edward was an Executive Director of National 
Grid plc from 2001 to 2008, a Managing Director at the BICC 
Group from 1997 to 1999 and an Executive and Regional Director 
at Cable & Wireless plc from 1989 to 1997. Previously he held 
senior business strategy positions in the UK and France. He is  
a Trustee of the Shannon Trust.
Alan Brown
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April  
2011. He is currently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Rentokil Initial plc, 
a position he has held since April 2008. Alan spent 25 years at 
Unilever PLC where he rose through a variety of ﬁnance roles in 
the UK and Europe and then general management in Taiwan and 
China. His last four years were as Executive Chairman of Unilever 
China. Following this, Alan returned to the UK as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC taking a leading role  
in the divestment of the company. 
Michael Wareing CMG
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April  
2011. He has major international and board level knowledge 
gained during an extensive global career up to senior partner  
level at KPMG. His last position at KPMG was as International 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, a position he occupied for four years.  
He is currently a Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee 
Chairman at Wolseley plc and at Cobham plc. He was appointed 
as the Economic Development Adviser to the Government of 
Afghanistan in August 2011. 
Louise Makin
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July  
2012. She is currently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of BTG plc, a 
growing international specialist healthcare company, a position 
she has held since 2004. Before joining BTG, Louise was at  
Baxter Healthcare from 2000, holding the roles of Vice President, 
Strategy & Business Development Europe, and from 2001, 
President of the Biopharmaceuticals division of Baxter Healthcare, 
where she was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle East. 
Prior to her time at Baxter, she was Director of Global Ceramics  
at English China Clay, and in her earlier career, held a variety  
of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998. Louise is a Trustee  
of The Outward Bound Trust and was previously a Non-Executive 
Director of Premier Foods plc. 
Lena Wilson
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2012. 
She is currently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Scottish Enterprise, 
Scotland’s national economic development agency and a member 
of Scotland’s Financial Services Advisory Board. Prior to this she 
was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Scottish Development International 
(Scotland’s international trade and investment arm) and Chief 
Operating Ofﬁcer, Scottish Enterprise. Between 1998 and 2000, 
Lena was a Senior Advisor to The World Bank in Washington DC 
on private sector development for developing countries. Lena  
is a member of the University of Strathclyde’s Business Advisory 
Board, and an Ambassador for the Prince and Princess of Wales 
Hospice. She has served on the Board of the Prince’s Scottish 
Youth Business Trust for 10 years as well as numerous arts,  
culture and sport organisations.
37 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate 
Governance Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
In this report we endeavour to explain how the Board has 
managed its responsibilities by explaining the corporate 
governance structure and procedures of the Company together 
with the work of the Board and its Committees. This report  
gives information on how we comply with the main corporate 
governance rules for companies that are listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. The main rules are contained in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) as updated by  
the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’). 
Last year this report explained how the diversity of the 
membership of boards had become an important issue which  
was incorporated into the Code in September 2012. In making 
any Board appointments, in addition to reviewing factors such  
as skill sets, breadth of experience and personality ﬁt, the 
Nomination Committee is careful to ensure that it is presented 
with, and considers, a broad range of candidates. I reported that 
steps were being taken to recruit an additional Non-Executive 
Director following the departure of Debra Rade from the Board.  
I am pleased to report that during the year Intertek recruited  
two new Non-Executive Directors, Louise Makin (who is also  
a member of the Remuneration Committee), and Lena Wilson.  
The recruitment process was led by me as Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee and we used a number of interviews  
to ensure we selected the right people to contribute to the 
strategy of growth for our business. 
Louise, with her extensive background in international  
chemicals and healthcare industries, brings a complementary  
new perspective to the Board, recognising also the diversity  
of Intertek’s industry portfolio, and Lena contributes a wide 
experience in international and regional investment and 
development strategies, which brings additional insight to  
the Board in our governance of the Group’s ongoing growth  
and opportunities.
The nature of our business and the geographical spread of our 
operations mean that we employ a culturally and otherwise 
diverse group of people. As Chairman it is important that I ensure 
that the Board has the right combination of skills and experience 
to provide the entrepreneurial leadership of the Company setting 
its strategic aims to ensure the continued growth and success of 
the Group. More information on diversity, including the gender 
of employees within Intertek is provided on pages 30 to 31 of  
the Sustainability and CSR Report.
I have greatly enjoyed my ﬁrst year as Chairman working with 
Intertek and the Board. Going forward I am committed to 
ensuring we continue the high standards of corporate governance 
in the Group.
Sir David Reid 
Chairman
Sir David Reid Chairman
38 Chairman’s introduction 
39 Governance framework
39 Composition of the Board
40 The role of the Board
40 The activity of the Board
41 Board balance and independence
41 Directors’ conﬂicts of interests
41  Board induction, training and business engagement
42 Performance evaluation
42 Shareholder engagement
43 Audit and Risk Committee
43  Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit and 
Risk Committee
44 Membership and attendance
44 The role of the Audit and Risk Committee
45 The activity of the Audit and Risk Committee
45 Internal control and risk management
46 Priorities for 2013
46 Going concern
47 Principal risks and uncertainties
50 Nomination Committee
50 Membership and attendance
50 The role of the Nomination Committee
50 The activity of the Nomination Committee
50 Board Diversity Policy
51 Remuneration report
“ I am pleased to report that during 
the year Intertek recruited two 
new Non-Executive Directors, 
Louise Makin and Lena Wilson.”
Contents
Corporate governance
38 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Governance Governance framework
The Board is responsible and accountable to shareholders for 
ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and that it 
achieves its objectives. The Board’s main role is to understand and 
meet its obligations to the Company’s shareholders and others;  
to lead the Group within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed; to 
approve the Group’s strategic objectives; and to ensure that 
sufﬁcient resources are available to enable it to meet those 
objectives. The Board also ensures that plans are in place for 
orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior 
management. In addition, there is a structure of Committees to 
manage the Corporate Governance within the Group. The table 
below summarises the structure that is used to manage risk and 
governance within the Group:
Corporate Governance
Intertek Group plc
Shareholders
Intertek Board
of Directors
Audit and Risk
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Investment
Committee
Divisional &
Country Management
Risks Controls
Support
Functions
Risk Control &
Assurance
Committee
Intertek
Operations
Committee
Composition of the Board
The Board at Intertek is comprised of experienced individuals  
who come from business, industry, government sector, and 
accountancy backgrounds and bring their diverse experience to 
assist with the strategy, growth, and development of the Group. 
The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive 
Directors, and six independent Non-Executive Directors. Sir David 
Reid, upon his appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2012, met 
the independence criteria set out in the Code. His responsibilities 
as Chairman include chairing and leading the Board, ensuring its 
effectiveness, setting agendas, ensuring that the Directors receive 
accurate, timely, and clear information and that there is effective 
communication with shareholders; facilitating the effective 
contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in 
particular; and ensuring constructive relationships between the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman’s other 
main commitments are detailed in his biography on page 37. 
Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, is in charge of the 
Group for the day-to-day management and is accountable to  
the Board and the Company for the ﬁnancial and operational 
performance of the Group. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is 
supported in his task by the Intertek Operations Committee,  
the members of which are outlined on pages 10 to 11. There  
is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and  
the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer which is set out in writing and agreed 
by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is Michael Wareing. His 
responsibilities include leading the Non-Executive Directors’ 
annual consideration of the Chairman’s performance and holding 
discussions with the Non-Executive Directors, the Vice President 
Internal Audit and Assurance and the External Auditors without 
management present. He is readily available to shareholders if 
they have concerns that remain unresolved after contacting the 
Group through the usual channels of the Chairman or the 
Executive Directors, or where such contact is inappropriate.
 
Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors
Chairman
Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
1
2
6
Corporate Governance Statement 
Since the appointment of Louise Makin and Lena Wilson  
to the Board in July 2012, Intertek has complied with all  
the relevant provisions set out in the Code. 
FRC Guidance 
The Code and the associated guidance is available under the 
heading ‘Corporate Governance’ at the website of the FRC, 
www.frc.org.uk.
39 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 All Directors who served during 2012 had a wide range of 
experience and skills, bringing independent judgement to  
bear on a wide range of issues including strategy, performance, 
resources, and standards of conduct. The current Directors’ 
biographies appear on pages 36 to 37. All Directors will retire  
and be proposed for election or re-election at the 2013  
Annual General Meeting.
Length of service of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors  
(in years)
0.5 Louise Makin
0.5 Lena Wilson
1.0 Sir David Reid
1.5 Alan Brown
1.5 Michael Wareing
3.0 Edward Astle
6.5 Christopher Knight
Information about the Directors’ contracts of employment  
and letters of appointment is disclosed in the Remuneration 
Committee report on pages 57 and 58. 
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s strategy  
and performance and it also discharges a number of legal 
responsibilities. It spends time reviewing the following key 
activities:
 Strategy;
 Growth and development;
 Oversight of performance;
 Corporate governance; and
 Increasing shareholder value.
Further information about the role of the Intertek Board can  
be found at www.intertek.com/investors/board
The Board also reviews and approves the method and  
approach to internal controls, ﬁnancial performance and  
the Group’s risk register. 
The Chairman and Group Company Secretary plan the annual 
programme for Board Meetings and off-site visits during the year 
and they work together to draw up the agendas. In the year all 
the Board meetings were held in the United Kingdom apart from 
one which was held in the United States and focused on the 
North American business. 
The Board controls the Company’s business affairs by the use  
of a Board Approval Matrix which formally outlines the matters 
speciﬁcally requiring the consent of the full Board. The Board 
Approval Matrix also identiﬁes areas where the Board has 
delegated authority to executive management, subject to certain 
ﬁnancial limits. Where any of the activities involve amounts 
greater than those limits they are referred to the Board. The Board 
Approval Matrix is kept under review and developed in order to 
take into consideration the growth of the business. The Board 
decides and reviews all key policies and regulations for the 
Company; its strategy, operating plans, acquisitions, corporate 
governance, major investments and disposals, appointment and 
removal of Directors, risk management, ﬁnancial reporting, audit, 
sustainability, ethics, the environment, people policies and 
pensions.
The activity of the Board
During the year, the Board formally met nine times. There was 
also frequent ad-hoc contact between Directors to discuss the 
Group’s affairs and development of its business. Directors’ 
attendance at Board meetings is shown in the table on page 41. 
On several occasions during 2012 the Chairman met with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being 
present. The Non-Executive Directors have also had discussions 
without the Chairman being present. 
During the year the Board has considered and approved: 
 Group strategy;
 Annual business budget;
 Full year results, Annual Report and half year results  
and related announcements;
 Acquisitions;
 Governance, risk and internal controls;
 Signiﬁcant capital expenditure and material contracts;
 Dividend policy; and
 Tax and treasury policies.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly Business 
Performance Reports and information which enables them  
to review the performance of the Group and management 
against the agreed strategy, budget objectives and prior period 
performance. As well as the above, during the year the Board  
also receives regular updates on debt ﬁnancing, market reports, 
share trading reports, analysts’ forecasts, litigation reports, ﬁnal 
and interim dividend recommendations, road show and investor 
feedback, interim management statements, announcements  
and a wide range of other issues. Site visits are arranged for  
the Non-Executive Directors so that they can see ‘ﬁrst hand’  
the type of work that the business delivers in a range of areas.
40 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued Board attendance during 2012
Name/Position
Eligible 
to attend Attendance
Sir David Reid
Chairman
99
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
99
Lloyd Pitchford
Chief Financial Officer
99
Edward Astle
Independent Non-Executive Director
99
Alan Brown
Independent Non-Executive Director
99
Christopher Knight
Independent Non-Executive Director
99
Louise Makin (appointed 1 July 2012)
Independent Non-Executive Director
44
Michael Wareing
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
99
Lena Wilson (appointed 1 July 2012)
Independent Non-Executive Director
44
Board balance and independence 
The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors have  
and continue to demonstrate the necessary characteristics of 
independence expected by the Board and it has been determined 
that none of the Non-Executive Directors have any relationships 
or links to any business which would compromise or interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement. 
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to 
ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors  
are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best 
long-term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they 
take proper account of the interests of customers, employees and 
other stakeholders. 
The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced individuals and 
through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute 
signiﬁcantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its 
Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no 
one individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
Directors’ conﬂicts of interests
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act to avoid 
conﬂicts of interests and to disclose any outside appointments. 
The Board has a formal system to deal with conﬂicts of Directors’ 
interests. Each year all Directors complete a questionnaire in order 
to identify any conﬂicts or potential conﬂicts of interests.
The decision to authorise a conﬂict of interest can only be made 
by non-conﬂicted Directors, meaning those who have no interest 
in the matter being considered. The authorised decisions are 
reviewed on an annual basis or, where appropriate, authorisation 
is sought prior to the appointment of any new Directors, or  
if a new conﬂict arises. During 2012 this procedure operated 
effectively. The Company can conﬁrm that any decisions relating 
to conﬂicts of interests are being taken in accordance with the 
Articles of Association.
Board induction, training and business engagement
There is a formal induction programme for new Directors that is 
co-ordinated by the Group Company Secretary. The aim of the 
programme is to ensure that they gain a deeper understanding 
and knowledge of the business. During the programme they 
meet with the senior members of management and they receive 
orientation from the relevant senior executives in relation to each 
of the business divisions and other functions. They receive 
information about the business operations, the role of the Board 
and the list of items that are reserved for the Board. The new 
Directors are also provided with copies of the terms of reference 
for Board Committees and details of membership of those 
Committees. During the year Sir David Reid, Louise Makin and 
Lena Wilson have completed their induction programmes 
including one to one meetings with a number of senior executives 
in the business and visiting various sites and laboratories to see 
the operations.
During the year the Directors were kept up-to-date with 
information about Intertek’s business and there is an on-going 
programme of information dissemination. It is important that the 
Directors have an appreciation of our business both in the UK and 
overseas. In addition, during the year the Board held one meeting 
overseas and there were business visits arranged for the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Directors to laboratories and testing sites. 
During 2012 there were presentations from senior management 
to the Board and meetings have been held on regional strategy  
to increase the understanding of operations and opportunities. 
Directors are regularly updated as necessary on various statutory 
obligations and corporate governance matters. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group 
Company Secretary, who will assist in arranging any additional 
training and information as required. The appointment and 
removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the 
Board as a whole. 
All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional 
advice, at the Group’s expense, in the performance of their duties 
as Directors. No such advice was sought during the year. The 
Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted by 
law, to each of the Directors and the Group Company Secretary. 
Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance is in place.
41 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance evaluation
During the year, for the ﬁrst time, there was an external 
evaluation of Board performance and the effectiveness of  
the Board Committees. This was conducted by Consilium  
Board Review, an independent and experienced ﬁrm, under  
the direction of the Chairman. This was completed by way of 
Consilium reviewing Board papers and minutes, observing the 
Board, a written questionnaire and interviews with Directors. 
The Board questionnaire focused on the performance of  
the Board throughout the past year in the areas of strategy, 
performance management, organisation development, risk 
management and boardroom dynamics. The questionnaire for 
the Committees focused on the performance of the respective 
Committees and how the performance could be enhanced.  
A report was prepared for the Board on its own and its 
Committees’ effectiveness and this was discussed fully at  
a Board meeting.
The external evaluation conﬁrmed that the Board continues to 
maintain an appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors add 
value to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group,  
and that no signiﬁcant issues have arisen out of the evaluation 
process. The effectiveness of the Board has developed strongly  
in the last year with a boardroom climate that encourages open 
debate and informed decision-making. The Board and its 
Committees meet the requirements and spirit of the Governance 
code. Minor developments of the Board’s processes and increased 
focus on certain key themes will be adopted.
The evaluations of the Board Committees concluded that each 
Committee was operating in an efﬁcient and effective manner. 
The Board will continue to develop the evaluation process in order 
to ensure that it can properly review, on an annual basis, its 
performance, and that of its individual members and Committees. 
The attendance of the Board and individual contribution of each 
Director was reviewed by the Chairman. Each Director has 
independently met with the Chairman and on this basis he has 
reviewed their performance. The Directors have all contributed 
well in the year and any training and development requirements 
have been discussed. The Chairman’s performance was reviewed 
by Michael Wareing, the Senior Independent Director, taking into 
account feedback from the Board and the external Board 
performance assessment.
Shareholder engagement
The Chairman recognises the importance of maintaining effective 
investor relations and he is responsible for making sure that all 
Directors are aware of shareholder concerns. Michael Wareing as 
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is also available to 
act as a conduit for any shareholders to raise matters concerning 
the Group’s activities.
We have a core of major shareholders that represent a global 
spread and while the majority of our shareholders are registered 
in the UK, the chart below demonstrates how our shareholders 
are spread across the world, reﬂecting the interest in our business 
on a global basis.
There has been an extensive programme of engagement with 
signiﬁcant investors this year. Feedback from this activity, and any 
signiﬁcant comments from shareholders, are reported regularly  
to the Board. The Group produces an Annual Report which is 
available to shareholders and also publishes Interim Management 
Statements and Half Year Results. The Group website contains 
up-to-date information on its activities and published ﬁnancial 
results. Shareholders can subscribe via the investors’ section of 
the website to receive email alerts of important announcements 
made by the Group. The Group’s Annual Report, notices of 
meetings and proxy forms can be provided electronically. 
However, shareholders are also able to request paper copies  
of documents if they so choose.
The Company’s Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) provides all 
shareholders with the opportunity to develop their understanding 
of the Company’s strategy and operations, and to ask questions 
of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, including the 
Annual Report. All Board members attend the AGM and in 
particular, the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.  
The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially 
separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately. 
At this year’s AGM we will once again be adopting a poll 
procedure in respect of all resolutions, as recommended by a 
number of shareholder groups. At General Meetings a schedule 
of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders, and  
is also available on the Group website. 
Geographic spread of shareholders  
as at 31 December 2012
UK
North America
Rest of Europe
Other
Rest of World
43%
33%
16%
5%
3%
42 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit and 
Risk Committee
I am pleased to have chaired and led the Audit and Risk 
Committee during the year. The composition of the Committee is 
set out in the table on page 44. The work of this Committee is an 
important element of the corporate governance framework and 
brings value and protection to the Group and its shareholders. 
The participants on the Committee are business leaders who have 
had careers in ﬁnance and industry and have the requisite skills 
and experience to form an effective Committee. Until September 
2009, I was the International Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of KPMG 
and the Board considers that I have recent and relevant ﬁnancial 
experience as required by the Code. 
We have a number of additional attendees at the meetings of the 
Committee, who are not formal members. The Chairman, the 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, the Group Vice 
President Financial Control and the Vice President Internal Audit 
and Assurance, are present at each meeting. The partner from 
KPMG Audit Plc, our external auditor, also attends every meeting. 
Other members of the senior management team attend as and 
when required. In addition, we request attendance by industry 
experts periodically to bring fresh insight into best practice. 
The members of the Committee meet at least once a year with 
the Vice President Internal Audit and Assurance, and separately 
with the external auditors without management being present.
This year an additional meeting was held, with no regular 
agenda items, to provide an opportunity for the Committee  
to focus on the bigger picture in relation to risk. At this meeting,  
John Hurrell, the Chief Executive of Airmic, gave a thought- 
provoking presentation on ‘A Study of Major Risk Events:  
Their Origins, Impacts and Implications’. A total of ﬁve meetings 
were held this year and after each meeting an update was given 
to the Board. 
Michael Wareing 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee
Michael Wareing Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee
“ The work of this Committee is an 
important element of the Corporate 
Governance Framework.”
Audit and Risk  
Committee
43 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Membership and attendance of the Audit and 
Risk Committee
Throughout the year the composition of the Committee  
was in compliance with the Code. During 2012 the Committee 
comprised Michael Wareing (Chairman), Edward Astle, and 
Christopher Knight. Committee members have both recent  
and relevant ﬁnancial and business experience as detailed in  
their biographies on page 37. 
Membership and attendance at meetings during the year was  
as follows: 
Name
Eligible to  
attend Attendance
Michael Wareing (Chairman) 5 5
Edward Astle 5 5
Christopher Knight 5 5
The role of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2012
External audit
The role of the Committee is to recommend the appointment of 
the external auditors and to recommend to the Board if there is 
an action required to change auditor. The Committee seeks to 
ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the 
Group’s external auditors. The Committee discussed any non-
audit fees paid to KPMG and the reasons why KPMG were 
appointed to perform such work. The Group’s external auditors 
meet with the members of the Audit and Risk Committee at least 
once a year without management present.
Financial statements and significant issues
In accordance with the Code, the Committee reviews a report 
prepared by the external auditor on the full year and half year 
results which highlights any issues with respect to the work 
undertaken on the audit. As part of this review, the Committee 
looks to ensure that suitable accounting policies have been 
adopted, has discussions with management to understand that 
appropriate estimates and judgements have been made and 
seeks support from the external auditors to ensure a suitable 
assessment has been made. The main issues reviewed in the  
year ended 31 December 2012 are as follows:
 The Committee reviewed the presentation of the Group’s 
restructuring programme in 2012, ensuring that the 
requirements for recording a provision had been met at  
year end;
 The Committee reviewed the provisions held with respect to 
claims, ensuring the provisions were appropriate at year end;
 The Committee reviewed the calculation of the effective tax 
rate for the year, given the increased regulatory focus on tax 
obligations; 
 The Committee reviewed the classiﬁcation of separately 
disclosed items to ensure the adjusted operating proﬁt 
provides a clear and consistent view of the underlying 
performance of the Group; and
 The Committee reviewed the controls around the business 
process outsourcing initiative, ensuring a continued strong 
ﬁnancial control environment remains across the Group. 
In all cases the Committee was satisﬁed that the judgements 
made by management were reasonable, and that appropriate 
disclosures have been included in the ﬁnancial statements.
Effectiveness of the external audit 
KPMG Audit Plc have been the Company’s auditors since the 
Company listed in 2002 and there has not been a formal tender 
since that time. The Committee reviews the work of the external 
auditors and assesses their performance each year, by considering 
the input of key stakeholders and the ﬁnance community in 
Intertek. In the interests of independence and objectivity, the 
engagement audit partner is rotated every ﬁve years unless there 
are exceptional circumstances in which case the Committee may 
approve up to a further two years. 
Non-audit services
One of the roles of the Committee is to ensure the continued 
independence and objectivity of the Group’s external auditors. 
There is a policy on the provision of non-audit work by the 
external auditors to make sure that auditors’ objectivity and 
independence are safeguarded. The external auditors are 
precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would 
compromise their independence, would violate any laws or 
regulations affecting their appointment as auditors or would lead 
a reasonable and informed third party to regard the objectives of 
the proposed non-audit service as being inconsistent with the 
objectives of the audit.
In general, the external auditors may not provide a service which:
 Creates a mutuality of interest;
 Places the auditor in a position to audit their own work;
 Results in the auditor acting as a manager or employee; or
 Puts the auditor in the role of advocate for Intertek.
Speciﬁcally, the auditors may not provide the following services:
 Bookkeeping or other services related to accounting records  
or ﬁnancial statements;
 Financial information systems design and implementation;
 Appraisal or valuation services;
 Actuarial services;
 Internal audit outsourcing or co-sourcing services;
 Management functions or human resources services;
 Broker or dealer, investment advisor or investment banking 
services;
 Legal services which can only be provided by a qualiﬁed 
lawyer;
 Expert services unrelated to the audit that include advocating 
Intertek’s interests in litigation, regulatory or administrative 
proceedings. This does not preclude the auditors from 
providing factual accounts to explain positions taken during 
the course of their other work;
 Tax services in relation to marketing, planning, or opining in 
favour of an aggressive tax position or transaction; 
 Any other services that, locally, are prohibited through 
regulation; or
 Personal tax compliance services to members of the Group’s 
management who have a ﬁnancial reporting oversight role.
44 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued The Committee annually reviews the framework of permitted 
non-audit services taking into account any changes in legislation 
and best practice. An annual budget for non-audit services is 
presented to the Committee for approval, with budgets assigned 
to each category, compared to spend in the previous two years.  
A report is presented to the Committee twice a year showing  
year to date spend against each category in the annual budget 
previously approved by the Committee. A breakdown of the audit 
and non-audit fees paid to the Group’s auditors during the year  
is set out in note 4 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
The terms of reference of the Audit and Risk Committee are 
available on our website at: www.intertek.com 
The activity of the Audit and Risk Committee
During the year the Committee reviewed and endorsed, prior to 
submission and approval by the Board, the 2011 Annual Report, 
the 2011 Full Year and the 2012 Half Year Results Announcement. 
In particular the Committee reviewed the provisions, key 
accounting policies and any changes required in policies. 
In addition, there were updates from the Vice President Internal 
Audit and Assurance on Internal Audit department activity and 
reports, fraud detection, whistle-blowing/hotline incidents, the 
Anti-Corruption and Bribery Programme, training, and Group 
control improvement initiatives. The Committee was updated on 
key litigation issues by the Group Company Secretary and Group 
Head of Legal.
The Chairman and other Committee members also attend 
meetings with the external auditors and management to discuss 
any accounting issues associated with the annual audit. 
The Committee also looks at the Group’s risk proﬁle and its risk 
management process. During the year it was decided to separate 
the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions, in order to 
add extra focus on risk which will now be the responsibility of  
the Group Head of Legal. 
Internal control and risk management
Risk management and internal controls are embedded in the 
running of each division and support function. The Board is 
responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group’s system 
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. This manages and helps mitigate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There are a number of controls in place to ensure that the Group 
has robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and 
for ﬁnancial reporting. Intertek has a clear set of Accounting 
Policies and Procedures which is issued to all ﬁnance staff.  
This gives instructions and guidance on all aspects of accounting 
and reporting that are relevant to the Group. There are ongoing 
reviews of adherence to these policies by Group Internal Audit 
and by Finance Management. Any material breaches of the 
Group’s systems of internal and risk management controls 
identiﬁed by the Group’s control review procedures are reported 
to the Audit and Risk Committee and corrective action is taken. 
The Group maintains high standards and has a zero tolerance  
of breaches of ethics and this is reinforced by the Intertek 
Compliance Code and Code of Ethics. The Compliance Code  
and the Code of Ethics is available at www.intertek.com.  
Every employee is required to sign a zero tolerance document 
conﬁrming their understanding that any breaches of the Group’s 
Code of Ethics will result in disciplinary action that may include 
summary dismissal of the employee concerned. Each year as part 
of the appraisal process each employee is asked to conﬁrm 
understanding of and adherence to the Code of Ethics.
To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns 
about possible improprieties in matters of ﬁnancial reporting  
or any other matters, the Group provides and publicises a 
conﬁdential telephone hotline along with email and web 
addresses, so that staff or third parties may report anonymously 
any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices.  
All reports are investigated thoroughly with action taken as 
appropriate. Detailed statistics about such issues are provided  
to each meeting of the Committee. The resolutions for all matters 
are also reported together with the information about any 
employees who have left the Group due to wrong-doing.
The Group has developed a Risk Management Strategy which  
sets out the Group’s approach to risk and covers the principles  
set out below:
Risk responsibilities
and identifying risk
Managing
industry speciﬁc
risks
Managing risk
applicable in all
organisations
All the Group’s mandatory policies are set out in the Core Control 
Framework, which is available to all employees and is hosted on 
the intranet.
The Audit and Risk Committee endeavours to ensure that the 
Group has in place the most appropriate and effective controls, 
checks, systems, and risk management techniques so as to be in 
line with best practice. The control environment within the Group 
is further strengthened by two internal Committees. The Risk 
Control and Assurance Committee (‘RCA’) has the remit of 
overseeing the development of the internal control framework, 
reviewing risk registers and risk management procedures, 
monitoring issues, and providing a conduit of information  
to senior management. In 2012, the Committee comprised  
the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Group Company Secretary, Chief 
Information Ofﬁcer, Group Vice President Human Resources,  
Vice President Financial Control, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Asia  
and Vice President Internal Audit and Assurance, and met 
approximately every quarter.
45 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality 
and perceived risk. Reports of signiﬁcant ﬁndings are presented  
to the Audit and Risk Committee which monitors and reviews the 
effectiveness of the internal audit function. The internal audit 
department was awarded ISO 9001 accreditation in 2003 which 
was successfully renewed for a further three years in 2009 and 
recently in 2012. An external accreditation body conducts 
surveillance audits of the internal audit department every year, 
and conducts a more detailed review every three years. 
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer also reports to the Board on 
signiﬁcant changes in the business and the external environment 
which could impact on risk. The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer provides 
the Board with monthly ﬁnancial information, which includes the 
comparison of key performance ﬁgures against budgets and 
forecasts. Information is also provided with regard to risk 
indicators. The Board approves the treasury policy and the 
treasury department’s activities are also subject to internal audits. 
The Board also conﬁrms that it has reviewed the process of 
internal controls.
Priorities for 2013
The priorities for the Audit and Risk Committee over the next  
12 months are as follows:
 Continue to support the efforts of the external auditor  
and the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions with 
respect to the ongoing development of the Group’s total 
assurance framework;
 Prepare for any relevant changes in the corporate governance 
arena; and
 Continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors 
on the Group and its ﬁnancial position.
Going concern
After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue  
in operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group’s 
ﬁnancial statements.
An Investment Committee is in place with the remit of reviewing 
and approving requests for material expenditure and other key 
actions throughout the business within certain limits as outlined  
in the Board Approval Matrix. The membership of the Investment 
Committee comprises the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer, and the Group Executive Vice President of 
Human Resources is invited to attend along with leaders in the 
business. This Committee considers all business investments 
outside the limit delegated to Executive Vice Presidents and 
reviews and considers the establishment of new companies in 
countries where there is not already a business established.  
It also considers any large or unusual customer contract proposals. 
Executives submit papers and attend to discuss the merits of  
their business case. There is a structured programme of post 
investment appraisals to ensure that matters discovered as part  
of an acquisition, integration and organic business are discussed 
and understood. The information gained is part of a feedback  
loop to the business to ensure that we capture all matters or  
issues that can help us improve and learn for future activity. 
Each operating division and support function is responsible for  
the identiﬁcation and evaluation of signiﬁcant risks applicable to 
that area of business, together with the design and operation of 
suitable internal controls. These risks are assessed on a continual 
basis and are reviewed by the RCA, and may be associated with  
a variety of internal or external factors including control 
breakdowns, disruption of information systems, litigation,  
loss of key facilities, retention of key staff, competition, natural 
catastrophe, and regulatory requirements. Operation of the 
controls is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or its 
consequences. One of the Audit and Risk Committee’s main roles 
is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the 
business and the system of controls necessary to ensure such risks 
are properly managed. 
In order to provide assurance that controls and policies are being 
followed, a process of self-assessment and hierarchical reporting 
has been established which provides a documented trail of 
accountability. These procedures are applied across Group 
operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given  
at increasingly higher levels of management and ﬁnally, to the 
Board. This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also 
provides assurance as to the operation and validity of the system 
of internal control and risk management. Planned corrective 
actions are monitored for timely completion.
Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the 
ﬁndings reported to divisional management. Each division has at 
least one compliance ofﬁcer who undertakes investigations of 
issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or from  
other sources, such as the conﬁdential hotline. 
46 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued This section sets out a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that could 
have a material adverse effect on the 
Intertek Group’s strategy, performance, 
results, ﬁnancial condition and reputation.
Risk framework
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment  
and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework  
which is described in the Corporate Governance Report on  
pages 45 and 46.
The Vice President Internal Audit and Assurance, and the Group 
Head of Legal, who report to the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer respectively, have accountability for 
reporting the key risks that the Group faces, the controls over 
these risks and any mitigating actions or controls in place. Both 
roles report to the Audit and Risk Committee and attend the 
Committee meetings during the year. In addition, both roles meet 
with the members of that Committee alone at least once a year.
Risks are formally identiﬁed and recorded in a risk register for 
each operating division and support function. The risk register is 
updated at least twice each year and is used to plan the Group’s 
internal audit and risk strategy. In addition to the risk register, all 
senior executives and their direct reports are required to complete 
an annual return to conﬁrm that management controls have been 
effectively applied during the year. The return covers operations, 
compliance, risk management and ﬁnance.
The Risk Control and Assurance Committee (‘RCA’), comprising 
senior Intertek executives, complements the work of the Audit 
and Risk Committee. The RCA oversees the development of the 
internal control framework, reviews the risk matrices and risk 
management procedures, monitors issues and provides guidance 
to management. The RCA makes recommendations to the 
Intertek Operations Committee where Group-wide policies are 
identiﬁed and develops the Group’s integrated responses to 
changes in the regulatory environment.
Principal risks
The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of which, 
including macroeconomic risks, are outside the Group’s control. 
Some risks are particular to Intertek’s operations and the principal 
risks of which we are aware are detailed below including a 
commentary on how the Group mitigates these risks. These  
risks and uncertainties do not appear in any particular order  
of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded 
as immaterial which could turn out to be material. Any of these 
risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the 
Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation. 
Operational 
Risk description
Reputation risk
The risk that there is a breakdown in the Group’s quality 
standards which leads to a loss of confidence in the 
Group’s standards and reputation for quality and safety 
service excellence.
The risk that unethical behaviour by employees or 
representatives could have an adverse impact on the 
Group’s reputation.
Mitigation
The Group has in place a comprehensive suite of detailed Quality 
Management Systems. Adherence to these is regularly audited and 
reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
The Group has a well defined Code of Ethics which is communicated 
to all staff, who undergo regular training. The Group has a ‘whistle-
blowing’ programme, monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee 
where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or 
other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 
There is a zero tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate 
behaviour by any individual employed by the Group, or acting on the 
Group’s behalf.
Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed 
so that senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate 
action on a timely basis.
Accreditation risk 
The Group relies on being awarded and retaining 
appropriate accreditations and affiliations around the 
world in order to provide its certification services. Failure 
to obtain or retain a particular accreditation could lead  
to a loss of business in the relevant industry and could 
damage the Group’s reputation.
The Group has extensive quality assurance procedures and controls 
embedded in its operations to ensure that it holds and maintains the 
necessary accreditations and that the required operational standards 
are applied. Operations are regularly subjected to audit and review by 
external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, trade 
affiliations, retailers, manufacturers and clients.
Principal risks and uncertainties
47 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operational risks continued
Risk description
Management risk
The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs to 
attract and retain employees with relevant experience 
and knowledge. Failure to do so could impact our ability 
to compete effectively.
Mitigation
The Group operates a thorough development and reward programme 
to identify future senior managers and to retain key staff. 
Political risk
The Group operates in over 100 countries including  
some where political instability can result in disruption  
to operations and the change or termination of contracts 
at short notice. 
In addition, changes to local tax legislation can impact 
the Group’s effective tax rate.
The Group closely monitors any incidents of political or social unrest 
and where possible, takes mitigating action to prevent loss to the 
Group, including exiting the country if the risk is considered 
unacceptable.
The Group maintains close relationships with government 
representatives but the risk of adverse government action cannot  
be entirely mitigated.
Legal and regulatory
Risk description
Litigation risk
From time-to-time, the Group is involved in claims and 
lawsuits, including claims for damages, negligence and 
commercial disputes and disputes with current and 
former employees. There is a risk that a legal dispute 
could adversely affect the reputation of the Group and 
result in significant financial loss.
Mitigation
To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, the Group has extensive 
quality assurance procedures and controls in place. All incidents that 
could potentially result in a claim against the Group are immediately 
reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident database so 
that they can be properly managed. The Group Head of Legal reports 
any risk of significant claims to the Audit and Risk Committee. External 
legal counsel is appointed if appropriate.
The Group mitigates the risk of financial loss arising from litigation by 
maintaining insurance cover covering potential claims although there  
is no certainty that this will be sufficient to cover any ultimate loss.
Regulatory risk
The Group is subject to local laws and regulations in each 
of the countries and jurisdictions in which it operates. 
These cover all aspects of the Group’s operations and 
functions including employment legislation, health and 
safety and taxation.
The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of 
local legal and regulatory compliance. There are also extensive internal 
compliance and audit systems to facilitate compliance. Expert advice is 
taken in areas where regulations are uncertain. 
The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with 
the UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation.
Directors’ report – Governance
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
48 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial
Risk description
Foreign currency risks 
The Group reports its financial results in sterling but  
a significant majority of the Group’s revenue and 
operating costs are incurred in currencies other than 
sterling. Accordingly, the Group’s profit is exposed  
to exchange rate fluctuations. 
Mitigation
The Group’s Treasury function has responsibility for managing  
the Group’s cash, debt facilities and foreign currency exposures.  
The Group has established procedures for managing foreign  
currency risk including monitoring foreign currency cash balances  
on a daily basis and hedging foreign currency exposures on a monthly 
basis. The Group’s policy is to match the currency of external 
borrowings to the currency of expected cash flows and the currency  
of net investments. All overseas subsidiaries are required to hedge  
all significant foreign exchange transaction exposures with  
Group Treasury.
Liquidity risk
The Group might be unable to meet its growth plans  
or financial obligations if sufficient funding could not  
be raised.
The Group manages its cash and borrowing facilities, ensuring 
sufficient liquidity through daily cash forecasting and by maintaining 
sufficient committed borrowing facilities from a range of investors. 
The Group is in regular contact with the banks and capital debt 
markets, as well as other potential providers of debt to ensure a proper 
and timely understanding of the availability and pricing of debt 
funding. The Group’s facilities are managed to ensure that borrowing 
facilities are of a mixed duration, mitigating the amount of borrowings 
that mature within a single period.
The Group regularly reviews its interest rate exposures and has a policy 
to ensure that over one third of its borrowings are on a fixed rate basis.
Financial irregularity risk
The Group could suffer financial loss either through 
misappropriation of assets or the misrepresentation  
of financial results.
The Group has established financial and management controls in  
place to ensure that the Group’s assets are protected from major 
financial risks. 
A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that 
monthly financial results are thoroughly reviewed. The Group also 
operates a rigorous programme of internal audits and management 
reviews. Independent external auditors review the Group’s half year 
results and audit the Group’s annual financial statements.
49 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The activity of the Nomination Committee
During the year, two new Non-Executive Directors were recruited 
to the Board. The Committee appointed Spencer Stuart to assist 
in the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director as part of the 
continual refreshing of the skills of the Board. Spencer Stuart has 
no other connection with the Company. The Committee met a 
number of candidates and then recommended to the Board that 
Louise Makin and Lena Wilson both be appointed as Non-
Executive Directors. 
Board Diversity Policy
Intertek recognises the beneﬁts of having a diverse Board and is 
committed to achieving a Board which will include and make the 
best use of differences in culture, gender, skills, background, 
regional and industry experience and other qualities. All of these 
factors will be considered in determining the composition of the 
Board noting that all Board appointments are made on merit, in 
the context of the skills and experience the Board as a whole 
requires for it to be effective. 
In reviewing Board composition, the Committee will aim to 
maintain an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience, 
and background on the Board, by considering all aspects of 
diversity. In identifying suitable candidates to recommend for 
appointment to the Board, the Committee will consider 
candidates on merit against objective criteria and with due regard 
for the beneﬁts of diversity on the Board. Without seeking to set 
a speciﬁc goal for female representation on the Board, it is an aim 
of the Board to continue to ensure that the Company has the 
right balance of skills and diversity in all forms and experience.
An analysis of the diversity of the Board by gender is provided  
by the diagram below:
Non-Executive Directors (male)
Executive Directors (male)
Non-Executive Directors (female)
5
2
2
Board diversity by gender
Membership and attendance of the  
Nomination Committee
The Committee is chaired by Sir David Reid and he ensures that 
discussions are held around succession and appointments at a 
senior level. As the Chairman of the Company he is precluded 
from any involvement in discussions about a future successor  
for his own position.
Membership and attendance at meetings was as follows during 
the year: 
Name
Eligible to  
attend Attendance
Sir David Reid (Chairman) 5 5
Edward Astle 
(appointed 1 August 2012)
11
Christopher Knight 5 5
Michael Wareing 5 5
The role of the Nomination Committee
The terms of reference are available on our website at 
www.intertek.com. The Committee is responsible for keeping 
under review the composition of the Board and succession  
to it, and succession planning for senior management positions.  
It makes recommendations to the Board concerning Director 
appointments having regard to the balance and structure of  
the Board and the required blend of skills, experience, 
independence, and diversity. 
A job description is prepared for any new Board appointment. 
New Non-Executive Directors conﬁrm they have sufﬁcient time  
to fulﬁl the commitments of the role.
Sir David Reid Chairman of the Nomination Committee
“ Intertek recognises the beneﬁts 
of having a diverse board.”
Nomination 
Committee
50 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued This Report
1
This year, there has been continued focus on ﬁnancial 
performance in relation to senior executives’ pay and bonus 
packages and ensuring that the remuneration policy of the  
Group reinforces and aligns incentives, behaviour, strategy  
and performance. Consistent with last year, the challenges for  
a Remuneration Committee include balancing prudence against 
appropriate reward for good performance, particularly so in the 
current global economic environment. However, I am pleased to 
say that the Group’s results for 2012 have been such that we have 
been able to determine rewards appropriate for the exceptional 
performance achieved. Intertek’s successful growth strategy has 
been achieved by the continuing excellent performance of 
management and the Committee believes that the agreed 
remuneration appropriately rewards that effort.
In preparation for full adoption of the Government’s new 
remuneration reporting regulations, the Committee has sought  
to comply with some of the new requirements in this Report, 
noting that many features are already established within the 
Intertek Remuneration Policy and practices.
1.  This Report sets out the Group’s policy and disclosures in relation to  
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2012. It will be 
subject to a separate shareholder vote at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’). The Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board  
and complies fully with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006  
and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups  
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the ‘Regulations’) and the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) as applicable for the ﬁnancial  
year and the elements speciﬁcally required to be audited, which are shaded, 
have been audited by KPMG Audit Plc in compliance with the requirements  
of the Regulations.
  The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate Governance relating 
to the remuneration of its Directors and this Report outlines how the Group 
has already complied with the provisions of the Code as well as the latest 
guidelines issued or proposed by institutional shareholder bodies.
Christopher Knight Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
51 This Report
52 The Committee
53 Activity of the Committee during 2012
53 Policy report
53 Policy on remuneration
54 Structure of remuneration
54 Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
55 Salary
55 Beneﬁts
55 Pensions
55 Annual cash bonus
56 Share plan awards
57 Policy on share retention
57  Service contracts and appointment arrangements 
58 Non-Executive Directors
59 Implementation report
59 Directors’ remuneration earned in 2012
60 Base salary
60 Pensions
60 Annual cash bonus
61 Share plan awards
62 Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
62 External appointments
62 Advisors
62 Shareholder context
Contents
51 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration report
Directors’ report – Governance The Committee
During 2012 the Committee comprised the following 
independent Non-Executive Directors; myself as Chairman,  
Alan Brown, Sir David Reid (to 1 July 2012) and Louise Makin 
(from 1 July 2012). 
Membership and attendance at meetings during the year was  
as follows:
Name
Eligible to
attend Attendance
Christopher Knight (Chairman) 6 6
Alan Brown 6 6
Sir David Reid  
(resigned from the Committee  
1 July 2012)
33
Louise Makin  
(appointed 1 July 2012) 3 3
The Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  
and the Group Vice President Human Resources may, by 
invitation, attend the Committee meetings, except when  
their own remuneration is discussed. No Director is involved  
in determining his or her own remuneration. None of the 
Committee members have had any personal ﬁnancial interest, 
except as shareholders, in the matters decided. 
On behalf of the Board, the Committee: 
 Determines the Company’s policy on the remuneration of the 
Chairman, and the remuneration and incentives for Executive 
Directors and other senior executives (mainly the Intertek 
Operations Committee (the ’IOC’) which comprises the Group 
and Executive Vice-Presidents as listed on pages 10 and 11); 
 Determines the remuneration packages of the above, including 
any compensation on termination of ofﬁce; 
 Reviews the remuneration arrangements for the wider 
employee population and considers issues relating to 
remuneration that may have a signiﬁcant impact on the Group;
 Provides advice to, and consults with, the Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer on major policy issues affecting the remuneration  
of other executives; and
 Keeps remuneration policy under review in the light of 
regulatory and best practice developments and shareholder 
expectations. Due regard is given to the interests of 
shareholders and the requirements of the Listing Rules and 
associated guidance.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on our 
website at www.intertek.com.
To demonstrate the successful growth of the Company, the graph 
below shows the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) in respect of 
the Company over the last ﬁve years. The TSR for the Company  
is compared with the TSR for the FTSE 100 Index. The Company 
joined the FTSE 100 in March 2009. TSR, comprising the changes 
in value of a share and dividends distributed, can be represented 
by the value of a notional £100 invested at the beginning of a 
period and its change over that period.
Information is provided by J.P. Morgan Cazenove and calculated 
according to a methodology that is compliant with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The performance  
of the Company, as indicated by the graph, is not indicative  
of vesting levels under Intertek’s share plans.
The share price of the Company continues to grow and on  
31 December 2012 (the last working day of the year) the closing 
market price of the Company’s ordinary shares was £30.99.  
The highest and lowest prices of the shares of the Company 
during the year were £31.57 and £20.47 respectively. 
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
TSR performance 
Intertek Group v FTSE 100
Intertek Group
Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
FTSE 100 
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Directors’ report – Governance
Remuneration report continued
52 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Each year the Committee approves the overall reward strategy  
for the Group and considers the individual remuneration of  
the Executive Directors and certain senior executives. There  
are no executives whose remuneration exceeds that of the 
Executive Directors. 
The Committee reviews the balance between base salary and 
performance-related remuneration against the key objectives and 
targets so as to ensure performance is appropriately rewarded. 
This also ensures outcomes are a fair reﬂection of the underlying 
performance of the Group.
As a global service business, success is critically dependent on the 
performance and retention of our key people around the world. 
Employment costs represent the major element of Group 
operating costs. As a global group our pay arrangements take 
into account both local and international markets. We operate  
a global Remuneration Policy Framework to achieve our reward 
strategy, with each operation retaining the freedom to navigate 
within that framework to ﬁnd the best local solution.
Our peer groups for the majority of our employees consist of 
international industrial or business service organisations and 
similar-sized businesses. In respect of our more senior executives 
we base our remuneration comparisons on a blend of factors, 
including sector, job complexity, location, responsibilities and 
performance, whilst recognising the Company is listed in the UK.
We believe that a signiﬁcant proportion of remuneration for 
senior executives should be related to performance, with part  
of that remuneration being deferred in the form of shares and 
subject to continued employment and longer-term performance. 
We also believe that share-based remuneration should form a 
signiﬁcant element of senior executives’ compensation so there  
is a strong link to the sustained future success of the Group. 
Activity of the Committee during 2012
The Committee met six times and considered:
 The 2012 Reward Strategy;
 The 2012 bonus targets;
 The protocol for dealing with good leavers under the Intertek 
share plans;
 The salary for senior management and the determination  
of the bonus payments for 2011;
 The TSR performance result for the 2009-2012 share plan 
award cycle;
 Share Plan awards for 2012-2015;
 The comparator group for the TSR element of performance 
share awards, changing to FTSE 31 to 130 (excluding 
investment trusts, banks, Intertek and delisted companies)  
in line with the growth of the Company within the FTSE Index; 
 The feedback from shareholders and corporate governance 
organisations with respect to remuneration and the 2012 
Annual General Meeting vote;
 The remuneration proposals for new senior employees;
 The remuneration advisors; and
 The proposed steps to be taken by the Company with  
respect to the adoption of the proposed Remuneration 
Reporting Regulations.
Policy report
We continue to focus on ensuring that our remuneration policy  
is appropriate for the nature, size and complexity of the Group, 
encourages our employees in the development of their careers 
and is directed to deliver the continued growth of the Group.
Policy on remuneration
Our remuneration strategy is to:
 Align and recognise the individual’s contribution to success  
in our strategy and long-term business goals;
 Attract, engage, motivate and retain the best available people 
by positioning total pay and beneﬁts to be competitive in the 
relevant market and in line with the ability of the business 
to pay;
 Reward people equitably for the size of their responsibilities 
and performance; and
 Engage motivated high performers and, through variable 
bonus schemes and long-term incentive plans, share the 
Group’s success with those who build and lead Intertek  
as a world class business and encourage them to increase 
shareholder value.
53 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ report – Governance
Remuneration report continued
Structure of remuneration
The following table sets out the elements that make up 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other  
senior executives:
1 Fixed Salary The base salary takes account  
of the size of the job in the 
appropriate market and the 
competence and contribution  
of the job holder. 
2 Fixed Benefits These are principally car 
allowances and private 
medical plans.
3 Fixed Pension Pension arrangements reflect the 
appropriate market and location. 
4 Performance: 
short-term
Cash bonus The cash bonus serves to drive 
and recognise short-term 
performance against targets 
which are a mix of shareholder, 
business and personal objectives, 
both numeric and non-numeric. 
The criteria and targets are 
reviewed each year for strategic 
alignment and to fit changing 
business objectives and the 
economic environment.
5 Performance: 
long-term
Share  
Awards
Share Awards are granted for an 
amount equal to the annual cash 
bonus earned in the year under 
review. For the Chief Executive 
Officer this is limited to 100%  
of base salary at the time of the 
grant. The Awards normally vest 
three years after the grant on 
condition that the participant is 
still employed in the Group.
6 Performance: 
long-term
Performance 
Awards
Performance Awards are granted 
at the ratio of two Performance 
Shares for every Share Award.  
The vesting of half of each 
Performance Award is conditional 
on achieving an EPS target and 
half is conditional on achieving a 
TSR target. In the following charts 
the value of Performance Awards 
is calculated as half of the fair 
value of the maximum potential 
number of shares that may vest if 
performance conditions are met. 
The calculation of the fair value  
is explained in note 17 to the 
financial statements.
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below show the total remuneration awarded to  
the Executive Directors for their performance in 2012 compared  
to target remuneration (based on achieving 50% cash bonus)  
and the maximum potential award (based on achieving  
100% cash bonus). 
The separate elements of remuneration are shown below:
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer overall remuneration 2012
0
1,000
500
2,000
1,500
2,500
3,000
3,500
£000
Maximum
potential
award
Award Target
Share Awards
granted (5)
Salary (1) Beneﬁts (2)
Cash bonus (4) Performance
Awards granted (6)
Pension (3)
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer overall remuneration 2012
0
400
200
800
600
1,000
1,200
1,600
1,400
2,000
1,800
Maximum
potential
award
Award Target
Share Awards
granted (5)
Salary (1) Beneﬁts (2)
Cash bonus (4) Performance 
Awards granted (6)
Pension (3)
£000
The values displayed in the Award column for salary, beneﬁts, pension, cash 
bonus and Share Awards are taken from the table on page 59. Remuneration  
for Lloyd Pitchford excludes the mirror share awards that he was granted as  
part of his joining package in 2010.
54 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Executive Directors’ bonus criteria for 2012 comprised the 
following: (i) Group performance elements; and (ii) non-ﬁnancial 
elements. Senior executives’ bonus criteria for 2012 comprised  
the following: (i) Group performance elements; (ii) divisional 
performance elements, where the executive is responsible  
for divisional results, or function-speciﬁc objectives; and (iii) 
non-ﬁnancial elements. The goals derive from the three-year 
planning process and annual budgets for the Group, which  
form the cornerstone of the Group’s results-focused culture. 
The divisional elements of bonus are based upon ﬁnancial 
performance indicators appropriate to that division. The effect 
of exchange rate movements on earnings is one of the  
elements we consider before ﬁnalising bonus outcomes. 
The proportions of bonus elements in 2012 were:
Group 
performance
Divisional performance/
job-speciﬁc objectives
General contribution to 
strategy and synergies
Executive Directors 80% 20%
Divisional EVPs 40% 40% 20%
Group Function EVPs 50% 30% 20%
The weightings for the Group ﬁnancial bonus criteria for 2012 were:
% of
Group bonus
Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth
1
50
Adjusted operating profit growth
1
25
Operating cash flow % of adjusted operating profit
1
15
Return on invested capital 10
1.
  
Calculated using constant 2011 exchange rates.
The non-ﬁnancial general contribution element of up to 20%  
of total bonus is determined by taking into account the overall 
personal contribution of the executive to the goals and results  
of the Group for the year, the development of the medium-term 
strategy of the Group, the achievement over the year of strategic 
objectives and demonstrable efforts and results in team-building 
and leadership.
The Committee can award additional discretionary payments  
to recognise very exceptional performance or to recognise that 
circumstances have occurred which were beyond the direct 
responsibility of the executive and the executive has managed and 
mitigated the impact of any loss, or to address key retention 
issues. The Committee has the ability to reduce bonus payments  
if it believes that short-term performance has been achieved at 
the expense of the Group’s long-term future success and it also 
retains the discretion to reclaim payments if the performance 
achievements are subsequently found to have been signiﬁcantly 
misstated. No such discretion was exercised in 2012. 
Salary
Where a decision is made to increase a senior executive’s base 
salary the individual, taking into account levels of experience and 
scale of responsibilities, must have demonstrated strong leadership 
combined with results. Whilst the Committee takes benchmarking 
information into account, its decisions are based primarily on the 
performance of the individual concerned against the above factors 
to ensure that there is no unintended or unjustiﬁed upward 
ratchet in base remuneration. When determining salaries for our 
executives we take account of general pay movement and 
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, as well as the 
relevant general markets. This is achieved by reviewing detailed 
information for the four areas (mainland China, USA, UK and 
Hong Kong) in which the Group employs the greatest number  
of employees. 
Beneﬁts
Beneﬁts include annual medicals, life assurance cover of four 
times base salary, allowances in lieu of a company car or other 
beneﬁts and private medical insurance. 
Pensions
In the UK, the Company provides a deﬁned contribution scheme, 
the Intertek Group Personal Pension Plan for employees. There is 
also a ﬁnal salary, deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement for employees 
who were employed before the scheme was closed to new 
entrants in October 2002. Intertek also operates a number of 
pension arrangements around the world for other executives  
and employees. Material schemes are disclosed in note 16 to  
the ﬁnancial statements. 
Annual cash bonus
The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible for 
annual cash incentive payments for performance against ﬁnancial 
and strategic goals set for the Group and its businesses. These 
bonuses are not pensionable. They are based on a blend of 
ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial measures and are reviewed each year. 
The annual cash bonus potential set for 2012 and 2013 is:
Percentage of base salary 2012 2013
Wolfhart Hauser 130 130
Lloyd Pitchford 100 100
Executive Vice Presidents 75 75-100
Group and divisional bonus targets are established and  
reviewed by the Committee each year. They are set to ensure  
they are linked to strategic and immediate current business goals, 
and are sufﬁciently demanding, taking full account of economic 
conditions and risk factors. The bonus targets for 2012 were 
determined from the strategic plan and budget results for the 
year ended 31 December 2011 and formed the basis of the  
bonus minimum target for 2012. The target 2012 bonus was 
based on meeting analyst expectations and the stretch is 
determined by the Committee taking into account all relevant 
factors and the economic outlook. The stretch targets, when  
met, reward exceptional achievement and contribution well 
beyond expectations.
55 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The EPS performance condition is set as a compound annual 
percentage growth over three years, measured against the base 
year, which is the year prior to the start of the measurement 
period. For the 2012-2014 performance period, the threshold level 
was set at 6% per annum and the upper target at 16% per 
annum. For the 2013-2015 performance period, the threshold 
level is also being set at 6% per annum and the upper target at 
16% per annum. When the Committee reviewed the EPS targets, 
the comments made by shareholders were taken into account.
EPS is fully diluted and will be calculated on the basis of foreign 
exchange rates adopted at the start of the cycle for internal 
budgeting purposes. This is an appropriate basis given the wide 
spread of operating currencies across the Group’s global activities.
Awards will vest as follows in respect of the EPS condition:
EPS growth outturn % of Performance Award that vests
Below threshold None
Threshold EPS 25
Between threshold and  
upper target
Pro-rata on a straight line 
between 25 and 100
Upper target 100
The TSR condition is based on the Company’s TSR ranking relative 
to a peer group of companies in the FTSE Index. For the grant in 
2012 the peer group of FTSE index members 31 to 130 (excluding 
investment trusts and banks) was used. 
The Committee considers that relative TSR is an appropriate 
measure of long-term performance as it is an indicator of earnings 
growth, the quality of earnings and dividends relative to Intertek’s 
FTSE comparators, and it aligns the interests of executives with 
those of Intertek shareholders.
For the TSR element to vest, the Committee will also need to be 
satisﬁed that the resulting outcome is a true reﬂection of 
underlying performance (which in general, we expect to be 
determined by reference to EPS growth).
Awards vest as follows in respect of the TSR condition: 
TSR Ranking % of Performance Award that vests
Below median None
Median 25
Between median and  
upper quartile
Pro-rata on a straight line 
between 25 and 100
Upper quartile 100
Share plan awards
Executive Directors and other executives are awarded shares in 
the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (the ‘Plan’) and are 
subject to shareholding requirements. 
Intertek share plans
Executive Directors and other key employees are eligible to 
participate in our share plans. Non-Executive Directors are not. 
i) Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan
The purposes of this Plan are the reward and retention of senior 
executives and key specialists and the long-term alignment of 
their interests with shareholders by linking rewards to Intertek’s 
sustained performance. 
The Plan has two elements:
 Share Awards are made to executives based on their annual 
performance. For the Executive Directors and their Senior 
Executives, the value of Share Awards will in most cases  
be equal to their annual cash bonus. We believe that this  
provides a simple and well-targeted form of reward.  
The awards normally vest three years after grant, on the 
condition that the participant is still employed in the Group.
 Performance Awards, which are subject to long-term 
performance requirements, are, at the discretion of the 
Committee, awarded to the most senior executives. 
Performance Awards for the Executive Directors and IOC are 
granted at the maximum ratio of two Performance Shares  
for every Share Award. For members of the Intertek Council 
Performance Awards are granted at the maximum ratio of  
one Performance Share for every Share Award. Performance 
Awards vest after three years, once the Committee has 
determined the extent to which the applicable performance 
conditions have been satisﬁed and on the condition that the 
participant is still employed in the Group. 
At the Group’s discretion, awards may be satisﬁed by the issue  
of new shares, by purchasing shares in the market, or in cash.
Awards granted from 2012 include accrual of dividends paid and 
payable during the vesting period to be paid in cash or shares 
at vesting.
The vesting of half of each Performance Award is conditional  
on achieving an EPS target and half is conditional on achieving  
a TSR target. 
Directors’ report – Governance
Remuneration report continued
56 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Committee can set different performance conditions from 
those described above for future awards. Any such new targets 
will not, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, be 
materially less challenging in the circumstances than those 
described above.
ii) Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 (‘DBP’)
Awards were granted under this plan between 2006 and 2010. 
Both Deferred Awards and Matching Awards (which were 
performance related) were granted. Vesting takes place three 
years after grant. 
The performance condition for these Matching Awards 
comprises only TSR ranking relative to a peer group of FTSE Index 
companies. The peer groups selected varied from year to year 
to reﬂect the rise in Intertek’s ranking in the FTSE index. 
No Matching Award will vest unless an EPS underpin of 2% in 
excess of average growth per annum of UK Retail Prices Index 
is met.
Awards vest as follows in respect of the TSR condition:
TSR Ranking % of Matching Award that vests
Below median None
Median 25
Between median and  
upper quartile
Pro-rata on a straight line 
between 25 and 100
Upper quartile 100
The Company has undertaken to limit to 5% of the Company’s 
issued share capital the number of awards satisﬁed by newly 
issued shares under the Plan and the DBP in each 10-year period, 
from the time the DBP was adopted. As at 31 December 2012, 
outstanding awards represented 1.26% of the Company’s issued 
share capital and 1.54% of issued share capital has been issued in 
satisfaction of awards. 
iii) Mirror share awards
As part of the arrangements made in respect of the hiring of 
Lloyd Pitchford, the Company agreed to compensate him for 
the loss of share incentive awards made to him by his previous 
employer by replacing each of his outstanding awards with an 
award (a ‘mirror share award’) over an appropriately adjusted 
number of Intertek Group plc shares. Details of these awards, 
and their performance criteria, were explained in detail in the 
2010 Annual Report. 
Policy on share retention
A shareholding retention requirement continues to be operated 
by the Committee. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is required to build 
up a shareholding in the Company worth at least 150% of base 
salary within ﬁve years. The Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and the 
members of the IOC, who form the senior management of 
Intertek, are required to build up a shareholding in the Company 
worth at least 100% of base salary within ﬁve years. To build this 
holding, we require that, after allowing for tax and similar 
liabilities, all the shares subject to each vested award under the 
Intertek share plans will be retained by the executive until the 
ownership target is attained.
Service contracts and appointment arrangements
Wolfhart Hauser has an executive service contract, effective from 
1 March 2005, which is subject to 12 months’ notice on either 
side. It contains provisions by way of compensation for loss of 
ofﬁce, limited to payment of salary over a 12-month period in lieu 
of notice. The contract permits payments in lieu of notice to be 
made, at the Company’s election, either (i) in full on termination 
or (ii) on a monthly basis, but only for so long as he receives no 
remuneration from any other business. If he does receive any such 
remuneration, the monthly amount payable will be reduced by 
that remuneration, determined on a monthly basis. The service 
contract contains no provisions regarding a change of control. 
Lloyd Pitchford has an executive service contract, effective from  
26 April 2010, which is subject to 12 months’ notice on either side. 
It contains provisions by way of compensation for loss of ofﬁce, 
limited to payment of salary and pension contributions over a 
12-month period in lieu of notice. The contract permits payments  
in lieu of notice to be made, at the Company’s election, either (i) in 
full on termination or (ii) in the amounts and at the times it would 
have been paid if he had continued to work throughout the period 
of notice but only for so long as he receives no remuneration from 
any other business. If he does receive any such remuneration, the 
monthly amount payable will be reduced by that remuneration, 
determined on a monthly basis. The service contract contains  
no provisions regarding a change of control and permits bonus 
payments to be reclaimed in the event that performance 
achievements are found to have been signiﬁcantly misstated.
57 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Date of original 
appointment Expiry of appointment
Edward Astle 1 September 2009 31 August 2015
Alan Brown 15 April 2011 14 April 2014
Christopher Knight 30 March 2006 29 March 2015
Louise Makin 1 July 2012 30 June 2015
Sir David Reid 1 December 2011 30 November 2014
Michael Wareing 15 April 2011 14 April 2014
Lena Wilson 1 July 2012 30 June 2015
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company. The letter of engagement for each Non-Executive 
Director states that they are appointed for an initial period of three years and all appointments are terminable by one month’s notice on 
either side. At the end of the initial period the appointment may be renewed for a further period, usually three years, if the Company 
and the Director agree and subject to annual reappointment at the AGM. Each letter of engagement states that if the Company were 
to terminate the appointment, the Non-Executive Director would not be entitled to any compensation for loss of ofﬁce. 
The annual fees for 2012 and 2013 are as follows:
2012
£000
2013*
£000
Board membership
Chairman 300 320
Non-Executive Director 55 58
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 12 12
Committee membership 
Chairman Audit and Risk Committee 15 20
Chairman Remuneration Committee 10 15
Chairman Nomination Committee ––
Member Audit and Risk Committee 7.5 10
Member Remuneration Committee 5.0 7.5
Member Nomination Committee 2.5 2.5
* Increase to take effect from 1 April 2013.
Pursuant to the policy of aligning Directors’ interests with those of shareholders, a proportion of the fees due to the Non-Executive 
Directors is used each year to purchase shares in the Company. 
Directors’ report – Governance
Remuneration report continued
58 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Implementation report
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2012
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration and pension contributions for 2012 and the prior year for comparison. 
Base salary
or fees
2012
£000
Cash
bonuses
2012
£000
Other 
benefits
1
2012
£000
Pension 
contributions
2012
£000
Total 
emoluments
2012
£000
Total 
emoluments
2011
£000
Share
Awards
2
2012
£000
Share
Awards
2
2011
£000
Executive Directors
Wolfhart Hauser 687 750 72 172 1,681 1,682 694 667
Lloyd Pitchford 427 362 25 85 899 821 362 331
Non-Executive Directors
Edward Astle 64 – – – 64 62 – –
Alan Brown
3
60 – – – 60 39 – –
Christopher Knight 75 – – – 75 70 – –
Louise Makin
4
30 – – – 30 – – –
Sir David Reid
5
300 – 25 – 325 27 – –
Michael Wareing
3
85 – – – 85 44 – –
Lena Wilson
4
28 – – – 28 – – –
Former Non-Executive Directors
David Allvey
6
––––– 94 – –
Gavin Darby
7
––––– 27 – –
Debra Rade
6
––––– 57 – –
Vanni Treves
6
––––– 212 – –
Total 1,756 1,112 122 257 3,247 3,135 1,056 998
1.  Value of allowances in lieu of company car, annual medicals, life assurance and private medical insurance. With respect to the Non-Executive Directors,  
other than Sir David Reid, who receives a car allowance of £25k per annum, no other beneﬁts are provided.
2.  Share Awards represent the value of awards granted in respect of performance for the year under review. These awards normally vest three years after the date of 
grant, on condition that the participant is still employed in the Group. Performance Awards are excluded and are disclosed in the graphs on page 54. Performance 
conditions for these awards are disclosed on pages 56 and 57.
3. Appointed 15 April 2011.
4. Appointed 1 July 2012.
5. Appointed 1 December 2011.
6. Retired 31 December 2011.
7. Resigned 20 May 2011.
59 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Base salary
Salaries for the Executive Directors were increased in 2012 and  
in 2013 (see the table below). Applying the remuneration policy, 
we considered that the performance of the individuals, taken in 
conjunction with the continuing growth and ﬁnancial success of 
the Group, justiﬁed the increases. In the case of Wolfhart Hauser, 
the Board regards his leadership of the Group as exemplary.  
For Lloyd Pitchford, the salary increase reﬂects the continuing 
strong performance he is delivering in the role.
The Executive Directors’ salaries are:
Base salary 
from 1 April 
2012
£000
Base salary 
from 1 April 
2013
£000 
Base salary 
% increase 
over 2012 
salary
Wolfhart Hauser 694 715 3
Lloyd Pitchford 436 449 3
Elsewhere in the Group, salary increases were also awarded 
where justiﬁed by the growth and performance of the relevant 
businesses, not just by market conditions.
Pensions
The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are as follows:
Group
Company
pension
member
% Base
salary
Contribution
2012
£000
Contribution
2011
£000
Wolfhart Hauser No 25 172 163
Lloyd Pitchford No 20 85 78
Annual cash bonus
The amount of the bonus in respect of 2012, to be paid in 2013, 
is as follows:
Percentage of base salary
2012 Award
£000 Max % % of salary
Wolfhart Hauser 750 130 108
Lloyd Pitchford 362 100 83
The Committee did not exercise any discretion in respect of the 
above bonus outturn.
The weightings and outcomes for the Group ﬁnancial bonus 
criteria for 2012 were:
% Business
outcome
% of Group
bonus
% of bonus
achieved
Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share growth
1
20.4 50 100
Adjusted operating profit 
growth
1
17.5 25 92
Operating cash flow % of 
adjusted operating profit
1
69.8 15 –
Return on invested capital 19.1 10 60
1. Calculated using constant 2011 exchange rates.
 
The outcome for the proportion of bonus based on General 
Contribution for the Executive Directors was:
% of
bonus
% of bonus
achieved
Wolfhart Hauser 20 100
Lloyd Pitchford 20 100
Directors’ report – Governance
Remuneration report continued
60 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Share plan awards
The table below shows the Directors’ interests in the Intertek share plans:
31 December
2011
Number
of shares
Granted in
2012
Number
of shares
Award price
1
£
Vested in
2012
Number
of shares
2
Lapsed in
2012
Number
of shares
31 December
2012
Number
of shares
Date of
vesting
3
Wolfhart Hauser
2009 Deferred 46,152 – 8.342 46,152 – – March 2012
Matching 92,304 8.342 92,304 – –
2010 Deferred 43,316 – 13.332 – – 43,316 March 2013
Matching 86,632 13.332 – – 86,632
2011 Share 31,938 – 18.986 – – 31,938 March 2014
Performance 63,876 – 18.986 – – 63,876
2012 Share – 28,696 23.24 – – 28,696 March 2015
Performance – 57,392 23.24 – – 57,392
Total 364,218 86,088 138,456
4
– 311,850
Lloyd Pitchford
2010 Deferred 8,313 – 14.434 – – 8,313 May 2013
Matching 16,626 – 14.434 – – 16,626
2011 Share 16,034 – 18.986 – – 16,034 March 2014
Performance 32,068 – 18.986 – – 32,068
2012 Share – 14,248 23.24 – – 14,248 March 2015
Performance – 28,496 23.24 – – 28,496
Total 73,041 42,744 – – 115,785
1.   Awards made are based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the ﬁve dealing days before the date of grant. On the grant date  
6 March 2012 the share price was £22.62. No payment is made by participants in the Plan or the DBP.
2.  Awards vested on 12 March 2012, on which date the closing market price of shares was £24.55 having been granted on 10 March 2009 on which date the  
closing market price was £8.995. 
3.  Awards normally vest three years after grant. The vesting of Matching and Performance Awards is subject to additional performance conditions described  
on pages 56 and 57.
4. The aggregate gain made by Directors on the vesting of awards was £3,370,116.
TSR performance 
The TSR performance calculation for the Matching Awards that 
vested in 2012 was determined by New Bridge Street (‘NBS’),  
part of AON plc. The TSR performance was as follows:
Scheme
Date of
Grant
Intertek
TSR
Intertek
rank*
Vesting % of
 TSR element
(Max 100%)
Deferred  
Bonus Plan
10 March
2009
139.5% 18.95
against
78
100
* Live companies only.
Mirror share awards
On 14 May 2010 Lloyd Pitchford was granted conditional rights 
to acquire 49,039 1p shares in Intertek Group plc under a one-off 
arrangement as a condition of his recruitment as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of the Company. The award comprised eight parts 
(Tranches A to H). Tranche A vested in 2010, Tranches B to E 
vested in 2011 and the last Tranches, as outlined in the next 
column, vested in 2012. 
Each tranche vested subject to Lloyd Pitchford’s continued 
employment with Intertek. In the case of Tranche G the extent to 
which such tranche vested was also contingent on the satisfaction 
of TSR performance criteria. The awards were satisﬁed with 
market purchased shares. The gain made on vesting during 2012 
was £278,161. 
31 December
2011
Number
of shares
Vested in
2012
Number
of shares
31 December
2012
Number
of shares
Vesting 
date
of award 
Tranche F 1,723 1,723 –November
2012
Tranche G 5,170 5,170 –November
2012
Tranche H 3,006 3,006 –November
2012
TSR performance 
The TSR performance calculation for the Mirror Awards that 
vested in 2012 was determined by NBS. The TSR performance 
was as follows:
Scheme Date of Grant Intertek TSR Intertek rank*
Vesting % of
TSR element
(Max 100%)
Tranche G 14 May
2010
108.9% 4.26
against 83
100
* Live companies only.
61 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ report – Governance
Remuneration report continued
External appointments
The Company recognises that, during their employment with the 
Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become  
Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such duties 
can broaden their experience and knowledge. Executive Directors 
may, with the written consent of the Company, accept such 
appointments outside the Company, and the policy is that any 
fees may be retained by the Director. 
Wolfhart Hauser was a Non-Executive Director of Logica plc until 
he resigned on 20 August 2012. His earnings for this appointment 
in 2012, which he retained, were £38,000. 
Advisors 
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices drive and 
support achievement of strategies and are market competitive, 
the Committee obtains advice from various independent sources. 
During 2012, the Committee took independent advice to ensure 
that remuneration is ‘ﬁt for purpose’, on share incentive 
arrangements and remuneration benchmarking from Kepler 
Associates (‘KA’) and on remuneration matters from NBS. KA and 
NBS are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and 
they adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to 
Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK. The Committee 
took independent advice on UK pension matters from Premier 
Pensions Management Limited (‘PPM’). During 2012, PPM’s 
associate company provided additional FSA-regulated services in 
respect of UK pension and employee matters. PPM, KA and NBS 
have no other connection with the Company or its senior ofﬁcers. 
Due to the worldwide operations of the Group, advisors are 
selected on their particular expertise both at a local and 
global level.
Shareholder context
At the May 2012 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was 
proposed to shareholders to approve the Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2011. This resolution was passed 
on a poll with 95.70% of the votes in favour and 4.30% against. 
The percentage of votes withheld was 4.98%.
Approval of the Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board  
on 1 March 2013.
Christopher Knight 
Chairman Remuneration Committee
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year end are set out below. Save as stated in this report, during 
the course of the year, no Director nor any member of his or her immediate family had any other interest in the ordinary share capital 
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
31 December
2011 or on
appointment Acquired Disposed
31 December 
2012
Shareholding
 as a % of
 salary
2
Shareholding
 requirement
 met?
Edward Astle 684 194 – 878 n/a n/a
Alan Brown – 1,041 – 1,041 n/a n/a
Wolfhart Hauser 87,677 138,456 105,227 120,906 545 Yes
Christopher Knight 6,988 243 – 7,231 n/a n/a
Louise Makin¹ – – – – n/a n/a
Lloyd Pitchford 22,197 9,899 5,157 26,939 196 Yes
Sir David Reid – 707 – 707 n/a n/a
Michael Wareing 3,000 235 – 3,235 n/a n/a
Lena Wilson¹ – – – – n/a n/a
1. At date of appointment (1 July 2012).
2. Based on a share price of £30.99 as at 31 December 2012.
No changes in the above Directors’ interests have taken place between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report.
62 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ indemnities
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the  
Group to attract and retain the services of the most able  
and experienced Directors by offering competitive terms of 
engagement, including the granting of indemnities on terms 
consistent with the applicable statutory provisions. Qualifying 
third-party indemnity provisions (as deﬁned by section 234 of the 
Act), were accordingly in force during the course of the ﬁnancial 
year ended 31 December 2012, for the beneﬁt of the Directors 
and, at the date of this report, are in force in relation to certain 
losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in 
connection with their duties, powers or ofﬁce.
Principal activities and business review
The Group’s principal activities, business and principal risks 
and uncertainties are contained in the Business Review, on  
pages 4 to 35 and the Corporate Governance section, on pages 
38 to 46 which are incorporated by reference into this report. 
Dividend
The Directors are recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 28.0p per 
ordinary share (2011: 23.0p) making a full year dividend of 41.0p 
per ordinary share (2011: 33.7p) which will, if approved at the 
AGM, be paid on 7 June 2013 to shareholders on the register  
at close of business on 24 May 2013. 
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the 
movements in the Company’s share capital during the year,  
are shown in note 15 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends 
when declared, to receive the Company’s report and accounts, to 
attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint 
proxies and exercise voting rights. A waiver of dividend exists in 
respect of 24,754 shares held by the Intertek Group Employee 
Share Ownership Trust at 31 December 2012. There are no 
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company.
The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by the 
Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced by 
means of a special resolution of the Company in a General 
Meeting. The Directors’ powers are conferred on them by UK 
legislation and by the Company’s Articles of Association.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control 
of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights 
except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a 
share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid. 
There are no arrangements known to the Company by which 
ﬁnancial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by  
a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are there any 
arrangements between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights known 
to the Company. All issued shares are fully paid.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange 
and may be traded through the CREST system. 
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
(the ‘Act’) and UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, the following section describes the matters that are 
required for inclusion in the Directors’ Report and were approved 
by the Board. Further details of matters required to be included in 
the Directors’ Report that are incorporated by reference into this 
report are set out below.
Directors
The Directors who held ofﬁce during the year are set out below. 
Sir David Reid Chairman
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Edward Astle Non-Executive Director
Alan Brown Non-Executive Director
Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director
Louise Makin Non-Executive Director (appointed 1 July 2012)
Michael Wareing Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director (appointed 1 July 2012)
The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are set 
out on page 37.
The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions relating 
to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors but, in 
accordance with best practice, all directors will stand for election 
or re-election at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’).
Directors’ powers and Articles of Association
The Directors are responsible for the management of the 
Company and their powers to do so are determined by the 
provisions of the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. 
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the 
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, 
the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the 
Board and general meetings. Copies are available upon request 
from the Group Company Secretary and are available at the 
Company’s AGM. Further powers are granted by members in 
general meeting and those currently in place are set out in detail 
within the appropriate section of this report.
Directors’ interests 
Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the 
Company had a personal interest in any business transactions of 
the Company or its subsidiaries. The terms of the Directors’ 
service contracts and the Directors’ interests in the shares and 
share awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions 
are notiﬁable to the Company under the UK Listing Authority 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.2 are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 62.
Directors’ report – Governance
Other statutory information
63 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  BlackRock Inc. gave notice on 8 October 2012 that they  
had an indirect interest on 5 October 2012 in 8,157,265 
ordinary shares, representing 5.07% of the ordinary shares  
in issue at that date.
 Capital Research and Management Company gave notice on  
4 September 2012 that they had an indirect interest on 
3 September 2012 in 10,818,828 ordinary shares, representing 
6.73% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
 Legal and General Group plc gave notice on 15 June 2012 that 
they had a direct interest on 14 June 2012 in 4,840,713 
ordinary shares, representing 3.01% of the ordinary shares in 
issue on that date.
 Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc gave notice on 
15 March 2012 that they had an indirect interest on 14 March 
2012 in 8,027,805 ordinary shares, representing 5.01% of the 
ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Charitable and political donations 
During 2012 the Group made charitable donations of £146,000 
(2011: £117,000) to a wide variety of charities.
At the AGM in 2012 shareholders passed a resolution, on a 
precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations 
to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure 
(as such terms are deﬁned in the Act) not exceeding £90,000. 
During the year the Group did not make any political donations 
(2011: £nil). It is the Company’s policy not, directly or through any 
subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded as donations to 
any political party. However, at the forthcoming AGM of the 
Company, shareholders’ approval will again be sought to 
authorise the Group to make political donations and/or incur 
political expenditure (as such terms are deﬁned in Sections 362  
to 379 of the Act). Further details of this will be contained in the 
Notice of AGM. 
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to 
continue in ofﬁce and a resolution that they be reappointed will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 
489 of the Act.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held on 17 May 2013, will 
be available for download from the Company’s corporate website 
at www.intertek.com/investors. The Notice will detail the business 
to be conducted at the meeting and include information 
concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in 
relation to voting rights.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report conﬁrm that, so far as they are aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or 
she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Allotment of shares
At the AGM held in 2012 the shareholders generally and 
unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities 
up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount of issued 
share capital. It is the Directors’ intention to seek renewal of this 
authority in line with guidance issued by the Association of British 
Insurers. The resolution will be set out in the Notice of AGM. 
Also at the AGM in 2012 the Directors were empowered by the 
shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Company’s 
issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of the Act. It is 
intended that this authority be renewed, up to 5%, at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Purchase of own shares
Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company to buy 
back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase 
until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year. The Directors 
will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM. This power will only 
be exercised if the Directors are satisﬁed that any purchase will 
increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in 
issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in 
the interests of shareholders. The Directors will also give careful 
consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its general 
ﬁnancial position. Any shares purchased in this way may be held 
in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the Company 
with ﬂexibility in the management of its share capital. Where 
treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, they 
will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% 
limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a 10-year 
period under our relevant share plan rules.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers 
The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice 
but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers. Payment 
terms are agreed at the commencement of business with each 
supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made 
accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions being met.  
The holding company, Intertek Group plc, does not trade  
and therefore has no trade payables.
Signiﬁcant relationships
The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships 
with any single party which are essential to the business of the 
Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed. 
Social and community issues
We encourage our local managers to foster community links 
appropriate to the businesses they manage. Further details  
are given in our Sustainability and CSR Report on page 28. 
Material interests in shares
The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights have 
been made (and have not been amended or withdrawn) to  
the Company pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing 
Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5:
Directors’ report – Governance
Other statutory information continued
64 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect  
of the annual ﬁnancial report
Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed  
on page 36, conﬁrm that to the best of their knowledge:
 The ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 The Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
This Directors’ Report comprising pages 4 to 65 has been 
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
1 March 2013
Registered Ofﬁce
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
Registered Number: 4267576
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the Group and Parent Company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial 
statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and 
of their proﬁt or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and Parent Company ﬁnancial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
 For the Group ﬁnancial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
 For the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements; and
 Prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and  
the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy  
at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its ﬁnancial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are  
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement  
that complies with that law and those regulations.
Directors’ report – Governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
65 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 66 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the members of Intertek Group plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Intertek Group plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 68 to 
116. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and  
the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 65, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and for being 
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is  
to audit, and express an opinion on, the ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁnancial statements  
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
  The ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2012 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year  
then ended;
  The Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
  The Parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
  The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and,  
as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
  The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; and
 The information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial 
year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to  
you if, in our opinion:
  Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
 The Parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
  Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by  
law are not made; or
  We have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 The Directors’ statement, set out on page 46, in relation  
to going concern;
 The part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the  
Directors’ Report relating to the Company’s compliance with  
the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
speciﬁed for our review; and
  Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board  
on Directors’ remuneration.
Stephen Wardell (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
1 March 2013 xx
xx
Contents
Page
 68 Consolidated income statement
 69  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
 70  Consolidated statement  
of ﬁnancial position
 71   Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
 72  Consolidated statement  
of cash ﬂows
 73   Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
 113  Intertek Group plc Company 
balance sheet
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
Page Note
 73 1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies
 75 2 Operating segments and presentation of results
 78 3 Separately disclosed items
 79 4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
 79 5 Employees
 80 6 Taxation
 83 7 Earnings per ordinary share
 84 8 Property, plant and equipment
 86 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
 90 10 Acquisitions
 93 11 Trade and other receivables
 94 12 Trade and other payables
 94 13 Provisions
 95 14 Borrowings and ﬁnancial instruments
 102 15 Capital and reserves
 103 16 Employee beneﬁts
 108 17 Share schemes
 110 18 Subsequent events
 110 19 Capital management
 110 20 Non-controlling interest
 111 21 Related parties
 111 22 Contingent liabilities
 112 23 Principal subsidiary undertakings
Financial statements
67 Intertek plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Notes
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 disclosed 
items* 
£m
Total
2012 
£m
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 disclosed 
items* 
£m
Total
2011 
£m
Revenue 2 2,054.3 – 2,054.3 1,749.4 – 1,749.4
Operating costs (1,719.2) (51.8) (1,771.0) (1,468.3) (47.1) (1,515.4)
Group operating profit 2 335.1 (51.8) 283.3 281.1 (47.1) 234.0
Finance income 14 7.5 – 7.5 8.2 – 8.2
Finance expense 14 (34.2) – (34.2) (29.2) – (29.2)
Net financing costs (26.7) – (26.7) (21.0) – (21.0)
Profit before income tax 308.4 (51.8) 256.6 260.1 (47.1) 213.0
Income tax expense 6 (80.3) 11.9 (68.4) (73.3) 11.4 (61.9)
Profit for the year 2 228.1 (39.9) 188.2 186.8 (35.7) 151.1
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company 213.7 (39.9) 173.8 174.5 (35.7) 138.8
 Non-controlling interest 20 14.4 – 14.4 12.3 – 12.3
Profit for the year 228.1 (39.9) 188.2 186.8 (35.7) 151.1
Earnings per share**
Basic 7 108.2p 86.8p
Diluted 7 106.7p 85.3p
* See note 3.
** Earnings per share on the adjusted results is disclosed in note 7.
68 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Profit for the year 2 188.2 151.1
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 14 (37.2) (2.2)
Net exchange gain/(loss) on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 14 25.4 (21.5)
Loss on fair value of cash flow hedges 14 (0.3) –
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 16 (6.5) (7.9)
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 6 1.5 1.0
Total other comprehensive expense for the year (17.1) (30.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year 171.1 120.5
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company 157.2 108.3
 Non-controlling interest 20 13.9 12.2
Total comprehensive income for the year 171.1 120.5
69 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position
As at 31 December 2012 Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 302.1 265.0
Goodwill 9 668.5 637.0
Other intangible assets 9 154.5 169.5
Investments in associates 0.7 0.7
Deferred tax assets 6 28.3 27.6
Total non-current assets 1,154.1 1,099.8
Inventories 12.3 12.3
Trade and other receivables 11 502.4 442.6
Cash and cash equivalents 14 166.5 181.9
Total current assets 681.2 636.8
Total assets 1,835.3 1,736.6
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (0.8) (38.7)
Current taxes payable (54.2) (44.1)
Trade and other payables 12 (324.3) (295.5)
Provisions 13 (26.8) (17.1)
Total current liabilities (406.1) (395.4)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (716.4) (723.9)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (32.8) (49.2)
Net pension liabilities 16 (17.0) (11.3)
Other payables 12 (6.2) (9.0)
Provisions 13 (1.9) (1.3)
Total non-current liabilities (774.3) (794.7)
Total liabilities (1,180.4) (1,190.1)
Net assets 654.9 546.5
Equity
Share capital 15 1.6 1.6
Share premium 257.4 256.7
Other reserves 16.6 27.9
Retained earnings 354.0 236.3
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 629.6 522.5
Non-controlling interest 20 25.3 24.0
Total equity 654.9 546.5
The financial statements on pages 68 to 112 were approved by the Board on 1 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser  Lloyd Pitchford 
Director   Director 
70 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Share
 premium 
£m
Other reserves
Retained
 earnings*
£m
Total 
before 
non-
controlling
 interest 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Translation
 reserve
£m
Other 
£m
At 1 January 2011 1.6 256.3 45.1 6.4 149.5 458.9 23.1 482.0
Comprehensive income for the year – – (23.6) – 131.9 108.3 12.2 120.5
Dividends paid 15 –––– (47.2) (47.2) (10.4) (57.6)
Issue of shares 15 – 0.4––– 0.4 – 0.4
Purchase of own shares 15 –––– (7.8) (7.8) – (7.8)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 20 –––– (0.6) (0.6) (1.2) (1.8)
Equity-settled transactions 17 –––– 9.5 9.5 – 9.5
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 6 –––– 1.0 1.0 – 1.0
Additions to non-controlling interest 20 ––––– – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2011 1.6 256.7 21.5 6.4 236.3 522.5 24.0 546.5
At 1 January 2012 1.6 256.7 21.5 6.4 236.3 522.5 24.0 546.5
Comprehensive income for the year – – (11.3) – 168.5 157.2 13.9 171.1
Dividends paid 15 –––– (57.9) (57.9) (12.6) (70.5)
Issue of shares 15 – 0.7 – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Purchase of own shares 15 –––– (0.8) (0.8) – (0.8)
Tax paid on share awards vested –––– (5.8) (5.8) – (5.8)
Equity-settled transactions 17 –––– 10.4 10.4 – 10.4
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 6 –––– 3.3 3.3 – 3.3
At 31 December 2012 1.6 257.4 10.2 6.4 354.0 629.6 25.3 654.9
*  After £244.1m for goodwill written off to retained earnings as at 1 January 2004 in relation to subsidiaries acquired prior to 31 December 1997. This ﬁgure has not 
been restated as permitted by IFRS 1.
71 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 2 188.2 151.1
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charge 8 59.8 56.4
Amortisation of software 9 3.8 3.8
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and impairment of goodwill 9 32.5 25.3
Equity-settled transactions 17 10.4 9.5
Net financing costs 14 26.7 21.0
Income tax expense 6 68.4 61.9
Loss on disposal of property, plant, equipment and software 0.1 0.1
Operating profit before changes in working capital and operating provisions 389.9 329.1
Change in inventories – (2.1)
Change in trade and other receivables (65.9) (34.8)
Change in trade and other payables 2.2 3.8
Change in provisions 7.0 (6.1)
Special contributions into pension schemes 16 (0.6) (1.2)
Cash generated from operations 332.6 288.7
Interest and other finance expense paid (26.5) (22.3)
Income taxes paid (72.6) (53.4)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 233.5 213.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and software 1.7 1.6
Interest received 2.3 2.0
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 (39.6) (459.7)
Consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 13 (0.6) (2.6)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 20 – (1.8)
Acquisition of property, plant, equipment and software 8,9 (115.0) (80.6)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (151.2) (541.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.7 0.4
Purchase of own shares 15 (0.8) (7.8)
Tax paid on share awards vested (5.8) –
Drawdown of borrowings 201.3 692.8
Repayment of borrowings (217.5) (335.5)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 20 (12.6) (10.4)
Equity dividends paid 15 (57.9) (47.2)
Net cash flows (used in)/generated from financing activities (92.6) 292.3
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 14 (10.3) (35.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 14 181.9 217.0
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 14 (5.1) 0.7
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 14 166.5 181.9
The notes on pages 73 to 112 are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Cash outﬂow relating to separately disclosed items was £12.8m for year ended 31 December 2012 (2011: £26.1m).
72 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1 Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
Accounting policies applicable to more than one section of the ﬁnancial statements are shown below. Where accounting policies 
relate to a speciﬁc note in the ﬁnancial statements, they are set out within that note, to provide readers of the ﬁnancial statements 
with a more useful layout to the ﬁnancial information presented.
Statement of compliance
Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group ﬁnancial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2012 consolidate those of the Company and its  
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and include the Group’s interest in associates. The Group ﬁnancial statements have 
been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
(IFRSs). The Parent Company ﬁnancial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its 
Group. The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are 
presented on pages 113 to 116.
Measurement convention
The ﬁnancial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as discussed in the relevant accounting policies.
Functional and presentation currency
These consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. All information 
presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies set out in these ﬁnancial statements have been applied consistently to all years presented.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2012 but do not have a signiﬁcant effect on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
Going concern
The Board has reviewed forecasts, including forecasts adjusted for signiﬁcantly worse economic conditions. The Board has also 
reviewed the Group’s funding requirements and has taken into consideration the issuance of US$80m notes in February 2013 and  
the available debt facilities. As a result of these reviews the Board remains satisﬁed with the Group’s funding and liquidity position 
and believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. In addition, on the basis of its forecasts, both base 
case and stressed, and available facilities, which are described in note 14, the Board has concluded that the going concern basis of 
preparation continues to be appropriate.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern 
the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights 
that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies  
of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
For purchases of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries, the difference between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary 
and the non-controlling interest’s share of the assets and liabilities reﬂected in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position  
at the date of acquisition, is reﬂected directly in shareholders’ equity.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group 
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way  
as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities (for example cash, trade receivables, trade payables) denominated 
in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on translation are generally recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
For the policy on hedging of foreign currency transactions see note 14.
Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
73 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated  
to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at cumulative average rates of exchange during the year. 
Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations are taken directly to equity in the translation reserve.  
They are released to the income statement upon disposal. For the policy on net investment hedging see note 14.
The most signiﬁcant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates:
Value of £1 
Assets and liabilities
Actual rates
Income and expenses
Cumulative average rates
31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 2012 2011
US dollar 1.61 1.55 1.59 1.60
Euro 1.22 1.20 1.23 1.15
Chinese renminbi 10.12 9.77 10.01 10.35
Hong Kong dollar 12.46 12.04 12.31 12.47
Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements and estimates that affect 
the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected.
Judgements
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has applied judgement in the following areas that have a signiﬁcant impact 
on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements.
Basis of consolidation
Judgement is applied when determining if the Group ‘controls’ a subsidiary or associate. In assessing control, the Group considers 
whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually exercised; see above.
Intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management determines whether any intangible assets should be recognised separately  
from goodwill; see note 9.
Income tax
The tax on proﬁts is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws and regulations  
is unclear, judgements are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid; see note 6.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised, with consideration 
given to the timing and level of future taxable income; see note 6.
Estimates
Discussed below are key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation at the reporting date, that have  
a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year.
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines on an annual basis whether goodwill is impaired. This requires an estimation of the future cash ﬂows  
of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated; see note 9.
Claims
In making provision for claims, management bases its estimate on the circumstances relating to each speciﬁc event, internal and 
external legal advice, knowledge of the industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal precedents; see note 13.
Contingent consideration
When the Group acquires businesses, the total consideration may consist of an amount paid on completion plus further amounts 
payable on agreed post completion dates. These further amounts are contingent on the acquired business meeting agreed 
performance targets. At the date of acquisition, the Group reviews the proﬁt and cash forecasts for the acquired business  
and estimates the amount of contingent consideration that is likely to be due; see note 13.
 
74 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Employee post-retirement beneﬁt obligations
For material deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the actuarial valuation includes assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary 
progression and mortality rates; see note 16.
Recoverability of trade receivables
Trade receivables are reﬂected net of an estimated provision for impairment losses. This provision considers the past payment history 
and the length of time that the debt has remained unpaid; see note 11.
Accounting policies relating to a speciﬁc note in the ﬁnancial statements are set out within that note as follows: 
Note
Revenue 2
Separately disclosed items 3
Taxation 6
Property, plant and equipment 8
Goodwill and other intangible assets 9
Trade and other receivables 11
Trade and other payables 12
Provisions 13
Borrowings and ﬁnancial instruments 14
Capital and reserves 15
Employee beneﬁts 16
Share schemes 17
Non-controlling interest 20
2 Operating segments and presentation of results
Accounting policy
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra group transactions.
Revenue from services rendered on short-term projects is generally recognised in the income statement when the relevant service  
is completed, usually when the report of ﬁndings is issued.
On long-term projects the Group records transactions as sales on the basis of value of work done, with the corresponding amount 
being included in trade debtors if the customer has been invoiced or in accrued income if billing has yet to be completed. Expenses 
are recharged to clients where permitted by the contract.
Operating segments
The Group is organised into ﬁve divisions, each of which offer services to different industries and are managed separately: Industry  
& Assurance; Commodities; Consumer Goods; Commercial & Electrical and Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals. The costs of the corporate 
head ofﬁce and other costs which are not controlled by the operating divisions are allocated to these divisions.
The divisions noted above are the operating segments that are reported to the Board of Directors, the chief operating decision maker, 
and are the Group’s reportable segments. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. There is no signiﬁcant 
seasonality in the Group’s operations.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. The 
performance of the segments is assessed based on adjusted operating proﬁt which is before separately disclosed items. Unallocated 
items include group-wide projects that do not sit in any one division. A reconciliation to operating proﬁt by division, and Group proﬁt 
for the year is included overleaf.
Principal activities are as follows:
Industry & Assurance – using in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, nuclear, power, renewable energy, construction, food, chemical 
and agricultural industries, the division provides a diverse range of services to help customers meet global quality standards. These 
include asset integrity management, exploration and production support, consulting, training and third-party management systems 
auditing. The division also provides certiﬁcation services, second-party supplier auditing, sustainability data veriﬁcation and process 
performance analysis.
Commodities – provides independent cargo inspection, analytical assessment, calibration and related research and technical services 
to the world’s petroleum, mining, minerals and biofuels industries. The division also provides services to governments and regulatory 
bodies to support trade activities that help the ﬂow of goods across borders.
75 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Consumer Goods – the division is a market leading provider of services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food and retail 
industries. As partner to retailers, manufacturers and distributors it offers expertise on issues ranging from restricted hazardous 
substance and sustainability, to supply chain security and legislation relating to environmental, ethical and trade security issues. 
Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality assurance and hazardous substance testing.
Commercial & Electrical – the global network of accredited facilities provides manufacturers and retailers with the most 
comprehensive scope of safety, performance and quality testing and certiﬁcation services. The division supports customers in a wide 
range of industries including home appliances, consumer electronics, lighting, medical, building, industrial and HVAC/R (heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration), information and communications technology, renewable energy and automotive.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals – serving a wide range of industries including chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and automotive 
and aerospace, the division offers advanced laboratory measurement and expert consultancy related technical support services and 
sustainability solutions. It has an established track record of success in laboratory outsourcing with many large, internationally 
recognised companies and the division’s world leading technical experts also support internal technical development.
The results of these divisions for the year ended 31 December 2012 are shown below:
Year ended 31 December 2012 
Revenue
from external
 customers
£m
Inter-
segment
 revenue
£m
Total 
revenue
£m
Depreciation
 and software
 amortisation*
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 disclosed
 items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Industry & Assurance 665.6 2.0 667.6 (7.0) 77.4 (27.1) 50.3
Commodities 572.3 4.0 576.3 (22.1) 77.2 (1.7) 75.5
Consumer Goods 343.4 1.5 344.9 (11.5) 112.8 (6.0) 106.8
Commercial & Electrical 318.2 8.1 326.3 (14.0) 50.6 (3.1) 47.5
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 154.8 2.7 157.5 (5.7) 17.1 (7.2) 9.9
Eliminations – (18.3) (18.3) – – – –
Total 2,054.3 – 2,054.3 (60.3) 335.1 (45.1) 290.0
Unallocated separately disclosed items – (6.7) (6.7)
Group operating profit 335.1 (51.8) 283.3
Net financing costs (26.7) – (26.7)
Profit before income tax 308.4 (51.8) 256.6
Income tax expense (80.3) 11.9 (68.4)
Profit for the year 228.1 (39.9) 188.2
* Depreciation and software amortisation of £63.6m (2011: £60.2m) includes unallocated charges of £3.3m (2011: £2.9m).
Year ended 31 December 2011
Revenue 
from external
 customers
£m
Inter-
segment
 revenue
£m
Total 
revenue
£m
Depreciation
 and software
 amortisation*
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 disclosed
 items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Industry & Assurance 468.6 2.0 470.6 (5.4) 50.9 (28.9) 22.0
Commodities 530.2 2.7 532.9 (22.0) 67.0 (2.7) 64.3
Consumer Goods 315.7 1.2 316.9 (11.7) 106.3 (0.9) 105.4
Commercial & Electrical 291.0 4.5 295.5 (12.6) 44.1 (2.7) 41.4
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 143.9 1.9 145.8 (5.6) 12.8 (3.6) 9.2
Eliminations – (12.3) (12.3) – – – –
Total 1,749.4 – 1,749.4 (57.3) 281.1 (38.8) 242.3
Unallocated separately disclosed items – (8.3) (8.3)
Group operating profit 281.1 (47.1) 234.0
Net financing costs (21.0) – (21.0)
Profit before income tax 260.1 (47.1) 213.0
Income tax expense (73.3) 11.4 (61.9)
Profit for the year 186.8 (35.7) 151.1
76 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Geographic segments
Although the Group is managed through a divisional structure, which operates on a global basis, under the requirements of IFRS 8 
the Group must disclose any speciﬁc countries that are important to the Group’s performance. The Group considers the following  
to be the material countries in which it operates; Australia, China (including Hong Kong), the United Kingdom and the United States.
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of the entity generating 
that revenue. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Revenue from external customers Non-current assets
 2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
China (including Hong Kong) 353.4 317.3 54.4 51.0
Australia 112.7 85.3 77.9 60.1
Other 264.4 223.9 44.0 25.6
Total Asia Pacific 730.5 626.5 176.3 136.7
United States 514.4 438.8 367.8 398.4
Other 161.0 130.8 68.2 12.4
Total Americas 675.4 569.6 436.0 410.8
United Kingdom 171.5 153.0 361.3 325.8
Other 476.9 400.3 166.6 198.9
Total Europe, Middle East and Africa 648.4 553.3 527.9 524.7
Unallocated – – 13.9 27.6
Total 2,054.3 1,749.4 1,154.1 1,099.8
Major customers
No revenue from any individual customer exceeded 10% of total Group revenue in 2011 or 2012.
77 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
3 Separately disclosed items
Accounting policy
Adjusted results
In order to present the performance of the Group in a clear, consistent and comparable format, certain items are disclosed  
separately on the face of the income statement.
Separately disclosed items are items which by their nature or size, in the opinion of the Directors, should be excluded from  
the adjusted result to provide readers with a clear and consistent view of the business performance of the Group and its  
operating divisions.
When applicable, these items include amortisation of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the proﬁt  
or loss on disposals of businesses or other signiﬁcant ﬁxed assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost of any 
fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims and settlements, signiﬁcant recycling of amounts from equity to the  
income statement and unrealised gains/losses on ﬁnancial assets/liabilities.
Separately disclosed items
The separately disclosed items are described in the table below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Operating costs:
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (a) (29.3) (25.3)
Acquisition and integration costs (b) (5.5) (14.1)
Project costs (c) (2.8) (7.7)
Restructuring costs (d) (11.0) –
Goodwill impairment (e) (3.2) –
Total operating costs (51.8) (47.1)
Income tax credit on separately disclosed items 11.9 11.4
Total (39.9) (35.7)
(a)  Of the amortisation of acquired intangibles in the current year, £19.7m (2011: £13.2m) relates to the customer contracts and 
customer relationships acquired with the purchase of Moody International Limited (‘Moody’).
(b)  Acquisition and integration costs comprise £1.8m (2011: £9.0m) for costs in respect of acquisitions and £3.7m (2011: £5.1m)  
in respect of integration costs.
(c) Project costs relate to the Group’s Business Process Outsourcing initiative.
(d) Restructuring costs relate to asset write-offs and staff redundancies in certain regions in which the Group operates.
(e) Goodwill impairment relates to the planned disposal of certain operations in Europe.
78 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
Certain expenses are outlined below, including fees paid to the auditors of the Group: 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Included in profit for the year are the following expenses:
Property rentals 48.1 43.1
Lease and hire charges – fixtures, fittings and equipment 14.6 15.9
Depreciation and software amortisation 63.6 60.2
Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software 0.1 0.1
2012
£m
2011
£m
Auditor’s remuneration: 
Audit of these financial statements 0.4 0.3
Amounts receivable by the auditors and their associates in respect of: 
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.6 1.8
Other services pursuant to such legislation – review of interim financial statements 0.1 0.1
Total fees payable pursuant to legislation 2.1 2.2
Taxation compliance services 0.4 0.3
Taxation advisory services 0.2 0.3
Transaction advisory –0.7
Other 0.2 0.7
Total 2.9 4.2
In addition the auditors and their associates were paid £15,000 (2011: £10,000) in respect of the audit of associated pension schemes.
5 Employees
Total employee costs are shown below: 
Employee costs 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 739.8 636.8
Equity-settled transactions 10.4 9.5
Social security costs 79.8 68.0
Pension costs (note 16) 32.6 29.2
Total employee costs 862.6 743.5
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report. Details of pension arrangements and equity- 
settled transactions are set out in notes 16 and 17 respectively. 
Average number of employees by division 2012 2011
Industry & Assurance 7,313 5,745
Commodities 10,524 9,889
Consumer Goods 9,880 9,237
Commercial & Electrical 4,184 3,916
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 1,586 1,513
Central 260 221
Total average number for the year ended 31 December 33,747 30,521
Total actual number at 31 December 34,882 31,712
79 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
6 Taxation
Accounting policy
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the same primary statement as  
the accounting transaction to which it relates.
Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted  
at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due. 
Amounts are accrued based on management’s interpretation of speciﬁc tax law and the likelihood of settlement. Where the outcome 
of discussions with tax authorities is different from the amount initially recorded, this difference will impact the tax provisions in the 
period the determination is made.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for:
 Initial recognition of goodwill;
 The initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting 
nor taxable proﬁt; and
 Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interest in joint ventures, the reversal of which is under 
the control of the Group and where it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date when the asset is realised or 
the liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities 
and assets and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities 
which intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset  
to be utilised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend.
Tax expense
The Group operates across many different tax jurisdictions. Income and proﬁts are earned and taxed in the individual countries  
in which they occur.
The income tax expense for the total proﬁt before tax for the year end 31 December 2012 is £68.4m (2011: £61.9m). The Group’s 
consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2012 is 26.7% (2011: 29.1%).
The income tax expense for the adjusted proﬁt before tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 is £80.3m (2011: £73.3m).  
The Group’s adjusted consolidated effective tax rate for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012 is 26.0% (2011: 28.2%).
Differences between the consolidated effective tax rate of 26.7% and the notional statutory UK rate of 24.5% include, but are not 
limited to; the mix of proﬁts, the effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, non-deductible expenses, the effect of utilised tax losses 
and under/over provisions in previous periods.
 
80 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6 Taxation (continued)
Tax charge
The total income tax charge, comprising the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax, recognised in the income 
statement is analysed as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current tax charge for the period 81.9 70.6
Adjustments relating to prior year liabilities 2.0 (4.0)
Current tax 83.9 66.6
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences (15.5) (4.7)
Total tax in income statement 68.4 61.9
Tax on adjusted result 80.3 73.3
Tax on separately disclosed items (11.9) (11.4)
Total tax in income statement 68.4 61.9
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The following table provides a reconciliation of the UK statutory corporation tax rate to the effective tax rate of the Group on proﬁt 
before taxation.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Profit before taxation 256.6 213.0
Notional tax charge at UK standard rate 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 62.8 56.4
Differences in overseas tax rates (3.5) (9.9)
Tax on dividends 4.3 3.5
Non-deductible expenses 10.9 12.8
Tax exempt income (3.4) (1.4)
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax (0.6) 2.0
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.9) (1.7)
Other (1.2) 0.2
Total tax in income statement 68.4 61.9
The effective tax rate on the proﬁt before tax for the year was 26.7% (2011: 29.1%) and for the adjusted proﬁt before tax was  
26.0% (2011: 28.2%).
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period  
of four years from 2011. Further 1% reductions to the UK corporation tax rate were announced in the Budgets on 29 March 2011  
and 21 March 2012. The reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% was enacted on 17 July 2012 and was effective from  
1 April 2012. The additional 1% reduction to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 was enacted on the same date.
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax recognised 
on items recorded in other comprehensive income is shown below:
Before tax
2012
£m
Tax credit
2012
£m
Net of tax
2012
£m
Before tax
2011
£m
Tax expense
2011
£m
Net of tax
2011
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences  
of foreign operations (37.2) – (37.2) (2.2) – (2.2)
Net exchange gain/(loss) on hedges of net investments  
in foreign operations 25.4 – 25.4 (21.5) – (21.5)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges  
transferred to profit or loss (0.3) – (0.3) –––
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit  
pension schemes (6.5) 0.1 (6.4) (7.9) 1.0 (6.9)
Deferred tax assets recognised in other comprehensive 
income –1.4 1.4 –––
Total other comprehensive income for the year (18.6) 1.5 (17.1) (31.6) 1.0 (30.6)
81 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
6 Taxation (continued)
Income tax recognised directly in equity
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax on items 
recognised in equity is shown below:
Before tax
2012
£m
Tax credit
2012
£m
Net of tax
2012
£m
Before tax
2011
£m
Tax credit
2011
£m
Net of tax
2011
£m
Equity-settled transactions 10.4 3.3 13.7 9.5 1.0 10.5
Deferred tax
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
Assets
2012
£m
Assets
2011
£m
Liabilities 
2012
£m
Liabilities
2011
£m
Net
2012
£m
Net
2011
£m
Intangible assets 0.5 0.7 (52.1) (57.4) (51.6) (56.7)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 4.4 4.4 (1.7) (2.2) 2.7 2.2
Pensions 1.5 1.4 – – 1.5 1.4
Equity-settled transactions 4.9 5.5 – – 4.9 5.5
Provisions and other temporary differences 28.4 20.1 (0.6) (3.1) 27.8 17 .0
Tax value of losses 10.2 9.0 – – 10.2 9.0
Total 49.9 41.1 (54.4) (62.7) (4.5) (21.6)
Of which:
Deferred tax assets* 28.3 27.6
Deferred tax liabilities* (32.8) (49.2)
Total (4.5) (21.6)
*Totals are different to the table above due to net-off within companies/tax jurisdictions.
Movements in deferred tax temporary differences during the year
The movement in the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below:
1 January 
2012
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity
£m
31 December
 2012
£m
Intangible assets (56.7) 2.0 (2.1) 5.2 – (51.6)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 2.2 (0.1) – 0.6 – 2.7
Pensions 1.4 – – – 0.1 1.5
Equity-settled transactions 5.5 – – (1.1) 0.5 4.9
Provisions and other temporary differences 17.0 (0.4) – 11.2 – 27.8
Tax value of losses 9.0 0.2 – (0.4) 1.4 10.2
Total (21.6) 1.7 (2.1) 15.5 2.0 (4.5)
1 January 
2011
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity
£m
31 December
 2011
£m
Intangible assets (10.8) (2.3) (45.2) 1.6 – (56.7)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 1.3 – – 0.9 – 2.2
Pensions 0.2 – – 0.1 1.1 1.4
Equity-settled transactions 5.2 – – 0.7 (0.4) 5.5
Interest rate swaps 0.3 – – (0.3) – –
Provisions and other temporary differences 18.2 (0.3) 2.1 (3.0) – 17.0
Tax value of losses 4.4 (0.1) – 4.7 – 9.0
Total 18.8 (2.7) (43.1) 4.7 0.7 (21.6)
82 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6 Taxation (continued)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 31.5 25.9
Pensions 6.8 3.0
Equity-settled transactions 7.7 3.0
Provisions and other temporary differences 13.1 13.5
Tax losses 41.0 45.7
Total 100.1 91.1
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable proﬁts  
will be available against which the Group can utilise the beneﬁts from them.
There is a temporary difference of £188.7m (2011: £174.7m) which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings.  
No deferred tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group  
and there is no intention to either repatriate from or sell the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.
7 Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company  
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33: Earnings Per Share, an adjusted earnings per share has also been calculated 
and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and other separately 
disclosed items. It has been calculated to allow shareholders a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.  
Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 173.8 138.8
Separately disclosed items after tax (note 3) 39.9 35.7
Adjusted earnings 213.7 174.5
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 160.6 159.9
Potentially dilutive share awards 2.3 2.9
Diluted weighted average number of shares 162.9 162.8
Basic earnings per share 108.2p 86.8p
Potentially dilutive share awards (1.5)p (1.5)p
Diluted earnings per share 106.7p 85.3p
Adjusted basic earnings per share 133.1p 109.1p
Potentially dilutive share awards (1.9)p (1.9)p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 131.2p 107.2p
83 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
8 Property, plant and equipment
Accounting policy
Property, plant and equipment
Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.  
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposal of items of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal 
with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in the income statement.
Leased assets
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. Where land 
and buildings are held under ﬁnance leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings. 
Leased assets acquired by way of ﬁnance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value  
of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Other leases are operating leases
These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s statement of ﬁnancial position. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant  
and equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 50 years
Short leasehold buildings Term of lease 
Fixtures, ﬁttings, plant and equipment 3 – 10 years
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed at each reporting date.
Impairment
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-ﬁnancial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each 
reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated to determine the level of any impairment.
84 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
The property, plant and equipment employed by the business is analysed below: 
Land and
buildings
£m
Fixtures,
fittings,
plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 55.2 477.1 532.3
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (3.7) (4.0)
Additions 1.5 73.6 75.1
Disposals – (7.8) (7.8)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 1.3 4.6 5.9
At 31 December 2011 57.7 543.8 601.5
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 9.1 280.1 289.2
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (2.9) (3.0)
Charge for the year 2.1 54.3 56.4
Disposals –(6.1) (6.1)
At 31 December 2011 11. 1 325.4 336.5
Net book value at 31 December 2011 46.6 218.4 265.0
Cost
At 1 January 2012 57.7 543.8 601.5
Exchange adjustments (1.9) (18.4) (20.3)
Additions 5.1 96.2 101.3
Disposals (1.0) (9.9) (10.9)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 3.0 4.5 7.5
At 31 December 2012 62.9 616.2 679.1
Depreciation
At 1 January 2012 11. 1 325.4 336.5
Exchange adjustments (0.5) (9.7) (10.2)
Charge for the year 2.3 57.5 59.8
Disposals (0.2) (8.9) (9.1)
At 31 December 2012 12.7 364.3 377.0
Net book value at 31 December 2012 50.2 251.9 302.1
Fixtures, ﬁttings, plant and equipment include assets in the course of construction of £21.6m at 31 December 2012 (2011: £10.7m), 
mainly comprising laboratories under construction. These assets will not be depreciated until they are available for use.
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Freehold 45.1 43.3
Long leasehold 2.5 0.6
Short leasehold 2.6 2.7
Total 50.2 46.6
85 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Commitments
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term  
of the lease.
At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows:
Land and
 buildings
2012
£m
Other
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Land and
 buildings
2011
£m
Other
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Within one year 42.2 7.2 49.4 42.1 6.0 48.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 73.0 5.8 78.8 78.5 6.3 84.8
Over five years 45.6 0.1 45.7 40.1 – 40.1
Total 160.8 13.1 173.9 160.7 12.3 173.0
The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative ofﬁces and equipment under lease agreements 
which have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in the ﬁnancial statements amounted to £6.3m (2011: £11.2m).
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Accounting policy
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the Group’s 
interest in the fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. All business combinations are accounted 
for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs) and is not 
amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
From 1 January 2010, the Group has applied IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations (revised 2008)’. The change in accounting policy  
has been applied prospectively.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which  
control is obtained.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred  
(including the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree) and the recognised amount of any non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities  
assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. 
Costs relating to acquisitions are shown in separately disclosed items.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised in  
proﬁt or loss.
If at the reporting date the fair values of the acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be established 
provisionally, then these values are used. Adjustments to the fair values can be made within 12 months of the acquisition date and  
are taken as adjustments to goodwill.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over 
the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of  
the acquiree. When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection  
with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to  
1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount 
recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework.
86 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Other intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible 
assets should be recognised separately from goodwill. If, based on management’s judgement, such an asset is identiﬁed, then it is 
valued by discounting the probable future cash ﬂows expected to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset. 
Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic beneﬁt and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation.
Intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Identiﬁable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of 
whether those rights are separable, and which have ﬁnite useful lives.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives  
are as follows:
Computer software Up to 7 years
Customer relationships Up to 10 years 
Know-how Up to 5 years 
Licences Contractual life 
Covenants not to compete Contractual life
Impairment
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are subject to amortisation and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the amount carried in the statement of ﬁnancial position is less than its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount 
of each asset or cash generating unit (or group of cash generating units) to which the goodwill relates. Assets are grouped at the 
lowest levels for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows (a ‘cash generating unit’ or ‘CGU’).
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. The estimation process is complex 
due to the inherent risks and uncertainties and if different estimates were used this could materially change the projected value of  
the cash ﬂows.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. An impairment loss in respect of other assets is reversed if there has been  
a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the 
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, 
if no impairment loss had been recognised.
87 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Intangibles
The intangibles employed by the business are analysed below:
Other intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
 
Customer
 relationships
£m
Licences
£m
Other
 acquisition
 intangibles
£m
Computer
 software
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 315.8 56.9 8.5 17.2 31.3 113.9
Exchange adjustments 6.9 1.5 (0.2) (0.1) – 1.2
Additions – – – – 5.5 5.5
Disposals – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 328.3 147.1 – – 0.4 147.5
At 31 December 2011 651.0 205.5 8.3 17.1 37.0 267.9
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2011 14.3 34.0 5.8 12.7 17.3 69.8
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) 0.2 (0.3)
Charge for the year – 22.7 0.8 1.8 3.8 29.1
Disposals – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2011 14.0 56.6 6.3 14.4 21.1 98.4
Net book value at 31 December 2011 637.0 148.9 2.0 2.7 15.9 169.5
Cost
At 1 January 2012 651.0 205.5 8.3 17.1 37.0 267.9
Exchange adjustments (6.8) (2.8) (0.2) (0.4) (1.5) (4.9)
Additions – – – – 13.7 13.7
Businesses acquired (note 10) 41.1 6.7 – – – 6.7
At 31 December 2012 685.3 209.4 8.1 16.7 49.2 283.4
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2012 14.0 56.6 6.3 14.4 21.1 98.4
Exchange adjustments (0.4) (1.2) (0.2) (0.4) (0.8) (2.6)
Charge for the year – 27.7 0.7 0.9 3.8 33.1
Impairment 3.2– ––––
At 31 December 2012 16.8 83.1 6.8 14.9 24.1 128.9
Net book value at 31 December 2012 668.5 126.3 1.3 1.8 25.1 154.5
The other acquisition intangibles of £1.8m (2011: £2.7m) consist of covenants not to compete, know-how and guaranteed income. 
The average remaining amortisation period for customer relationships is eight years (2011: nine years).
Computer software net book value of £25.1m at 31 December 2012 (2011: £15.9m) includes software in construction of £12.8m 
(2011: £4.8m).
The impairment charge of £3.2m relates to the planned disposal of certain operations in Europe.
88 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year has been allocated to operating segments as follows: 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Industry & Assurance 30.5 325.3
Commodities 6.1 0.1
Consumer Goods 3.4 3.2
Commercial & Electrical – (0.4)
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 1.1 0.1
At 31 December 41.1 328.3
The total carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Industry & Assurance 433.2 406.7
Commodities 73.9 68.5
Consumer Goods 9.8 9.7
Commercial & Electrical 59.0 59.6
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 92.6 92.5
Net book value at 31 December* 668.5 637.0
*  All goodwill is recorded in local currency. Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end 
of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment review
The following table analyses the total Group goodwill of £668.5m between eight identiﬁed cash generating units (CGUs).
2012
£m
2011
£m
Industry & Assurance – Exploration and Production Services 20.0 20.2
Industry & Assurance – Industry Services 352.6 325.3
Industry & Assurance – Systems Certification 60.6 61.2
Commodities – Minerals 49.0 43.3
Commodities – Cargo and others 24.9 25.2
Consumer Goods 9.8 9.7
Commercial & Electrical 59.0 59.6
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 92.6 92.5
Total goodwill net book value at 31 December 668.5 637.0
In order to determine whether impairments are required, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each CGU. The calculation  
is based on projecting future cash ﬂows over a ﬁve-year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth 
thereafter. The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model which assumes long-term growth rates of operating cash ﬂows 
of between 2.5% to 3.9% (2011: 2.5% to 3.9%) reﬂecting the long-term GDP growth forecasts in the various regions in which the 
respective CGUs operate. A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value 
less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount in excess of the value in use.
The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future ﬁnancial performance of the CGUs. The approved Group Business 
Plans for the three years 2013 to 2015 form the basis for the cash ﬂow projections for each CGU. The cash ﬂow projections for the 
succeeding two years 2016 to 2017 reﬂect management’s conservative expectations of the medium-term operating performance  
of the CGUs and growth prospects in the various CGUs’ markets and regions.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the revenue and operating margin growth rates which directly inﬂuence the 
forecasted operating cash ﬂows, as well as the discount rate applied. In determining the key assumptions, management have taken 
into account the current economic climate and the resulting impact on expected growth and discount rates.
The calculation of the value in use is sensitive to the following key assumptions: 
Operating cash flow
One of the key drivers of the operating cash ﬂow is revenue. The 2013 to 2015 revenues for each CGU are based on the approved 
business plans. For the years 2016 and 2017, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account 
of past experience and GDP growth prospects. The compound annual growth rates for each CGU for the years 2013 to 2017 ranged 
from 7.4% to 13.0% (2011: 7.3% to 16.8%). In all cases the assumed growth rates are considered to be realistic.
89 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The other key driver of the operating cash ﬂow is operating proﬁt. The compound annual growth rates for each CGU for the years 
2013 to 2017, which are considered realistic, ranged from 7.6% to 21.0% (2011: 6.8% to 23.9%) reﬂecting management assessment 
of current and future market environment of the sectors and countries in which the CGUs operate.
Discount rate applied
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reﬂects the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted  
for the risks speciﬁc to the CGU. The discount rates applied to the CGU were in the range of 8.5% to 11.1% (2011: 9.1% to 12.7%).
Sensitivity analysis
There are no realistic changes that could be made to the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of each CGU  
to exceed its recoverable amount. Management has also considered the effect of the following scenarios:
(i)  Assuming revenues decline each year by 1% in 2014 to 2017 from the 2013 budgeted revenues, with margins increasing with  
base assumptions, all CGUs continue to show sufﬁcient headroom.
(ii)  Assuming zero growth in operating proﬁt margins in 2014 to 2017, with revenues increasing per base assumptions, all CGUs 
continue to show sufﬁcient headroom.
(iii)  Assuming an increase in the discount rates used by 1%, all CGUs continue to show sufﬁcient headroom. 
Management considers that the likelihood of any or all of the above scenarios occurring is low.
Impairment loss recognised in 2012
The impairment loss of £3.2m recorded in operating costs, under separately disclosed items, all relates to goodwill associated  
with the planned disposal of certain assets in Europe.
10 Acquisitions
Acquisitions in 2012
During the year, the Group acquired a number of companies. 
(a) 4th Strand LLC
On 15 March 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of 4th Strand LLC, a company based in the USA, for a cash 
consideration of £4.1m. Goodwill arising was £3.4m and represents the value placed on the expert product procurement knowledge 
and experience this acquisition brings to the Consumer Goods division.
(b) Automation Technology Inc
On 5 April 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Automation Technology Inc., a company based in the USA, for a 
cash consideration of £10.0m. Goodwill arising was £8.8m and represents the value placed on the specialist software staff and the 
synergies to be obtained by integrating it with Intertek’s existing asset support operations in the Industry & Assurance division.
(c) Vigalab S.A.
On 8 May 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Vigalab S.A., a company based in Chile, for a cash consideration  
of £3.3m. Goodwill arising was £2.2m and represents the value placed on synergies to be realised by complementing Intertek’s 
growing international minerals capability in the Commodities division.
(d) Materials Testing and Inspection Limited
On 10 September 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Materials Testing and Inspection Limited, a company based  
in the UK, and its trading subsidiary NDT Services Limited, for a cash consideration of £14.3m. Goodwill arising was £11.5m and 
represents the value placed on the opportunity to expand non-destructive testing services to the aerospace, power and petrochemical 
sectors in the Industry & Assurance division.
(e) Laboratory Services International Rotterdam BV 
On 26 November 2012 the Group acquired 75% of the share capital of Laboratory Services International Rotterdam BV, a company 
based in the Netherlands, for a cash consideration of £4.1m, and a call option to acquire the remaining 25% of the company in 2018. 
Goodwill arising was £3.9m and represents the value to the Commodities division of the specialist staff and the opportunity of 
providing analytical testing for commodities traded on the London Metal exchange.
(f) Tickford Test Technology Limited 
On 31 December 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Tickford Test Technology Limited, a company based in  
the UK, for a cash consideration of £3.8m. Goodwill arising was £1.1m and represents the value placed on the opportunity for  
the Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division to expand the range of services to vehicle manufacturers for engine and lubricant testing  
in the UK. 
90 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 Acquisitions (continued)
The total net assets and fair value adjustments are set out in the following table:
Total
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 7.5 – 7.5
Goodwill – 30.9 30.9
Other intangible assets –6.7 6.7
Inventories 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 6.0 – 6.0
Trade and other payables (6.9) – (6.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (0.3) – (0.3)
Corporation tax payable (0.7) – (0.7)
Deferred tax liabilities –(2.1) (2.1)
Net assets acquired 5.9 35.5 41.4
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 39.6
Contingent consideration 1.8
Total consideration 41.4
Goodwill
The total goodwill arising on acquisitions noted above made during 2012 was £30.9m. In addition there was an increase of  
£7.3m to goodwill in respect of prior years’ acquisitions and £2.9m arising from the purchase of a minority interest shareholding  
in Saudi Arabia. 
Consideration paid
The total cash consideration paid for the acquisitions in the year was £39.6m (2011: £459.7m).
Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and proﬁts
In total the acquisitions made during 2012 contributed revenues of £8.9m and proﬁt after tax of £1.5m from their respective  
dates of acquisition to 31 December 2012.
The Group revenue and proﬁt after tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 would have been £2,073.0m and £190.5m  
respectively if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2012.
Acquisitions in 2011
Moody International
On 27 April 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the equity of Moody (comprising Moody International (Holdings) Limited,  
Inspection Services (US) Inc and Inspection Services Italy SRL) for a cash consideration of £449.9m, on a cash and debt free basis. 
Moody was headquartered in the UK and operates in over 60 countries. It is a leading provider of quality and safety services to the 
energy industry. It also provides systems certiﬁcation services to the manufacturing, construction and service markets. This acquisition 
has been integrated into the Industry & Assurance division.
The fair value provisions at 27 April 2012, 12 months from the date of acquisition, were:
Moody International
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 5.1 – 5.1
Goodwill – 330.1 330.1
Other intangible assets –145.9 145.9
Trade and other receivables* 95.9 (7.3) 88.6
Trade and other payables (43.2) (11.1) (54.3)
Provisions for liabilities and charges** (5.6) (2.8) (8.4)
Corporation tax payable (3.9) (8.8) (12.7)
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 1.2 (44.7) (43.5)
Non-controlling interest (0.9) – (0.9)
Net assets acquired 48.6 401.3 449.9
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 449.9
Total consideration 449.9
* Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of £54.7m with a fair value of £51.4m.
** Provisions for liabilities and charges include amounts that are classiﬁed as accruals in the Intertek reporting environment.
91 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
10 Acquisitions (continued)
The goodwill of £330.1m represents the value of the assembled workforce and the beneﬁts Intertek expects to gain from becoming  
a leading provider of quality and safety services for the energy market, creating a global platform for the provision of Industry 
Services, extending existing European and American positions and extending the depth of the service portfolio for energy  
assets, processes and products.
The intangible assets of £145.9m represent the value placed on customer contracts and relationships and the deferred tax  
thereon was £44.7m. 
Other acquisitions
In addition to Moody, there were four other acquisitions in the year:
(a) Recherche, Developpement & Consulting – Bruxelles SA (‘RDC’)
On 29 July 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of RDC, a company based in Belgium for a cash consideration  
of £3.0m. Goodwill arising was £3.1m and represented the value placed on the beneﬁts Intertek expects from the opportunity 
to expand the environmental impact services in Europe. 
(b) Food Analytical Laboratories Limited
On 31 July 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Food Analytical Laboratories Limited, a company based in the  
UK for a cash consideration of £6.0m. Goodwill arising was £3.0m and represented the value placed on the beneﬁts in expanding  
the food testing services in the Industry & Assurance division.
(c) Business acquired from QinetiQ Limited
On 1 August 2011, the Group acquired the oil and lubricants testing business from QinetiQ Limited, a company based in the UK for 
£0.5m. There was goodwill of £0.4m identiﬁed represented the opportunity to enhance the Group’s capabilities in the energy and 
transport sector in the Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division.
(d) Labs and Testing Chile SA
On 30 November 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Labs and Testing Chile SA, a company based in Chile,  
for a cash consideration of £0.3m. In addition, contingent consideration of up to £0.2m will become payable on the achievement  
of speciﬁed performance targets. Goodwill arising was £0.7m representing the value placed on the opportunity to enhance the 
Group’s microbiological and environmental services business in the Commodities and Industry & Assurance divisions.
92 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Trade and other receivables
Accounting policy
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered 
recoverable (amortised cost).
Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected. Based on historic 
default rates, reﬂecting the track record of payments by the Group’s customers, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is 
necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are speciﬁc circumstances such as 
the bankruptcy of a customer which would render the trade receivable irrecoverable.
The Group provides fully for all trade receivables over 12 months old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable. Where recovery 
is in doubt, a provision is made against the speciﬁc trade receivable until such time as the Group believes the amount to be 
irrecoverable. At that time the trade receivable is written off.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are analysed below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade receivables 362.2 320.6
Other receivables 52.8 50.9
Prepayments and accrued income 87.4 71.1
Total trade and other receivables 502.4 442.6
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of £16.7m (2011: £15.4m) and are all expected to be recovered 
within 12 months. Impairment on trade receivables charged as part of operating costs was £4.2m (2011: £6.1m).
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their short-
term duration. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers 
who are internationally dispersed.
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Under 3 months 306.4 272.0
Between 3 and 6 months 39.7 34.8
Between 6 and 12 months 20.3 17 .1
Over 12 months 12.5 12.1
Gross trade receivables 378.9 336.0
Allowance for impairment (16.7) (15.4)
Trade receivables, net of allowance 362.2 320.6
Included in trade receivables under three months of £306.4m (2011: £272.0m) are trade receivables of £163.5m (2011: £151.2m) 
which are not yet due for payment under the Group’s standard terms and conditions of sale.
93 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
11 Trade and other receivables (continued)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 15.4 10.3
Exchange differences 0.6 (0.3)
Acquisitions – 3.4
Cash recovered (0.5) (0.4)
Impairment loss recognised 4.2 6.1
Receivables written off (3.0) (3.7)
At 31 December 16.7 15.4
There were no material individual impairments of trade receivables.
12 Trade and other payables
Accounting policy
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier. The carrying value of trade payables is considered 
approximate to fair value.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are analysed below:
Current
2012
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-current
2012
£m
Non-current
2011
£m
Trade payables 50.1 52.7 – –
Other payables* 57.3 44.6 – 0.8
Accruals and deferred income 216.9 198.2 6.2 8.2
Total trade and other payables 324.3 295.5 6.2 9.0
* Other payables include £0.2m (2011: £nil) of deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions.
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 14.
13 Provisions
Accounting policy
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated 
reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions
Contingent
consideration
£m
Claims
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 1.8 6.1 10.5 18.4
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) – (0.1)
Provided in the year: – 8.3 11.5 19.8
in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.3 – – 0.3
in respect of current year acquisitions 1.8 – 0.3 2.1
Released during the year – (1.8) (2.1) (3.9)
Utilised during the year (0.6) (3.9) (3.4) (7.9)
At 31 December 2012 3.3 8.6 16.8 28.7
Included in:
Current liabilities 1.4 8.6 16.8 26.8
Non-current liabilities 1.9 – – 1.9
At 31 December 2012 3.3 8.6 16.8 28.7
From time-to-time the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The outcome 
of such litigation and the timing of any potential liability cannot be readily foreseen, as it is often subject to legal proceedings. Based 
on information currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such 
litigation is unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the ﬁnancial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
 
94 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Provisions (continued)
The provision for claims of £8.6m (2011: £6.1m) represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identiﬁed claims 
from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs. The timing of the cash outﬂow relating to the 
provisions is uncertain but is likely to be within one year. Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in note 22.
The other provision of £16.8m (2011: £10.5m) includes restructuring provisions and onerous contracts. The timing of the cash  
outﬂow is uncertain but is likely to be within one year.
14 Borrowings and financial instruments
Financial instruments
Accounting policy
Net financing costs
Net ﬁnancing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, facility fees, interest receivable on funds invested, net foreign  
exchange gains or losses, interest income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities and gains and losses on hedging 
instruments that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income and interest expense are recognised as they accrue using 
the effective interest rate method.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables. Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses (including bad debt provision).
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
statement of cash ﬂows. Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at their amortised cost.
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition,  
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being  
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, to hedge economically 
its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, ﬁnancing and investment activities. In accordance 
with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised  
in proﬁt or loss when incurred. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value at each period end is recognised immediately in  
the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the 
balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the 
difference between the quoted forward price and the exercise price of the contract.
Hedging
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative ﬁnancial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset 
or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement in 
the same caption as the foreign exchange on the related item.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined 
to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately  
in the income statement.
The Group has external borrowings denominated in foreign currencies which are used to hedge the net investment in its  
foreign operations.
 
95 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Impairment
A ﬁnancial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.  
A ﬁnancial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect  
on the estimated future cash ﬂows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a ﬁnancial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying 
amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows discounted at the original effective interest rate. All impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement.
Net ﬁnancing costs
Net ﬁnancing costs are shown below:
Recognised in income statement
2012
£m
2011
£m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances 2.7 2.5
Expected return on pension assets (note 16) 4.8 5.7
Total finance income 7.5 8.2
Finance expense
Interest on borrowings (25.9) (22.1)
Pension interest cost (note 16) (4.2) (4.7)
Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities (2.7) (0.6)
Facility fees and other (1.4) (1.8)
Total finance expense (34.2) (29.2)
Net financing costs (26.7) (21.0)
Recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations (37.2) (2.2)
Net exchange gain/(loss) on hedges of net investment in foreign operations 25.4 (21.5)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.5) –
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss 0.2 –
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (12.1) (23.7)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (11.6) (23.6)
Non-controlling interest (0.5) (0.1)
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (12.1) (23.7)
Recognised in:
Translation reserve and non-controlling interest (11.8) (23.7)
Retained earnings (0.3) –
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (12.1) (23.7)
96 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Analysis of net debt
The components of net debt are outlined below:
1 January 
2012
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2012
£m
Cash 181.9 (10.3) (5.1) 166.5
Borrowings:
Revolving credit facility US$600m 2016 (304.4) 62.3 6.6 (235.5)
Bridge facility US$300m (155.1) 151.5 3.6 –
Bilateral multi-currency facility 2016 (13.4) (26.6) 1.7 (38.3)
Senior notes US$25m 2014 (16.1) – 0.6 (15.5)
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (64.6) – 2.4 (62.2)
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (48.5) – 1.8 (46.7)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 (64.6) – 2.4 (62.2)
Senior notes US$20m 2019 – (12.9) 0.5 (12.4)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 (96.8) – 3.5 (93.3)
Senior notes US$140m 2022 – (90.5) 3.4 (87.1)
Senior notes US$105m 2024 – (68.1) 2.7 (65.4)
Other* 0.9 0.5 – 1.4
Total borrowings (762.6) 16.2 29.2 (717.2)
Total net debt (580.7) 5.9 24.1 (550.7)
* Other borrowings of £0.8m (2011: £2.2m) and facility fees.
1 January 
2011
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2011
£m
Cash 217.0 (35.8) 0.7 181.9
Borrowings:
Principal bank facility (93.6) 89.9 3.7 –
Revolving credit facility US$600m 2016 – (293.6) (10.8) (304.4)
Bridge facility US$300m – (143.5) (11.6) (155.1)
Bilateral multi-currency facility 2016 – (14.4) 1.0 (13.4)
Senior notes US$25m 2014 (16.1) – – (16.1)
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (64.6) – – (64.6)
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (48.5) – – (48.5)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 (64.6) – – (64.6)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 (96.8) – – (96.8)
Other* (2.5) 4.3 (0.9) 0.9
Total borrowings (386.7) (357.3) (18.6) (762.6)
Total net debt (169.7) (393.1) (17.9) (580.7)
Borrowings
Borrowings are split into current and non-current as outlined below:
Current
2012
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-current
2012
£m
Non-current 
2011
£m
Senior term loans and notes – 38.7 716.4 721.7
Other borrowings 0.8 – – 2.2
Total borrowings 0.8 38.7 716.4 723.9
Analysis of debt
2012
£m
2011
£m
Debt falling due:
In one year or less 0.8 38.7
Between one and two years 15.0 115.9
Between two and five years 443.4 447.1
Over five years 258.0 160.9
Total borrowings 717.2 762.6
97 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Description of borrowings
Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2012 were £164m (2011: £149m).
US$600m revolving credit facility
The Group’s principal bank facility comprises a US$600m multi-currency revolving credit facility signed in February 2011 and available 
to 31 March 2016. Advances under the new facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR, or their local currency equivalent, plus a 
margin, depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2012 were £235.5m (2011: £304.4m).
Bilateral multi-currency facility
In December 2010 the Group signed a multi-currency facility available to March 2016. The facility comprises a £20m multi-currency 
revolver facility and a €12m multi-currency term loan facility. On 22 March 2011 the £20m multi-currency revolver facility was 
increased by £10m to £30m. Drawings under these facilities at 31 December 2012 were £38.3m (2011: £13.4m).
Bilateral term loan facility 1
On 21 December 2012 the Group signed a US$20m bilateral term loan available to March 2015. Advances under this facility bear 
interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2012 
were £nil. 
Bilateral term loan facility 2
On 21 December 2012 the Group signed a US$20m bilateral term loan available to December 2015. Advances under this facility bear 
interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2012 
were £nil.
Private placement bonds
In June 2008 the Group raised US$100m by way of a senior note issue. The notes are repayable on 26 June 2015 and pay a ﬁxed 
annual interest rate of 5.54%.
In December 2008 the Group issued a further US$100m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$25m 
repayable on 21 January 2014 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 7.5% and US$75m repayable on 10 June 2016 at a ﬁxed annual 
interest rate of 8.0%.
In December 2010 the Group issued a further US$250m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$100m 
repayable on 15 December 2017 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 3.2% and US$150m repayable on 15 December 2020 at a ﬁxed 
annual interest rate of 3.91%.
In October 2011 the Group issued a further US$265m of senior notes with the funds received in January 2012. These notes were 
issued in three tranches with US$20m repayable on 18 January 2019 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 3.0%, US$140m repayable on 
18 January 2022 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 3.75% and US$105m repayable on 18 January 2024 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate 
of 3.85%.
Other facilities
On 27 February 2012 the Group repaid and cancelled the US$300m bridge facility used to part fund the acquisition of Moody 
International. Advances under this facility bore interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, depending on the Group’s leverage.
On 19 November 2012 the Group cancelled a US$60m bilateral, multi-currency facility that was due to mature on 25 January 2013. 
The facility was not drawn in 2012.
2013 private placement bonds
In December 2012 the Group secured funding of US$80m by way of a senior note issue. The funds were received in February 2013. 
These notes were issued in two tranches with US$40m repayable on 14 February 2023 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 3.10% and 
US$40m repayable on 14 February 2025 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 3.25%. These funds were used to reduce drawings under 
the principal bank facility.
98 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Financial risks
Details of the Group’s treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital and credit, liquidity, interest 
rate and currency risk are set out below, in the Directors’ Report – Financial Review that starts on page 22 and Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on pages 47 to 49.
Credit risk
Exposure to credit risk
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. The Group monitors 
the creditworthiness of customers on an ongoing basis. The Group’s credit risk is diversiﬁed due to the large number of entities, 
industries and regions that make up the Group’s customer base.
The carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. At the reporting date this was as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade receivables, net of allowance (note 11) 362.2 320.6
Cash and cash equivalents 166.5 181.9
Total 528.7 502.5
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Asia Pacific 109.0 90.8
Americas 113.4 105.7
Europe, Middle East and Africa 139.8 124.1
Total 362.2 320.6
Counterparty risk
Cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing facilities are at risk in the event that the counterparty is not able to meet its 
obligations in regards to the cash held or facilities available to the Group. The Group also enters into transactions with counterparties 
in relation to derivative ﬁnancial instruments. If the counterparty was not able to meet its obligations, the Group may be exposed  
to additional foreign currency or interest rate risk.
The Group, wherever possible, enters into arrangements with counterparties who have robust credit standing, which the Group 
deﬁnes as a ﬁnancial institution with a credit rating of at least A-. The Group has existing banking relationships with a number of 
‘relationship banks’ that meet this criterion, and seeks to use their services wherever possible while avoiding excessive concentration 
of credit risk. Given the diverse geographic nature of the Group’s activities, it is not always possible to use a relationship bank. 
Therefore the Group has set limits on the level of deposits to be held at non-relationship banks to minimise the risk to the Group.  
It is also Group policy to remit any excess funds from local entities back to Intertek Group Treasury in the UK. Given the controls in 
place, and based on a current assessment of our banking relationships, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to  
meet its obligations.
99 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its obligations as and when they fall due. The Group’s policy is to:
 Ensure sufﬁcient liquidity is available to Group companies in the amounts, currencies and locations required to support the  
Group’s operations;
 Ensure the Group has adequate available sources of funding to protect against unforeseen internal and external events; and
 Avoid excess liquidity which restricts growth and impacts the cost of ﬁnancing.
To ensure this policy is met, the Group monitors cash balances on a daily basis, projects cash requirements on a rolling basis and 
funds itself using debt instruments with a range of maturities.
The following are the contractual cash ﬂows of ﬁnancial liabilities including interest (for ﬂoating rate instruments, interest payments 
are based on the interest rate at 31 December 2012):
2012
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes 716.4 868.1 18.8 5.7 40.0 499.8 303.8
Other loans 0.8 0.8 – 0.8 – – –
Trade payables (note 12) 46.2 46.2 43.3 2.9 – – –
763.4 915.1 62.1 9.4 40.0 499.8 303.8
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts:
Outflow 1.0 122.9 120.9 2.0 – – –
Inflow – (121.9) (119.9) (2.0) – – –
1.0 1.0 1.0 – – – –
Total 764.4 916.1 63.1 9.4 40.0 499.8 303.8
2011
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes 760.4 871.3 13.5 44.8 135.4 499.4 178.2
Other loans 2.2 2.2 – – 2.2 – –
Trade payables (note 12) 52.7 52.7 51.8 0.9 – – –
815.3 926.2 65.3 45.7 137.6 499.4 178.2
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts:
Outflow – 73.0 73.0 – – – –
Inflow – (73.0) (73.0) – – – –
–––––––
Total 815.3 926.2 65.3 45.7 137.6 499.4 178.2
Interest rate risk
The Group’s objective is to manage the risk to the business from movements in interest rates, and to provide stability and 
predictability of the near term (12 month horizon) interest expense. Under the Group’s Treasury policy, management may ﬁx the 
interest rates on up to 80% of the Group’s debt portfolio for the period of the current and succeeding ﬁnancial year. The Group’s 
debt portfolio beyond this period is to be managed within the range of a 30% – 70% ﬁxed to ﬂoating rate ratio. To do this the  
Group uses hedging instruments where considered appropriate. 
100 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Sensitivity
At 31 December 2012, it is estimated that the impact on variable rate net debt of a general increase of 3% in interest rates  
would be a decrease in the Group’s proﬁt before tax of approximately £5.1m (2011: £9.4m). This analysis assumes all other  
variables remain constant.
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s objective in managing foreign currency risk is to safeguard the Group’s ﬁnancial assets from economic loss due to 
ﬂuctuations in foreign currencies, and to protect margins on cross currency contracts and operations. To achieve this, the Group’s 
policy is to hedge its foreign currency exposures where appropriate.
The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a signiﬁcant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a substantial percentage 
of the Group’s revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling. Because of the high proportion of 
international activity, the Group’s proﬁt is exposed to exchange rate ﬂuctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result: (i) translation risk, 
that is, the risk of adverse currency ﬂuctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign assets and liabilities into 
sterling and (ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency ﬂuctuations will have a negative effect on the value of the Group’s 
commercial cash ﬂows in various currencies.
The foreign currency proﬁles of cash, trade receivables and payables at the reporting date were as follows:
2012
Carrying
 amount 
£m
Sterling 
£m
US dollar 
£m
Chinese
 renminbi 
£m
Hong Kong
 dollar 
£m
Euro 
£m
Other 
currencies 
£m
Cash 166.5 17.1 24.8 55.3 3.3 6.3 59.7
Trade receivables (note 11) 362.2 44.7 93.4 33.1 9.2 39.4 142.4
Trade payables (note 12) 46.2 6.0 8.5 4.0 1.9 10.1 15.7 
2011
Cash 181.9 17.4 17.3 66.2 6.8 5.8 68.4
Trade receivables (note 11) 320.6 35.9 92.0 28.0 9.5 38.2 117.0
Trade payables (note 12) 52.7 12.5 8.0 2.9 2.1 10.5 16.7
Recognised assets and liabilities
Changes in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign 
currencies and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Group’s investment in its respective subsidiaries. 
The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2012 was £707.7m (2011: £757.6m).
A foreign exchange gain of £25.4m (2011: loss of £21.5m) was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these 
loans to sterling.
Sensitivity
It is estimated that a general increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the US dollar (the main currency impacting the Group) 
would have decreased the Group’s proﬁt before tax for 2012 by approximately £15.4m (2011: £13.4m). This analysis assumes all  
other variables remain constant.
101 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Fair values
The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments 
by class.
Book value
2012
£m
Fair value
2012
£m
Book value
2011
£m
Fair value
2011
£m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 166.5 166.5 181.9 181.9
Trade receivables (note 11) 362.2 362.2 320.6 320.6
Total financial assets 528.7 528.7 502.5 502.5
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 717.2 751.5 762.6 786.5
Trade payables (note 12) 46.2 46.2 52.7 52.7
Total financial liabilities 763.4 797.7 815.3 839.2
The major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are summarised below.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of the ﬂoating interest bearing loans and borrowings is equal to the book value, since the ﬂoating interest rates were 
reset just prior to the year end. The fair value of the ﬁxed interest bearing loans and borrowings has been calculated based on the 
present value of future principal and interest cash ﬂows discounted at the market rate at the reporting date.
Trade receivables and payables
For trade receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reﬂect the fair value. 
All others are estimated as the present value of future cash ﬂows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
15 Capital and reserves
Accounting policy
Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid. Final dividends are reported as a movement in equity  
in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Own shares held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘EBT’)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group ﬁnancial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares 
in the Company are debited directly in equity to retained earnings.
Share capital
Group and Company
2012
Number
2012
£m
2011
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 160,160,965 1.6 1.6
Share options exercised (note 17) 116,161 – –
Share awards (note 17) 530,377 – –
Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 160,807,503 1.6 1.6
Shares classified in shareholders’ funds 1.6 1.6
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and are entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company. 
During the year, the Company issued 116,161 (2011: 72,839) ordinary shares in respect of the share options exercised, for 
consideration of £0.7m (2011: £0.4m) settled in cash and issued 530,377 (2011: 533,917) shares under the Intertek 2011 Long  
Term Incentive Plan for £nil consideration.
102 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Capital and reserves (continued)
Purchase of own shares for trust
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Company ﬁnanced the purchase of 27,500 (2011: 420,332) of its own shares with an 
aggregate nominal value of £275 (2011: £4,203) for £0.8m (2011: £7.8m) which was charged to retained earnings in equity and was 
held by the EBT. This trust is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee. During the year, 9,899 shares were utilised 
to satisfy the vesting of mirror awards and 407,617 shares to satisfy the vesting of share awards (note 17). At 31 December 2012, the 
EBT held 24,754 shares (2011: 414,770 shares) with an aggregate nominal value of £247 (2011: £4,148). The associated cash out ﬂow 
of £0.8m (2011: £7.8m) has been presented as a ﬁnancing cash ﬂow.
Dividends
2012
£m
2012
Pence per
 share
2011
£m
2011
Pence per
 share
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 –– 30.1 18.8p
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 –– 17 .1 10.7p
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 37.0 23.0 ––
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 20.9 13.0 ––
Dividends paid 57.9 36.0 47.2 29.5p
After the reporting date, the Directors proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 28.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, 
which is expected to amount to £45.0m. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and 
therefore, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting date, it has not been included as a liability in these ﬁnancial 
statements. If approved, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid to shareholders on 7 June 2013.
Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign 
operations as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash ﬂow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Other
This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital.
16 Employee benefits
Accounting policy
Pension schemes
Defined contribution plans
A deﬁned contribution plan is a post-employment beneﬁt plan under which an entity pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity 
and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to deﬁned contribution  
pension plans are recognised as an employee beneﬁt expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
A deﬁned beneﬁt plan is a post-employment beneﬁt plan other than a deﬁned contribution plan.
The Group’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the  
amount of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years; that beneﬁt is 
discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
103 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
16 Employee benefits (continued)
In calculating the deﬁned beneﬁt deﬁcit, the discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit-rated bonds that have 
maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the 
beneﬁts are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualiﬁed actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged 
to the operating proﬁt in the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value  
of the schemes’ liabilities, during the accounting period, are shown as ﬁnance income and ﬁnance expense respectively.
The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. In most locations, these are deﬁned contribution 
arrangements. However, there are signiﬁcant deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Switzerland.  
These are funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds. The schemes in the United Kingdom and  
Hong Kong were closed to new entrants in 2002 and 2000, respectively. Other funded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are not  
considered to be material and are therefore accounted for as if they were deﬁned contribution schemes.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses in each year in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Total pension cost
The total pension cost included in operating proﬁt for the Group was:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Defined contribution schemes (29.9) (26.8)
Defined benefit schemes – current service cost (2.7) (2.4)
Pension cost included in operating profit (note 5) (32.6) (29.2)
The pension cost for the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualiﬁed actuaries. The last full 
triennial actuarial valuation of The Intertek Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom was carried out as at 1 April 2010, but this has 
been updated to 31 December 2012 for IAS 19 purposes. The last full actuarial valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out 
as at 31 December 2011, for local accounting purposes but this has been updated to 31 December 2012 for IAS 19 purposes. The 
Swiss scheme was actuarially valued for IAS 19 purposes at 31 December 2012.
Defined benefit schemes
The cost of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current service cost (2.7) (2.4)
Expected return on scheme assets (note 14) 4.8 5.7
Pension interest cost (note 14) (4.2) (4.7)
Total charge (2.1) (1.4)
The current service cost is included in operating costs in the income statement and pension interest cost and expected return on 
scheme assets are included in net ﬁnancing costs.
104 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 Employee benefits (continued)
Actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cumulative loss at 1 January (8.7) (0.8)
Recognised losses in the year (6.5) (7.9)
Cumulative loss at 31 December (15.2) (8.7)
Company contributions
In 2013 the Group expects to make normal contributions of £2.1m (2012: £2.0m). Pending the triennial actuarial valuation in April 
2013, the Company has not made any special contribution to date in 2013 (2012: £0.6m) to the UK pension scheme.
Pension liability for deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The amounts recognised in the statement of ﬁnancial position for deﬁned beneﬁt schemes were as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 104.6 96.7 96.3
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (121.6) (108.0) (101.8)
Net liability in the statement of financial position (17.0) (11.3) (5.5)
The fair value changes in the scheme assets are shown below: 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 96.7 96.3
Expected return on scheme assets 4.8 5.7
Normal contributions by the employer 2.0 1.9
Special contributions by the employer 0.6 1.2
Contributions by scheme participants 0.7 0.9
Benefits paid (3.6) (3.2)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes (0.7) 0.1
Actuarial gains/(losses) 4.1 (6.2)
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 104.6 96.7
Composition of scheme assets in each category:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Swiss Scheme
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Equities 53% 61% 62% 58% – –
Bonds 16% 30% 36% 39% 100% 100%
Absolute returns 20% – – – – –
Cash 11% 9% 2% 3% – –
The actual return on scheme assets was as follows:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Swiss Scheme
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Actual return 6.8 (0.5) 1.5 (0.8) 0.6 0.8
105 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
16 Employee benefits (continued)
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations were as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 108.0 101.8
Current service cost 2.7 2.4
Interest cost 4.2 4.7
Contributions by scheme participants 0.7 0.9
Benefits paid (3.6) (3.2)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes (1.0) (0.3)
Actuarial losses 10.6 1.7
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 121.6 108.0
The pension deﬁcit of each scheme at 31 December 2012 was as follows:    
United
 Kingdom
 Scheme
£m
 Hong Kong
 Scheme
£m
Swiss
Scheme
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 75.1 14.7 14.8 104.6
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (81.7) (22.3) (17.6) (121.6)
Deficit in schemes (6.6) (7.6) (2.8) (17.0)
Principal actuarial assumptions:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Swiss Scheme Weighted average
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Discount rate 4.5% 4.9% 0.7% 1.5% 2.0% 2.5% 3.4% 3.9%
Inflation rate (based on CPI) 2.2% 2.0% n/a n/a 0.0% 0.0% 1.9% 1.7%
Rate of salary increases 3.0% 3.0% 4.0% 4.0% 1.5% 1.5% 3.0% 3.0%
Rate of pension increases:
CPI subject to a maximum of 5% p.a 2.2% 2.0% n/a n/a n/a n/a 2.2% 2.0%
Increases subject to a maximum  
of 2.5% p.a 1.8% 1.7% n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.8% 1.7%
Annualised expected return  
on scheme assets 4.5% 5.0% 0.7% 6.5% 2.0% 3.5% 3.6% 5.0%
The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays a lump sum to members instead of a pension and the Swiss Scheme is an insured plan.
The assumption for the annualised expected return on scheme assets in 2012 represents the discount rate. In 2011 the expected rates 
of return on scheme assets was determined by reference to relevant indices which took into account the current level of expected 
returns on risk free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with equities and the expectation for future returns  
on such assets. The overall expected rate of return was calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the  
anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
106 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 Employee benefits (continued)
Life expectancy assumptions at year end for:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme* Swiss Scheme
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Male aged 40 46.7 46.6 n/a n/a 41.6 41.6
Male aged 65 21.2 21.1 n/a n/a 18.9 18.9
Female aged 40 48.9 48.8 n/a n/a 44.6 44.6
Female aged 65 23.8 23.7 n/a n/a 21.4 21.4
*  The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays a lump sum to members instead of a pension at the point of retirement. Since the amount of the lump sum is not 
related to the life expectancy of the member, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong Scheme. 
 
The table above shows, for the United Kingdom Scheme, the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at  
31 December. The mortality tables adopted in both 2012 and 2011 for the United Kingdom Scheme are the S1PA projected by year of birth, with an allowance  
for the medium cohort effect and a minimum improvement of 1%. For the Swiss Scheme, the mortality table adopted for both 2012 and 2011 is the BVG 2010,  
an industry standard in Switzerland which is based on statistical evidence of major Swiss pension funds.
Sensitivity analysis
The table below sets out the sensitivity on the pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2012 of the two main assumptions:
Change in assumptions
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Deficit
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
in deficit
£m
No change 121.6 104.6 (17 .0) –
0.25% rise in discount rate 116.4 104.6 (11.8) (5.2)
0.25% fall in discount rate 127.0 104.6 (22.4) 5.4
0.25% rise in inflation 124.0 104.6 (19.4) 2.4
0.25% fall in inflation 119.2 104.6 (14.6) (2.4)
History of experience gains and losses: 
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 104.6 96.7 96.3 73.0 58.6
Defined benefit obligations (121.6) (108.0) (101.8) (92.5) (77.1)
Deficit (17.0) (11.3) (5.5) (19.5) (18.5)
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities (0.9) (1.4) 2.8 (1.8) 0.4
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets 4.1 (6.2) 4.9 11.7 (17.4)
107 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
17 Share schemes
Accounting policy
Share-based payment transactions
The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of  
the employee services, received in exchange for the grant of share options or shares, is measured at the grant date and is recognised 
as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The charge is calculated using the Monte Carlo method and expensed to the 
income statement over the vesting period of the relevant award. The charge for the share options and for the share awards is 
adjusted to reﬂect expected and actual levels of vesting where conditions are non-market based. The expense of the Performance 
Awards (previously Matching Awards), is also additionally adjusted for the probability of performance conditions being achieved.
The Group has taken advantage of the provisions of IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards,  
and has recognised an expense only in respect of share options and awards granted since 7 November 2002.
Share option schemes
The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997. The maximum number of options that  
can be granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued. In May 2002, the Intertek Group plc 
2002 Share Option Plan (the ‘2002 Plan’) and the Intertek Group plc 2002 Approved Share Option Plan (the ‘Approved Plan’) were 
established for employees to be granted share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. These plans have also  
been discontinued and the last grants under these plans were made in September 2005.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
2012 2011
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
At beginning of year 628p 285,264 631p 379,347
Exercised 594p (116,161) 659p (72,839)
Forfeited 533p (6,363) 578p (21,244)
Outstanding options at end of year 656p 162,740 628p 285,264
Exercisable at end of year 656p 162,740 628p 285,264
The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 2,532p (2011: 1,956p). The options 
outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 359p to 778p and a weighted average contractual life of 1.8 years.
The outstanding options at 31 December 2012 are exercisable as follows:
Option Scheme
Number of options
 outstanding
Exercise price 
per share Exercisable between
2002 Plan 13,881 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
1,432 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
45,440 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
2,400 607p 14 September 2007 14 September 2014
91,316 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
154,469
Approved Plan 477 359p 7 April 2006 7 April 2013
262 462p 12 September 2006 12 September 2013
5,026 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
2,506 778p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
8,271
Total 162,740
108 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Share schemes (continued)
Share Plans
As explained in the Remuneration Report on page 51, the Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 was replaced in 2011 with the Intertek 2011 
Long Term Incentive Plan. Share awards (previously Deferred Awards) and Performance Awards (previously Matching Awards) have 
been granted under this plan. The ﬁrst awards were granted on 7 April 2006. The awards under these plans vest three years after 
grant date, subject to fulﬁlment of the performance conditions.
2012 2011
Outstanding Awards
Share 
Awards
Performance 
Awards Total awards
Share 
Awards
Performance 
Awards Total awards
At beginning of year 1,540,375 1,112,018 2,652,393 1,505,095 1,014,440 2,519,535
Granted* 388,195 278,009 666,204 399,467 297,754 697,221
Vested** (704,005) (488,400)(1,192,405) (336,285) (200,176) (536,461)
Forfeited (56,248) (41,070) (97,318) (27,902) – (27,902)
At end of year 1,168,317 860,557 2,028,874 1,540,375 1,1 12,018 2,652,393
* Includes 4,767 Share awards and 3,642 Performance awards granted in respect of dividend accruals (2011: none).
**  Of the 1,192,405 awards vested in 2012, 530,377 were satisﬁed by the issue of shares and 407,617 by the transfer of shares from the EBT (see note 15).  
The balance of 254,411 awards represented a tax liability of £5.8m which was settled in cash by the Group, of which £5.4m was settled by the Company.
Mirror share awards
On 14 May 2010, Lloyd Pitchford was granted conditional rights to acquire 49,039 shares of 1p in Intertek Group plc under a one-off 
arrangement to facilitate his recruitment as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of the Company. In 2012, 9,899 shares vested (2011: 14,852) and 
none lapsed (2011: 2,182). At 31 December 2012, there were nil shares outstanding (2011: 9,899 shares). Further details are shown in 
the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 62.
Equity-settled transactions
In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of services received in return for shares granted to employees, is measured by reference to 
the fair value of shares granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Monte Carlo formula,  
a ﬁnancial model used to calculate the fair value of shares and share options.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group recognised an expense of £10.4m (2011: £9.5m). The fair values and the 
assumptions used in their calculations are set out below:
Awards
Share Awards*
Performance
Awards TSR
element Share Awards*
Per formance           
Awards TSR
element
Deferred
Awards
Matching
Awards
Year shares awarded 2012
**
2012
**
2011 2011 2010 2010
Fair value at measurement date (pence) 2,262 1,299 1,872 1,253 1,250 855
Share price (pence) 2,262 2,262 1,955 1,955 1,324 1,324
Expected volatility n/a 25.2% n/a 30.8% n/a 30.8%
Dividend yield 0% 0% 1.4% 1.4% 1.9% 1.9%
Risk free interest rate n/a 0.5% n/a 1.4% n/a 3.0%
Time to maturity (years) 33 3333
* The fair values and assumptions are also the same for the EPS element of the Performance awards.
** The 2012 grants accrue dividends.
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly 
available information.
All Share Awards are granted under a service condition. Such condition is not taken into account in the fair value measurement at 
grant date. The Performance Awards (TSR element) are granted under a performance related market condition and as a result this 
condition is taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
109 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
18 Subsequent events
2013 Private placement bonds
In December 2012 the Group secured funding of US$80m by way of a senior note issue. The funds were received in February 2013. 
These notes were issued in two tranches with US$40m repayable on 14 February 2023 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 3.10% and 
US$40m repayable on 14 February 2025 at a ﬁxed annual interest rate of 3.25%. These funds were used to reduce drawings under 
the principal bank facility.
19 Capital management
The Directors determine the appropriate capital structure of Intertek; speciﬁcally how much capital is raised from shareholders (equity) 
and how much is borrowed from ﬁnancial institutions (debt) in order to ﬁnance the Group’s activities. These activities include ongoing 
operations as well as acquisitions as described in note 10.
The Group’s policy is to maintain a robust capital base (including cash and debt) to ensure the market and key stakeholders retain 
conﬁdence in the capital proﬁle. Debt capital is monitored by Group Treasury assessing the liquidity buffer on a short and longer-term 
basis as discussed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of this Annual Report.
The Group uses KPIs, including return on invested capital and diluted adjusted earnings per share to monitor the capital position of 
the Group to ensure it is being utilised effectively.
The dividend policy also forms part of the Board’s capital management policy, and the Board ensures there is appropriate earnings 
cover for the dividend proposed at both the interim and year end.
20 Non-controlling interest
Accounting policy
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no 
goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. The purchase of non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate 
amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Non-controlling interest
An analysis of the movement in non-controlling interest is shown below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 24.0 23.1
Exchange adjustments (0.5) (0.1)
Share of profit for the year 14.4 12.3
Additions – 0.3
Purchase of non-controlling interest* – (1.2)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (12.6) (10.4)
At 31 December 25.3 24.0
*  In 2011, the Group purchased a non-controlling interest for cash consideration of £1.8m and recognised a decrease in a non-controlling interest of £1.2m and a 
decrease in retained earnings of £0.6m.
110 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are  
not discussed in this note.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel compensation, including the Group’s Directors, is shown in the table below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short-term benefits 5.9 5.9
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4
Equity-settled transactions 2.0 2.1
Total 8.3 8.4
More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other 
long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
22 Contingent liabilities
2012
£m
2011
£m
Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 12.0 11.4
Litigation
From time-to-time, the Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business,  
including claims for damages, negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing, and disputes with employees 
and former employees. The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the 
conduct of business.
The outcome of litigation to which the Intertek Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen as in some cases the facts are 
unclear or further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case. However, based on information currently available, the 
Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is unlikely to have a materially 
adverse effect on the ﬁnancial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
Tax
The Group operates in more than 100 countries and is subject to a wide range of complex tax laws and regulations. At any point  
in time it is normal for there to be a number of open years in any particular territory which may be subject to enquiry by local 
authorities. Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax  
to be paid on past proﬁts which are recognised in the ﬁnancial statements. The Group considers the estimates, assumptions  
and judgements to be reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve. The ﬁnal 
determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reﬂected in these ﬁnancial statements.
111 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
23 Principal subsidiary undertakings
As permitted by Section 410 (1) of the Companies Act 2006, only the principal subsidiaries whose results or ﬁnancial position, in the 
opinion of the Directors, principally affect the ﬁgures of the Group in 2012 and 2011 have been shown below. A full list of subsidiaries 
will be attached to the Company’s next Annual Return ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies. All the subsidiaries shown were 
consolidated at 31 December 2012.
Company name
Country of 
incorporation Activity
Percentage of ordinary 
shares held in 2012 and 2011
Group Company
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Ltd China Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Ltd Shanghai China Trading 85 –
Intertek USA Inc USA Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services NA Inc USA Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited England Holding 100 100
Intertek Finance plc England Finance 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Trading 100 –
Testing Holdings USA Inc USA Holding 100 –
Intertek USD Finance Ltd England Finance 100 –
Intertek Holdings Limited England Holding 100 100
ITS Testing Services (UK) Ltd England Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Pacific Ltd China Trading 100 –
Intertek UK Holdings Ltd England Holding 100 –
Intertek Finance Ireland* Ireland Finance 100 –
Intertek Luxembourg S.a.r.l.* Luxembourg Finance 100 100
*  Incorporated in 2012.
112 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 As at 31 December 2012 Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings (d) 297.8 305.1
Current assets
Debtors due after more than one year (e) 60.2 54.0
Debtors due within one year 7.1 2.6
67.3 56.6
Cash at bank and in hand 3.2 0.6
70.5 57.2
Creditors due within one year
Other creditors (9.0) (1.3)
Net current assets 61.5 55.9
Total assets less current liabilities 359.3 361.0
Net assets 359.3 361.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (f) 1.6 1.6
Share premium (f) 257.4 256.7
Profit and loss account (f) 100.3 102.7
Shareholders’ funds 359.3 361.0
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 113 to 116 were approved by the Board on 1 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser    Lloyd Pitchford 
Director     Director
Financial statements
Intertek Group plc Company balance sheet
113 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
Financial statements
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
(a) Accounting policies – Company
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation  
to the Company’s ﬁnancial statements.
Basis of preparation
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under the 
historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own proﬁt and  
loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ﬂow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements which it has prepared.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. All foreign 
exchange differences are taken to the proﬁt and loss account.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the proﬁt for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by  
FRS 19. Deferred tax assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there  
will be suitable taxable proﬁts to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividend income is recognised in proﬁt or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in  
the notes to the ﬁnancial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intercompany ﬁnancial guarantees
When the Company enters into ﬁnancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group,  
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats  
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability, until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make  
a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments
Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.  
Details of the share schemes are given in note 17 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
The fair value of options and share awards granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with  
a corresponding increase in equity. As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the 
corresponding increase in equity. However, the Company grants options and awards over its own shares to the employees of  
its subsidiaries and therefore the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries, equivalent to the  
equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in respect of employees of the subsidiaries, with the corresponding  
credit being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled  
to the options. The fair value granted is measured using the Monte Carlo model. This method, in calculating the fair value, takes  
into account various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan is also measured using the Monte Carlo model  
and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
114 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 (b) Profit and loss account
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the 
Company’s ﬁnancial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated 
basis. The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
(c) Dividends
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 37.0 30.1
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 20.9 17 .1
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 57.9 47.2
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2012 is nil (2011: £nil). The aggregate 
amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2012 is £45.0m (2011: £37.0m).
(d) Investment in subsidiary undertakings
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 305.1 295.2
Additions due to share-based payments 10.4 9.5
Recharges of share based payments to subsidiaries (17.7) –
Other movements – 0.4
At 31 December 297.8 305.1
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made share awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-owned 
subsidiaries, and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of £10.4m (2011: £9.5m). 
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 23 to the Group ﬁnancial statements.
The Company had three direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2012; Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and Intertek 
Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and 
Wales, and Intertek Luxembourg S.a.r.l., incorporated in Luxembourg. All interests are in the ordinary share capital and all are wholly 
owned. In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the amount at which 
the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
(e) Debtors due after more than one year
2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 60.2 54.0
The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to ﬁve years, which carry interest based on the 
denomination of the borrowing currency.
115 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
(f) Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Profit 
and loss
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 1.6 256.3 82.5 340.4
Profit for the financial year – – 65.7 65.7
Dividends paid – – (47.2) (47.2)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 9.5 9.5
Purchase of own shares – – (7.8) (7.8)
Shares issued –0.4 –0.4
At 31 December 2011 1.6 256.7 102.7 361.0
Profit for the financial year – – 51.3 51.3
Dividends paid – – (57.9) (57.9)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 10.4 10.4
Tax paid on share awards vesting – – (5.4) (5.4)
Purchase of own shares – – (0.8) (0.8)
Shares issued –0.7 –0.7
At 31 December 2012 1.6 257.4 100.3 359.3
Details of share capital are set out in note 15 and details of share-based payments are set out in note 17 to the Group  
ﬁnancial statements.
A proﬁt and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.  
The proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of £57.9m (2011: £47.2m), was £51.3m (2011: £65.7m) which 
was mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
The Group settled in cash the tax element of the share awards vested in March 2012 amounting to £5.8m of which the Company 
settled £5.4m (2011: £nil). 
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Company purchased, through its Employee Beneﬁt Trust, 27,500 (2011: 420,332)  
of its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of £275 (2011: £4,203) for £0.8m (2011: £7.8m) which was charged to proﬁt  
and loss in equity.
(g) Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 21 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
(h) Contingent liabilities
The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement. This is  
a joint and several guarantee given by all members of the Intertek UK cash pool, guaranteeing the total gross liability position of the 
pool which was £22.7m at 31 December 2012 (2011: £20.0m).
From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of  
subsidiary undertakings.
(i) Post balance sheet events
Details of post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and the Group are given in note 18 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
116 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Shareholders’ Enquiries
Any shareholder with enquiries relating to their shareholding 
should, in the ﬁrst instance, contact our Registrars, Equiniti using 
the address on this page. 
Electronic Shareholder Communications
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation 
electronically can elect to receive automatic notiﬁcation by  
email each time the Company distributes documents, instead  
of receiving a paper version of such documents. Registering  
for electronic communication is very straightforward and can be 
done via shareview, www.shareview.co.uk. Shareview is Equiniti’s 
suite of online services that helps shareholders to manage their 
holdings and give access to a wide range of useful information.
There is no fee for using this service and shareholders will 
automatically receive conﬁrmation that a request has been 
registered. To request a paper version of any document in  
the future, shareholders may contact the Registrar by email  
or by post. 
The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding details, 
submit a proxy form for shareholder meetings, complete a change 
of address and provide dividend mandates online. Shareholders 
can also ﬁnd out what to do if a share certiﬁcate is lost, as well as 
download forms in respect of changes of address dividend 
mandates and share transfers. 
ShareGift
If you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell, 
you may want to consider donating it to ShareGift. The Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation 
scheme. Details of the scheme are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
T: +44 20 7930 3737
Share Price Information
Information on the Company’s share price is available from the 
investor pages of www.intertek.com
Financial Calendar
Financial year end 31 December 2012
Results announced 4 March 2013
Annual General Meeting 17 May 2013
Ex-dividend date for ﬁnal dividend 22 May 2013
Record date for ﬁnal dividend 24 May 2013
Final dividend payable 7 June 2013
Interim results announced 29 July 2013
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 16 October 2013
Record date for interim dividend 18 October 2013
Interim dividend payable 1 November 2013
All future dates are indicative and subject to change.
Investor relations
E: investor@intertek.com
T: +44 20 7396 3400
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House 
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA
T: 0871 384 2653 (UK)*
T: +44 121 415 7047 (outside UK)
*  Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network 
extras, other providers’ costs may vary. Lines open  
8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
T: +44 20 7311 1000
Brokers
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
T: +44 20 7742 4000
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
T: +44 20 7774 1000
Registered Ofﬁce
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London W1S 2ES
T: +44 20 7396 3400
F: +44 20 7396 3480
www.intertek.com
Registered number: 4267576
ISIN: GB0031638363
London Stock Exchange
Support Services
FTSE 100
Symbol: ITRK 
Other
Shareholder and corporate information
117 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Global Reporting Initiative Index
Profile disclosures Inclusion Location Comments
1 Strategy & analysis
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation p.4-9
2 Organisational profile
2.1 Name of the organisation Inside front 
cover 
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Intertek  
at a glance
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions Intertek  
at a glance
2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters p.117
2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Intertek  
at a glance
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p.73
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,  
and types of customers/beneficiaries)
 Intertek  
at a glance
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Intertek  
at a glance
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership p.12-21 Operating Review
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p.29, 35
3Report parameters
3.1 Reporting period – 1 January – 31 December 2012
3.2 Date of most recent previous report – 2011 Annual Report
3.3 Reporting cycle –Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents p.117
3.5 Process for defining report content p. 4-65
3.6 Boundary of the report p.112
3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report p.73
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries and other entities p.73
3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports N/A
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary  
or measurement methods applied in the report
 N/A
3.12 GRI Content Index p.118-119 GRI Content Index
4 Governance, commitments and engagement
4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under  
the highest governance body
 p.38-42 Corporate Governance Report
4.2 Independence of the Chair of the highest governance body p.39
4.3 Details of the organisation’s unitary board structure, if applicable p.39
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations  
or direction to the highest governance body
 p.30, 42
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Intertek  
at a glance 
p.2-9, 42
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p.6-9,
47-49
Underpinned by business  
model and strategy and  
risk management
118 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance indicators
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p.68-116
EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations p.103-107
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of snr mgt hired from the local 
community at significant level of the organisation
P p.30 Description of employment 
policies and practices
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p.33
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p.33
EN5 Energy saved due to conversation and efficiency improvements  P p.33 Description of activities 
undertaken
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy based products and 
services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 
P p.33 Description of some the services 
provided to clients
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved P p.33 Description of some the initiatives 
undertaken in reporting period
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p.33
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved P p.33 Some initiatives identified
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken P p.30 Description of employment 
policies and practices
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract & region P p.31 Data exists on number of 
employees by global region
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including 
whether it is specified in collective agreements. 
 – Minimum notice periods,  
where applicable, are governed  
by local law
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number  
of work-related fatalities
 p.32 Data on rates of injuries  
and work-related fatalities
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 
according to gender, age group and minority group membership
Pp.30,  
36-42
SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,  
impact assessments, and development programs. 
P p.34-35 Description of activities 
undertaken
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies  
and procedures    
 p.31
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption   p.31
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians,  
and related institutions by country.    
 p.64 ‘Charitable & Political Donations’
‘P’ indicates partial reporting. The above index indicates the section references for the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) requirements and supports our alignment  
to a level ‘C’ of reporting. Some requirements include references to our governance and organisational structure which are included throughout the Annual  
Report content. 
119 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Designed and produced by Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001. FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its alcofree
®
 and pureprint
®
 
environmental printing technology. Vegetable inks were used 
throughout. Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the 
manufacturing paper mill and the printer are registered to the 
Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
The CO
2
 emissions from the production and distribution of this 
report have been offset through the purchase of carbon credits 
in the Pureprint Gold programme. The offsets are always in Gold 
Standard accredited projects and currently come from the Basa 
Magogo project in South Africa. The first Gold Standard project 
of its kind in the world, this innovative behaviour-change 
programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn 
coal more efficiently thereby reducing carbon emissions and 
reducing health risks by producing less smoke.
If you have finished with this document and no longer wish to 
retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose 
of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you.  Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
United Kingdom
t: +44 20 7396 3400
f: +44 20 7396 3480
e: info@intertek.com
www.intertek.com
Offering the broadest range of certiﬁcation and accreditation marks accepted in markets 
around the world. Intertek’s mark of quality.
