 Annual Report 2013
Your global 
quality partner
This PDF is designed to be used on a desktop. Please note that 
tablet and mobile users will experience reduced functionality. Where we operate
We have a network of more than 1,000 laboratories and 
offices and over 36,000 people in more than 100 countries.
Some of our customers
•	 Abu Dhabi Gas Development Company 
Limited (Al Hosn Gas) 
•	 ADM Rice
•	 Air Products
•	 Apache
•	 Auchan
•	 BASF
•	 Bechtel
•	 BHP Billiton
•	 BP
•	 Certified Automotive Parts Association
•	 Chevron
•	 China Petroleum Engineering & 
Construction Corp (CPECC)
•	 Cisco
•	 Disney
•	 Ericsson
•	 ExxonMobil
•	 Glencore Grain B.V., Rotterdam
•	 Haier
•	 IKEA
•	 Infineum
•	 Kohl’s
•	 Levi Strauss & Co.
•	 LG
•	 Magellan Aerospace, North American 
Operations
•	 Marks & Spencer
•	 McDonald’s Corporation
•	 Morgan Stanley
•	 Nestlé
•	 Odebrecht
•	 Omnicotton
•	 Panasonic
•	 Pasternak
•	 Petrobras
•	 Plexus
•	 Samsung
•	 Sasol
•	 Shell
•	 Total
•	 Trafigura
•	 Valero
•	 Vitol 
Who we are
Intertek provides quality and safety services to businesses 
across the globe. We help our customers improve 
their products, assets and processes to make them more 
successful in their chosen markets.
Your global quality partner
What we do
Inspection Advisory Auditing
Quality 
Assurance
Testing Outsourcing Certification Training
£2,184m
Group revenue
How we are organised
Industry & Assurance
We provide a diverse range of services to 
clients across a broad range of industries 
including energy, food and agriculture.
Key business lines
•	 Industry Services
•	 Business Assurance
•	 Food & Agriculture
•	 Exploration & Production
Commodities
We provide inspection and analytical 
assessment services to petroleum and 
mining clients on a global basis.
Key business lines
•	 Cargo
•	 Analytical Assessment
•	 Government & Trade Services
•	 Minerals
Consumer Goods
We provide services to the textiles, toys, 
footwear, hardlines and retail industries.
Key business lines
•	 Softlines
•	 Toys & Hardlines
•	 Product Intelligence
•	 Auditing
Commercial & Electrical
Our accredited facilities provide a 
comprehensive scope of safety, performance 
and quality testing and certification services.
Key business lines
•	 Electrical
•	 Transportation Technologies
•	 Building Products
•	 Wireless
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
Our advanced lab testing and expert 
consultancy services help support R&D 
and production activities across 
multiple industries.
Key business lines
•	 Chemicals & Pharma
•	 Health & Regulatory
32%
of revenue
27%
of revenue
17%
of revenue
16%
of revenue
8%
of revenue
Americas
 3 2%
of revenue
EMEA
 3 3%
of revenue
Asia Pacific
 3 5%
of revenue
Intertek at a glance
Overview
Overview Contents Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Good revenue and earnings per share 
progress in 2013
•	Revenue	up	6%
•	Organic	revenue
4
	up	4%
•	Adjusted	operating	profit
1
	up	2%
•	Adjusted	operating	margin
1
	of	15.7%
Strong five year compound annual 
growth record
•	Revenue	up	15%
•	Adjusted	operating	profit
1
	up	13%
•	Adjusted	diluted	EPS
1
	up	14%
•	Dividend	per	share
2
	up	16%
2013
Revenue (£m)
+6%
Five year trend
Revenue (£m)
+15%
CAGR
3
Adjusted operating profit (£m)
+13%
CAGR
3
Dividend per share
2
 (pence)
+16%
CAGR
3
 
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence)
+14%
CAGR
3
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (£m)
+2%
Statutory diluted EPS
5
 (pence)
+15%
 
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence)
+6%
131.2
138.6
2012
2013
2,054
2,184
2012
2013
335
343
2012
2013
131.2
138.6
2012
2013
89.4
107.2
2010
2011
81.5 2009
2,054
2,184
2012
2013
1,374
1,749
2010
2011
1,237 2009
335
343
2012
2013
227
281
2010
2011
209 2009
1.
	 	 Adjusted	operating	profit,	adjusted	operating	margin	and	adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	(‘EPS’)	are	stated	before	Separately	Disclosed	Items,	 
which are described in note 3 to the financial statements.
2.
 Dividend per share for 2013 is based on the interim dividend paid of 15.0p (2012: 13.0p) plus the proposed final dividend of 31.0p (2012: 28.0p).
3.
 CAGR represents the five year compound annual growth rate. 
4.
  Growth at constant exchange rates compares both 2013 and 2012 at the average exchange rates for 2013. Organic revenue excludes acquisitions  
and disposals in the past two years. 
5.
		 Statutory	basic	EPS	increased	15%	to	124.4p	in	2013	(2012:	108.2p).	
41.0
46.0
2012
2013
28.1
33.7
2010
2011
25.5 2009
106.7
123.0
2012
2013
Intertek is a leading quality 
solutions provider 
to industries worldwide. 
From auditing and inspection, to testing, 
training, advisory, quality assurance 
and certification, Intertek adds value 
to customers’ products, assets and 
processes. We help our customers 
to meet end users’ expectations for 
safety, sustainability, performance, 
integrity and desirability in virtually 
any market worldwide.  
 
www.intertek.com
Overview
An overview of the business and its 
performance in 2013, including a statement 
from the Chairman.
Inside cover – Intertek at a glance
01 Financial highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
Strategic report 
A review of the year from the Chief 
Executive, a description of the Group’s 
strategy and business model, principal risks 
and performance in the year. An outline 
of the Group’s sustainability initiatives.
04 Chief Executive Officer’s review 
06 Our industry
08 Our strategy and business model
10 Strategy in action
14 Principal risks and uncertainties 
18 Intertek Executive Management Team
20 Operating review
25 Financial review 
30 Sustainability and CSR
Financial statements 
Financial statements, notes and other 
key data.
 
76 Consolidated income statement
77  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
78  Consolidated statement of  
financial position
79  Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
80 Consolidated statement of cash flows
81 Notes to the financial statements
117  Intertek Group plc Company balance 
sheet and notes
Other
121   Shareholder and corporate information
122 Global Reporting Initiative Index
Directors’ report – Governance 
Introducing the Board of Directors and 
outlining our approach to corporate 
governance and remuneration.
38 Board of Directors 
40 Corporate governance 
56 Remuneration report 
70 Other statutory information 
72 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
73 Independent Auditor’s Report
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and business of Intertek Group plc. These statements and forecasts 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that 
will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements and forecasts. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
1
Financial highlights
Overview
Overview Contents Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements The Board
On 1 September 2013 we welcomed Dr. Mark Williams to the 
Board as Non-Executive Director. His extensive experience in 
the international oil and gas industry will benefit the Group 
going forward. Further details of his business experience can 
be found on page 39. 
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance. In line with the Corporate Governance Code and 
the 2011 Davies Report, the Board is committed to achieving 
a Board composition which includes, and makes the best use 
of differences in culture, gender, skills, background, regional 
and industry experience as well as other qualities. The Board’s 
Diversity Policy can be found on the Company’s website.
Sustainability
Intertek is committed to the highest standards of sustainable 
business practices, and we are mindful of the impact our 
operations have on our communities, employees, customers 
and the environment.
Across these areas, Intertek makes a significant contribution 
to improving the quality of our customers’ goods, services 
and processes across multiple dimensions including; improving 
safety, reliability and durability, social responsibility, reducing 
environmental impact in production, packaging and operations, 
and assuring supply chains around the globe. 
We have continued to develop our metrics around our impact 
on climate change. While some of our emissions relate to 
Intertek offices and operations, they also relate to the work we 
do for our clients, including the testing of fuels, the inspection 
of processes and products and the certification of consumer 
products or other equipment in line with agreed standards. As 
well as the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions figures quoted for 
the Top 25 countries in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts, 
we have, for 2013, also collected Greenhouse Gas Emissions for 
the Group in line with the requirements of the Companies Act, 
see pages 34 and 35.
Within our own operations we are also focused on the health 
and safety of our employees. Given the varied nature of the 
roles of our employees, and the different environments in 
which they operate, we have robust health and safety policies 
in place to ensure staff welfare is always of utmost importance. 
Integrity
As a provider of independent quality solutions, the integrity and 
ethical conduct of our people and businesses is central to our 
values as an organisation and is critical to our customers and 
to the success of our businesses. 
The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures 
to ensure that good business ethics are embedded throughout 
our organisation. Our performance against them is continually 
reviewed and the processes aligned with best practice. 
Our compliance initiatives include internal training and 
communications, independent internal and external auditing 
of both operating and financial procedures, whistle-blowing 
hotlines, external communication and collaboration with 
industry partners and customers. 
Our disclosure on ethical compliance in 2013 can be viewed 
in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 33. 
Our people
While Intertek has a unique history and heritage, it is our 
people who are responsible for the delivery of services to our 
customers. With over 36,000 employees across the globe, we 
have deep levels of expertise both geographically and across 
our business lines, provided by chemists, engineers, consultants, 
biologists, inspectors, geologists and auditors, amongst others.
With a strategy based on global business line development 
that is implemented at a country level, we are developing a 
pipeline of managers to lead the Group through its next phase 
of growth. The Intertek Executive Academy, introduced in 2012, 
is already developing the talent and capabilities of the next 
generation of leaders, with around 50 already enrolled in its 
18 month programme. These have been selected from across 
the globe to help drive growth. We are also always on the 
lookout for new talented individuals, whether from progression, 
from acquisitions or externally. During the year the Group’s 
workforce grew by over 1,900 people. We look forward 
to hearing their ideas and contributions to the Intertek 
growth agenda. 
Following the success of the first global Group-wide employee 
engagement survey in 2012, we undertook another survey in 
2013 to chart progress against the key opportunities identified. 
More information on these opportunities is available in the 
Sustainability and CSR report on page 32. Future surveys will 
be conducted on a periodic basis. 
The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees for their 
hard work and endeavour in 2013 which has allowed the Group 
to achieve solid progress and lay foundations for continued 
success into the future.
Outlook
The Group continues to implement its clear strategy in 
delivering global quality solutions in a market with strong 
structural growth drivers. This, together with experienced 
management and a sound financial position, means that 
Intertek remains able to capture opportunities to deliver 
resilient growth and performance despite times of economic 
uncertainty. The Board is confident of delivering further 
growth in the future. 
Sir David Reid
Chairman
“ We are a trusted adviser to our 
customers all over the world.”
Sir David Reid
Chairman
Here at Intertek, our 36,000 employees, operating in over 
100 countries, have a unique perspective on the challenges  
and opportunities arising out of the changing global economy. 
As trade patterns change, supply chains lengthen and emerging 
economies grow, we help our customers adapt to these  
shifting dynamics. Whether it is helping them understand local 
regulations, ensuring the quality of their products, assets and 
processes in their chosen markets, or working with them to 
enter new markets, we are a trusted adviser to our customers  
in over 1,000 locations worldwide. 
Our customers range from multinationals, to governments  
and to small local operators, all of whom rely on the expertise 
that Intertek offers across a wide range of industries and 
geographies. We work closely with our customers to ensure  
we deliver a level of quality that is valued by them, every time.
Results
In 2013, the Group generated revenue of £2,184m, an increase 
of	6%	over	the	prior	year.	Excluding	acquisitions,	revenue	
growth	was	4%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	Operating	profit	
was	£310m,	up	9%	over	the	prior	year.	Adjusted	operating	
profit	increased	to	£343m,	up	2%,	and	our	adjusted	operating	
margin	was	15.7%.	Excluding	acquisitions	and	disposals,	
adjusted	operating	profit	was	down	1%.
The operating results in 2013 reflected variable market 
conditions in our businesses and in the industries we serve. 
Strong progress in our emerging markets, including China and 
India, was partially offset by cyclical headwinds in a number 
of areas, most notably the minerals sector, our chemicals and 
pharmaceutical business in Europe, and in the USA. These 
cyclical market conditions impacted upon the Group’s growth 
rate and its operating margin during the year. 
Earnings and returns to shareholders
The Board continues to focus on Total Shareholder Returns 
through a combination of dividends and through investment in 
the business where the return is in excess of the Group’s cost 
of capital.	The	share	price	increased	2%	in	the	year,	and	the	
Group	has	delivered	Total	Shareholder	Returns	of	85%	and	
334%	over	a	three	and	five	year	period	respectively.
The Group strategy includes both organic and acquisition 
related investment to drive sustained growth and shareholder 
value across the medium and longer term. 
The Board has a progressive dividend policy, seeking to 
grow dividend per share in the medium-term in line with 
earnings per share whilst maintaining a minimum cover of 2.5. 
An interim dividend of 15.0p per share (2012: 13.0p) was paid 
to shareholders on 15 October 2013. The Directors will propose 
a final dividend of 31.0p per share at the Annual General 
Meeting which will make a full year dividend of 46.0p per share 
(2012:	41.0p),	an	increase	of	12%.
The final dividend will be paid on 6 June 2014 for those 
shareholders on the register on 23 May 2014.
Basic	earnings	per	share	were	124.4p,	up	15%	over	the	prior	year	
and	adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	were	138.6p,	up	6%.
Cash flow and Investment
Intertek continues to generate good cash flow, with 2013 
adjusted	cash	flow	from	operations	of	£394m,	an	increase	
of 14%	on	the	prior	year.	The	Group	stepped	up	the	level	of	
investment in new laboratories, scientific and IT equipment 
in the	year	spending	£145m,	which	represents	6.6%	of	total	
revenue	(2012:	£115m,	5.6%).	These	investments	reflect	the	
increasing opportunities to grow our services and maintain 
strong long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Acquisitions
This year the Group made some significant acquisitions, notably 
Global	X-Ray	&	Testing	Corporation	(‘GXT’)	and	Architectural	
Testing,	Inc.	(‘ATI’)	which	expanded	our	service	offering	in	
key markets. In 2013 overall we made seven acquisitions for 
a purchase price, including debt, of £122m (2012: £46m). 
Further details are given in the Operating Review by division 
and in note 10 to the financial statements. 
With our strong financial position we will continue to make 
advantageous bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic 
acquisition opportunities to increase shareholder value.
2 3
Overview
Chairman’s statement
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Many of our customers rely on our employees for advice and 
guidance in meeting ever changing regulatory or standards 
requirements, including those necessary for exporting to 
international markets and trading with local and global 
partners. These prescribe minimum quality standards that  
must be met, and while we can test their products, the value 
we offer is in the advice and expertise we provide on how to 
meet and exceed these standards. 
We can also help our customers with their internal processes, 
whether in the design and manufacturing of products, sourcing 
across the supply chain or in outsourcing non-core activities. 
Our range of testing, inspection and certification activities can 
help reduce time to market, reduce costs and increase efficiency. 
Our success is based on our established processes and 
methodologies, combined with a network of experienced 
people who make it their goal to deliver for the client, every 
time, even as the competitive landscape shifts.
Evolving industries
As technology changes and new industries emerge, we are 
constantly innovating across our service offering to meet the 
needs of our customers. For instance, 2013 saw increased 
commercialisation of products utilising nanotechnology, which 
has applications across a wide range of industries, particularly 
the pharmaceutical industry. 
We contributed to conferences, exhibitions and thought 
leadership papers across the world to demonstrate our skills  
at the forefront of technological innovation. This enables  
us to identify areas of growth and develop our service  
offering accordingly. 
Expanding capabilities
One of the pillars of our strategy is to bring new services to our 
customers so that we can help deliver the many dimensions 
of quality that are important to them. This can range from 
reducing product defects, helping reduce production cycle 
times or reducing the environmental impact of a product, 
service or operation. Our aim is not only to support their 
existing activities, but also to be ready as the next generation 
of products and services are delivered. Through a combination 
of new service initiatives, organic investment and acquisitions, 
we continue to deepen our capabilities in each of our industries. 
For example, in response to issues and questions around global 
supply chains in the food industry, and the provenance of 
ingredients being included in certain consumer products, we 
have	partnered	with	the	Institute	of	Food	Technologies	(‘IFT’)	
in its development of the Global Food Traceability Center in the 
USA which aims to provide unbiased, knowledgeable, scientific 
based advice to the global food industry.
We	have	also	constructed	new	‘4G’	testing	facilities	in	Taiwan	
to take advantage of future developments in the mobile phone 
industry within the region. 
We continue to open new facilities in regions where our clients 
are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing 
new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
As well as investing organically, in 2013 the Group made a 
series of acquisitions to expand the services we can offer. 
The Group made acquisitions in the strategically important area 
of non-destructive testing, to support the longer life cycles of 
existing infrastructure and the need for on-going preventative 
maintenance. The most significant of these acquisitions was 
Global	X-Ray	&	Testing	Corporation	(‘GXT’),	a	company	
providing services to the oil and gas industry in the USA that 
complements existing services being offered in this segment.
The	Group	also	acquired	Architectural	Testing,	Inc.	(‘ATI’),	a	
building products testing and certification company in North 
America that will expand the range of services being offered 
by the Group in North America, but also help leverage this 
knowledge into growth markets overseas.
In addition to these, the Group also made a series of bolt-on 
acquisitions, including Melbourn Scientific Limited in the UK, 
which expanded our global analytical service offering to the 
pharmaceutical, biotech and healthcare industries. Our global 
network of consumer goods laboratories was expanded with 
the acquisition of E-TEST Laboratorio de Ensaios e Tecnologia 
Ltda.	(‘E-TEST’),	a	toy	and	consumer	products	testing	laboratory	
in Brazil, and there were a series of smaller niche acquisitions 
in growing markets.
Going forward
With strategic priorities identified and embedded within the 
organisation, we expect the global strategy, implemented on  
a local level, to rapidly identify customer issues and deliver 
solutions. The industry growth drivers continue to provide the 
catalyst for change, which we expect to drive demand for our 
services in the future. I am confident that Intertek is well placed 
to benefit from good underlying growth in 2014 and beyond.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
“ Intertek continued to deliver on its 
strategic priorities in 2013; investing 
in our services, our network, our 
thought leadership and most 
importantly our people. ”
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Officer
Intertek continued to deliver on its strategic priorities in 2013; 
investing in our services, our network, our thought leadership 
and most importantly our people to capture the opportunities 
arising from global trade and the development of our 
different markets. 
The year in review
2013 saw a mixed set of results for the Group, with growth 
rates varying across our markets. We saw strong growth in 
China and India, particularly in textiles, while there was slower 
growth in the USA, Europe and the minerals sector. In response 
to these issues we undertook a restructuring exercise in 2012 
and 2013 which sold or closed underperforming operations. 
Due to a longer than expected cyclical downturn in 2013 we 
have extended our restructuring programme into 2014.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets which now 
account	for	38%	of	the	total	revenue,	up	from	36%	in	2012,	
with China growing very well across most business lines, 
especially technical inspection of energy assets, testing of 
electricals, clothing and textiles. Clothing and textiles testing 
also grew strongly in India and Turkey. Slower revenue growth 
came mainly from our USA businesses where strong growth  
in oil cargo inspection and testing for the transport industry 
was masked by a decline in services for energy assets such  
as technical inspection and training. Europe had low overall 
growth with good growth from consumer products and food 
testing offset by decline in technical inspection of energy 
assets, chemical and pharmaceutical analysis and oil and 
agricultural cargo inspection work. Minerals testing declined 
sharply led by the downturn in exploration in Australia, 
South East Asia, Africa and Latin America. 
Strategic alignment 
As reported last year, we have increased our focus on  
the delivery of our strategy across our key business lines, 
supported by operational excellence delivered on a country 
basis. During the year we conducted a review of our strategy 
across the business lines and countries in which we operate, 
and prioritised future investment according to their long-term 
growth potential. We also identified new service offerings  
that will complement our existing services and help drive  
future growth.
Our mission and strategy 
Our	mission	is	‘to	add	value	for	our	customers	by	helping	 
them achieve their desired level of quality and safety for  
their products, assets and processes’. 
We support the world’s leading companies across their  
global supply chains and in each of the local markets in  
which they operate. Our local knowledge, combined with  
our global network and expertise, makes the difference for  
our customers as they strive for quality in an ever more  
competitive marketplace.
The market for quality
‘Quality’	is	defined	differently	across	the	globe,	based	on	the	
economic life cycle of each market and the changing demands 
of customers within that market. External factors such as 
regulatory changes and global macroeconomic trends also 
create pressure for improvements in quality across its many 
dimensions; from safety and performance through to integrity, 
desirability and sustainability.
As the emerging middle classes increase their demands  
for quality, particularly in countries such as China and India, 
there will be huge challenges, and significant opportunities,  
for companies that want to compete in those markets. 
Each company we work with has their own definition of quality, 
being a set of internal and external standards that they look  
to deliver on a consistent basis to support their brand identities. 
We provide solutions that help them achieve these standards 
on a global basis.
Our customers
Intertek’s customers range from multinational corporations  
to local businesses operating in small niche markets. We offer  
a range of services that meet the requirements of these 
businesses, and all sizes in-between.
4 5
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013  
What is driving growth?
The quality industry has a number of different growth 
drivers, some macroeconomic, and others unique to 
the challenges faced by our customers.
Market drivers in the sectors where we operate
The growth drivers for the industry as a whole also include market drivers that impact the sectors in which 
we operate. Within these sectors our customers are being challenged across all aspects of their operations, 
with constant pressure to improve quality, reduce costs and differentiate their offering. This provides an 
opportunity for Intertek to support them in their operations, thereby driving growth in our business.
What is quality? 
‘Quality’	can	mean	a number	of	different	things	
depending on the viewpoint of our customer or 
the end user of a product or service. Quality can 
be defined as:
Intertek	operates	in	the	global	‘quality’	industry.	We	help	our	customers	
to improve their products, assets and processes and achieve their  
‘quality’	goals.
Our customers are typically other businesses, including companies, 
governments and not-for-profit entities.
Customer market drivers How we can help
Increased focus on global supply chains
Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers 
and components across multiple countries as they seek to gain 
cost and strategic advantages.
This strategy also increases risk, with provenance across 
the supply chain being an area of focus.
We help our clients gain assurance on quality 
along their supply chain to reduce the risk of 
product, brand and operational failures and 
to increase visibility and efficiency.
New product development 
Companies are constantly challenged to develop new products 
and technologies, to create new markets, increase sales and 
to respond to diverse end-user demands.
We develop methods to test the reliability and 
performance of new products, and consult 
on product design, development and production.
We help protect brands, reduce costs and 
improve efficiency.
Energy growth and development 
Global demand for energy is driving increased development  
and trading of energy resources and infrastructure.
Our customers require more quality, 
safety and environmental assurance support 
in their expanding resource production and 
trading activities. 
Our services encompass both capital and 
operational maintenance expenditure across  
the entire asset life cycle.
Increased regulation
Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards 
continue to expand and change across companies and cultures.
Our experts advise clients on how to navigate 
new regulations to maintain compliance.
They also help clients understand the complex 
rules around entry to new markets.
Local market development
Consumers in developed economies trust brands and companies that 
perform and deliver products with consistent quality. Consumers in 
emerging markets are increasingly demanding higher levels of quality 
across a diverse range of criteria, creating new markets for local and 
international brands.
As end-user expectations of quality change, so 
we work with customers to develop solutions 
to enhance the quality they deliver to their 
end clients.
Brand promotion and protection
Branding is an important means of differentiation for companies in 
a crowded marketplace. The development and promotion of these 
brands takes a significant investment, and there is ongoing effort 
to protect this investment over time.
Intertek can help brands achieve consistent 
quality across their offering by monitoring 
compliance with global standards, auditing 
supply chains and ensuring consumers 
receive a consistent brand experience.
Safety
Reducing	the	risk	of	injuries	and	danger	to	life	and	health	
from products, materials, components and operations.
Sustainability
Improving the social, health and environmental impact 
of products and processes. 
Performance
Optimising the technical output of products or processes. 
Integrity
Ensuring the composition, reliability and durability of 
infrastructure, materials, commodities, components 
and systems. 
Desirability
Producing more appealing products or materials, with new 
innovations to meet the preferences of multiple users.
Growth drivers
Global trade and emerging market trade growth
The quality industry benefits from the growth in global 
trade, with increased shipments of commodities, materials 
and products resulting in the need for increased testing 
across the supply chain.
As emerging markets develop, global brands look to enter 
these markets to achieve growth, while local brands focus 
on improving their product offering to compete against 
these new entrants. Both these forces drive demand 
for services within the industry.
Evolution of outsourcing/consulting
As companies have outsourced non-core activities such 
as quality and safety related services, participants in the 
quality industry have assumed responsibility for providing 
these services, which has helped expand the size of the 
overall market. 
Industry consolidation
The industry is in a constant state of consolidation as 
companies that provide niche services are integrated 
into larger organisations that can deploy those services 
to a wider customer base. 
Network/service expansion
As global trade has increased, and transport links 
have improved, the quality industry has expanded 
geographically at a rapid rate. Providing services to 
customers in new geographic locations, and in new 
industries, has helped drive growth. 
Safety
Performance Integrity
Desirability
Global trade and emerging market trade growth
Evolution of outsourcing/consulting
Industry consolidation
Network/service expansion
Market drivers in the sectors where we operate
Sustainability
Quality
6 7
Our industry
Strategic report
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Return on invested capital (%) 
(100)bps
Measures how effectively the Group generates 
profit from its invested capital. Acquisitions 
reduce ROIC in the short term but drive  
long-term growth.
19.4
18.4
2012
2013
16.8 2011
In order to measure the financial impact of the Group’s strategy, 
we use	a	variety	of	key	performance	indicators	(‘KPIs’)	to	monitor	
the performance of the Group and operating divisions.
Revenue (£m) 
+6.3%
Revenue growth measures how well the Group is 
expanding	its	business.	Growth	of	6%	includes	the	
contribution made by seven acquisitions in 2013.
2,054
2,184
1,749
2012
2013
2011
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (£m) 
+2.2%
A measure of how well the Group is controlling 
costs.	Adjusted	operating	profit	grew	2%	
with mixed market conditions in key sectors 
and geographies.
335
343
281
2012
2013
2011
Organic revenue at constant exchange  
rates
3
 (£m)
+4.3%
Organic	revenue	growth,	4%	at	constant	exchange	
rates, excludes the distortion caused by the timing 
of acquisitions.
2,052
2,140
2012
2013
Organic adjusted operating profit 
at constant exchange rates
1,3
 (£m)
(1.2)%
Measures profitability of the Group excluding 
acquisitions;	down	1%	at	constant	exchange	rates,	
but in line with prior year at actual rates.
337
333
2012
2013
Adjusted diluted earnings  
per share
1
 (pence)
+5.6%
A key measure of value creation for the Board. 
EPS increase	of	6%	reflects	good	
underlying performance.
131.2
138.6
107.2
2012
2013
2011
Dividend per share
2
 (pence) 
+12.2%
Dividend per share measures returns provided 
to shareholders, and reflects strong underlying 
profitability and cash generation.
41.0
46.0
2012
2013
33.7 2011
Adjusted operating margin
1
 (%) 
(60)bps
Margin measures profitability as a proportion of 
revenue. Decreased in 2013 due to challenges in 
certain markets (see Financial review).
16.3
15.7
16.1
2012
2013
2011
Adjusted cash flow from operations
1
 (£m) 
+14.2%
Shows the ability of the Group to turn profit into 
cash. Strong underlying cash generation.
345
394
315
2012
2013
2011
The market drivers in our customers’ industries create opportunities 
for us to provide services and to grow our business. 
Our strategy reflects our global focus and local delivery model, as we concentrate our efforts on the 
industries, locations and services most demanded by our customers.
Our plan How we will achieve our aims Principal risk
Leading positions  
in key industries
We are organised into business lines to reflect the needs of 
our customers, and concentrate on industry sectors where we 
have the critical size to hold leading positions and provide our 
customers with world-class services. 
•	 Harm to the Group’s 
reputation
 Please refer to page 14
Customer orientated 
relationships
We aim to create long-term partnerships with our customers 
to help them improve their competitive advantage. By 
investing in relationships for the long-term, we can deepen 
our understanding of their businesses.
•	 Key staff reliance
 Please refer to page 14
Global network We have a global network of offices and labs that can react 
quickly to changes in global, interregional and local trade. 
The network allows us to deepen our position in established 
and growing markets, and help our customers with the flow 
of goods across boundaries.
•	 Political risk
 Please refer to page 14
Investing in our people Our people are our core assets and are chosen for their 
technical expertise, their values and their understanding of 
local markets and culture. We provide training for personal 
growth and to ensure we continue to deliver expert services 
to our customers.
•	 Key staff reliance
 Please refer to page 14
Targeted acquisitions We will achieve our strategic priorities through both organic 
investment, but also through targeted acquisitions. We acquire 
companies which provide access to new services, markets, 
technologies or skills that expand our service offering. 
•	 C yc li c a l r i s k
 Please refer to page 16
Process efficiency Process efficiency allows us to streamline core operations 
and provide more time for adding value for our customers. 
As global standards converge we adopt best practices 
wherever we find them in a relentless pursuit of 
process improvement.
•	 IT systems risk
 Please refer to page 16
Strategy  
and business 
model
Process 
efficiency
Targeted 
acquisitions
Leading 
positions in key 
industries
Customer 
orientated 
relationships
Global  
network
Investing in  
our people
How do we respond to these opportunities?
At Intertek our business model is focused on supporting 
organisations’ needs for quality as they arise in the context 
of global trade, targeting the testing, inspection and certification 
of goods, commodities and infrastructure along supply chains 
and across different markets. 
While focusing on global trade, we deliver our services through 
a network of locations and employees who have in-depth 
knowledge of their local markets. We are organised into 
divisions and business lines, allowing a greater degree of 
specialisation amongst our employees and ensuring alignment 
with our customers.
 Page 10 for our Strategy in action
Our key performance indicators
During 2013 the Group reported solid financial results as the strength of its portfolio and strong structural 
growth drivers mitigated near-term cyclical weakness in some markets.
1.
	 	 Adjusted	operating	profit,	adjusted	operating	margin,	adjusted	cash	flow	from	operations	and	adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	(‘EPS’)	are	stated	before	 
Separately Disclosed Items, which are described in note 3 to the financial statements.
2.
  Dividend per share for 2013 is based on the interim dividend paid of 15.0p (2012: 13.0p) plus the proposed final dividend of 31.0p (2012: 28.0p).
3.
  Growth at constant exchange rates compares both 2013 and 2012 at the average exchange rates for 2013. Organic revenue excludes acquisitions  
and disposals in the past two years. 
8 9
Delivering on our strategy Our strategy and business model
Strategic report
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Supporting 
growth of Chinese 
renewable energy
We were awarded an exclusive contract to supervise  
the manufacture of wind turbine towers in a number  
of locations across China, including the supervision,  
materials	testing	and	non-destructive	testing	of	projects	 
covering 889 wind turbine towers.
889
wind turbine towers
Leading 
positions in key 
industries
App testing 
on any device, 
any network
The growth in smart phone usage has increased the 
number	of	applications	(‘apps’)	being	developed	across	
the associated platforms. These apps need rigorous 
testing across relevant software, hardware and carrier 
networks to ensure they work as intended. Through our 
website AppTestNow we provide customers with a 
network of professional testers available 24 hours a day, 
7 days a week, who work with developers to get apps 
through the testing process and ready for download  
as quickly as possible.
24/7
professional testers available
Customer 
orientated 
relationships
10 11 10
Strategy in action
Strategic report
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Developing 
potential
Most Intertek people come from a range of scientific and 
other professional and technical disciplines. They include 
technicians, engineers, chemists, biologists, consultants  
and geologists. 
Our employees have access to training modules, covering 
safety, compliance, test methods, lab procedures and more. 
Since the Intertek Executive Academy was launched in 2012, 
around 50 senior managers have attended, with more than 
half of those progressing to higher or broader roles.
211,000
online training courses completed in 2013
Investing in 
our people
Supporting the 
shale oil and 
gas revolution
Intertek is expanding in its global shale expertise, 
investing in additional capacity across key regions  
in North America, including the Bakken, Eagle Ford,  
Permian Basin, Marcellus and Utica Shale Play regions.  
As American shale oil and gas production and 
transportation increases, Intertek’s shale oil and gas 
testing, inspection, metering and engineering services 
provide crucial industry support for a wide range  
of exploration, production, transportation and 
environmental requirements.
Global 
network
12 13 12 13
Strategy in action
Strategic report
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 register, all senior executives and their direct reports are 
required to complete an annual return to confirm that 
management controls have been effectively applied during 
the year. The return covers operations, compliance, risk 
management and finance.
The	Risk	Control	and	Assurance	Committee	(‘RCA’),	
comprising senior Intertek executives, complements the 
work of the Audit & Risk Committee. The RCA oversees the 
development of the internal control framework, reviews the 
risk matrices and risk management procedures, monitors issues 
and provides guidance to management. The RCA makes 
recommendations to the Intertek Executive Management Team 
and develops the Group’s integrated responses to changes 
in the regulatory environment.
Principal risks
The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of 
which, including macroeconomic and industry specific cyclical 
risks, are outside the Group’s control. Some risks are particular 
to Intertek’s operations. The principal risks of which we are 
aware are detailed below including a commentary on how the 
Group mitigates these risks. These risks and uncertainties do 
not appear in any particular order of potential materiality or 
probability of occurrence.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded 
as immaterial which could turn out to be material. Any of these 
risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the 
Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation.
Risk framework
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and 
oversight of the Group’s risk management framework which 
is described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 
40 to 55.
The Head of Internal Audit and the Head of Legal, who report 
to the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer 
respectively, have accountability for reporting the key risks that 
the Group faces, the controls and assurance processes in place 
and any mitigating actions or controls. Both roles report to the 
Audit & Risk Committee, attend its meetings and meet with 
members alone each year. 
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for 
each operating division and support function. The risk register 
is updated at least twice each year and is used to plan the 
Group’s internal audit and risk strategy. In addition to the risk 
Principal risk Context Associated strategic priorities Possible impact Mitigation
Operational
Harm to the Group’s 
reputation
The Group relies on its reputation to maintain and grow 
business. Adverse litigation, ethical breaches and operational 
failures have the potential to damage its reputation. There is 
also a risk that poor performance of services leads to a loss of 
confidence in the Group’s standards and reputation for quality 
and safety service excellence.
•	 Leading positions 
in key industries
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Failure to meet financial performance 
and financial position expectations.
•	 Exposure to material legal claims, 
associated costs and wasted 
management time. 
•	 Share price may fall.
•	 Loss of existing or new business.
•	 Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance processes, 
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
•	 Quality Management Systems; adherence to these is regularly audited and 
reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
•	 Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo regular training. 
•	 ‘Whistle-blowing’	programme,	monitored	by	the	Audit	&	Risk	Committee,	
where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other 
activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group. 
•	 Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any 
individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Group’s behalf.
•	 Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so 
that senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on 
a timely basis.
•	 Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
Loss of accreditation 
leading to loss 
of business
The Group relies on being awarded and retaining appropriate 
accreditations and affiliations around the world in order to 
provide its certification services. 
•	 Leading positions 
in key industries
•	 Customer orientated 
relationships
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Loss of business in the relevant 
industry and damage to the 
Group’s reputation.
•	 Quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in its operations to 
ensure that it holds and maintains the necessary accreditations and that the 
required operational standards are applied. 
•	 Operations	are	regularly	subjected	to	audit	and	review	by	external	parties	
including accreditation bodies, governments, trade affiliations, retailers, 
manufacturers and clients.
•	 Accreditation is usually held at an industry, country or site level and loss 
of accreditation will not mean loss of accreditation across the Group.
Key staff reliance and 
depth of management
The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs to attract 
and retain employees with relevant experience and knowledge 
in order to take advantage of all growth opportunities. 
•	 Investing in our people
•	 Customer orientated 
relationships
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Reduced ability to 
compete effectively.
•	 Increased recruitment costs.
•	 Lose talent to competitors 
and lose market share.
•	 HR policies and systems.
•	 Development and reward programme.
•	 Succession planning.
•	 Employee survey.
Political risk The Group operates in over 100 countries including some 
where political instability can result in disruption to operations 
and the suspension, change or termination of contracts at 
short notice. The Group receives tax incentives in certain 
jurisdictions,	resulting	in	a	lower	tax	charge	to	the	income	
statement. There is no guarantee that these reduced rates 
will continue to be applicable.
•	 Global network
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Reduction in opportunities in 
a particular geography. 
•	 Changes to terms of contracts.
•	 Reduction or confiscation of Group 
assets, potentially without reasonable 
recompense; or increase in the 
Group’s effective tax rate.
•	 Monitoring of any incidents of political or social unrest and taking mitigating action.
•	 Operations across many industries and countries diversifies the risk profile of 
the Group.
•	 The Group utilises internal and external expertise to keep abreast of tax and 
other legislations. 
This section sets out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that could have a material adverse effect on the Intertek Group’s 
strategy, performance, results, financial condition and reputation.
Strategic report
14 15
Principal risks and uncertainties
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Principal risk Context Associated strategic priorities Possible impact Mitigation
Operational (continued)
Cyclical risk All	businesses	are	subject	to	cycles,	with	supply	and	demand	
fluctuating for economic or other factors over time. During times 
of cyclical strength this can place the business under pressure 
to meet peaks in demand whilst maintaining quality standards, 
whilst in cyclical downturns there is a requirement to restructure 
the business.
•	 Leading positions 
in key industries
•	 Global network
•	 Targeted acquisitions
 Please refer to page 8
•	 A sustained downturn in the economic 
cycle can result in a lower return on 
invested capital, as revenue and margin 
levels come under pressure.
•	 The Group has a diversified service offering to a wide range of industries and 
geographies. This reduces the risk of a downturn in any one sector or region 
having a material impact on the long-term viability of the Group. Where a 
downturn does occur, the Group seeks to reduce, where possible, the cost 
base whilst retaining its core capability to take advantage of the cyclical 
upturn when it comes.
IT systems risk The Group is dependent on IT systems for principal business 
processes. The failure of one of these systems can cause significant 
operational disruption and loss of revenue. Given the ongoing 
consolidation of the Group’s IT systems and data management, 
this has been added as a new risk this year.
•	 Leading positions 
in key industries
•	 Global network
•	 Process efficiency
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Damage to reputation leading to loss 
of business and media attention.
•	 Cost to rectify.
•	 Loss of systems and data impacts the 
ability to perform services and earn 
revenue in an efficient manner.
•	 Information systems policy and governance structure.
•	 Tested and constantly evolving disaster recovery and business continuity 
plans to minimise the impact if a failure does occur.
•	 Internal and external audit testing.
Legal and Regulatory
Claims The Group is involved in claims where an event is found or is 
perceived to be caused by the negligence of the Group. It could 
subject	the	Group	to	claims	for	personal	injury	or	property	
damage by customers, sub-contractors, employees or members 
of the public which could lead to the payment of damages and 
result in reputational damage which could in turn lead to a loss of 
business. There is a risk that a legal dispute could adversely affect 
the reputation of the Group and result in significant financial loss.
•	 Leading positions 
in key industries
•	 Customer orientated 
relationships
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Financial impact (fines by regulators, 
suspension of accreditation, 
compensation).
•	 Loss of business (contract termination).
•	 Criminal and Civil Action.
•	 Loss of reputation.
•	 Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, 
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate. 
•	 All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group 
are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident 
database so that they can be properly managed. The Group Head of Legal 
reports any significant claims to the Audit & Risk Committee. External legal 
counsel is appointed if appropriate.
•	 Crisis management policy in place.
•	 Seeking contractual protection from loss where possible.
Bribery and corruption The Group operates in countries which are recognised to have 
higher bribery and corruption risks.
•	 Global network
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Legal action and fines against 
the Group.
•	 Debarment from being able 
to participate in tenders.
•	 Loss of reputation.
•	 Media activity.
•	 Code of Ethics and training, risk assessments, Audit & Risk Committee, 
whistle-blowing policy and policies and systems.
•	 The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal 
and regulatory compliance. There are also extensive internal compliance and 
audit systems to facilitate compliance. Expert advice is taken in areas where 
regulations are uncertain. 
•	 The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the 
UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation.
Financial
Financial 
irregularity risk
The Group could suffer financial loss either through 
misappropriation of assets or the misrepresentation 
of financial results.
•	 Leading positions 
in key industries
 Please refer to page 8
•	 Corresponding loss of value  
and reputation could result in funding 
being withdrawn or provided at 
higher interest rates, and negative 
market sentiment.
•	 The Group has financial and management controls in place to ensure that 
the Group’s	assets	are	protected	from	major	financial	risks.	
•	 A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly 
financial results are thoroughly reviewed. The Group also operates a rigorous 
programme of internal audits and management reviews. Independent 
external auditors review the Group’s half year results and audit the Group’s 
annual financial statements.
Strategic report
16 17
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The day-to-day 
management of the 
Group is undertaken 
by the Intertek Executive 
Management Team.
1
 Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
Joined Intertek in 2002. Appointed to the Board as Chief 
Executive Officer in March 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive 
Director since November 2002. Wolfhart Hauser was previously 
Chief Executive Officer and President of TÜV Süddeutschland AG 
for four years and Chief Executive Officer of TÜV Product Services 
for 10 years. Starting his career with various research activities  
he went on to establish and lead a broad range of successful 
international service industry businesses. He has held several  
non-executive board director and chairman roles in a variety 
of technology companies. 
2
 Lloyd Pitchford
Chief Financial Officer
Joined Intertek in 2010. Appointed to the Board as Chief 
Financial Officer in April 2010. Lloyd Pitchford previously spent 
10 years with BG Group plc in various operational and corporate 
finance roles in the UK and Middle East; the last five of which 
were as Group Financial Controller. He previously worked for 
Mobil Oil Corporation in various financial, commercial and 
management roles. Lloyd holds responsibility for Finance, 
Tax, Treasury, Audit, Investor Relations, Company Secretariat 
and IT, and for operations across the Indian Subcontinent. 
3
 Jonathan Lawrence
Group Vice President, Human Resources
Joined Intertek in 2005. Jonathan leads Human Resources as 
a member of the Group Executive. He also directs sustainability 
and internal communications across the Intertek Group. Before 
joining	Intertek,	Jonathan	was	a	member	of	the	Bureau	Veritas	
Global Executive as Group Vice President Human Resources. 
Prior to moving into business services in the testing, inspection 
and certification sector, Jonathan held HR, Quality Management 
and operations roles in the automotive, chemicals and general 
manufacturing sectors, starting his career as a Chartered 
Engineer in the machinery industry. During his career he has 
been based in the UK, France and the USA. 
4
 Ann-Michele Bowlin
Chief Information Officer
Joined Intertek in 2009. Ann-Michele Bowlin was appointed 
Chief Information Officer in September 2010. Ann-Michele 
Bowlin	joined	as	Group	Vice	President	of	Shared	Services,	to	
work with business and finance leaders to develop and deliver 
the Group shared services strategy. Ann-Michele previously 
held director level roles for Ernst & Young consulting with 
industries including oil & gas, manufacturing and services.  
Prior to this, she spent over 13 years in technology 
leadership positions.
3 4
1 2
5
 Stefan Butz
Executive Vice President, Industry & Assurance, 
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
Joined Intertek in 2008. In addition to Industry & Assurance 
and Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals, Stefan Butz has responsibility 
for operations in Europe, FSU, Middle East and North Africa. 
Stefan	joined	Intertek	from	TÜV	SÜD,	where	he	held	the	
position of CEO Americas, with an earlier role as Head of 
Corporate Development. Prior to this he was a Strategy 
Consultant with Accenture Germany. 
6
 Gregg Tiemann
Executive Vice President, Consumer Goods,  
Commercial & Electrical
Joined Intertek in 1993. In addition to Consumer Goods and 
Commercial & Electrical, Gregg is responsible for operations 
in North America, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. 
Prior to assuming his current role, Gregg Tiemann was President 
of Intertek’s Commercial & Electrical division in Europe and 
the Americas, having started as General Manager of the 
Los Angeles and Mexico City laboratories in 1993. Before 
joining	Intertek,	Gregg	worked	in	sales	and	marketing	for	
the software industry.
7
 Jay Gutierrez
Executive Vice President, Commodities
Joined Intertek in 1997. In addition to Commodities, Jay is 
responsible for operations in Australasia, South East Asia, 
Latin America and the Caribbean and Sub Saharan Africa. 
Jay Gutierrez assumed his current role in January 2008, and 
added Government Services in January 2009 and Minerals 
in January 2011. Previously, he was Vice President for the Oil, 
Chemical and Agri division in the Americas. Jay has 30 years’ 
experience in the cargo inspection and testing industry. Prior 
to joining	Intertek	he	spent	eight	years	as	General	Manager	
for a North American cargo inspection and testing company.
8
 Julia Thomas
Vice President, Corporate Development
Joined Intertek in 2013. Julia Thomas has responsibility for 
the Group functions of Corporate Development and Group 
Marketing.	Before	joining	Intertek,	Julia	spent	12	years	in	
investment banking with J.P. Morgan Cazenove and Rothschild, 
focusing primarily on mergers & acquisitions.
5 6
7 8
Strategic report
18 19
Strategic report
Intertek Executive Management Team
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our performance in 2013
Total	revenue	was	£586.6m,	up	2%	at	actual	exchange	rates,	
and	3%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	Excluding	acquisitions	
revenue	growth	was	2%.	Total	adjusted	operating	profit	was	
£70.0m,	down	9%.	Excluding	acquisitions	adjusted	operating	
profit	was	down	11%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	The	total	
adjusted	operating	margin	decreased	160	basis	points	to	11.9%	
at	actual	exchange	rates.	The	organic	adjusted	operating	
margin at constant exchange rates decreased 180 basis points.
Revenue growth was driven by oil cargo inspections globally, 
with the USA leading this growth with the expansion of shale 
oil extraction and rail transportation activities. This growth was 
offset by minerals experiencing a pronounced downturn in 
2013, where lower commodity prices, especially gold, continue 
to deter exploration activity, particularly in Australia, Brazil and 
Africa. The reduced demand also put increased pressure on 
prices within laboratory based activities. The impact of the 
sharp fall in exploration was lessened by increased analysis of 
iron ore production and shipments led by demand from China. 
Product Conformity Programmes in Government & Trade 
Services had flat revenue against the prior year, with the 
growth in the first half reversed in the second half following 
changes in a key customer programme that declined in value. 
This programme change will impact revenue by approximately 
£5m during 2014 alongside a continuing weak minerals market. 
Further investment in the North American shale regions will 
provide growth in this division, alongside increasing production, 
shipment and use for oil and petrochemicals in emerging and 
developed markets.
The margin decline in the year was first half weighted, mainly 
due to the minerals revenue decline, which moderated with 
cost reduction measures during the second half. 
Commodities division
Key business lines include Cargo, Analytical Assessment, 
Government & Trade Services and Minerals. These service 
a wide range of industries including petroleum, mining, 
minerals and biofuels.
Our services
•	 Analytical assessment 
•	 Inspection
•	 Certification
•	 Consulting
Market drivers
As global trade continues to develop, we expect underlying 
demand for commodities to increase, with a resulting 
demand for testing and inspection services.
Financial highlights
Financial Highlights 2013 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 586.6 2% 3%
Adjusted	operating	profit 70.0 (9)% (9)%
Adjusted	operating	margin 11.9% (160)bps (160)bps
Revenue – at actual rates (£m) Employees
11 years of dedicated lab testing 
and support
Intertek provides outsourced 
laboratory services to the Sasol Wax 
Durban Supply Centre, and has 
operated there for over 11 years. 
To support Sasol, we analyse a 
wide range of petroleum-based 
waxes, synthetic waxes, paraffin 
waxes,	petroleum	jellies	and	other	
wax related products used in 
various industries.
Intertek is responsible for all in-process 
and final quality control and quality 
assurance checks. No product, either 
solid or liquid, is released without 
Intertek’s certification, and our 
dedication to customer service 
exemplifies the true spirit of delivering 
a valued, quality service.
572.3
586.6
2012
2013
10,352
10,239
2012
2013
Our performance in 2013
Total	revenue	was	£709.3m,	up	7%	at	both	actual	and	constant	
exchange	rates.	Excluding	acquisitions	revenue	growth	was	4%.	
Total	adjusted	operating	profit	was	£82.2m,	up	6%.	Excluding	
acquisitions	adjusted	operating	profit	was	up	3%	at	constant	
exchange	rates.	The	total	adjusted	operating	margin	remained	
constant	at	11.6%	at	actual	exchange	rates.	The	organic	
adjusted	operating	margin	at	constant	exchange	rates	
decreased 20 basis points.
Revenue growth was driven by demand for Technical Inspection 
services in China, Brazil and the Middle East. Over the last few 
years, growth in global energy has driven increased new capital 
and	production	based	spending	on	oil	and	gas	projects,	
particularly by the integrated oil companies, supporting very 
high levels of Industry Services growth. During 2013, this high 
level of spending growth was moderated by discretionary 
spending mainly in the USA on energy sector plant and 
equipment and training contracts being deferred or ending, 
holding back the pace of growth for Intertek services. 
This softness will continue to affect Intertek in 2014, alongside 
the intentional reduction in some large low value contracts 
that account for approximately £30m of divisional revenue. 
Over the medium-term, growth in energy demand and related 
infrastructure especially from new sources and destinations 
will continue to drive demand for Intertek services.
Business Assurance grew well in the period particularly in North 
America with sector programmes in aerospace and automotive 
and new global accounts increasing revenue across the world.
Revenue from Food Services grew strongly in the UK and 
Europe as food contamination scares prompted increased 
demand for analytical testing and supply chain auditing.  
The Agriculture business grew well overall with particularly 
strong growth in Latin America and Canada partially offset  
by trade restrictions in some markets. Increased scrutiny over 
food and agricultural quality, variety and provenance will 
continue to support testing, inspection and supplier auditing  
for this business.
In 2013 Intertek acquired Global X-Ray & Testing Corporation 
(‘GXT’)	for	£44.9m,	a	USA	based	company	that	specialises	in	
non-destructive testing services to the onshore and offshore  
oil and gas industry. 
Three bolt-on acquisitions for a total consideration of £2.0m 
were also completed in this division in the year, two providing 
services to the food industry and one offering design services  
to manufacturing and industrial plants.
Industry & Assurance division
Key business lines include Industry Services, Exploration 
& Production, Business Assurance and Food & Agriculture. 
These service a wide range of industries including oil, gas, 
nuclear, power, renewable energy, construction, food, 
chemical and agriculture.
Our services
•	 Asset integrity 
management
•	 Technical inspection
•	 Auditing
•	 Certification
•	 Consulting
•	 Training 
•	 Staffing
Market drivers
Developing market energy demand, combined with 
maintenance expenditure to extend the lives of in-service 
assets, will continue to drive demand for services.
Financial highlights
Financial Highlights 2013 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 709.3 7% 7%
Adjusted	operating	profit 82.2 6% 7%
Adjusted	operating	margin 11.6% 0bps 0bps
Revenue – at actual rates (£m) Employees
Promoting food safety
As South Africa’s population 
continues to grow, Intertek, working 
alongside local communities and 
organisations, is helping to promote 
effective food safety systems including 
the launch of dedicated food safety 
training programmes and workshops.
Aiding development of 
Copenhagen’s infrastructure
Intertek signed a contract to design, 
manufacture, install and commission 
a corrosion and stray current corrosion 
monitoring system for the Danish 
capital’s	metro	extension	project,	
Cityringen. This will assist with the 
effective running of the system, which 
is one of the largest underground rail 
construction	projects	in	Europe.
665.6
709.3
2012
2013
7,329
8,972
2012
2013
Strategic report
20 21
Supporting global trade
Commodities
Strategic report – Operating review
Industry & Assurance
Powering safer futures
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our performance in 2013
Total	revenue	was	£338.4m,	up	6%	at	actual	exchange	rates	
and	5%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	Revenue	growth	of	5%	
was	wholly	organic.	Total	adjusted	operating	profit	was	
£49.3m,	down	3%.	Adjusted	operating	profit	was	down	5%	 
at	constant	exchange	rates.	The	total	adjusted	operating	margin	
decreased	130	basis	points	to	14.6%	at	actual	exchange	rates.	
The	adjusted	operating	margin	at	constant	exchange	rates	
decreased 140 basis points.
Commercial & Electrical performed well in the year with  
some strong growth areas partially offset by weakness in 
renewables markets generally, and in our Scandinavian 
operations. The growth in the year was wholly organic.  
There was strong performance in both developed markets,  
such as the USA and Canada, as well as in emerging markets  
in China and Taiwan across most business lines from building 
products, transportation technologies to electrical and 
telecoms.	Areas	such	as	‘4G’	testing	grew	strongly	both	in	
China as it moves up the value chain and in Taiwan following 
investments in new laboratory capacity. Growth in these areas 
was offset by weakness in renewables as governments reduced 
their support for the industry, in particular in our European 
operations, and weaker performance from medical devices 
following new regulations in the prior year.
Operating profit was impacted by the increased investment  
in new services resulting in increased depreciation, as new 
businesses continue to ramp up activity.
In December, Intertek closed the acquisition of Architectural 
Testing,	Inc.	(‘ATI’)	for	£57.6m,	one	of	the	largest	building	
products testing and certification companies in North America. 
This opportunity allows further expansion into building 
products locations outside the USA.
Commercial & Electrical division
Key business lines include Electrical, Wireless, Transportation 
Technologies and Building Products. These service a wide 
range of industries including home appliances, consumer 
electronics, lighting, medical, building, industrial, heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning, information communication 
and technology, renewable energy and automotive.
Our services
•	 Safety testing
•	 Performance testing
•	 C er ti fi c a ti on
•	 C ons u l t in g
Market drivers
Continued technological innovation, demand for 
improved environmental credentials and tougher 
legislation will continue to drive demand for our services. 
Financial highlights
Financial Highlights 2013 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 338.4 6% 5%
Adjusted	operating	profit 49.3 (3)% (5)%
Adjusted	operating	margin 14.6% (130)bps (140)bps
Revenue – at actual rates (£m) Employees
At the centre of innovation
The launch of our first wireless 
technology testing lab in Taiwan 
supports testing in one of the 
wireless industry’s most profitable 
marketplaces. Taiwan is at the centre 
of wireless innovation, and our new 
testing facilities enable us to provide 
in-country device testing and 
ultimately help clients release new 
technology into the global 
marketplace quickly and efficiently.
Supporting the technical revolution
318.2
338.4
2012
2013
4,092
5,059
2012
2013
Consumer Goods division
Key business lines include Softlines, Toys & Hardlines, 
Product Intelligence and Auditing. These service a wide 
range of industries including textiles, toys, footwear, 
hardlines and retail.
Our services
•	 Testing
•	 Inspection
•	 Certification 
•	 Auditing
•	 Advisory services
•	 Quality assurance
•	 Hazardous substance testing
Market drivers
The expectations of consumers in developing markets 
will continue to drive the demand for higher quality 
products that are tested and certified by trusted 
companies such as Intertek.
Financial highlights
Financial Highlights 2013 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 381.3 11 % 9%
Adjusted	operating	profit 124.5 10% 8%
Adjusted	operating	margin 32.7% (10)bps (20)bps
Revenue – at actual rates (£m) Employees
Reaching new standards 
in toy testing
In this constantly evolving regulatory 
and safety environment for toys, we 
work with our customers through the 
design and development process for 
new toys to ensure they are compliant 
with regulations such as Toy Safety 
Standard ASTM F963-11 and U.S. 
Consumer Product Safety Commission 
(‘CPSC’)	Testing	and	Certification	rule	
16 CFR 1107. Intertek also expanded 
capabilities to test to EN 71-3:2013 
requirements under the new EU Toy 
Safety Directive prior to the July 2013 
deadline. We use our comprehensive 
testing solutions and network of 
accredited third-party labs to ensure 
our customers meet all their 
regulatory requirements.
Our performance in 2013
Total	revenue	was	£381.3m,	up	11%	at	actual	exchange	rates	
and	9%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	Excluding	acquisitions	and	
disposals	revenue	growth	was	8%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	
Total	adjusted	operating	profit	was	£124.5m,	up	10%.	
Excluding	acquisitions	and	disposals	adjusted	operating	profit	
was	up	7%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	The	total	adjusted	
operating	margin	decreased	10	basis	points	to	32.7%	at	actual	
exchange	rates.	The	organic	adjusted	operating	margin	at	
constant exchange rates decreased 50 basis points.
Demand for textiles and footwear testing continued to drive 
growth in the division, with China, India and Turkey all 
recording strong performance as a result of product testing for 
both exports and the domestic market. Sustainability issues are 
becoming increasingly important to global brands, and there 
has been an increase in factory audits for compliance with 
social and ethical standards. The increased safety requirements 
under the EU Toy Safety Directive came into force in July and 
provided additional revenue for the toys testing business as 
global manufacturers selling into the European market 
requested support to demonstrate compliance.
Intertek’s extensive global network continues to provide 
opportunities to support global retailers as sourcing patterns 
shift to lower cost locations. Continued investment in the 
network and in expanding service offerings will provide 
ongoing growth opportunities.
The Group is investing in the development of additional 
value-added information services to our global clients. 
The investment in the Tradegood platform, where we help 
retail buyers identify verified manufacturers on our web based 
platform, continued during the year. Progress was made 
in building the customer base. Revenue growth in this new 
service was slower than original expectations and therefore 
the investment in growing the business adversely affected 
the divisional operating margin during the year. We remain 
committed to developing the platform and combining with  
new information based value-added services. Overall, 
Tradegood reported a loss of £5m during the year.
During 2013, Intertek acquired E-TEST Laboratorio de Ensaios 
e Tecnologia	Ltda.	(‘E-TEST’)	for	£6.6m,	a	toy	and	consumer	
products testing laboratory in Brazil, expanding the range 
of services provided to the South American market.
Satisfying the demand for quality
343.4
381.3
2012
2013
10,047
10,570
2012
2013
Strategic report
22 23
Commercial & Electrical
Strategic report – Operating review
Consumer Goods
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our performance in 2013
Total	revenue	was	£168.8m,	up	9%	at	actual	exchange	rates	
and	7%	at	constant	exchange	rates.	Excluding	acquisitions	and	
disposals	revenue	growth	was	2%.	Total	adjusted	operating	
profit	was	£16.6m,	down	3%.	Excluding	acquisitions	and	
disposals	adjusted	operating	profit	was	down	16%	at	constant	
exchange	rates.	The	total	adjusted	operating	margin	decreased	
120	basis	points	to	9.8%	at	actual	exchange	rates.	The	organic	
adjusted	operating	margin	at	constant	exchange	rates	
decreased 200 basis points.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals saw low organic revenue growth 
in the year. There was good growth in the automotive fuels and 
engines testing business in the USA, China and Germany and 
cosmetics testing in France. This was offset by difficult trading 
conditions in the rest of Europe as the volume of industrial 
chemicals and plastics quality assurance work from a number of 
key contracts declined due to customer restructuring and exit. 
This impacted the margin in the year. The division is undergoing 
restructuring including underperforming laboratory closures and 
disposals and although this also impacted the revenue growth, 
the lower cost base will benefit the margin going forward.
The long-term partnership with the Quality and Conformity 
Council of Abu Dhabi is progressing beyond advisory and 
consultancy and into operation of the laboratories in the 
Emirate. The revenue from this contract is expected to continue 
to increase as this partnership develops.
During 2013 Intertek acquired Melbourn Scientific Limited 
(‘Melbourn’)	for	£10.5m,	which	provides	analytical	and	
formulation services to the European pharmaceutical industry.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division
Key business lines include Chemicals & Pharma and Health 
& Regulatory. These service a wide range of industries 
including aerospace, automotive, electronics, packaging, 
pharmaceutical, medical devices, biotechnology, personal 
care products and cosmetics.
Our services
•	 Testing
•	 Inspection
•	 Auditing
•	 Certification
•	 Consulting and 
regulatory support
Market drivers
Cutting edge research continues to push boundaries in 
manufacturing and product development, where we 
provide support to manufacturers.
Financial highlights
Financial Highlights 2013 £m
Change
at actual
rates
Change at
constant
rates
Revenue 168.8 9% 7%
Adjusted	operating	profit 16.6 (3)% (5)%
Adjusted	operating	margin 9.8% (120)bps (120)bps
Revenue – at actual rates (£m) Employees
Supporting next generation 
nanotechnology innovation
From novel food ingredients to drug 
delivery systems, nanotechnology is 
being viewed as the source of next 
generation chemical innovation. 
Intertek’s chemical analysis, scientific 
and regulatory experts have helped 
clients to understand the chemical, 
physical and toxicological properties 
of their nanotech products, 
accelerating innovation and helping 
to ensure regulatory compliance 
and product safety.
At the cutting edge of research
154.8
168.8
2012
2013
1,516
1,766
2012
2013
“ The Group reported solid progress 
against a backdrop of mixed market 
conditions, with an increase in 
adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	 
of	6%. ”
Lloyd Pitchford 
Chief Financial Officer
Results for the year
Key financials
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 2,184.4 2,054.3
Adjusted	Group	operating	profit 342.6 335.1
Adjusted	diluted	EPS 138.6p 131.2p
Adjusted	cash	flow	from	operations 394.1 345.4
Dividends paid in the year 69.4 57.9
The Group reported solid progress against a backdrop of  
mixed	market	conditions,	with	an	increase	in	adjusted	diluted	
earnings	per	share	of	6%.	Strong	progress	in	emerging	markets	
was partially offset by cyclical weakness in some markets, 
particularly Minerals and in Europe. The Group continued to 
invest strongly organically and through acquisitions to support 
our long-term structural growth model.
Consolidated income statement commentary
Revenue	for	the	year	was	£2,184m,	up	6%	(6%	at	constant	
exchange	rates)	driven	by	organic	revenue	growth	of	5%	
(4% at	constant	exchange	rates)	contributed	by	all	divisions.	
The	Group’s	adjusted	operating	profit	was	£343m,	up	2%	on	
the	prior	year	(up	1%	at	constant	exchange	rates).	The	Group’s	
total	operating	profit	for	the	year	was	£310m,	up	9%.	
The	adjusted	operating	margin	was	15.7%	compared	with	
16.3%	in	the	prior	year.	Margin	has	been	impacted	by	a	cyclical	
but focused downturn in 2013 in the Minerals sector, against 
high volumes in 2011 and 2012, as well as slow growth in oil 
inspection related testing and chemicals and pharmaceuticals 
work in Europe. The Group’s continued investment in new 
services also impacted margin as new laboratories came on line 
in North and Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. This was 
balanced by strong performance across emerging markets; in 
particular China, India and Asia generally, particularly in the 
Consumer Goods division. 
2013 performance highlights
Revenue up to £2,184m
+6%
Adjusted operating profit up to £343m
+2%
Adjusted diluted EPS
+6%
Dividend per share
+12%
Acquisitions
£122m
Organic investment spend
£145m
Adjusted cash from operations
+14%
Strategic report
24 25
Strategic report – Operating review
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
Strategic report 
Financial review
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The underlying performance of the business, by division, is shown in the table below:
Revenue Adjusted operating profit
Notes
2013
£m
Change at
actual rates
%
Change at
constant
rates
%
2013
£m
Change at
actual rates
%
Change at
constant
rates
%
Industry & Assurance 2 709.3 6.6 6.8 82.2 6.2 6.9
Commodities 2 586.6 2.5 3.1 70.0 (9.3) (9.0)
Consumer Goods 2 381.3 11.0 8.9 124.5 10.4 8.0
Commercial & Electrical 2 338.4 6.3 4.8 49.3 (2.6) (4.6)
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 2 168.8 9.0 6.9 16.6 (2.9) (4.6)
2,184.4 6.3 5.8 342.6 2.2 1.3
Net financing costs 14 (27.7) (3.7)
Adjusted profit before income tax 314.9 2.1
Income tax expense 6 (72.4) 9.8
Adjusted profit for the year 242.5 6.3
Adjusted diluted EPS 7 138.6 5.6
Net interest charge
The	Group	had	an	adjusted	net	interest	charge	of	£28m	
(2012: £27m) in the year. This comprised £5m (2012: £7m) 
of finance income and £33m (2012: £34m) of finance expense. 
The total interest charge included £0.5m related to Separately 
Disclosed Items.
Separately Disclosed Items (‘SDIs’)
A number of items are separately disclosed in the financial 
statements as exclusion of these items provides readers with 
a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating 
performance of the Group’s business.
When applicable, these SDIs include amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the profit 
or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed 
assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost 
of any fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims 
and settlements, significant recycling of amounts from equity 
to the income statement and unrealised market gains/losses 
on financial assets/liabilities.
SDIs
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating costs:
Amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles
(22.5) (29.3)
Acquisition and integration costs (1.5) (5.5)
Project	costs – (2.8)
Restructuring costs (8.8) (11.0)
Goodwill impairment – (3.2)
Gain on disposal of investments 0.2 –
Total operating costs (32.6) (51.8)
In 2013, the amortisation of acquisition intangibles was £23m 
(2012: £29m). This reduction is a result of certain intangibles 
becoming fully amortised in the year; most notably from the 
Moody International acquisition made in 2011. Acquisition and 
integration costs of £1.5m (2012: £5.5m) relate in 2013 wholly 
to professional fees incurred on acquisitions in the year.
Restructuring costs
In 2012, the Group started a comprehensive review of its 
portfolio to identify businesses, locations and services which 
were underperforming or non-strategic. Actions included 
business closures, asset write-downs and redundancies. The 
programme continued in 2013 with the cumulative cost of the 
restructuring activities in 2012 and 2013 being £23m, of which 
£9m has been recorded in 2013; as a result of the restructuring, 
three businesses have been sold and 11 locations have been 
closed, with particular focus on Europe. Following further 
cyclical weakness in certain businesses, the Group expects to 
record further restructuring expense during 2014. None of the 
disposals or closures were classified as discontinued activities.
Tax
The	Group	effective	tax	rate	on	adjusted	profit	before	income	
tax	was	23.0%	(2012:	26.0%).	The	global	nature	of	the	Group	
means that the Group’s exposure to income tax needs to be 
managed across a large number of fiscal regimes. The Group’s 
goal is to efficiently manage its tax affairs whilst fulfilling 
its responsibilities to the countries in which it operates. 
The statutory tax charge, including the impact of SDIs, of £65m 
(2012:	£68m),	equates	to	an	effective	rate	of	23.0%	(2012:	
26.7%)	and	the	cash	tax	on	adjusted	results	is	25.7%	(2012:	
23.5%).	The	tax	rate	includes	a	one	off	recognition	of	deferred	
tax assets in certain countries. The underlying tax rate excluding 
this	recognition	was	24.7%.
Earnings per share
The	Group	delivered	adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	(‘EPS’)	
of	138.6p,	an	increase	of	6%.	Diluted	EPS	after	SDIs	rose	15%	
to	123.0p	per	share,	and	basic	EPS	rose	15%	to	124.4p.
Dividend
The Board recommends a full year dividend of 46.0p per share, 
an	increase	of	12%.	This	recommendation	reflects	the	Group’s	
significant growth prospects, strong financial position and the 
Board’s confidence in the Group’s structural growth drivers into 
the future.
The full year dividend of 46.0p represents a total cost of 
£74.2m	or	33%	of	adjusted	profit	attributable	to	shareholders	
of	the	Group	for	2013	(2012:	£65.9m	and	31%).	The	dividend	
is covered 3.0 times by earnings (2012: 3.2 times), based 
on adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	divided	by	dividend	
per share.
Key performance indicators
The	Group	uses	a	variety	of	key	performance	indicators	(‘KPIs’)	
to monitor the financial performance of the Group and 
operating divisions. These metrics are disclosed on page 9. 
The	rate	of	return	on	invested	capital	(‘ROIC’)	measures	the	
efficiency of Group investments. This is a key measure to assess 
the efficiency of investment decisions and is also an important 
criteria	in	the	decision	making	process	when	projects	are	
competing	for	limited	funds.	ROIC	in	2013	was	18%	(2012: 19%),	
falling in 2013 because acquisitions were made towards the end 
of the year. On a proforma basis (including annualised results 
for	these	acquisitions)	ROIC	would	be	19%.
Current year performance
Revenue (£m)
+6% 
+6%	at	constant	exchange	rates	
+4%	organic
2
 at constant exchange rates
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (£m)
+2%
+1%	at	constant	exchange	rates	 
(1)%	organic
2
 at constant exchange rates
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence) 
+6%
Dividend per share (pence) 
+12%
Five year performance
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (pence) 
+14%
CAGR
3
Dividend per share (pence) 
+16%
CAGR
3
131.2
138.6
2012
2013
89.4
107.2
2010
2011
81.5 2009
2,054
2,184
2012
2013
335
343
2012
2013
41.0
46.0
2012
2013
131.2
138.6
2012
2013
41.0
46.0
2012
2013
28.1
33.7
2010
2011
25.5 2009
1.
  Presentation of results: To provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Group’s business, the figures 
discussed	in	this	review	are	presented	before	Separately	Disclosed	Items	(see	note	3	of	the	financial	statements).	A	reconciliation	between	Adjusted	operating	
profit and Profit for the year is set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
2.
  Organic growth excludes the results of acquisitions and disposals made in 2013 and 2012.
3.
 CAGR represents the five year compound annual growth rate. 
Strategic report
26 27
Financial review continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Acquisitions and investment
The Group’s strategy is to invest both organically and by 
acquiring complementary businesses, enabling it to take 
advantage of the strong long-term structural growth drivers in 
the industry and continually offer the latest technologies and 
services in the locations demanded by clients. The chart below 
shows the extent of the Group’s investment in 2013: 
Organic capital investment (£m) 
145  
Acquisition purchase price (£m)
 122
Acquisitions
The Group made seven acquisitions in the year, with a 
purchase price, including debt, of £122m, the larger ones being 
detailed below:
In March 2013, the Group acquired E-TEST Laboratorio de 
Ensaios	e	Tecnologia	Ltda.	(‘E-TEST’)	for	£6.6m,	a	toy	and	
consumer products testing laboratory based in Brazil. 
In July 2013, the Group acquired Melbourn Scientific Limited 
(‘Melbourn’)	for	£10.5m,	a	UK	based	provider	of	high-quality	
cGMP analytical and formulation services to the 
pharmaceutical, biotech and healthcare industries.
In October 2013, the Group acquired Global X-Ray & Testing 
Corporation	(‘GXT’)	for	£44.9m,	a	USA	based	NDT	services	
company providing services to the onshore and offshore oil 
and gas industry.
In December 2013, the Group acquired Architectural Testing, 
Inc.	(‘ATI’)	for	£57.6m,	a	leading	building	products	testing,	
inspection and certification agency in North America. 
115
145
2012
2013
66
81
2010
2011
53 2009
46
122
2012
2013
42
480
2010
2011
24 2009
These acquisitions provide valuable additional service lines 
and new geographic locations for the Group, and will help 
drive profitable revenue growth. The two more significant 
acquisitions, GXT and ATI, are in the strategically important 
areas of non-destructive testing and building products testing, 
where the Group sees good growth opportunities.
Organic investment
The Group also invested £145m (2012: £115m) organically on 
the latest technology in new laboratories, capital equipment 
and	other	facilities.	This	investment	represented	6.6%	of	
revenue	(2012:	5.6%)	which	was	an	increase	on	the	prior	year	
as the Group continues to invest in new countries, facilities and 
services, with a focus on transportation technology services, 
electrical and textiles. Key new facilities include laboratories 
in Taiwan (wireless), Ghana and Australia (cargo and minerals) 
and Bangladesh (textiles).
Cash flow and net debt
The Group relies on a combination of debt and internal cash 
resources to fund its investment plans. One of the key metrics 
for measuring the ability of the business to generate cash 
is cash flow from operations. Due to the cash payments 
associated with the SDIs, and to provide a complete picture of 
the	underlying	performance	of	the	Group,	adjusted	cash	flow	
from operations is shown below to illustrate the cash generated 
by the Group:
Cash conversion
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change 
%
Cash flow from operations 378.6 332.6 14
Add back: cash flow relating to SDIs 15.5 12.8
Adjusted	cash	flow	from	operations 394.1 345.4 14
The components of cash flow from operations are 
summarised below:
Cash flow summary
2013
£m
2012
£m
Group operating profit 310.0 283.3
Depreciation, amortisation, equity settled 
transactions and loss on disposals 104.9 106.6
Movement in working capital and provisions (36.3) (57.3)
Adjusted	cash	generated	from	operations 378.6 332.6
Adjusted	cash	generated	from	operations	
to Group operating profit 122% 11 7%
Net debt
Net debt has increased from £551m at 31 December 2012 
to £618m at 31 December 2013 principally as a result of 
drawdowns to fund the larger acquisitions of GXT and ATI, 
partially offset by good cash generation in the business.
In the year, the Group drew on facilities it had in place at 
31 December 2012, including two bilateral term loan facilities 
of US$20m each, and US$80m of senior notes drawn in 
February 2013. The Group has a well balanced loan portfolio 
with a maturity profile as shown below, to enable the funding 
of future growth opportunities.
Group’s facilities and borrowings 
Less than two years
Two to ﬁve years
Over ﬁve years
14%
45%
41%
Under existing facilities the Group has available debt headroom 
of £175m at 31 December 2013. The components of net debt 
at 31 December 2013 are outlined below:
1 January
 2013
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
adjustments
£m
31 December
2013
£m
Cash 166.5 (45.4) (4.7) 116.4
Borrowings (717.2) (35.3) 17.9 (734.6)
Total net debt (550.7) (80.7) 13.2 (618.2)
To ensure the Group is not exposed to income statement 
volatility in relation to foreign currency translation on its debt, 
the Group ensures that any foreign currency borrowings are 
matched to the value of its overseas assets in that currency 
(an ‘efficient’	hedge).
The Group borrows primarily in US dollars and any currency 
translation exposures on the borrowings are offset by the 
currency translation on the US dollar overseas assets of the 
Group. The composition of the Group’s gross borrowings in 
2013, analysed by currency is as follows:
Currency of borrowings (excluding swaps)
USD
GBP
Other
95%
3%
2%
Foreign currency movements
The Group transacts in over 80 currencies, and revenue and 
profit are impacted by currency fluctuations. However, the 
diversification of the Group’s revenue base dilutes this exposure.
At	constant	exchange	rates,	revenue	grew	6%	(actual	exchange	
rates	6%)	and	adjusted	operating	profit	grew	1%	(actual	
exchange	rates	2%).
The exchange rates used to translate the statement of financial 
position and the income statement into sterling for the five 
most material currencies are shown below:
Statement 
of financial 
position rates
Income 
statement 
rates
Value of £1 2013 2012 2013 2012
US dollar 1.65 1.61 1.56 1.59
Euro 1.20 1.22 1.18 1.23
Chinese renminbi 10.06 10.12 9.68 10.01
Hong Kong dollar 12.78 14.46 12.12 12.31
Australian dollar 1.86 1.55 1.62 1.53
Significant accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Details of the 
Group’s significant accounting policies are shown in note 1 
to the financial statements.
Strategic report
28 29
Financial review continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business
By helping companies to produce greener, safer products and 
services and to operate in a more sustainable way, Intertek 
makes a substantial positive impact on the planet and human 
well-being.
Contributing to industry standards
Intertek employs hundreds of regulatory experts across the 
world, helping companies in highly regulated industries to 
achieve global, regional and local compliance. We help our 
customers to effectively comply with complex global 
regulations, such as the EU REACH (Registration, Evaluation, 
and Authorisation of Chemical Substances – EC1907/2006), 
food contact materials and new chemical notifications and 
biocides (active ingredients and formulations). Our experts 
work actively on international and national committees, such 
as the International Consumer Products Health and Safety 
Organisation, International Federation of Inspection Agencies, 
International Standards Organisation and the International 
Association for Food Protection. 
Supporting ethical supply chains
In recent years, consumers have become increasingly interested 
in the social and environmental aspects involved in the 
development of what they purchase and demand products 
that have been sustainably and ethically sourced and 
manufactured. We support our clients in monitoring their 
suppliers with Social Responsibility Audits and Workplace 
Conditions Assessment to prohibit the use of forced or child 
labour, discrimination or harassment, as well as assessing 
physical facilities of the unit, such as health and safety, 
chemical products, systems management and environment.
Intertek’s Ethical Sourcing Forum is a unique industry event 
that brings together members of the global sustainability 
community to address emerging supply chain challenges. 
Utilising Intertek’s industry experts and thousands of reports 
collected over many years of Corporate Responsibility and ESG 
(Environmental, Social & Governance) supplier audits, the event 
provides companies with the business intelligence and data 
they need to make informed decisions on their increasingly 
offshore, outsourced supply chains. 
Ensuring safety and quality in a developing world
The rise in middle class consumers in the growth economies 
has resulted in a broader variety of products entering the 
marketplace and a greater demand for quality. Developed 
nations have for some time required exporters to obtain a 
Certificate of Conformity before shipping in order to clear 
customs, which has unintentionally led to unsafe and unreliable 
products being forced into emerging economies. However, 
Intertek has helped to eliminate this situation. As more 
developing nations have implemented and enacted mandatory 
legislation for imported goods, Intertek Conformity Assessment 
Programmes ensure that poor quality and sub-standard 
products cannot be imported and so are eliminated from 
the national market. 
In March, Intertek was awarded a Certificate of Merit by the 
World Customs Organisation, in recognition of the inspection 
and training work we do for the Mozambican Revenue 
Authority to ensure the quality and safety of goods being 
exported to Mozambique. In June, Shanghai CIQ (Customs, 
Immigration & Quarantine) published its satisfaction index of 
local certification bodies. The index was compiled following a 
survey of 454 certified companies by the Shanghai Academy of 
Social Sciences. The survey made a comprehensive assessment 
of 20 certification bodies (15 of them foreign-invested) in areas 
such as credibility, service standard and impartial operation. 
Intertek	tops	the	list	of	‘foreign-invested’	and	is	ranked	
number two out of all 20 (the first being Shanghai Academy 
of Environmental Sciences).
Providing innovative solutions to today’s global needs
Intertek’s history dates back over 130 years to some of the 
world’s early pioneers in scientific innovation and trade. 
Thomas Edison, inventor of the first electric light bulb, 
established the Lamp Testing Bureau, later named the Electrical 
Testing	Laboratories,	which	is	the	‘ETL’	mark	that	Intertek	
applies today. That spirit of innovation continues. In Germany, 
Intertek’s Transportation Technologies business has provided 
electric vehicle charging stations as part of the eE-Tour Allgäu 
project	(efficient	electric	mobility	and	tourism	in	the	Allgäu	
region) being run by partners from business and academia. 
To date,	the	project	has	enabled	more	than	50	different	electric	
vehicles to be made available to tourists and residents to hire or 
borrow at various rental stations in the Allgäu region. Trials are 
also being conducted for potential applications of electric 
vehicles for everyday use by companies and community 
schemes in the region.
With food traceability becoming increasingly important across 
the global supply chain, Intertek’s Food Services business is 
demonstrating its commitment to the challenges faced by the 
industry through becoming a founding sponsor of a Global 
Food Traceability Centre which is run in partnership with the 
Institute	of	Food	Technologists	(‘IFT’).	The	Centre	provides	
unbiased, knowledgeable and scientific-based advice to the 
global food industry, providing insight and understanding 
into food traceability. The IFT will act as a central point 
where industry, academic, and government experts can work 
together with consumer groups to conduct research, discuss 
challenges, adopt best practices and implement practical 
traceability solutions. 
Intertek is also an approved Certification Body for the 
Roundtable	of	Sustainable	Palm	Oil	(‘RSPO’)	–	Supply	Chain	
Certification. Palm oil is the most widely used vegetable oil and 
is a common ingredient in many foodstuffs and personal care 
products. Oil palms can only be cultivated in tropical areas 
and increasing demand due to population growth is putting 
pressure on local environments and ecosystems. Intertek’s 
RSPO Supply Chain Certification ensures traceability along all 
stages of the agri-food value chain including refining, trading, 
manufacturing and distribution of palm oil products.
 Our mission is to add value for our 
customers by helping them achieve 
their desired level of quality and safety 
for their products, assets and processes; 
to protect their brands and enable  
their success in the global marketplace.
At	Intertek,	‘quality’	is	our	way	of	defining	the	safety,	
sustainability, performance, functionality, integrity or 
desirability of a product, asset or process; and the need  
for quality arises at many separate and interrelated points 
across a customer’s organisation.
The global marketplace is becoming increasingly challenging 
for all of us. By 2050 the global population is estimated to 
reach over 9 billion, putting the world’s water, food and 
energy sources – and climate – under severe strain. Intertek 
is helping its customers to address these global challenges. 
We provide a range of services that span the entire water life 
cycle. We conduct environmental impact assessment and 
modelling studies for desalination plants to provide vital 
drinking water, assess reservoir quality and measure the 
impact of treated discharged wastewater.
Our comprehensive evaluations of food production, 
quality management systems, testing programmes, factory 
environment and product and process controls, positions us 
to certify the entire food supply chain. We enable developing 
nations to increase their global food exports and help 
reduce the incidence rates of food-borne diseases,  
such as salmonella and E-coli.
Our support to the world’s energy industries covers a broad 
range of logistics, testing, inspection, certification and 
consulting expertise, helping them to run their operations 
efficiently and safely. We are also a world leader in the 
renewable energy sector, providing testing and inspection 
of biofuels, photovoltaics (solar panels), wind turbines, 
lithium batteries and charging systems for electric vehicles.
In our own operations, during 2013, we established an 
improved	process	for	collecting	Greenhouse	Gas	(‘GHG’)	
emissions data for all our sites worldwide and also increased 
the boundary of both our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
data, further details of which can be found on pages 34 
and 35.
We remain committed to reducing our own ecological 
footprint and will continue to drive environmental initiatives 
throughout our operations. This report details our current 
sustainability	and	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	(‘CSR’)	
performance and shows how our people, through the 
work they do every day, are helping to create a healthier, 
safer and better quality of life for all.
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
In this section
Our business
How we are making a 
positive contribution to the 
planet through our work 
for clients.
 
See pages 31 and 32
Intertek people
Our commitment to the 
welfare and development 
of our people.
 
See pages 32 to 34 
Our environment
Taking responsibility for our 
impact on the environment.
 
 
 
See pages 34 and 35 
Our communities
Giving back to the 
communities touched 
by our business.
 
See pages 36 and 37 
Strategic report
30 31
Sustainability and CSR
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Investing in our people
During 2013, we further extended our online training 
programmes to a total of 26,000 employees in 61 countries, 
providing access to more than 280 internally-developed 
courses, webinars, assessments and instructor-led training. 
To date, more than 211,000 online courses have been 
completed by over 16,500 people.
A sustainable executive talent pipeline is paramount to meeting 
our near-term and future strategic goals. The Intertek Executive 
Academy was established in 2012 to enhance our leadership 
pool for future business needs and growth and prepare Intertek 
leaders to deliver our strategy. Those invited to participate are 
already established and proven managers from across the 
Group and the Academy gives participants the opportunity 
to enhance their leadership skills and to grow with Intertek 
over the coming years. Throughout the programme 
participants are supported by coaching from both in-house 
and external mentors.
In China Intertek has, for the sixth year in a row, been voted as 
one	of	the	‘100	Best	HRM	Companies’	in	a	survey	initiated	by	
51job.com	–	the	most	influential	HR	services	provider	and	social	
media recruitment platform in China. Intertek is the only 
testing,	inspection,	certification	(‘TIC’)	company	that	has	been	
consecutively credited since the event first took place in 2008. 
China is the largest employing country in Intertek, with 
8,800 people.
Professional conduct
Intertek is committed to maintaining the total confidence of 
its customers and shareholders. One of the Group’s primary 
business	objectives	is	to	ensure	both	compliance	with	local,	
national and international laws, and the accuracy and validity 
of reports and certificates that it provides to customers.
The foundations of our Compliance Policy rest with our 
employees, each of whom must sign the Company’s Code of 
Ethics, confirming acceptance of the high standards expected 
of them in all business dealings. The Code requires that 
employees act with integrity and in an open, honest, ethical 
and socially responsible manner. The Code of Ethics is 
supported by regular in-service training, advice on ethical issues 
and well-publicised internal telephone hotlines, allowing 
protected reporting of concerns regarding non-compliance. 
Intertek has a strict policy of zero-tolerance regarding breaches 
of compliance policy. 
During 2013 there were 15 reports of non-compliance which 
were substantiated claims requiring remedial action. Reports 
of non-compliance are closely monitored and the Audit & Risk 
Committee periodically reviews the outcomes of the hotline 
and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
Male : Female by region
 Male
 Female
2,260
6,206
7,724
10,670
3,213
6,791
10,004 EMEA
18,394 Asia
8,466 Americas
At 31 December 2013 Intertek employed 36,864 people, an increase of 
5.7%	over	the	previous	year. 
Intertek total workforce – gender breakdown 
 Male
 Female
36% 64%
Intertek’s gender diversity reflects the industries and qualification profiles 
typical of individuals working in the countries and business lines in which 
we operate.  
Revenue and headcount
Revenue (£m)
Headcount
34,882
36,864
2012
2013
27,044
31,712
2010
2011
25,183
2,054
2,184
1,374
1,749
1,237
2009
Total number of Intertek employees over the last five years in relation 
to revenue shows continuing growth in employment and careers.
In the field of medicine, Intertek provides a wide range  
of analytical and testing services to address the issues of  
quality, purity, stability and chemical problem solving in  
the development of in vitro diagnostic devices and reagents.  
In vitro devices are used to perform tests on samples, such  
as blood, urine and human tissue, to help detect infection, 
diagnose a medical condition, prevent disease or monitor  
drug therapies. Better targeted diagnostics can lead to better 
treatment decisions and therapies. During 2013, Intertek 
launched a new testing panel that can identify the early signs  
of osteoporosis (low bone density). Conventional technology, 
such as bone mineral density scans, only enables us to diagnose 
osteoporosis after it has developed; whereas Intertek’s testing 
panel only needs 2ml of blood to test three key indicators 
in order to diagnose osteoporosis early and monitor the 
effectiveness of treatment.
Offering vital support in the development of alternative 
energy resources
As demand for clean and renewable energy continues to grow 
significantly, Intertek is able to provide the most comprehensive 
testing, certification and consulting expertise in the industry. 
Our services include testing of solar panels and wind turbines, 
wave and tidal consultancy, and biomass and biofuels testing 
and inspection. In 2013, Intertek was proud to receive the 
ProCana	Brasil	‘Prêmio	MasterCana	Award’	for	expert	services	
to the biofuels industry in Brazil for the second year in a row. 
This prestigious award recognises the important role Intertek 
has played since 1998 in supporting the large and growing 
Brazilian biofuels industry.
Stewardship and governance
Intertek is committed to building a sustainable business. Its 
Board of Directors oversees and is responsible for the Group’s 
strategy, performance and risk management (see pages 41 to 
47). The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity in the 
boardroom as a driver of good governance. As at 31 December 
2013,	the	Board’s	composition	was	20%	female	and	80%	male	
and for the senior leadership group (314 people at the end of 
2013),	20%	female	and	80%	male.	To	read	more	about	our	
Board Diversity see page 45. 
Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through 
policy distribution. Our operations and support functions are 
responsible for identifying and evaluating risks applicable to 
their areas of the business and the design and operation of 
suitable	internal	controls	(see	‘Principal	Risks’	on	pages	14	
to 17). The Board has overall accountability for Intertek’s 
sustainability and CSR, with Group-wide strategy and 
implementation being the responsibility of the Group Vice 
President of Human Resources. 
Intertek people 
Intertek is a diverse company of more than 36,000 employees, 
operating in over 100 countries. As a global company, we 
enable our people to share their skills and knowledge across 
geographical, cultural and technical borders. We have a  
strong emphasis on professional collaboration, training and 
development and this, together with the strength of our 
collective leadership, ensures that our people remain inspired  
to deliver world-leading quality solutions. Intertek is committed 
to maintaining high standards of fairness, respect and safety 
and adheres to the principles of the UN’s Convention on 
Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation’s  
core conventions.
Employee survey 2013
The results of our 2012 employee engagement survey showed 
us that there were three particular areas where we needed  
to increase our attention globally: Organisation Direction  
(clarity of strategy, our progress and future direction),  
Social and Environmental Responsibility, and Performance 
Management and Rewards. From this, we took a number  
of initiatives to make positive changes in these areas and this 
has resulted in a positive improvement across all categories in 
our 2013 engagement survey. The results of our 2013 global 
employee	survey	show	that	overall	engagement	is	up	2%	on	
the previous year. 
Areas making most progress are:
•	 people: opportunities for personal development; training to 
improve	skills	in	the	current	job;	receiving	on-going	feedback;
•	 process: respecting safety rules; having the tools to 
collaborate	and	to	do	the	job;	improving	process	efficiency;	
processes which help provide good customer service;  
co-operation across the business; and
•	 society: management support to diversity; social responsibility 
in the community.
Areas that are improving but need continued focus are:
•	 ensuring employees can speak up and challenge traditions;
•	 clarifying the business strategy and values;
•	 better co-operation between businesses and sharing 
best practices; and
•	 better communications – keeping employees informed 
and taking their opinions into account.
Areas that are still in need of attention are:
•	 information, resources and feedback to develop as 
a professional; and
•	 benefits, recognition, equity of rewards.
We will continue with the global and local activities 
implemented as a response to the surveys.
Strategic report
32 33
Sustainability and CSR continued 
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CO 2e
1
 emissions from activities for which Intertek is responsible 
include: 
GHG Emissions
(tonnes of CO 2e)
1
Scope 1 the combustion of fuel 60,674
operation of facilities 5,924
Scope 2 purchase of electricity, 
heat or steam 
145,048 
Outside  
of Scopes 491
Total emissions 212,137
Intensity ratios
2013 CO 2e per employee
2
 5.75
CO 2e per employee  
in top 25 countries
3
 
4.88
2012
CO 2e per employee  
in top 25 countries
3
4.32
1.
 CO 2e – Carbon dioxide equivalent. 
2 .  
GHG emissions from the expanded boundary of emission sources include  
fuel testing, fuel consumption, use of fire extinguishers, release of refrigerants 
and coolants, nitrous oxide usage, steam and heat co-generation and steam 
import, in addition to electricity and gas consumption.
3.
  Not including GHG emissions derived from sources other than gas and 
electricity consumption to allow a year-on-year comparison. 
In order to report GHG results covering all of Intertek’s 
operations	globally,	actual	data	was	compiled	for	most	major	
countries, operations and sites, with figures extrapolated where 
necessary to cover some sites that were not able to provide 
data. Extrapolation was based on the number of employees at 
each site and was undertaken for electricity and gas use, but 
not for minor contributions such as fugitive emissions. Where 
sites provided data covering only part of the year, figures were 
extrapolated linearly to cover the full year.
In relation to Intertek’s Scope 3 emissions (indirect GHG 
emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by 
Intertek but which relate to our activities), many sites operate 
recycling schemes which reduce waste going to landfill. 
Recycling waste has also proven to reduce costs and GHG 
emissions. For example, at our site in Kentwood, Michigan, 
USA, wooden pallets, cardboard and high volume plastics were 
removed from the general waste stream and recycled, resulting 
in significant cost savings. At some Intertek sites in France, we 
use a bicycle courier service to deliver letters and packages – a 
carbon-free and more cost-effective solution than motorised 
services. There is also a commitment to reducing our travel 
emissions via third parties through utilising our in-house video 
and web technology for meetings.
Better reporting 
More detailed data collection has permitted the identification 
of Intertek sites with relatively high energy consumption and 
GHG emissions, where smart metering and energy auditing can 
be introduced. This detailed analysis enables more informed 
decision making to reduce energy consumption and GHG 
emissions and supports our efforts for continuous improvement.
Standards 
Many Intertek sites are certified to ISO 14001. This environmental 
management system supports the continuous improvement 
of energy consumption and waste and water management, 
helping to reduce the impact of risk to the environment, 
control costs and improve environmental performance.
As part of Intertek’s environmental management system, there 
are strict controls in place to manage the handling, storage and 
disposal of harmful and hazardous substances to minimise the 
risk of their release into the environment. Intertek employees 
are fully trained in the safe handling of such substances and are 
provided with appropriate equipment and clothing to protect 
themselves and reduce the risk to the environment. A critical 
element of permitting continuous improvement is the reporting 
of all incidents which all employees are required to do.
Communication 
General good practice and sustainability initiatives in Intertek 
are communicated to all our employees. Many Intertek sites 
have	‘Green’	teams	that	seek	innovative	ways	to	engage	people	
into	projects	that	support	the	delivery	of	Intertek’s	sustainability	
strategy. All employees are made aware of Intertek’s 
Sustainability and CSR policy, of which the environment is an 
important element.
Intertek’s Sustainability and CSR report was developed with reference 
to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, which provide a 
recommended framework and indicators for reporting. A table outlining 
the GRI standard disclosures is provided at the end of this document. 
All data used for performance indicators is representative of the Group, 
unless stated otherwise. 
Health & Safety
Intertek is committed to the safety and welfare of its 
employees, clients and third parties connected with its 
business. We aim to provide a safe working environment and 
ensure that our employees have the information and resources 
to perform their duties safely.
However,	although	we	achieved	a	reduction	in	lost	time	injuries	
and	medical	treatment	injuries,	we	are	very	saddened	to	report	
that two employee fatalities occurred during early 2013, while 
working on client sites. One was a consequence of a terrorist 
attack on an oil installation in Algeria, the other an explosion 
during pressure tests in China.
The health and safety of our people and activities are the 
responsibility of line management and employees themselves. 
All incidents are recorded and reported to the designated 
country Health and Safety Representative who in turn reports 
through to the respective country line management and 
Intertek Group. This enables us to take targeted action in 
reducing health and safety risks to our employees, clients 
and others.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of health  
and safety and complying with relevant local legislation and 
guidelines wherever we operate. We continually seek to 
minimise risk to our employees, clients and others who may be 
affected by our operations, and our procedures are regularly 
monitored by our compliance team to ensure that they are 
being properly applied in practice.
2013 2012 2011
Occupational fatalities 2 1 3
Lost	time	injuries	rate* 0.34 0.43 n/a
Medical treatment 
injuries	rate* 0.36 0.38 n/a
*  Rates	refer	to	the	number	of	lost-time	injuries	and	medical	treatment	injuries	
occurring per 200,000 hours worked.
This year Intertek has focused on better reporting and analysis 
of	‘hazardous	near	miss’	incidents.	From	this,	we	can	prevent	a	
recurrence, identify any weaknesses in operational procedures 
and potentially reveal patterns from which lessons can be 
learned. Further training for managers and supervisors has 
taken place throughout the year to help them understand their 
health,	safety	&	environment	(‘HSE’)	responsibilities	and	to	help	
improve stewardship of HSE issues.
Our environment
The work Intertek performs for its clients helps to reduce harm 
to the environment and contributes to tackling climate change. 
Within our own operations, controls are in place to minimise 
our impact on the environment through reducing energy 
consumption in our buildings and facilities, utilising renewable 
sources	of	energy,	implementing	‘green’	waste	management	
practices, minimising business travel, carbon offsetting and 
operating quality management systems. To support this effort, 
our Environmental Policy is implemented through country 
management, to ensure compliance with local guidelines 
and regulations.
For 2013, Intertek’s electricity consumption was reported to be 
260,081 MWh (7.06 MWh per employee) and gas consumption 
was reported to be 96,835 MWh (2.63 MWh per employee).
In	2012,	Intertek	reported	the	Greenhouse	Gas	(‘GHG’)	
emissions of its largest 25 countries by headcount. For 2013, 
Intertek has increased its GHG emissions reporting to include all 
Intertek operations worldwide. Intertek has also increased the 
boundary of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Scope 1 
emissions now report beyond gas consumption to include fuel 
testing, fuel consumption, and the operation of vehicles 
(known	as	‘the combustion	of	fuels’).	There	is	also	‘Outside	
of Scopes’ in the table on page 35 to fully account for GHG 
emissions created by the combustion of fuels with a biogenic 
content. Scope 1 emissions also cover the operation of facilities 
which includes fugitive emissions, use of fire extinguishers, 
release of refrigerants and coolants and nitrous oxide. The 
Scope 2 emissions boundary now includes heat and steam 
generation and steam import as well as electricity consumption. 
Scope 1 emissions created by flammability testing are omitted 
from reporting this year, as a reasonable way of accurately 
calculating emissions from this source has not yet been 
determined. The levels of GHG emissions have been calculated 
using the guidelines of the GHG protocol and DEFRA and relate 
to the reporting period 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013.
All Intertek employees are fully trained in safety practices and procedures 
and are provided with appropriate protective clothing and equipment.
Strategic report
34 35
Sustainability and CSR continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Employee numbers as at 31 December 2013.
Our employees’ cultural values and relationships within the communities 
in which they live and work is important to them, to our business and to 
our	clients.	Here	are	just	some	examples	of	how	our	people	helped	their	
local communities during 2013.
Australia
Taiwan
Thailand
China
USA
Netherlands
Brazil
Asia
China  
Employees c.8,800
Intertek’s Medical Diagnostic Testing Centre in Shanghai 
provided free blood sugar tests to more than 400 elderly 
people across five communities, enabling early detection 
of diabetes. The incidence rate of diabetes among adults 
in China	is	9.7%,	affecting	nearly	10	million	people.
Hong Kong 
Employees c.1,500
In support of the Red Cross, more than 100 Intertek 
employees gave blood on a donation day at Intertek’s Hong 
Kong	office.	Staff	also	took	part	in	many	community	projects	
throughout the year, including visiting elderly residents in 
care homes, donating document storage facilities for the HK 
Society for the Blind and providing cleaning, toys and food 
for 23 families through the Ronald McDonald House Charity.
Taiwan 
Employees c.700
Over 550 Intertek employees participated in a volunteer 
programme to help conserve the valuable wetland 
environment of the Guandu Nature Park and 50 employees 
took part in the Taipei Marathon, raising over TWD$40,000 
(£8,500) for children’s charities.
Thailand 
Employees c.600
Intertek and its employees supported the Wat Samko 
elementary school in Ang Thong Province by donating 
stationery, library books, used computers and printers 
and providing 12 scholarships for disadvantaged students. 
Employees also raised THB57,095 (£1,140) for the school 
and gave computer skills training to the students.
Australia  
Employees c.770
Through numerous fundraising events, employees donated 
more than AUS$6,500 (£3,500) for national cancer 
charities and the Children’s Medical Research Institute 
and raised AUS$2,300 (£1,240) for those affected by 
Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.
New Zealand 
Employees c.40
Employees volunteered at the Te Rangimarie Hospice in 
New Plymouth, NZ and took part in the Living Legends 
Community	Conservation	Tree	Planting	project.
EMEA
UK 
Employees c.2,300
Intertek	received	the	‘Local	Impact	Award’	from	Business	in	
the Community, a UK business-led charity of which Intertek 
is a member. The charity’s President is HRH The Prince of 
Wales. The Award was in recognition of Intertek’s work in 
the	South	East	community	as	part	of	the	‘Leatherhead	Hub’,	
which enables local businesses in Leatherhead, in the UK, 
to take collaborative action on key social issues.
Netherlands 
Employees c.480 
Intertek’s lab in Geleen welcomed over 1,600 members of 
the	public	through	its	doors	as	part	of	‘Dag	van	de	Chemie’	
(National Chemistry Day). Visitors were shown the 
production process of articles used by consumers every 
day and given information about careers in chemistry and 
the safety procedures in place at local chemical plants. 
Americas
USA 
Employees c.5,200
Employees continued their support of Habitat for 
Humanity’s goal to eliminate housing poverty by taking 
part	in	a	number	of	home-building	projects	throughout	the	
year,	including	‘Women	Build’	and	‘A	Brush	with	Kindness’.
Brazil 
Employees c.730
Intertek sponsored the production of a booklet to support a 
programme in Sao Paulo that educates young people about 
road safety, environmental awareness and the dangers of 
drugs. The booklet was distributed to over 1,000 children 
and used as a teaching aid in schools.
Strategic report
36 37
Our communities
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 8
9 10
1
 Sir David Reid 
Chairman
Appointed to the Board in December 2011 and became 
Chairman in January 2012. Sir David Reid retired as Chairman 
of Tesco PLC in November 2011 after serving in that role since 
April 2004. Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of Tesco PLC 
and had served on the Tesco Board since 1985. In 2012 he was 
appointed a member of the Global Senior Advisory Board of 
the investment bank Jefferies International Limited. Sir David is 
Chairman of the charity Whizz-Kidz. He was formerly the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier Group 
PLC, Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-Executive Director 
at Greenalls Group Plc (now De Vere Group), Legal & General 
Group Plc and Westbury plc. In November 2010 he was 
appointed a member of the Prime Minister’s Business 
Ambassadors Network.
2
 Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Officer 
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Officer in March 
2005 after serving as a Non-Executive Director since November 
2002. Wolfhart Hauser was previously Chief Executive Officer 
and President of TÜV Süddeutschland AG for four years and 
Chief Executive Officer of TÜV Product Services for 10 years. 
Starting his career with various research activities he went on 
to establish and lead a broad range of successful international 
service industry businesses. He has held several non-executive 
board director and chairman roles in a variety of technology 
companies. He was a Non-Executive Director of Logica plc until 
August 2012 and is currently a Non-Executive Director of Reed 
Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
3
 Lloyd Pitchford 
Chief Financial Officer 
Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in April 2010. 
Lloyd Pitchford previously spent 10 years with BG Group plc in 
various operational and corporate finance roles in the UK and 
Middle East including five years as Group Financial Controller.  
He previously worked for Mobil Oil Corporation in various 
financial, commercial and management roles. Lloyd is a Fellow 
of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and 
holds an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
4
 Edward Astle  
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September 
2009. Until July 2013, he was Pro Rector (Enterprise) at Imperial 
College London where he had overseen the university’s 
relationships with industry, and led business development 
opportunities in the UK and internationally. Edward was an 
Executive Director of National Grid plc from 2001 to 2008, 
a Managing Director at the BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 
and an Executive and Regional Director at Cable & Wireless plc 
from 1989 to 1997. Previously he held senior business strategy 
positions in the UK and France. He is a member of the BT 
Equality of Access Board and Vice Chair of the Shannon Trust.
5
 Alan Brown 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April 
2011. He was Chief Executive Officer of Rentokil Initial plc for 
five and a half years until October 2013 during a period of 
considerable transformation for the business. Prior to this, 
Alan spent 25 years at Unilever PLC where he rose through a 
variety of finance roles in the UK and Europe and then general 
management in Taiwan and China. His last four years were as 
CEO of Unilever China. Following this, Alan returned to the UK 
as Chief Financial Officer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC 
taking a leading role in the divestment of the company.
1
4
2
5
3
6
Nomination Committee
Audit & Risk Committee
Remuneration Committee
38 39
Directors’ report – Governance
6
 Christopher Knight   
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 
2006. He was an investment banker for nearly 30 years, for 
much of that time with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank. 
He has extensive corporate finance experience gained during 
his banking career in London, New York and Hong Kong. He is 
Chairman of Brooks Macdonald Group plc, Senior Independent 
Non-Executive	Director	of	Powerflute	Oyj	and	a	Trustee	of	the	
Churches Conservation Trust.
7
 Louise Makin 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 
2012. She is currently Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, a 
growing international specialist healthcare company, a position 
she	has	held	since	2004.	Before	joining	BTG,	Louise	was	at	
Baxter Healthcare from 2000, holding the roles of Vice 
President, Strategy & Business Development Europe, and from 
2001, President of the Biopharmaceuticals division of Baxter 
Healthcare, where she was responsible for Europe, Africa and 
the Middle East. Prior to her time at Baxter, she was Director of 
Global Ceramics at English China Clay, and in her earlier career, 
held a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998. Louise is 
a Trustee of The Outward Bound Trust and was previously a 
Non-Executive Director of Premier Foods plc.
8
 Michael Wareing CMG  
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April 
2011.	He	has	major	international	and	board	level	knowledge.	
He is currently Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
and Audit Committee Chairman at Cobham plc and a 
Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman at 
Wolseley plc. He is the Economic Development Adviser to the 
Government of Afghanistan and was previously the Prime 
Minister’s Special Envoy for reconstruction in Iraq from 2007 
to 2009. He had an extensive global career at KPMG and was 
their International Chief Executive Officer from 2005 to 2009.
9
 Mark Williams
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in 
September 2013. Until February 2013, Dr. Mark Williams 
worked	for	over	33	years	at	Royal	Dutch	Shell	Plc	(‘Shell’),	
including more than 21 years in Shell’s Exploration & Production 
and midstream businesses in the US, serving most recently 
as Downstream Director and a member of the Executive 
Committee of Shell, where he was one of the top three 
operating executives responsible for all strategic, capital, 
and operational matters. Mark has held Board positions on 
non-profit and industry Boards and is currently Chairman 
of Hess Corporation in the US.
10
 Lena Wilson 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 
2012. She is currently Chief Executive Officer and Board 
Member of Scottish Enterprise, Scotland’s national economic 
development agency, and a member of Scotland’s Financial 
Services Advisory Board. Prior to this she was Chief Executive 
Officer of Scottish Development International (Scotland’s 
international trade and investment arm) and Chief Operating 
Officer, Scottish Enterprise. Before that, Lena was a Senior 
Advisor to The World Bank in Washington DC on private sector 
development for developing countries. Lena is a member of the 
University of Strathclyde’s Business School Advisory Board, and 
an Ambassador for the Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice and 
the Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo. She served on the Board 
of the Prince’s Scottish Youth Business Trust for 10 years as well 
as numerous business, arts, culture and sport organisations.
Board of Directors
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 “ Maintaining and promoting the 
highest standards of corporate 
governance remains central  
to my role as Chairman.”
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present Intertek’s Corporate Governance 
Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
At Intertek good corporate governance is essential for the 
operation and management of the business, and we have 
continued to strengthen our corporate governance 
framework during this period. This Report contains further 
detail on how the governance processes support the delivery 
of our strategy and business goals. 
The development and delivery of the Group’s strategy 
continues to be a key focus of the Board, and is included 
on the Board’s annual schedule of business. 
In September 2013, Mark Williams was appointed to the 
Board as an additional Non-Executive Director. Mark brings 
a wealth of experience from his business roles in the oil and 
gas industry. He also brings a new perspective to the Board 
from his business experience in the United States, and adds 
insight into a growing part of our business related to testing 
in the gas, oil and petrochemical industry. I am very pleased 
to say that Mark is already making valuable contributions 
to the Group. 
The Nomination Committee has been very busy this year 
and has continued to review our internal talent pool and 
has focused on senior management succession planning.
Further information on the work of the Nomination 
Committee during the year is set out on page 54.
We have, as part of our annual programme, reviewed and 
strengthened our Core Controls Framework to reflect our 
business needs. It is important for our business to ensure 
that our risk and assurance programme is robust and that 
we have the appropriate processes and governance in place. 
I am committed to ensuring that the Board continues to 
provide strong leadership, and has the necessary skills, 
experience and diversity needed to create success. We 
recognise the benefits of a diverse Board, and support the 
recommendations made by Lord Davies of Abersoch in his 
report	issued	in	2011	on	‘Women	on	Boards’.	The	benefits	
of having a diverse Board, including cultural, gender, skills, 
and regional and industry experience diversity are clear. 
During the year, the Board adopted a Diversity Policy, 
which is available on the Company’s website. 
Maintaining and promoting the highest standards of 
corporate governance remains central to my role as 
Chairman, and I am pleased to endorse the following 
Corporate Governance Report on behalf of the Board.
Sir David Reid
Chairman
 C o nt e nts 
41 Chairman’s introduction
41  Compliance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code
44 Leadership
44 Board of Directors
44 Board composition
44  Role of the Chairman and the  
Chief Executive Officer
44 Non-Executive Directors
44 Senior Independent Director
45 Company Secretary
45  Board meetings
45 Board balance and independence
45 Directors’ conflicts of interest
45 Diversity
46 Effectiveness
46 Board activity during the year
46 Strategy setting
46 Board visit to China
46 Board development
46 Performance evaluation
47 Governance framework
47 Board Committees
48 Operational Committees
49 Report of the Audit & Risk Committee
49  Introduction from the Chairman of the  
Audit & Risk Committee
49 Membership and attendance 
50 Role and activity of the Committee
50 Audit & Risk Committee agenda items 2013
50 External Audit
50 Financial statements and financial issues
51 Effectiveness of external audit
51 Non-audit work
51 Committee effectiveness
51 Internal control and risk management
52 Audit and Risk Strategy
52 Training
52 Confidential hotlines
52 Internal controls and reporting
53 Internal Audit
53 Quality assurance audits
53 Priorities for 2014
53 Going concern
54 Report of the Nomination Committee
54  Membership and attendance of the 
Nomination Committee
54 The role of the Committee
54 The activity of the Committee
55  Report of the Remuneration Committee
55  Membership and attendance of the 
Remuneration Committee
55 The role of the Committee
55 The activity of the Committee
55 Relationship with shareholders 
56 Remuneration report 
57 Remuneration policy report
61 Annual Report on Remuneration
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The Board is required to report on the operations of the 
Company by reference to t  he UK Corporate Governance Codes 
published in May 2010 and September 2012 (together the 
‘Code’),	which	sets	out	standards	of	good	practice	in	relation	to	
board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability 
and relations with shareholders. A copy of the Code is available 
from the UK Financial Reporting Council at www.frc.org.uk
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company 
applied all of the principles, and complied with each of the 
provisions, set out in sections A to E of the Code. Overleaf is an 
overview of the Company’s compliance with the Code, which 
should	be	read	in	conjunction	with	the	adjoining	Corporate	
Governance Report.
A fuller explanation of our compliance with the Code is set 
out on the Company’s website.
Directors’ report – Governance
40 41
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance
40
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
A brief summary of our compliance with the Code is set out below. 
  
A. Leadership A.1 The Board’s role The Board meets formally on a regular basis in order to review 
the	Company’s	performance	and	strategy	against	set	objectives.	
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board as 
further described on page 44. 
A.2  A clear division of 
responsibilities 
The Company has both a Chairman, who is responsible for the 
leadership and effectiveness of the Board, and a Chief Executive 
Officer, who is responsible for leading the day-to-day 
management of the Company within the strategy set by 
the Board. 
A.3 Role of the Chairman The Chairman sets the agendas and timetables for Board 
meetings and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during 
the meetings. 
A.4  Role of the  
Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment 
in the boardroom and actively invites the Non-Executive 
Directors’ views. They are responsible for determining the levels 
of remuneration of Executive Directors and have a prime role 
in appointing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
B. Effectiveness B.1 Board composition The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the 
Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate 
mix of skills, experiences, gender and other qualities.
B.2 Board appointments The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the 
Nomination Committee. Further details of the appointment 
undertaken during the year and succession planning can be 
found on page 54. 
B.3 Time commitments The time commitments of Non-Executive Directors are defined 
on appointment and regularly evaluated. In practice, the time 
commitments go beyond those set out in the Letters of 
Appointment. The Board gives consideration to new 
directorships which may impact on existing time commitments.
B.4  T r a in in g a n d 
development 
A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new 
Directors. The Chairman reviews each of the Non-Executive 
Directors’ training needs, and tailored programmes are in place 
to meet these needs. 
B.5  Provision of information 
and support
The	Chairman,	in	conjunction	with	the	Company	Secretary,	ensures	
that all Board members receive accurate and timely information. 
B.6  Board and Committee 
performance evaluation 
An internally facilitated evaluation was undertaken during 2013 
and is described on pages 46 and 47. The Board undertakes an 
independent third party facilitated evaluation at least every three 
years and the last external evaluation was conducted during 2012. 
B.7  Re-election of Directors All	Directors	were	subject	to	shareholder	re-election	or	election	
at	the	2013	Annual	General	Meeting	(‘AGM’),	as	will	be	the	case	
at the 2014 AGM. 
C .  A cco u n t a b ilit y C.1  Financial and business 
reporting 
The Annual Report and Accounts sets out details of the 
performance of the Company, its financial results, the business 
model and strategy, and the risks and uncertainties relating to 
the Company’s future prospects. 
C.2  Risk management and 
internal control systems
The Board sets the Company’s risk appetite and annually 
reviews the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management 
and internal control systems. The activities of the Audit & Risk 
Committee, which assists the Board with its responsibilities 
in relation to risk setting and management, are set out on 
page 49. 
C.3  Role and responsibilities  
of the Audit & Risk 
Committee
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the 
Audit & Risk Committee, which has oversight of the risk 
management framework on behalf of the Board. The Chairman 
of the Committee provides regular reports to the Board. 
D .  R e m u n er a ti on D.1  Levels and elements 
of remuneration
The levels of remuneration of Directors, and how the Company 
promotes an alignment of interests between Directors and 
shareholders by linking reward to performance, are explained 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69. 
D.2  Development of 
remuneration policy 
and packages
The activities of the Remuneration Committee and the way 
in which it sets executive remuneration are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69. 
E.  Relations with 
shareholders
E.1  S h a r eh o l d e r eng ag e m en t 
and dialogue
The Board seeks to engage actively with both institutional and 
retail shareholders. Details of the shareholder engagement 
programme are set out on page 55. 
E.2  C on st r u c ti v e u se 
of the Annual 
General Meeting
The Board values the AGM as an important opportunity to 
engage with shareholders. Attendees at the AGM have the 
opportunity to put questions to the Board and to speak to 
individual Directors following the formal business of the meeting. 
42 43
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that correct 
Board and governance procedures are followed, and advises 
the Board on all corporate governance related matters. The 
Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its 
principal Committees, and his advice and services are available 
to all Directors.
Board meetings 
Board meetings are scheduled in advance, and during 2013 the 
Board met seven times. Directors are expected to attend all 
Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings. A schedule 
of Directors’ attendance at Board meetings during the year is 
set out below. Details of the Directors’ Committee attendance 
are set out in their separate reports.
Eligible 
to attend Attendance
Sir David Reid 
Chairman
7 7
Wolfhart Hauser 
Chief Executive Officer
7 7
Lloyd Pitchford 
Chief Financial Officer
7 7
Edward Astle 
Independent Non-Executive Director
7 7
Alan Brown  
Independent Non-Executive Director
7 7
Christopher Knight 
Independent Non-Executive Director
7 7
Louise Makin 
Independent Non-Executive Director
7 7
Michael Wareing 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
7 6
1
Mark Williams  
(appointed 1 September 2013) 
Independent Non-Executive Director
3 3
Lena Wilson 
Independent Non-Executive Director
7 7
1.
  Michael Wareing was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
Board balance and independence
The Board comprises an appropriate balance of Executive 
Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Sir David Reid, the Chairman, met the independence criteria 
upon appointment to the Board, and as prescribed by the Code. 
There is a process in place for the appointment of new 
Directors, and during the year, Mark Williams was appointed as 
an additional Non-Executive Director. Further details on this are 
included within the Nomination Committee report on page 54.
The Board has determined that each Non-Executive Director 
is independent in accordance with the Code criteria. The 
length of service of each of the Non-Executive Directors is 
set out below:
Length of service of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors (years)
0.3
2.5
Mark Williams
Michael Wareing
1.5 Lena Wilson
2.0 Sir David Reid
7.5 Christopher Knight
1.5 Louise Makin
2.5 Alan Brown
4.0 Edward Astle
Directors’ conflicts of interests
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 
to avoid conflicts of interests and to disclose any outside 
appointments. The Board has a formal system to deal with 
conflicts of Directors’ interests. Directors are requested to 
complete a questionnaire each year to ensure that any potential 
conflicts are disclosed and to identify any new potential conflicts 
of interests. The Directors are advised of the process for dealing 
with conflicts of interests upon appointment and they are 
reminded of this obligation at subsequent Board meetings.
Any authorised decisions are reviewed on an annual basis or 
when a new Director is appointed, or if a new potential conflict 
arises. The conflicts register is maintained by the Company 
Secretary, and is reviewed annually by the Board. Directors 
abstain from voting when there is a vote to approve their own 
reported conflicts. In 2013 this process operated effectively. 
Diversity
The Board has endorsed the recommendations made by 
Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report issued in 2011 on 
“Women on Boards”; recognises the benefits of having a 
diverse Board; and is committed to achieving a Board which 
includes and makes the best use of differences in culture, 
gender, skills, background, regional and industry experience, 
as well as other qualities. All of these factors are considered 
by the Nomination Committee in determining the composition 
of the Board. The Company has already made significant 
progress towards achieving Lord Davies’ recommendations.
The Board’s Diversity Policy can be found on the 
Company’s website.
Leadership
Board of Directors
The Board is committed to good corporate governance and is 
aware of its responsibility to be accountable to shareholders, 
and to demonstrate that the Company is properly governed 
and delivers its strategy. There is a schedule of matters that are 
specifically reserved for the Board, which includes consideration 
and approval of:
•	 the Company’s overall strategy, medium-term plans and 
annual budgets;
•	 financial statements;
•	 dividend policy, recommendation of any final dividend 
and declaration of interim dividends;
•	 major	acquisitions;
•	 major	changes	to	the	Group’s	capital	structure;
•	 the Group’s corporate governance arrangements;
•	 the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company 
Secretary; and
•	 major	changes	to	accounting	policies	or	practices.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities through an 
Authorities Matrix, which is regularly reviewed and was updated 
during 2013 to keep pace with dynamic business needs.
The overall powers of Directors are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association, which are available on the Company’s 
website, and may be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. The Board may exercise all powers conferred on 
it by the Articles, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and other applicable legislation.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, 
strategic direction and performance of the Group. There is 
a clear division of responsibility between the running of 
the Board and the executive responsibility for running the 
Company’s business. The Board also monitors risks, financial 
performance and internal controls. The materials for Board 
meetings are supplied in a timely manner and in a quality 
way that helps the Board discharge its duties.
Board composition
The Board consists of 10 Directors (the Chairman, seven 
independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive 
Directors). The Company Secretary is available to advise 
the Chairman and the Board on all governance matters.  
All Directors also have access to independent advice at the 
Company’s expense. Biographical details of individual Directors, 
including their Committee memberships, are set out on 
pages 38 and 39. 
Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors
 Chairman  
 Executive Directors 
 Non-Executive Directors
2
1
7
Role of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, and these 
responsibilities have been formalised in writing. The Chairman, 
Sir David Reid, is responsible for the leadership and governance 
of the Board. He is also responsible for creating the conditions 
for overall Board and individual Director effectiveness.  
The	Chairman	also	meets	with	major	shareholders	on	a	regular	
basis, and is available to all shareholders at the Company’s 
AGM. On his appointment, the Chairman was deemed 
independent by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer, Wolfhart Hauser, is responsible 
for the day-to-day operation of the business, in line with the 
strategy	and	commercial	objectives	agreed	by	the	Board.	He	is	
also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of 
the Company with the highest standards of ethics, integrity and 
corporate governance. The Chief Executive Officer leads the 
Executive Management Team, and details of this team, which 
includes the Chief Financial Officer, are set out on pages 18 
and 19.
Non-Executive Directors
The Company’s Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, 
independent and external insight to the Board’s proceedings, 
and bring with them a wealth of experience and knowledge 
from other business sectors and industries. The Letters of 
Appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, as well as the 
service agreements of Executive Directors, are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office and at the AGM.
Senior Independent Director
The Board has appointed Michael Wareing as the Company’s 
Senior Independent Director. In addition to his responsibilities 
as a Non-Executive Director, he is responsible for leading the 
Directors’ review of the Chairman’s performance, and holding 
discussions with the other Non-Executive Directors and external 
auditors without management present. In addition, the Senior 
Independent	Director	is	available	to	major	shareholders	who	
feel that they are unable to raise issues through the usual 
channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or the 
Chief Financial Officer.
44 45
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The areas considered during the evaluation were:
•	 Board composition and diversity;
•	 Board performance;
•	 Information and Board agendas;
•	 Board expertise;
•	 Risk management oversight; and
•	 Senior management succession planning.
The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board 
at its meeting in January 2014. No significant issues were 
highlighted, and the review clearly indicated that the Board 
continues to work efficiently and effectively, and that the 
contribution and commitment of each Director, and their 
interaction with each other, is well developed. As a result 
of the evaluation, the Board agreed to focus more time on:
•	 people capability, talent mapping and succession planning 
at future Board meetings to ensure that the Group’s talent 
pool continues to match the requirements and aspirations 
of the Group;
•	 operational transformation and productivity across all  
business lines;
•	 customer relations and development including customer 
satisfaction with operational delivery; and
•	 health	&	safety	policies,	frameworks	and	reporting.
As part of the evaluation process, the Chief Executive Officer 
carried out a performance review of the Chief Financial Officer. 
In addition, the Directors, led by the Senior Independent 
Director, conducted a performance review of the Chairman. 
The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of 
the Directors continues to be effective and recommends  
that shareholders should be supportive of their election or 
re-election to the Board. The Board will continue to review 
its procedures, effectiveness and development during the year 
ahead, and the Chairman will use the output of the most recent 
Board evaluation in his individual meetings with Directors 
during the year.
In 2012, the performance evaluation of the Board and its 
Committees was facilitated by Consilium, an independent 
external third party firm. The Board plans to conduct a further 
externally facilitated evaluation in 2015. 
Governance Framework
The Group’s governance and decision-making framework is set 
out below. The responsibilities, activities and membership of 
each of the Board’s principal Committees are set out within 
the Committee reports on pages 49 to 69.
Intertek Group plc Shareholders
Intertek Board of Directors
Audit & Risk
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Investment
Committee
Executive
Management
Team
Risk Control
and Assurance
Committee
Divisional & Country
Management
Support Functions
Risks Controls
 Board Committees
 Operational Committees 
Board Committees
The Board operates the following three principal Committees 
to oversee the workings of the Group:
•	 Audit & Risk Committee;
•	 Nomination Committee; and
•	 Remuneration Committee.
Information relating to the composition and workings of 
each of these Committees is set out within the following 
Committee reports.
Board diversity by gender
 Chairman (male) 
 Non-Executive Directors (male)
 Non-Executive Directors (female)
 Executive Directors (male)
1
5
2
2
Effectiveness
Board activity during the year 
During the year, in addition to its regular business, the Board 
considered the following matters:
•	 Group strategy;
•	 2014 annual business budget;
•	 full year results and half year results, Annual Report 
and related announcements;
•	 acquisitions;
•	 key governance matters;
•	 risk and internal controls;
•	 people matters;
•	 significant capital expenditure and material contracts;
•	 dividend policy; and 
•	 tax and treasury policies.
The Board also received regular updates in respect of business 
performance, market activity, legal matters, risk, health & 
safety, analysts’ forecasts and other business information. 
Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to visit key 
sites and operations. During the year, a number of site visits 
were organised for Non-Executive Directors, including key 
operational sites in China. 
Strategy setting
During the year, the Board devoted additional time to review 
the business plans and the development of the Company’s 
strategic direction. As part of this process, the senior 
management team and the Board held a number of off-site 
meetings to focus on strategic opportunities and conducted 
reviews on key areas of business.
Board visit to China
In October the Board visited 
the Intertek business in China, 
which provided an excellent 
opportunity for the Directors 
to meet local management 
and to visit a number of key 
facilities. There was also time 
for interaction between the 
Board and the management in 
an informal setting. The local 
management team presented 
about their business in China, 
the local market and the 
drivers of the local operations 
and businesses. 
Board development 
All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction 
programme tailored to meet their needs. The induction 
programme is managed by the Chairman and the Company 
Secretary. As part of the programme, briefings are provided 
from senior management including updates on key business 
matters, internal audit activities, Group risks, and management 
processes and procedures. On-going development is provided 
to all Directors. In particular the Board was briefed on the 
following key areas during 2013:
•	 company law, corporate governance, changes to financial 
reporting, remuneration reporting and other key 
developments; 
•	 health & safety; and
•	 financial reporting processes.
All Directors have access to advice and information from the 
Company Secretary. In addition, all Directors are entitled to 
request and obtain independent legal advice to assist in the 
fulfilment of their duties at the expense of the Company. 
The Company has also granted an indemnity to the extent 
permitted by law to each of the Directors and to the Company 
Secretary, and holds an insurance policy for Directors’ and 
Officers’ liability insurance to the extent permitted by law. 
Performance evaluation
The Board conducts a formal review of its performance each 
year. During the year under review, and with support of the 
Company Secretary, the Board evaluated its effectiveness using 
an internally facilitated questionnaire and a series of one-to-one 
interviews between each Director and the Chairman. Responses 
to the questionnaire were collated and the output was used 
by the Chairman in his individual meetings with Directors. 
46 47
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit & Risk Committee
“ The Committee is a vital component  
of the Group’s overall Governance  
and control structure. ”
Operational Committees
Executive Management Team
The Executive Management Team comprises the Executive 
Directors, the senior Vice-Presidents and other senior 
management. It meets regularly to discuss and decide business 
and operational issues. Biographical details of the Executive 
Management Team are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Investment Committee
A key component of the Group’s Governance Framework is the 
Investment Committee, which is regulated by its own Terms 
of Reference. The Investment Committee monitors capital 
expenditure and investments as defined in the Authorities 
Matrix. In particular, the Committee:
•	 reviews all expenditure and contracts;
•	 conducts post investment appraisals;
•	 approves tenders and bids; and
•	 reviews the Authorities Matrix and any changes.
During 2013, the Investment Committee established 
Regional Investment Committees to review and approve 
proposals for their regions in accordance with their respective 
Terms of Reference. The following table shows the 
Investment Committee Structure. The matters decided at 
Regional Investment Committee meetings are recorded,  
and are made available to the Group Investment Committee.
Australasia,
SE Asia
and Africa
Europe
Middle East
and North Africa
China
India
Sub-continent
Latin America North East Asia
Investment Committee
Regional Investment Committees
Risk Control and Assurance Committee (‘RCA’)
This Committee has the remit of overseeing the development 
of the internal control framework. Its work covers:
•	 reviewing risk registers and risk management procedures; 
•	 monitoring issues; and 
•	 providing a conduit of information to senior management.
In 2013, the Committee comprised the Chief Financial Officer, 
Company Secretary, Chief Information Officer, Executive Vice 
President Human Resources, Group Financial Controller, Head 
of Legal and Head of Internal Audit. The Committee meets on 
a quarterly basis.
Each operating division and support function is responsible for 
the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable 
to that area of business, together with the design and 
operation of suitable internal controls. These risks are assessed 
on a continual basis and are reviewed by the RCA. The risks 
may be associated with a variety of internal or external factors 
including control breakdowns, disruption of information 
systems, litigation, loss of key facilities, retention of key staff, 
competition, natural catastrophes and regulatory requirements. 
Operation of the controls is designed to minimise the 
occurrence of risk or its consequences. 
Membership and attendance
Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee 
during the year was as follows:
Eligible
 to attend Attendance
Michael Wareing (Committee Chairman) 5 4
1
Edward Astle 5 5
Christopher Knight 5 5
Lena Wilson (appointed to the Committee 
on 1 September 2013) 2 2
1.
  Michael Wareing was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
Throughout 2013, the composition of the Committee was 
in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’).	Michael	Wareing,	Edward	Astle	and	Christopher	Knight	
all have recent and relevant financial experience, as detailed  
in their biographies on pages 38 and 39. Lena Wilson was 
appointed to the Committee from 1 September 2013.  
All of the Committee members are considered to be 
independent in accordance with the Code criteria.
New Committee members receive an appropriate induction, 
consisting of the Company’s financial and operational risks. 
New Committee members also have access to senior 
operational staff and the Group’s internal and external auditors.
The business of the Committee is linked to the Group’s financial 
calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit. 
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the 
Head of Legal, the Head of Internal Audit and the external 
auditor attended all meetings.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on 
the Company’s website.
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present the report for the Committee and 
to have welcomed Lena Wilson to the Committee during 
the year. Lena brings with her a wealth of experience and 
she	has	already	made	valuable	contributions	since	joining	
the Committee. 
The Committee’s main duty is to provide governance and 
assurance oversight on internal controls, management of 
risk, review of the Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year 
Financial Statements and to monitor the effectiveness of  
the external and internal audit process. 
Our	meetings	are	also	joined	by	key	people	within	the	
business, who are not formal Committee members. 
During the year they have included the Chairman of the 
Group, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Legal, 
the Head of Internal Audit and the audit partner from 
KPMG Audit Plc, the Company’s auditors.
The following information provides detail about the business 
covered and the operation of the Committee. 
I will be available at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting to answer any questions about the Committee 
and its activity.
Michael Wareing
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee 
48 49
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Effectiveness of external audit
The Company has used KPMG as its auditors since it was listed 
in 1996. During the year, and at the request of the Committee, 
KPMG provided an update on their work and re-submitted 
a formal request for re-appointment. In order to assess the 
effectiveness of the audit, the Committee considered the 
feedback provided through an internal questionnaire that had 
been circulated by the Company to those within Intertek who 
were involved in the audit process. The questions asked about 
resources, the audit timetable and other information deemed 
necessary to make an assessment. 
The Committee makes a recommendation, through the Board, 
to shareholders to consider at the Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’),	on	the	appointment,	re-appointment	or	removal	 
of the external auditors. Following the internal review, and 
having reviewed the performance of the external auditor,  
the Committee has recommended to the Board a resolution  
to re-appoint KPMG as the external auditor. The Board has 
accepted the recommendation and agreed that the resolution 
be included in the Notice of the 2014 AGM.
KPMG has been the Company’s external auditor since its 
demerger from Inchcape in 1996 (17 years). Whilst the Group 
has not formally tendered the audit since then, the Committee 
undertakes	an	annual	review	of	the	independence,	objectivity	
and effectiveness of the audit firm in considering whether to 
recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors at the 
AGM. The Committee has also been monitoring and, through 
its Chairman, contributing to the debate on external audit 
tendering. The Committee has noted the changes to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the FRC in 
September 2012 and, in particular, the requirement contained 
in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit 
contract out to tender at least every ten years. The new Code 
became effective for the Company on 15 September 2013. 
The Committee has also considered the subsequent proposals 
of both the UK Competition Commission and the European 
Commission. The Committee will continue to monitor 
developments in this area. Stephen Wardell was appointed 
as Group Audit Partner in 2011, and under the requirement 
to rotate this position every 5 years, is due to rotate off the 
Company’s audit after completing the 31 December 2016 
financial year end audit engagement.
Subject	to	the	continued	satisfactory	performance	of	KPMG	
and the outcome of the final regulatory rules, it is our current 
intention to tender the external audit prior to 31 December 
2017 financial year end.
Non-audit work
It is a key requirement that the external auditors remain 
independent to avoid being compromised when reporting.  
In particular, the Company has a list of services that the 
auditors may not provide. The Committee reviews the 
framework of restrictions on audit services and makes sure  
that it reflects best practice and any current legislation. 
The award of any non-audit work requires pre-clearance  
by the Committee and can only be for specified matters.  
The Committee is provided with reports of all non-audit work  
and a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred. A summary  
of the fees paid for non-audit work is set out in the note to 
the Financial Statements on page 86 – see the table below.
Auditor fee breakdown
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
Total audit fee 2.1 2.0 
Total non-audit fee 0.7 0.9 
%	of	non-audit	to	total 33% 45%
Committee effectiveness
During the year, the Committee conducted an internally 
facilitated review of its effectiveness. The results of the review 
were considered and it was agreed that the Committee 
continued to operate effectively, and that it provided strong 
support for the Board. 
In addition, and as part of the Committee’s role in 
understanding how the Group operates, the Committee 
received reports around financial controls and other matters 
from the Chief Financial Officers in China and the UK, and the 
Head of the Finance Transformation programme regarding the 
work of the Shared Service Centre. 
Internal control and risk management
During 2013, following the restructuring of Intertek’s 
management teams across relevant business lines and country 
management teams, the organisation of the Legal, Risk 
Management and Compliance Teams was restructured along 
the same lines.
The risk register process follows the global organisation, and 
risk registers are produced for each business line and then 
consolidated at Group level. The time commitment and breadth 
of data gathering in completing the risk registers have been 
expanded. This has helped to validate the previous process and 
no significant changes were made to the Group Risk Register.
We have implemented a verification programme to check that 
all the statements made in the Annual Report and Accounts  
are accurate and the verification files for this process have been 
prepared and presented to the Committee. Intertek’s Manual 
of Accounting Policies and Procedures is issued to all finance 
staff and gives instructions and guidance on all aspects 
of accounting and reporting that apply to the Group. 
Role and activity of the Committee 
The Committee is authorised by the Board to review the 
effectiveness of the Company’s financial reporting and internal 
controls together with procedures for the identification, 
assessment and reporting of key risks. A summary of the 
key matters considered by the Committee during 2013 is set 
out below:
Audit & Risk Committee  
agenda items 2013 Feb May Jul Sep Nov
Group risk register  ●  ●
Risk management strategy    ●
Compliance and operational risk ● ● ● ● 
Corporate governance controls sign-off ●   
Fair, balanced and understandable assurance  ●   
Group-wide finance transformation    ●
Full year Report  
 Management highlights ●
 KPMG highlights ●
 Annual Report 2012 ●
 Annual results announcement ●
 Letter of representation to the auditors ●
  Non-audit fees review of policy,  
spend and budget ●
 Going concern assessment ●
Half year Results
 Management highlights ●
 KPMG review report ●
 Letter of representation to the auditors ●
 Update on principal risks & uncertainties ●
 Draft half year results ●
 Update on non-audit fees ●
Internal audit
 2014 audit plan    ●
 Review of audit charter    ●
 Internal audit report ● ● ● ● 
 Internal audit effectiveness ●   
KPMG Audit matters
 Audit fee proposal year end 31/12/2013  ●  
 Audit strategy & plan year end 31/12/2013 ●  
 KPMG effectiveness ●
 Engagement letter  ●  
  External audit – update on strategy 
and new audit pro forma
●
Other matters
 IT security & cyber-risk ●
 Key claims report ● ● ●
 Key litigation level ●
 Overview of internal control environment ●    
 Operational risk review – electrical   ● 
  Presentation on China   ● 
External audit
The Committee monitors the relationship with the external 
auditors, including any non-audit services. It also seeks to 
ensure	that	there	is	continued	independence	and	objectivity	of	
the external auditor. The Committee discusses any fees paid to 
KPMG	Audit	Plc	(‘KPMG’)	for	non-audit	work	and	the	reasons	
why they were appointed for such work. During the year, 
KPMG met with the members of the Committee without any 
Executive Directors being present.
Financial statements and financial issues
In preparation for each year end, the Committee reviews the 
significant	accounting	policies,	estimates	and	judgements	
to be applied in the financial statements, and discusses their 
application with management. The external auditor also 
considers the appropriateness of these assessments as part 
of the audit. 
In accordance with the Code, the external auditor prepares 
a report for the Committee on both the half year and full year 
results, which summarises the approach to key risks in the 
external audit and highlights any issues arising out of their work 
on those risks, or any other work undertaken on the audit. 
The main issues reviewed in the year ended 31 December 2013 
were as follows:
•	 the Committee reviewed and challenged the provisions  
held with respect to claims, ensuring the provisions were 
appropriate. Although there are very few significant legal 
claims, the provisions for legal risks are reviewed to ensure 
that they reflect any changes arising in respect of the claims 
due	to	the	judgmental	nature	of	the	provisioning	process;	and
•	 the Committee reviewed the calculation of the effective tax 
rate for the year, including the impact of deferred tax 
balances and the valuation of current tax liabilities, ensuring 
the rate was appropriate.
During the year, the Committee also considered the 
following issues:
•	 the presentation of the Group’s restructuring programme 
in 2013, ensuring that the costs had been recorded 
appropriately; and
•	 the classification of Separately Disclosed Items to ensure the 
adjusted	operating	profit	provides	a	clear	and	consistent	view	
of the underlying performance of the Group.
In	all	cases	the	Committee	was	satisfied	that	the	judgements	
made by management were reasonable, and that appropriate 
disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
50 51
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Internal Audit
As part of its annual programme, the Committee reviewed  
the Group internal audit function and considered findings  
from Internal Audit as part of its programme of reviews. 
Reports from the internal audit function to the Committee 
included reference to the Group risk management systems, 
findings from reviews in particular countries and the annual 
plan of Internal Audit. The annual plan of action for Internal 
Audit is set by the Committee. In addition, management 
provided presentations on their risk mitigations approach.
Quality assurance audits
The Company carries out quality assurance audits in its business 
lines and divisions, and the findings are reported to divisional 
management. Each business line has at least one compliance 
officer who undertakes investigations of issues that arise either 
from quality assurance audits or from other sources, such as 
routine compliance questions.
As part of our quality assurance and assessments, internal 
quality audits are undertaken. Reports of significant findings 
are presented to the Committee which monitors and reviews 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function. The Internal 
Audit department was awarded ISO 9001 accreditation in 2003 
which was successfully renewed for a further three years in 
2009 and more recently in 2012. An external accreditation 
body conducts surveillance audits of the Internal Audit 
department every year, and conducts a more detailed review 
every three years. 
Priorities for 2014
The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months  
are as follows:
•	 continue to support the efforts of the external auditor and 
the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions with 
respect to the ongoing development of the Group’s total 
assurance and risk management framework;
•	 prepare for any relevant changes in the corporate governance 
arena, in particular the tendering of the external audit; and
•	 continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors 
on the Group and its financial position.
Going concern
After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Group’s financial statements.
Any material breaches of the Group’s systems of internal and 
risk management controls that are identified by the Group’s 
control review procedures are reported to the Committee  
and corrective action is taken.
The Audit & Risk Committee endeavours to ensure that the 
Group has in place the most appropriate and effective controls, 
checks, systems, and risk management techniques so as to be 
in line with best practice. The control environment within the 
Group is further strengthened by two internal Committees.
The	Risk	Control	and	Assurance	Committee	(‘RCA’)	has	the	
remit of overseeing the development of the internal control 
framework, reviewing risk registers and risk management 
procedures, monitoring issues, and providing a conduit of 
information to senior management.
During the year, the RCA reviewed:
•	 the Company’s health & safety programme; 
•	 th e r i s k m a n ag em en t s tr a t   e g y ;
•	 whistle-blowing mechanisms;
•	 key policies;
•	 data security, protection and new policies on Information, 
Security and Global Data Protection;
•	 the Core Controls Framework;
•	 verification of sign-offs;
•	 divisional input into the Group Risk Registers; and
•	 the Code of Ethics.
In	addition,	it	created	a	sub	Committee	to	cover	the	subjects	
of quality, health & safety and the environment. Details of the 
membership of the RCA are on page 48.
An	Investment	Committee	(‘IC’)	is	in	place	with	the	remit	of	
reviewing and approving material expenditure and other key 
actions throughout the business within certain limits as outlined 
in the Board Approval Matrix. Further information on the 
membership and remit of the IC is on page 48.
Audit and Risk Strategy
The Audit and Risk Strategy was presented to the Committee 
during the year. This was then presented to the Board for 
discussion and approval. The strategy has focused on ensuring 
that the programme is annually strengthened and enhanced 
to reflect the size and global reach of the Intertek Group.
Training
The Group has a programme of training and on-line courses for 
compliance matters, covering topics such as health & safety, 
anti-bribery, and integrity. The Compliance Code and the 
Code of Ethics are available on the Group’s website. The Group 
has a zero-tolerance policy to all bribery. Every employee is 
required to sign a zero-tolerance document confirming their 
understanding that any breaches of the Group’s Code of Ethics 
will result in disciplinary action that may include summary 
dismissal. Each year as part of the appraisal process every 
employee is asked to confirm their understanding of and 
adherence to the Code of Ethics. Looking forward, we are in 
the process of reviewing our Code of Ethics to reinforce the 
Intertek Compliance principles in respect of integrity, conflicts 
of interest, confidentiality, anti-bribery and fair marketing. 
We are also looking to strengthen our approach to protecting 
our environment. 
Confidential hotlines
The Group runs a system of confidential telephone hotlines 
for which there is a programme in place to streamline to one 
provider. These confidential hotlines, along with email and web 
addresses, enable staff or third parties to report anonymously 
any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices. This 
underpins the ethics programme and also helps the business 
protect itself against any unethical behaviour. All reports are 
investigated thoroughly with action taken as appropriate. 
Reports of significant matters raised on the hotlines are also 
provided to the Committee, if appropriate. Detailed statistics 
about such issues are provided to each meeting of the 
Committee. Reports are made of resolutions for all matters 
together with information about any employees who have 
left the Group due to wrong-doing. 
Internal controls and reporting
In order to provide assurance that controls and policies are 
being followed, a process of self-assessment and hierarchical 
reporting has been established which provides a documented 
trail of accountability. These procedures are applied across 
Group operations and provide for continuing assurances to be 
given at increasingly higher levels of management and finally, 
to the Board. This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which 
also provides assurance as to the operation and validity of the 
system of internal control and risk management. Planned 
corrective actions are monitored for timely completion.
52 53
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Membership and attendance of the  
Remuneration Committee
Membership and attendance at meetings  
during the year was as follows:
Eligible 
to attend Attendance
Christopher Knight (Committee Chairman) 9 9
Alan Brown 9 9
Louise Makin 9 9
The role of the Committee
The main purpose of the Committee is to determine the 
Company’s policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the Executive Directors and Senior Directors. 
The activity of the Committee
During the year the Committee met nine times to consider the 
remuneration policy and reward strategy. The report of the 
Remuneration Committee can be found on page 56.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are 
available on the Company’s website. 
Relationship with shareholders
Shareholder engagement
The views and opinions of our shareholders are important 
to the Company and there is an ongoing shareholder 
engagement	programme	for	major	shareholders.	The	Chairman	
met with five institutions during the year, and eight other 
institutions were invited to meet with the Chairman as part of 
the engagement programme. The eight institutions confirmed 
that a meeting was not required on this occasion. In addition, 
the	Company	consulted	with	its	major	shareholders	on	the	
proposed new remuneration policy. 
The engagement programme is run by the Head of Investor 
Relations, and this includes road-shows, presentations and 
briefings. Feedback from investors is provided to the Board by 
our Brokers and the Head of Investor Relations. The Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet 
with shareholders.
The other Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet 
with institutional shareholders to discuss any matters relating to 
the Company. The Company’s website has an investors section 
which includes a wealth of information that may be of interest 
to our shareholders and investors.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 16 May 2014 in 
the Park Room at the Westbury Hotel, Bond Street, Mayfair, 
London W1S 2YF. There will be an opportunity for shareholders 
to ask questions of the Chairman and the other Directors, 
including the Chairmen of the Audit & Risk Committee, the 
Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee. 
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is provided to 
shareholders by e-communications or by post.
The Notice is available on the Company’s website. 
Remuneration Committee
Membership and attendance of the  
Nomination Committee
Membership and attendance at meetings 
during the year was as follows:
Eligible 
to attend Attendance
Sir David Reid (Committee Chairman) 5 5
Edward Astle 5 5
Christopher Knight 5 5
Michael Wareing 5 5
The role of the Committee
The primary role of the Committee is to ensure that there is an 
appropriate procedure for the appointment of new Directors to 
the Board. The Committee also considers senior management 
succession planning and reviews the balance and composition 
of the Board. 
The Committee maintains oversight of the size, structure, 
balance of skills, knowledge and diversity, including gender 
diversity of the Board when considering suitable candidates. 
Other functions include understanding the role and leadership 
needs that are required by the business, and to review talent 
to ensure that the Company maintains the ability to be able to 
compete and win further market share. The terms of reference 
of the Committee are reviewed on a regular basis and have 
been approved by the Board.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are 
available on the Company’s website.
The activity of the Committee
During the year, the Committee conducted a search for an 
additional member of the Board. The Committee used an 
external search consultant to identify suitable candidates for 
a new Non-Executive Director. The shortlisted candidates 
were then considered by the Committee based on industry 
knowledge and experience, and in line with the existing Board 
composition. The Committee recommended the appointment 
of Mark Williams to the Board.
Following the appointment of Mark Williams as a Non-
Executive Director, the Committee believes that the current 
composition represents a strong, well-balanced and diverse 
Board, with the necessary skills and experience to manage 
and develop the Company, and recommends that each of 
the Directors be elected or re-elected at the forthcoming 
Annual	General	Meeting	(‘AGM’).
The Committee has also spent time considering senior 
management succession planning during the year.
As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the AGM 
to answer questions about the work of the Committee during 
the year.
Sir David Reid
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee
“ The Committee understands 
the importance of a strong, 
well-balanced and diverse Board. ”
54 55
Directors’ report – Governance
Corporate governance continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 “ During the year the Committee  
gave detailed consideration to the 
structure of our remuneration plans. ”
Dear Shareholder,
During	2013,	the	Remuneration	Committee	(the	‘Committee’)	
has continued to ensure that our remuneration arrangements 
for senior executives are aligned with and support our goals, 
and that the resulting rewards are appropriate for a business 
of our scale and complexity, and fair in the context of our 
performance and the external environment.
Our financial results in 2013, whilst broadly in line with our 
competitors, did not reach the level we set ourselves. This is 
a reflection of the global economic environment in which 
recovery is firmer in some regions and sectors than others. 
Payment under our annual incentives reflects 
this performance.
Taking a longer term perspective, however, the Group  
has continued to make strong progress against its strategic 
agenda and in building secure foundations for future 
growth. This is reflected in our share price and therefore  
our	long-term	incentive	plans	(‘LTIPs’)	which	are	driven	by	
relative shareholder returns. Indeed, readers of this report 
will	note	that	the	large	majority	of	executive	remuneration	
over recent years is directly attributable to the significant 
growth in shareholder wealth which has been achieved 
under the leadership of the current executive team.
During the course of the year, the Committee gave 
detailed consideration to the structure of our executive 
remuneration plans. These have been in place for some  
years and we regard them as having been successful  
in retaining and motivating the executives who have 
delivered a strong record of growth. Following its review 
and	discussions	with	major	shareholders,	the	Committee	
decided to propose changes to the arrangements for 2014 
onwards. These proposals sever the link between the 
outcome of the annual incentive and the size of the long-
term incentive grant, which has been in place at Intertek for 
some time; they also rebalance the executives’ remuneration 
towards the long-term and, for Executive Directors, increase 
the requirement to hold shares after they have vested. 
They are set out in detail in our Policy Report and the 
resolution to amend the rules of the LTIP, both of which  
will	be	subject	to	shareholders’	vote	at	the	Annual	General	
Meeting	(‘AGM’).
This is the first year in which we are formally required to 
report on remuneration under the new format required by 
Government legislation (although we adopted many aspects 
of the changes in last year’s report, in advance of the formal 
requirement). This year’s report on remuneration comprises 
two parts: the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report which 
sets out our policy on Directors’ pay and which will be 
subject	to	a	binding	shareholder	vote;	and	the	Annual	
Report on Remuneration, which provides details of the 
remuneration earned by Directors in the past financial year 
and the way in which we propose to operate in the coming 
year,	and	will	be	subject	to	an	advisory	vote.
I hope you will be supportive of the two resolutions 
and approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report at this 
year’s AGM. 
Yours sincerely,
 
Christopher Knight
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
The elements specifically required to be audited within 
the shaded sections of pages 59 to 69, have been 
audited by KPMG Audit Plc in compliance with the 
requirements of the Regulations.
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
Consistent with the new legislation, the policy described in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report will be put to a binding 
vote at the AGM. The policy will be effective from the date of 
shareholder approval. 
Policy overview
We continue to focus on ensuring that our remuneration policy 
is appropriate for the nature, size and complexity of the Group, 
encourages our employees in the development of their careers 
and is directed to deliver continued profitable growth.
Our remuneration strategy is to:
•	 align and recognise the individual’s contribution to help us 
succeed in achieving our strategy and long-term business 
goals;
•	 attract, engage, motivate and retain the best available people 
by positioning total pay and benefits to be competitive in the 
relevant market and in line with the ability of the business  
to pay;
•	 reward people equitably for the size of their responsibilities 
and performance; and
•	 engage motivated high performers and, through variable 
bonus schemes and long-term incentive plans, share the 
Group’s success with those who build and lead Intertek as 
a world class business and encourage them to increase 
shareholder value.
Each year the Committee approves the overall reward strategy 
for the Group and considers the individual remuneration of 
the Executive Directors and certain senior executives. There 
are no executives whose remuneration exceeds that of the 
Executive Directors. 
The Committee reviews the balance between base salary and 
performance-related	remuneration	against	the	key	objectives	
and targets so as to ensure performance is appropriately 
rewarded. This also ensures outcomes are a fair reflection 
of the underlying performance of the Group.
As a global service business, our success is critically dependent 
on the performance and retention of our key people around 
the	world.	Employment	costs	represent	the	major	element	of	
Group operating costs. As a global Group our pay arrangements 
take into account both local and international markets and we 
operate a global Remuneration Policy Framework to achieve our 
reward strategy, with each operation retaining the freedom to 
navigate within that framework to find the best local solution.
Our	peer	groups	for	the	majority	of	our	employees	consist	of	
international industrial or business service organisations and 
similar-sized businesses. For our more senior executives we 
base our remuneration comparisons on a blend of factors, 
including	sector,	job	complexity,	location,	responsibilities	
and performance, whilst recognising the Company is listed 
in the UK.
We believe that a significant proportion of remuneration for 
senior executives should be related to performance, with part 
of that remuneration being deferred in the form of shares 
and subject	to	continued	employment	and	longer-term	
performance. We also believe that share-based remuneration 
should form a significant element of senior executives’ 
compensation so there is a strong link to the sustained future 
success of the Group. 
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in 
relation to the AGM each year at a meeting following the 
AGM. This feedback, plus any additional feedback received 
during any meetings from time to time, is then considered as 
part of the Company’s annual review of remuneration policy. 
In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with 
major	shareholders	and	their	representative	bodies	should	any	
material changes be proposed to the remuneration policy. 
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve 
last year’s remuneration report and any matters discussed with 
shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
When determining salaries and other elements of remuneration 
for our executives we take account of general pay movement 
and employment conditions throughout the Group, as well 
as the relevant general markets. This is achieved by reviewing 
detailed information for four of the areas (mainland China, 
USA, UK and Hong Kong) in which the Group employs the 
greatest number of people. The Company has not formally 
consulted with its employees on the design of its senior 
executive remuneration policy. The Committee will keep this 
under review.
Directors’ report – Governance
56 57
Remuneration report
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Selection of performance metrics
The annual bonus is based on performance against a mix of financial measures and personal performance. The mix of financial 
measures	is	aligned	to	the	Group’s	Key	Performance	Indicators	(‘KPIs’)	and	is	reviewed	each	year	by	the	Remuneration	Committee	 
to ensure that they remain appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead. A sliding scale of targets is set for 
each KPI to encourage continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of stretch performance. 
The LTIP is based on EPS growth and TSR performance. EPS is a measure of the Group’s overall financial success and TSR provides 
an external assessment of the Company’s performance against the market. It also aligns the rewards received by executives with 
the returns received by shareholders. A sliding scale of challenging performance targets is set for each measure. The Committee 
reviews the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each LTIP grant.  
The Committee reserves the discretion to set different targets for future awards, without consulting with shareholders, providing 
that, in the opinion of the Committee, the new targets are no less challenging in light of the circumstances at the time than those 
used previously. The targets for awards granted under this remuneration policy are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
There are no material differences in the structure of remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and the general 
employee population, aside from quantum and participation rates in incentive schemes. 
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below illustrate how the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages vary at different levels of performance under the 
ongoing policy, which will apply in 2014 for the CFO and 2015 for the CEO: 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
£’000
Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance 
Wolfhart Hauser, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Lloyd Pitchford, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
LTIP award
Bonus
Base salary, beneﬁts and pension  
100% 37% 23%
100% 38% 24%
28%
34%
43%
35%
31%
31%
38%
38%
£983,625
£2,624,550
£4,265,475
£574,576
£2,406,496
£1,490,536
Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum
 
Points relating to the above table: 
1. Salary levels are based on those applying on 1 April 2014.
2.  The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits (as disclosed) for the year ended 31 December 2013.
3.		 The	value	of	pension	receivable	by	the	CEO	and	CFO	in	2014	is	taken	to	be	25%	of	salary	and	20%	of	salary	respectively.
4.		 The	on-target	level	of	bonus	is	taken	to	be	50%	of	the	maximum	bonus	opportunity.
5.		 The	on-target	level	of	the	LTIP	is	taken	to	be	50%	of	the	face	value	of	the	award	at	grant.
6.  Share price movement and dividend accrual have not been incorporated into the values shown above.
Summary of the remuneration policy for Directors
The following table sets out the key aspects of the remuneration policy for Directors:
Element of pay
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base salary To attract and retain 
high performing 
Executive Directors 
to lead the Group.
The Committee reviews salaries annually, 
taking account of the scale of 
responsibilities, the individual’s experience 
and performance.
Whilst the Committee takes benchmarking 
information into account, its decisions are 
based primarily on the performance of the 
individual concerned against the above 
factors	to	ensure	that	there	is	no	unjustified	
upward ratchet in base salary.
There is no prescribed maximum annual 
increase. The Committee is guided by 
the general increase for the employee 
population but on occasions may need 
to recognise other factors including 
development in role, change in 
responsibility and/or variance to 
market levels of remuneration.
Individual performance is taken 
into account when salary levels 
are reviewed.
Benefits To provide competitive 
benefits to ensure the 
well-being of employees.
Benefits include annual medicals, life 
assurance cover of four times base salary, 
allowances in lieu of a company car or other 
benefits and private medical insurance. 
The total value of these benefits will 
not exceed	12%	of	salary.
n/a
Pension To provide competitive 
retirement benefits.
Directors	can	elect	to	join	the	Company’s	
defined contribution pension scheme, 
receive pension contributions into their 
personal pension plan or receive a cash sum 
in lieu of pension contributions.
Up	to	30%	of	salary. n/a
Annual Incentive 
Plan (‘AIP’)
To drive and recognise 
annual performance 
against targets which are 
a mix of business and 
personal	objectives.
50%	paid	in	cash	and	50%	deferred	 
into shares which will vest after a period  
of	three years	subject	to	continued	
employment.
Targets are reviewed each year and are 
a balanced set of measures designed to 
be challenging.
Not pensionable.
Clawback provisions apply.
For	2014,	maximum	230%	of	salary	
for the	CEO	and	200%	of	salary	for	
the CFO. 
For	2015	onwards,	up	to	200%	of	salary	
for all Executive Directors.
The Committee has the ability to reduce 
bonus payments if it believes that 
short-term performance has been 
achieved at the expense of the Group’s 
long-term future success. The Committee 
can	adjust	upwards	the	bonus	outturn	
(up to the maximum set out above) to 
recognise very exceptional circumstances 
or to recognise that circumstances have 
occurred which were beyond the direct 
responsibility of the executive and the 
executive has managed and mitigated 
the impact of any loss.
The	majority	of	the	annual	bonus	
will	be	subject	to	Group	financial	
measures	and	no	more	than	20%	
of the	bonus	will	be	subject	to	
personal performance measures. 
The stretch targets, when met, 
reward exceptional achievement 
and contribution. The minimum 
is zero. 
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’)
To retain and reward 
Executive Directors for 
the delivery of long-term 
performance.
To support the continuity 
of the leadership of 
the business.
To provide long-term 
alignment of executives’ 
interests with 
shareholders by linking 
rewards to Intertek’s 
performance.
Annual grant of conditional shares which 
vest	after	three	years,	subject	to	Company	
performance and continued employment. 
The	shares	will	also	be	subject	to	a	six-month	
holding period after vesting.
Accrued dividends during the vesting 
period to be paid in cash or shares at vesting, 
to the extent that shares vest.  
Up	to	250%	of	salary. LTIP	awards	are	subject	to	
performance conditions based on 
Earning	Per	Share	(‘EPS’)	growth	
and relative Total Shareholder 
Return	(‘TSR’).	At	least	a	quarter	 
of each award will be based 
on each of these measures.
25%	of	an	award	will	vest	
for achieving threshold 
performance, increasing pro-rata 
to full vesting for the achievement 
of stretch performance targets. 
Awards under the TSR element  
of	the	LTIP	are	also	subject	to	the	
satisfaction of a financial underpin.
Share ownership 
guidelines
To increase alignment 
between executives 
and shareholders.
Executive Directors are required to retain any 
vested shares (net of tax) under the Group’s 
share plans until the guideline is met.
The guideline must be met within five years 
of appointment.
CEO:	200%	of	salary.
CFO:	150%	of	salary.
n/a
Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees
To attract and retain high 
calibre Non-Executive 
Directors through the 
provision of market 
competitive fees.
Fees	are	paid	mostly	in	cash,	with	10%	
of fees paid in the form of shares.
Fees are determined based on the 
responsibility and time committed to 
the Group’s affairs and appropriate 
market comparisons.
No other benefits are provided, other 
than to the Chairman, who receives a  
car allowance of £25,000 per annum.
As for the Executive Directors, there is 
no prescribed maximum annual 
increase. The Committee is guided by 
the general increase for the employee 
population but on occasions may need 
to recognise other factors including 
change in responsibility and/or variance 
to market levels of remuneration.
n/a
Directors’ report – Governance
58 59
Remuneration report continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Legacy arrangements
For avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy Report, authority is given to the Company 
to honour any commitments entered into with current or 
former Directors (such as the vesting of past share awards) 
that have been disclosed to and approved by shareholders 
in previous Remuneration Reports. Details of any payments 
to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration as they arise. 
Annual Report on Remuneration
Membership of the Remuneration Committee
During 2013 the Committee comprised the following 
independent Non-Executive Directors: 
Name
Eligible to
attend Attendance
Christopher Knight  
(Committee Chairman)
9 9
Alan Brown 9 9
Louise Makin 9 9
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer 
and the Group Vice President Human Resources may, by 
invitation, attend the Committee meetings, except when 
their own remuneration is discussed. No Director is involved 
in determining his or her own remuneration. None of the 
Committee members have had any personal financial interest, 
except as shareholders, in the matters decided. The Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Advisors 
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices drive  
and support achievement of strategies and are market 
competitive, the Committee obtains advice from various 
independent sources. 
During 2013, the Committee received advice on remuneration 
matters	from	New	Bridge	Street	(‘NBS’),	a	trading	name	of	Aon	
plc, which provided no other services to the Committee during 
the year under review. NBS is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and adheres to the Voluntary Code of 
Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the 
UK. The Committee took independent advice on UK pension 
matters	from	Premier	Pensions	Management	Limited	(‘PPM’).	
During 2013, PPM’s associate company provided additional 
Financial	Conduct	Authority	(‘FCA’)-regulated	services	in	
respect of UK pension and employee matters.
In addition, the Company received advice from Allen & Overy 
LLP	(‘A&O’)	on	the	proposed	changes	to	the	2011	LTIP	rules.	
NBS and PPM were both appointed by the Committee. Due to 
the worldwide operations of the Group, advisors are selected 
on their particular expertise both at a local and global level.
The fees paid to NBS for providing advice in relation to 
executive remuneration over the financial year under review 
were £115,400. The fees paid to PPM for providing advice on 
UK pension matters were £2,548. The fees paid to A&O for 
providing advice in relation to the proposed changes to the 
2011 LTIP rules were £2,500.
External appointments
The Company recognises that, during their employment with 
the Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become 
Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such 
duties can broaden their experience and knowledge. Executive 
Directors may, with the written consent of the Company, 
accept such appointments outside the Company, and the policy 
is that any fees may be retained by the Director. 
Wolfhart Hauser was appointed as a Non-Executive Director  
of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in April 2013.   
His earnings for this appointment during 2013, which he 
retained, were £65,058. 
Statement of shareholder voting
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was 
proposed to shareholders to approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
This resolution received the following votes from shareholders: 
2013 AGM
Votes cast in favour 107,843,138 97.81 %
Votes cast against 2,415,665 2.19%
Total votes cast 110,258,803 100%
Votes withheld 4,443,362
During	the	year,	the	Committee	consulted	the	Company’s	major	
shareholders on the proposal to make amendments to the 
structure of the short- and long-term incentive arrangements. 
Shareholders that were consulted were supportive of the 
proposed changes and the Group’s remuneration structures 
for senior executives in general. 
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director – base 
salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive 
awards – would be set in accordance with the terms of the 
Company’s prevailing approved remuneration policy at the time 
of appointment. The Committee may set the base salary at a 
value to reflect the calibre, experience and earnings potential 
of a	candidate,	subject	to	the	Committee’s	judgement	that	
the level of remuneration is in the Company’s best interest. 
In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or 
share-based elements to take account of remuneration 
relinquished when leaving the former employer when it 
considers these to be in the best interests of the Company 
(and therefore shareholders). Any such awards would reflect 
the nature, time horizons and performance requirements 
attaching to the remuneration it is intended to replace.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may 
agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses 
and continuing allowances as appropriate. Additionally, in the 
case of any Executive Director being recruited from overseas, 
or being recruited by the Company to relocate overseas to 
perform their duties, the Committee may offer expatriate 
benefits	on	an	ongoing	basis	subject	to	their	aggregate	value	
to the	individual	not	exceeding	50%	of	salary	per	annum.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable 
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 
allowed	to	pay	out	according	to	its	terms,	adjusted	as	relevant	
to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other 
ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment 
may continue. 
Service contracts for Executive Directors
The service agreements of the Executive Directors are not fixed-
term and are terminable by either the Company or the Director 
on 12 months’ notice and make provision, at the Board’s 
discretion, for early termination by way of payment of salary 
(and for the CFO, pension contributions) in lieu of 12 months’ 
notice. In calculating the amount payable to a Director on 
termination of employment, the Board would take into account 
the commercial interests of the Company and apply usual 
common law and contractual principles. The service contracts 
are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
The Committee reviews the contractual terms for new Executive 
Directors to ensure these reflect best practice. In summary, the 
contractual provisions are:
Provision Detailed Terms
Notice period 12 months
Termination payment Common law and contractual principles 
apply
Remuneration 
entitlements
A bonus may be payable (pro-rata where 
relevant) and outstanding share awards 
may vest (see below)
Change of control No Executive Director’s contract contains 
provisions or additional payments in 
respect of change of control
The annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of 
the financial year served. Any share-based entitlements granted 
to an Executive Director under the Company’s share plans will 
be determined based on the relevant plan rules. 
The default treatment under the 2011 LTIP is that any 
outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. 
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, 
ill-health, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the 
discretion	of	the	Committee,	‘good	leaver’	status	may	be	
applied. For good leavers, awards will normally vest on the 
original	vesting	date,	subject	to	the	satisfaction	of	the	relevant	
performance conditions at that time and reduced pro-rata 
to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually 
served. However, the Committee has discretion to determine 
that awards vest at an earlier date and/or to disapply time 
pro-rating, although it is envisaged that this would only be 
applied in exceptional circumstances. Any such incidents, where 
discretion is applied by the Committee, will be disclosed in the 
following Annual Report on Remuneration.
The default treatment for deferred bonus awards is that 
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. 
However,	in	certain	‘good	leaver’	circumstances	(as	described	
under the 2011 LTIP above), awards will vest in full on the 
original vesting date.
In determining whether an executive should be treated as a 
good leaver or not, the Committee will take into account the 
reasons for their departure. 
Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors
The letter of appointment for each Non-Executive Director 
states that they are appointed for an initial period of three years 
and all appointments are terminable by one month’s notice 
on either side. At the end of the initial period the appointment 
may be renewed for a further period, usually three years, 
if the Company	and	the	Director	agree	and	subject	to	annual	
re-election at the AGM. Each letter of appointment states that 
if the Company were to terminate the appointment, the Director 
would not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office. 
Directors’ report – Governance
60 61
Remuneration report continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual bonus
The	annual	bonus	for	the	2013	financial	year	was	based	on	performance	against	adjusted	EPS	growth,	adjusted	operating	profit	
growth, cash conversion, return on invested capital and general contribution. Performance against the financial targets is set 
out below:
Financial Measures % Weighting Target Actual % Achieved
% Weighted
Achievement
Adjusted	diluted	EPS	growth
1
50% 141.0p 137.0p 33% 17%
Adjusted	operating	profit	growth
1
25% £366.8m £339.4m 13% 3%
Operating	cash	flow	%	of	adjusted	operating profit
1
15% 80.0% 74.0% 17% 3%
Return on invested capital 10% 19.9% 18.4% 0% 0%
Total 100% 23%
1.
 Calculated using constant 2012 exchange rates.
General Contribution is a qualitative award taking into account the overall personal contribution of the executive to developing  
the strategy for the Group, ensuring sustainability, team building and leadership. The Remuneration Committee decided that the 
outcome	for	the	General	Contribution	proportion	of	bonus	for	both	Executive	Directors	was	80%.	
The combined bonus outturn for both the financial and general contribution elements is as follows:
 Financial targets General contribution Total
Maximum
% of salary
Actual
% of salary
Maximum
% of salary
Actual
% of salary
Maximum
% of salary
Actual
% of salary
Wolfhart Hauser 104% 24% 26% 21% 130% 45%
Lloyd Pitchford 80% 18% 20% 16% 100% 34%
The annual bonus outturn in cash and shares is as follows:
Payable 
in cash 
£
Share 
Award
£
Performance 
Shares Award
£
Wolfhart Hauser 319,605 319,605 639,210
Lloyd Pitchford 152,660 152,660 305,320
The	Remuneration	Committee	has	the	discretion	to	adjust	the	final	bonus	outcome	downwards	if	it	considers	short-term	
performance	has	been	achieved	at	the	expense	of	long-term	future	success.	The	Committee	may	also	adjust	the	final	bonus	
outcome upwards to recognise exceptional circumstances that were beyond the direct responsibility of the executive and the 
executive has managed and mitigated the impact of any loss. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in respect of the 
above bonus outturn.
Both	the	cash	and	share	elements	of	the	bonus	are	subject	to	clawback.	Overpayments	may	be	reclaimed	in	the	event	of	
performance achievements being found to be significantly misstated.
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2013
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration received in 2013 and the prior year for comparison. 
Base salary
or fees
£’000
Benefits
1
£’000
Pension
2
£’000
Annual bonus
3
£’000
Long-term
 incentives
4
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
Executive Directors
Wolfhart Hauser 2013 709 72 177 639 1,644 – 3,241
2012 687 72 172 1,444 2,923 – 5,298
Lloyd Pitchford 2013 445 25 89 305 825 – 1,689
2012 427 25 85 724 553 – 1,814
Non-Executive Directors
Edward Astle 2013 69 – – – – – 69
2012 64 – – – – – 64
Alan Brown 2013 64 – – – – – 64
2012 60 – – – – – 60
Christopher Knight 2013 83 – – – – – 83
2012 75 – – – – – 75
Louise Makin
5
2013 64 – – – – – 64
2012 30 – – – – – 30
Sir David Reid 2013 315 25 – – – – 340
2012 300 25 – – – – 325
Michael Wareing 2013 90 – – – – – 90
2012 85 – – – – – 85
Mark Williams
6
2013 16 – – – – – 16
2012 – – – – – – –
Lena Wilson
5
2013 75 – – – – – 75
2012 28 – – – – – 28
1.
  Benefits include allowances in lieu of company car, annual medicals, life assurance and private medical insurance. With respect to the Non-Executive Directors,  
other than Sir David Reid, who receives a car allowance of £25,000 per annum, no other benefits are provided.
2.
  Pension contributions were made into the executives’ personal schemes.
3.
  This relates to the payment of the annual bonus and LTIP Share Award for the year ended 31 December 2013. Further details of this payment are set out on the 
following pages.
4.
  This relates to the vesting of the 2011 LTIP award. The performance period for this award ended on 31 December 2013. 
5.
  Appointed 1 July 2012.
6.
  Appointed 1 September 2013.
Directors’ report – Governance
62 63
Remuneration report continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Share plan awards
The table below shows the Directors’ interests in the Intertek share plans:
Type of Award 
31 December
2012
Number
of shares
Granted in
2013
Number
of shares
Award price
1
£
Vested in
2013
Number
of shares
Lapsed in
2013
Number
of shares
31 December
2013
Number
of shares
Date of
vesting
Wolfhart Hauser
2010 Deferred 43,316 – 13.332 43,316
2
– – March 2013
Matching 86,632 13.332 86,632
2
– –
2011 Share 31,938 – 18.986 – – 31,938
4
March 2014
Performance 63,876 – 18.986 – – 63,876
4
2012 Share 28,696
5
– 23.24 – – 28,696 March 2015
Performance 57,392
5
– 23.24 – – 57,392
2013 Share – 20,689
6
33.528 – – 20,689 March 2016
Performance – 41,378
6
33.528 – – 41,378
Total 311,850 62,067 129,948 – 243,969
Lloyd Pitchford
2010 Deferred 8,313 – 14.434 8,313
3
– – May 2013
Matching 16,626 – 14.434 16,626
3
– –
2011 Share 16,034 – 18.986 – – 16,034
4
March 2014
Performance 32,068 – 18.986 – – 32,068
4
2012 Share 14,248
5
– 23.24 – – 14,248 March 2015
Performance 28,496
5
– 23.24 – – 28,496
2013 Share – 10,808
6
33.528 – – 10,808 March 2016
Performance – 21,616
6
33.528 – – 21,616
Total 115,785 32,424 24,939 – 123,270
1.
  Awards made are based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant. 
2.
  Awards vested on 8 April 2013, on which date the closing market price of shares was £33.74 having been granted on 8 March 2010 on which date the closing 
market price was £13.33. Details of the performance conditions are set out in last year’s remuneration report.
3.
  Awards vested on 20 May 2013, on which date the closing market price of shares was £32.94 having been granted on 20 May 2010 on which date the closing 
market price was £14.43. Details of the performance conditions are set out in last year’s remuneration report.
4.
	 	 Awards	will	vest	on	8	March	2014,	subject	to	continued	employment,	having	been	granted	on	8	March	2011	on	which	date	the	closing	market	price	was	£19.55.	
Details of the performance conditions are set out above.
5.
	 	 Awards	will	vest	on	6	March	2015,	subject	to	performance	and	continued	employment,	having	been	granted	on	6	March	2012	on	which	date	the	closing	market	
price	was	£22.62.	50%	of	awards	are	subject	to	EPS	and	50%	are	subject	to	relative	TSR.	The	EPS	threshold	level	was	set	at	6%	per	annum	and	the	upper	target	
at 16%	per	annum.	Under	the	TSR	condition,	the	Company’s	TSR	ranking	is	measured	relative	to	the	FTSE	index	members	31	to	130	(excluding	banks	and	
investment trusts).
6.
	 	 Awards	will	vest	on	5	March	2016,	subject	to	performance	and	continued	employment,	having	been	granted	on	5	March	2013	on	which	date	the	closing	market	
price was £34.40. Details of the performance conditions are set out above.
Vesting of LTIP awards
The LTIP award granted on 8 March 2011 is based on performance for the three-year period ended 31 December 2013.  
The performance conditions attached to this award and actual performance against these conditions is as follows:
Metric Performance condition
Threshold 
 target
Stretch 
target
Actual
performance
Vesting 
level
Earnings Per Share Annualised	fully	diluted,	adjusted	EPS	
growth, calculated on the basis of foreign 
exchange rates adopted at the start of the 
performance cycle
11 % 20% 15.6% 63.6%
Total Shareholder Return Relative TSR performance against the 
FTSE 51 – 150 (excluding banks and 
investment trusts)
Median Upper 
quartile
Above
upper
quartile
1
100.0%
Total vesting 81.8%
1.
  TSR performance calculation was calculated by NBS; Intertek was ranked 16th of the 89 members of the comparator group of companies.
The LTIP awards granted on 8 March 2011 to the Executive Directors are as follows:
Executive Director
Number 
of shares 
at grant
Number 
of shares 
to lapse
Number 
of shares 
to vest
1
Estimated
value
2
 
£
Wolfhart Hauser 63,876 11,626 52,250 1,643,613
Lloyd Pitchford 32,068 5,837 26,231 825,141
Total vesting 2,468,754
1.
  The 2011 award did not include any accrual of dividends paid and payable during the vesting period.
2.
  The estimated value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the three months to 31 December 2013 (3145.67p). These shares will vest on the 
third	anniversary	of	grant,	subject	to	continued	employment.
LTIP awards granted during the year
The following performance awards were granted to the Executive Directors on 5 March 2013:
Type of award
Basis of 
award 
granted
Share price 
at date 
of grant
Number 
of shares 
over which 
award was 
granted
Face value of 
award 
£’000
% of face 
value that 
would vest 
at threshold 
performance
Vesting 
determined by 
performance 
over
Wolfhart Hauser Performance 
Awards 
200%	
of salary
£34.40 41,378 1,423 25% Three 
years to 31 
December 
2015
Lloyd Pitchford Performance 
Awards 
166%	
of salary
£34.40 21,616 744 25%
Directors’ report – Governance
64 65
Remuneration report continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Relative importance of the spend on pay
The table below shows the movement in spend on staff costs between the 2012 and 2013 financial years, compared to dividends.
2013
£m
2012
£m % change
Staff costs 958.7 862.6 11 %
Dividends 74.2 66.1 12%
Performance graph and CEO pay
The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the Company over the last five financial years, compared with the TSR for the 
FTSE 100 Index. TSR, reflecting the change in the value of a share and dividends paid, can be represented by the value of a 
notional £100 invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
450
400
500
TSR performance
Intertek Group v FTSE 100
Intertek Group
FTSE 100
£
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during each of the last five financial years are shown in the table below. Consistent 
with the calculation methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total 
annual bonus and LTIP Share Award based on that year’s performance and LTIP Performance Awards based on the three-year 
performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual bonus payout and LTIP Performance Award vesting level as a 
percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years.
 Year ended 31 December
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Total remuneration £’000 2,451 3,164 4,554 5,298 3,241
Annual	bonus	(%) 100 96.6 92.3 83.1 34.6
LTIP	vesting	(%) 100 100 100 100 81.8
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year end are set out below. Save as stated in this report, 
during the course of the year, no Director nor any member of his or her immediate family had any other interest in the ordinary 
share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Beneficially
owned at 
31 December
2012 or on
appointment
Beneficially
owned at
31 December
2013 or on
appointment
Outstanding
LTIP
Performance
Awards
Outstanding
LTIP Share
Awards/
Deferred
Bonus
Shareholding
as a % of
salary
2
Shareholding
requirement
met?
Wolfhart Hauser 120,906 145,777 162,646 81,323 641 Yes
Lloyd Pitchford 26,939 37,156 82,180 41,090 263 Yes
Edward Astle 878 1,032 – – n/a n/a
Alan Brown 1,044 1,198 – – n/a n/a
Christopher Knight 7,231 7,406 – – n/a n/a
Louise Makin – 154 – – n/a n/a
Sir David Reid 707 1,214 – – n/a n/a
Michael Wareing 3,235 3,396 – – n/a n/a
Mark Williams
1
– – – – n/a n/a
Lena Wilson – 154 – – n/a n/a
1.
 At date of appointment (appointed 1 September 2013).
2.
 Based on a share price of £31.48 as at 31 December 2013.
No changes in the above Directors’ interests have taken place between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report.
Payments to past Directors 
No payments were made to past Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Payments for loss of office 
No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO between the 2012 and 2013 financial 
years, compared to that for the average UK employee.
Salary Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive Officer 3% 0% (56)%
Average pay based on Intertek’s UK employees 3% 5.7% (55)%
Directors’ report – Governance
66 67
Remuneration report continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual bonus and LTIP awards to be granted in 2014
For	2014,	the	annual	bonus	opportunity	expressed	as	a	percentage	of	base	salary	will	remain	at	230%	for	the	CEO	and	200%	
for the	CFO	salary.	The	annual	bonus	will	continue	to	be	based	against	EPS	growth	(40%),	operating	profit	growth	(20%),	
cash conversion	(12%),	ROIC	(8%)	and	personal	contribution	(20%).	The	Committee	has	chosen	not	to	disclose,	in	advance,	
the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive.  
Full retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be seen in next year’s Annual Remuneration Report.
For	2014,	the	LTIP	opportunity	for	both	the	CEO	and	the	CFO	will	be	200%	of	salary,	and	subject	to	the	following	two	
performance conditions:
Performance condition Threshold target (25% vesting) Stretch target (100% vesting) End measurement point
EPS growth 6% 14% Final year of the performance 
period i.e. 2016
Relative TSR vs the FTSE 31 – 130 Median Upper quartile Final three months of the 
performance period i.e. three 
months to 31 December 2016
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
As detailed in the remuneration policy, fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board, based on the 
responsibility and time committed to the Group’s affairs and appropriate market comparisons. Individual Non-Executive Directors 
do not take part in discussions regarding their own fees. A summary of current fees is as follows:
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
Board membership
Chairman 320 320
Non-Executive Director 58 58
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 12 12
Committee membership 
Chairman Audit & Risk Committee 20 20
Chairman Remuneration Committee 15 15
Chairman Nomination Committee – –
Member Audit & Risk Committee 10 10
Member Remuneration Committee 7.5 7.5
Member Nomination Committee 2.5 2.5
Pursuant to the policy of aligning Directors’ interests with those of shareholders, a proportion of the fees due to the Non-Executive 
Directors is used each year to purchase shares in the Company. 
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, including both the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report and Annual Remuneration Report, 
was approved by the Board on 28 February 2014.
Christopher Knight
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
CEO total remuneration
The graph below show the total remuneration of the CEO over the 5 year period from 2009 to 2013.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
3
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
CEO total remuneration ﬁgure Annual Bonus
Pension
LTIP (share price increase)
2
LTIP (award element)
1
Beneﬁts
Salary
£’000
1.
 LTIP (award element) shows the proportion of the vested LTIP value which is based on the share price on award date.
2.
 LTIP (share price increase) shows the proportion of the vested LTIP value which resulted from share price gain over the performance period.
3.
 The LTIP element of the 2013 total remuneration figure is modelled using the average share price during the three months to 31 December 2013.
The impact of share price on the value of the CEO’s LTIP award
The table below shows the change in share price from the date of award to the vesting of performance shares for the 2009 
to 2013 financial years.
LTIP award
 share price
LTIP vesting
 share price
Share price
 change 
over the
 performance
period
2009 9.166 14.98 63.4%
2010 9.150 19.13 109. 1%
2011 8.342 24.55 194.3%
2012 13.332 33.74 153. 1%
2013 18.986 31.46
1
65.7%
1.
 The value shown for the 2013 vesting share price is the average price during the three months to 31 December 2013.
Remuneration decisions taken in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2014
Base salary
Salaries for the Executive Directors will be increased in 2014, with effect from 1 April 2014 (see the table below). Applying the 
remuneration	policy,	the	Committee	considered	that	the	performance	of	the	individuals,	taken	in	conjunction	with	the	continuing	
growth	and	financial	success	of	the	Group,	justified	the	increases.	The	Executive	Directors’	salaries	are:
 
Base salary 
from 
1 April 2013
£’000
Base salary 
from 
1 April 2014
£’000 % increase
Wolfhart Hauser 715 729 2
Lloyd Pitchford 449 458 2
Elsewhere	in	the	Group,	salary	increases	were	also	awarded	where	justified	by	the	growth	and	performance	of	the	relevant	
businesses,	not	just	by	market	conditions.	
Directors’ report – Governance
68 69
Remuneration report continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In addition, at the AGM in 2013 the Directors were empowered 
by	the	shareholders	to	allot	equity	securities,	up	to	5%	of	the	
Company’s issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of 
the	Act.	It	is	intended	that	this	authority	be	renewed,	up	to	5%,	
at the forthcoming AGM.
Purchase of own shares
Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company 
to buy	back	up	to	10%	of	its	own	ordinary	shares	by	market	
purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year. 
The	Directors	will	seek	to	renew	this	authority	for	up	to	10%	
of the Company’s issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM. 
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied 
that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the 
ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and 
accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders. 
The Directors will also give careful consideration to gearing 
levels of the Company and its general financial position. Any 
shares purchased in this way may be held in treasury which, 
the Directors believe, will provide the Company with flexibility 
in the management of its share capital. Where treasury shares 
are used to satisfy share options or awards, they will be classed 
as new issue shares for the purpose of the limit on the number 
of shares that may be issued over a ten-year period under our 
relevant share plan rules.
Significant relationships
The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships 
with any single party which are essential to the business of the 
Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed. 
Social and community issues
We encourage our local managers to foster community links 
appropriate to the businesses they manage. Further details are 
given in our Sustainability and CSR Report on pages 30 to 37. 
Employees
The Group offers equal opportunities to all employees and 
applicants regardless of race, creed, sex, ethnic origin, age  
or disability. Disabled persons are considered for employment 
where they have appropriate skills and abilities to perform a 
job.	Employees	who	become	disabled	during	their	working	lives	
will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be 
given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining. 
Material interests in shares
The	following	disclosures	of	major	holdings	of	voting	rights	
have been made (and have not been amended or withdrawn) 
to the Company pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing 
Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5:
•	 BlackRock Inc. gave notice on 12 December 2013 that they 
had an indirect interest on 10 December 2013 in less than 
5%	of	the	ordinary	shares	in	issue	at	that	date.
•	 Capital Research and Management Company gave notice 
on 17 May 2013 that they had an indirect interest on  
16 May 2013 in 9,473,059 ordinary shares, representing 
6.00%	of	the	ordinary	shares	in	issue	at	that	date.
•	 Credit Suisse Group AG gave notice on 11 October 2013 that 
they had an indirect interest on 9 October 2013 in 8,245,135 
ordinary	shares,	representing	5.11%	of	the	ordinary	shares	
in issue at that date.
•	 Legal & General Group plc gave notice on 4 June 2013 that 
they had an indirect interest on 3 June 2013 in 4,847,796 
ordinary	shares,	representing	less	than	3%	of	the	ordinary	
shares in issue on that date.
•	 Marathon Asset Management LLP gave notice on 31 January 
2014 that they had an indirect interest on 31 July 2013 in less 
than	5%	of	the	voting	rights	in	respect	of	ordinary	shares	
in issue on that date.
•	 Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc gave notice 
on 16 September 2013 that they had an indirect interest on 
12 September 2013 in 8,135,786 ordinary shares, representing 
5.04%	of	the	ordinary	shares	in	issue	at	that	date.
Political donations
At the AGM in 2013, the shareholders passed a resolution,  
on a precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make 
donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political 
expenditure (as such terms are defined in the Act) not 
exceeding £90,000. During the year the Group did not make 
any political donations (2012: £nil). It is the Company’s policy 
not, directly or through any subsidiary, to make what are 
commonly regarded as donations to any political party. 
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, 
shareholders’ approval will again be sought to authorise 
the Group to make political donations and/or incur political 
expenditure (as such terms are defined in Sections 362 to 
379 of the Act). Further details of this will be contained in 
the Notice of AGM. 
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness 
to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with 
Section 489 of the Act.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held on 16 May 2014, 
is available for download from the Company’s website. The 
Notice details the business to be conducted at the meeting and 
includes information concerning the deadlines for submitting 
proxy forms and in relation to voting rights.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he 
or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or 
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006	(the	‘Act’)	and	UK	Listing	Authority	Disclosure	and	
Transparency Rules, the following section describes the matters 
that are required for inclusion in the Directors’ Report. 
Directors
The Directors who held office during the year are set out below: 
Sir David Reid Chairman
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial Officer
Edward Astle Non-Executive Director
Alan Brown Non-Executive Director
Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director
Louise Makin Non-Executive Director 
Michael Wareing Non-Executive Director 
Mark Williams N on - E x e c u t i v e D i r e c t or  
(appointed 1 September 2013)
Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director 
The biographies of the Directors at the date of this Report 
are set out on pages 38 and 39. The Company’s Articles of 
Association contain provisions relating to the retirement, 
election and re-election of Directors but, in accordance with 
best practice, all Directors will stand for election or re-election 
at	the	Annual	General	Meeting	(‘AGM’).
Directors’ powers and Articles of Association
The Directors are responsible for the management of the 
Company and their powers to do so are determined by the 
provisions of the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. 
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the 
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, 
the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the 
Board and general meetings. Copies are available upon request 
from the Group Company Secretary, and will be available at the 
Company’s AGM. Further powers are granted by members in 
general meeting, and those currently in place are set out in 
detail within the appropriate section of this Report.
Directors’ interests 
Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the 
Company had a personal interest in any business transactions 
of the Company or its subsidiaries. The terms of the Directors’ 
service contracts and the Directors’ interests in the shares and 
share awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions 
are notifiable to the Company under the UK Listing Authority 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.2 are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69.
Directors’ indemnities
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to 
attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced 
directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, 
including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with 
the applicable statutory provisions. Qualifying third-party 
indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Act), 
were in force during the course of the financial year ended 
31 December 2013, for the benefit of the Directors and, at the 
date of this Report, are in force in relation to certain losses and 
liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in connection 
with their duties, powers or office.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 31.0p per 
ordinary share (2012: 28.0p) making a full year dividend of 
46.0p per ordinary share (2012: 41.0p) which will, if approved 
at the AGM, be paid on 6 June 2014 to shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 23 May 2014. 
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the 
movements in the Company’s share capital during the year, 
are shown in note 15 to the financial statements. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends 
when declared, to receive the Company’s report and accounts, 
to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to 
appoint proxies and exercise voting rights. A waiver of dividend 
exists in respect of 323,739 shares held by the Intertek 
Group Employee Share Ownership Trust at 31 December 2013. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in 
the Company.
The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by 
the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced 
by means of a special resolution of the Company in a General 
Meeting. The Directors’ powers are conferred on them by UK 
legislation and by the Company’s Articles of Association.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting 
rights except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect 
of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully 
paid. There are no arrangements known to the Company by 
which financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are 
held by a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are 
there any arrangements between holders of securities that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting 
rights known to the Company. All issued shares are fully paid.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange 
and may be traded through the CREST system. 
Allotment of shares
At the AGM held in 2013 the shareholders generally and 
unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant 
securities up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal 
amount of issued share capital. It is the Directors’ intention 
to seek renewal of this authority in line with guidance issued 
by the Association of British Insurers. The resolution will be 
set out in the Notice of AGM. 
Directors’ report – Governance
70 71
Other statutory information
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Intertek Group plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 76 to 
120. In our opinion: 
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;   
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union;   
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and  
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.  
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Completeness and valuation of the customer claims 
provision (£9.7m): 
Refer to page 49 (Audit & Risk Committee Report), page 82 
(accounting policy) and page 99 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The completeness and valuation of the customer 
claims provision, as a result of the impact that a material 
customer claim could have on the Group’s financial position.  
Our response – Our audit procedures included, among others, 
contacting all lawyers that the Group has engaged with, in 
respect of key claims, in the last 24 months, assessing whether 
all potential exposures have been identified based on the 
opinion of the relevant external lawyers; testing the Group’s 
controls over the collation and monitoring of the claims from 
management from across the Group locations; and, based on 
all the information collated, assessing the assumptions made by 
the Directors of the Group in calculating the provision. We also 
assessed the adequacy of the Group’s related disclosures in 
notes 13 and 22.  
Valuation of current tax and deferred tax balances, 
and impact on the income tax expense (Net current tax 
liability £41.4m. Net deferred tax liability £5.8m): 
Refer to page 49 (Audit & Risk Committee Report), page 82 
(accounting policy) and pages 87 to 90 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The tax charge on profits is determined according to 
complex tax laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws 
and	regulations	is	unclear,	judgements	are	used	in	determining	
the liability for the tax to be paid. The related deferred tax 
assets	and	liabilities	require	judgement	in	determining	the	
amounts to be recognised, with consideration required to 
be given to the timing and level of future taxable income. 
Our response – Our audit procedures included, among others, 
using our own tax specialists, in the UK, USA and China, to 
assist us in assessing and challenging the assumptions and 
judgements	made	by	the	Directors	of	the	Group;	checking	the	
accuracy of the computation of local income tax amounts; and 
assessment of specific local tax issues. In assessing the Directors’ 
assumptions, we have used both our own tax specialists’ 
knowledge of recent tax cases and, where available, external 
data on the pattern of recent local tax settlements. In assessing 
the level of deferred tax asset balances recognised in the 
statement of financial position we compared the assumptions 
used in respect of future taxable income to the Group’s 
long-term forecasts for the relevant countries. We challenged 
the Group’s long-term forecasts by evaluating the assumptions 
and methodologies used by the Group. In particular, we 
considered the assumptions relating to the forecast revenue 
growth and profit margins in the relevant countries using 
externally derived data and our own assessments in relation 
to key inputs. We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s 
related disclosures in Note 6.  
3  Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £16.5m. This has been determined with reference 
to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, which we consider 
to be one of the principal considerations for members of the 
Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.  
Materiality	represents	5.2%	of	adjusted	Group	profit	before	
tax, as disclosed on the face of the income statement, and 
5.9%	of	unadjusted	Group	profit	before	tax.	
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee to report to it all 
corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through 
our audit with a value in excess of £1m, in addition to other 
audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by audit 
teams	in	the	following	countries;	Australia,	Azerbaijan,	
Bangladesh, Brazil, China, France, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Netherlands, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, 
Taiwan, United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam; and the Group 
auditors performed audits for Group reporting purposes in the 
UK. These audits were all performed to local materiality levels, 
which ranged from £0.1m to £2.4m. Specified audit procedures 
were performed by overseas auditors in respect of the key USA 
units. In addition, the Group auditors performed specified audit 
procedures over certain finance and holding units, as well as 
certain 2013 acquisitions, in the following countries; Australia, 
China, France, Hong Kong, UK, US. The reporting included the 
key units in all of the countries identified as being considered 
material to the Group as set out in note 2. 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
•	 make	judgements	and	estimates	that	are	reasonable	 
and prudent;
•	 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU;
•	 for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject	to	any	material	departures	disclosed	and	explained	
in the Parent Company financial statements; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ	from	legislation	in	other	jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect 
of the annual financial report
Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed on 
pages 38 and 39, confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
•	 the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face; and
•	 the Company’s 2013 Annual Report & Accounts, taken 
as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects, and 
provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and overall strategy.
The Directors’ Report comprising pages 38 to 72 and the Group 
Strategic Report comprising pages 4 to 37 have been approved 
by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser
Chief Executive Officer
28 February 2014
Registered Office
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
Registered Number: 4267576
Directors’ report – Governance
72 73
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
members of Intertek Group plc only
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in these 
locations, including the Shared Service Centre in India. These 
instructions covered the significant audit areas that should 
be covered (which included the relevant risks of material 
misstatement detailed on page 73) and set out the information 
required to be reported back to the Group audit team. 
Telephone meetings were held with the auditors at the most 
significant of these locations and the Group audit team visited 
the following locations during the year: UK, US, China, 
Hong Kong and India.
The Group is characterised by a diverse geographic footprint, 
represented by a large number of medium and small sized 
operations.		These	Group	reporting	procedures	covered	70%	
of total	Group	revenue;	70%	of	Group	profit	before	tax;	and	
73%	of	Group	total	assets.	The	remaining	30%	of	Group	
revenue,	30%	of	Group	profit	before	tax	and	27%	of	Group	
total assets is represented by 284 reporting units, none of 
which	represented	more	than	1.2%	of	total	Group	Revenue,	
1.7%	of	Group	profit	before	tax,	or	1.0%	of	Group	total	assets	
individually. We consider the aggregate risk when performing 
our audit planning and during our final analytical procedures 
over the Group financial statements. Local statutory audits are 
performed over 54 of these reporting units, but generally these 
are completed after the date of this report.  
4  Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and  
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.   
5  We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you 
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, 
we have identified other information in the annual report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge 
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, 
or that is otherwise misleading.  
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
•	 we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
•	 the Audit & Risk Committee Report does not 
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the 
Audit & Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or  
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or   
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or   
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.   
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•	 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 53, in relation 
to going concern; and 
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
41 to 43, relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.   
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description  
of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided  
on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made  
solely	to	the	Company’s	members	as	a	body	and	is	subject	 
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stephen Wardell (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
28 February 2014
Contents 
76 Consolidated income statement
77  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
7 8  C on s o l id a t e d s t a t em en t  
of financial position
79   Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
8 0  C on s o l id a t e d s t a t em en t  
of cash flows
81   Notes to the financial statements
117  Intertek Group plc Company balance sheet
Notes to the financial statements
 Note 
81 1 Significant accounting policies
83 2 Operating segments and presentation of results
85 3 Separately Disclosed Items
86 4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
87 5 Employees
87 6 Taxation
91 7 Earnings per ordinary share
91 8 Property, plant and equipment
93 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
97 10 Acquisitions
98 11 Trade and other receivables
99 12 Trade and other payables
99 13 Provisions
100 14 Borrowings and financial instruments
107 15 Capital and reserves
108 16 Employee benefits
113 17 Share schemes
115 18 Subsequent events
115 19 Capital management
115 20 Non-controlling interest
115 21 Related parties
116 22 Contingent liabilities
116 23 Principal subsidiary undertakings
Financial statements
Directors’ report – Governance
74 75
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
members of Intertek Group plc only continued
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 For the year ended 31 December 2013 Notes
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 Disclosed 
Items * 
£m
Total
2013 
£m
Adjusted
 results 
£m
Separately
 Disclosed 
Items * 
£m
Total
2012 
£m
Revenue 2 2,184.4 – 2,184.4 2,054.3 – 2,054.3
Operating costs (1,841.8) (32.6) (1,874.4) (1,719.2) (51.8) (1,771.0)
Group operating profit 2 342.6 (32.6) 310.0 335.1 (51.8) 283.3
Finance income 14 5.3 – 5.3 7.5 – 7.5
Finance expense 14 (33.0) (0.5) (33.5) (34.2) – (34.2)
Net financing costs (27.7) (0.5) (28.2) (26.7) – (26.7)
Profit before income tax 314.9 (33.1) 281.8 308.4 (51.8) 256.6
Income tax expense 6 (72.4) 7.6 (64.8) (80.3) 11.9 (68.4)
Profit for the year 2 242.5 (25.5) 217.0 228.1 (39.9) 188.2
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company 226.0 (25.5) 200.5 213.7 (39.9) 173.8
 Non-controlling interest 20 16.5 – 16.5 14.4 – 14.4
Profit for the year 242.5 (25.5) 217.0 228.1 (39.9) 188.2
Earnings per share
**
Basic 7 124.4p 108.2p
Diluted 7 123.0p 106.7p
*	 See	note	3.
**	 Earnings	per	share	on	the	adjusted	results	is	disclosed	in	note	7.
For the year ended 31 December 2013 Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit for the year 2 217.0 188.2
Other comprehensive income
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 16 5.2 (6.5)
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 6 (0.9) 0.1
Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss 4.3 (6.4)
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations 14 (48.9) (37.2)
Net exchange gain on hedges of net investments in foreign operations 14 16.7 25.4
Loss on fair value of cash flow hedges 14 (0.2) (0.3)
Tax on items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 6 5.1 1.4
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (27.3) (10.7)
Total other comprehensive expense for the year (23.0) (17.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year 194.0 171.1
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
 Equity holders of the Company 178.9 157.2
 Non-controlling interest 20 15.1 13.9
Total comprehensive income for the year 194.0 171.1
Financial statements
76 77
Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 As at 31 December 2013 Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 337.1 302.1
Goodwill 9 736.8 668.5
Other intangible assets 9 170.5 154.5
Investments in associates 1.4 0.7
Deferred tax assets 6 28.3 28.3
Total non-current assets 1,274.1 1,154.1
Inventories 12.2 12.3
Trade and other receivables 11 510.9 502.4
Cash and cash equivalents 14 116.4 166.5
Current tax receivable 16.5 –
Total current assets 656.0 681.2
Total assets 1,930.1 1,835.3
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (15.4) (0.8)
Current taxes payable (57.9) (54.2)
Trade and other payables 12 (304.6) (324.3)
Provisions 13 (22.0) (26.8)
Total current liabilities (399.9) (406.1)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 (719.2) (716.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (34.1) (32.8)
Net pension liabilities 16 (13.1) (17.0)
Other payables 12 (4.7) (6.2)
Provisions 13 (2.4) (1.9)
Total non-current liabilities (773.5) (774.3)
Total liabilities (1,173.4) (1,180.4)
Net assets 756.7 654.9
Equity
Share capital 15 1.6 1.6
Share premium 257.8 257.4
Other reserves (14.2) 16.6
Retained earnings 487.4 354.0
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 732.6 629.6
Non-controlling interest 20 24.1 25.3
Total equity 756.7 654.9
The financial statements on pages 76 to 116 were approved by the Board on 28 February 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser  Lloyd Pitchford 
Director  Director 
For the year ended 31 December 2013
Attributable to equity holders of the Company
Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Share
 premium 
£m
Other reserves
Retained
 earnings *
£m
Total 
before 
non-
controlling
 interest 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Translation
 reserve
£m
Other 
£m
At 1 January 2012 1.6 256.7 21.5 6.4 236.3 522.5 24.0 546.5
Comprehensive income for the year – – (11.3) – 168.5 157.2 13.9 171.1
Dividends paid 15 – – – – (57.9) (57.9) (12.6) (70.5)
Issue of shares 15 – 0.7 – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Purchase of own shares 15 – – – – (0.8) (0.8) – (0.8)
Tax paid on share awards vested – – – – (5.8) (5.8) – (5.8)
Equity-settled transactions 17 – – – – 10.4 10.4 – 10.4
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 6 – – – – 3.3 3.3 – 3.3
At 31 December 2012 1.6 257.4 10.2 6.4 354.0 629.6 25.3 654.9
At 1 January 2013 1.6 257.4 10.2 6.4 354.0 629.6 25.3 654.9
Comprehensive income for the year – – (30.8) – 209.7 178.9 15.1 194.0
Dividends paid 15 – – – – (69.4) (69.4) (14.4) (83.8)
Issue of shares 15 – 0.4 – – – 0.4 – 0.4
Purchase of own shares 15 – – – – (9.1) (9.1) – (9.1)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 20 – – – – (1.9) (1.9) (1.9) (3.8)
Tax paid on share awards vested – – – – (7.6) (7.6) – (7.6)
Equity-settled transactions 17 – – – – 10.9 10.9 – 10.9
Income tax on equity-settled transactions 6 – – – – 0.8 0.8 – 0.8
At 31 December 2013 1.6 257.8 (20.6) 6.4 487.4 732.6 24.1 756.7
*	 	 After	£244.1m	for	goodwill	written	off	to	retained	earnings	as	at	1	January	2004	in	relation	to	subsidiaries	acquired	prior	to	31	December	1997.	This	figure	has	not	
been restated as permitted by IFRS 1.
Financial statements
78 79
Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 For the year ended 31 December 2013 Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 2 217.0 188.2
Adjustments	for:
Depreciation charge 8 65.7 59.8
Amortisation of software 9 5.2 3.8
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and impairment of goodwill 9 22.5 32.5
Equity-settled transactions 17 10.9 10.4
Net financing costs 14 28.2 26.7
Income tax expense 6 64.8 68.4
Loss on disposal of property, plant, equipment and software 0.6 0.1
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital and operating provisions 414.9 389.9
Change in inventories (0.1) –
Change in trade and other receivables (16.9) (65.9)
Change in trade and other payables (15.0) 2.2
Change in provisions (4.3) 7.0
Special contributions into pension schemes 16 – (0.6)
Cash generated from operations 378.6 332.6
Interest and other finance expense paid (28.5) (26.5)
Income taxes paid (80.9) (72.6)
Net cash flows generated from operating activities 269.2 233.5
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and software 4.6 1.7
Interest received 1.6 2.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 10 (108.1) (39.6)
Consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 12 (0.2) (0.6)
Purchase of non-controlling interest 20 (1.9) –
Purchase of associate (1.0) –
Acquisition of property, plant, equipment and software 8,9 (144.8) (115.0)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (249.8) (151.2)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 15 0.4 0.7
Purchase of own shares 15 (9.1) (0.8)
Tax paid on share awards vested (7.6) (5.8)
Drawdown of borrowings 77.4 201.3
Repayment of borrowings (42.1) (217.5)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 20 (14.4) (12.6)
Equity dividends paid 15 (69.4) (57.9)
Net cash flow used in financing activities (64.8) (92.6)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 14 (45.4) (10.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 14 166.5 181.9
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 14 (4.7) (5.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 14 116.4 166.5
The notes on pages 81 to 116 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Cash outflow relating to Separately Disclosed Items was £15.5m for year ended 31 December 2013 (2012: £12.8m).
1 Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
Accounting policies applicable to more than one section of the financial statements are shown below. Where accounting policies 
relate to a specific note in the financial statements, they are set out within that note, to provide readers of the financial statements 
with a more useful layout to the financial information presented.
Statement of compliance
Intertek Group plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2013 consolidate those of the Company and its 
subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and include the Group’s interest in associates. The Group financial statements have 
been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
(IFRSs). The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its 
Group. The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are 
presented on pages 117 to 120.
Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as discussed in the relevant accounting policies.
Functional and presentation currency
These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. All information 
presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest £0.1m.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies set out in these financial statements have been applied consistently to all years presented.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013 but do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Going concern
The	Board	has	reviewed	forecasts,	including	forecasts	adjusted	for	significantly	worse	economic	conditions.	The	Board	has	also	
reviewed the Group’s funding requirements and the available debt facilities. As a result of these reviews the Board remains 
satisfied with the Group’s funding and liquidity position and believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully. In addition, on the basis of its forecasts, both base case and stressed, and available facilities, which are described 
in note 14, the Board has concluded that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has power to direct the relevant activities, 
exposure to variable returns from the investee and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of investor 
returns. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. 
For purchases of non-controlling interest in subsidiaries, the difference between the cost of the additional interest in the subsidiary 
and the non-controlling interest’s share of the assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position 
at the date of acquisition, is reflected directly in shareholders’ equity. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group 
transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way 
as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities (for example cash, trade receivables, trade payables) 
denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on translation are generally recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
For the policy on hedging of foreign currency transactions see note 14.
Financial statements
80 81
Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes to the financial statements
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Employee post-retirement benefit obligations
For material defined benefit plans, the actuarial valuation includes assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary 
progression and mortality rates; see note 16.
Recoverability of trade receivables
Trade receivables are reflected net of an estimated provision for impairment losses. This provision considers the past payment 
history and the length of time that the debt has remained unpaid; see note 11.
Accounting policies relating to a specific note in the financial statements are set out within that note as follows: 
Note
Revenue 2
Separately Disclosed Items 3
Taxation 6
Property, plant and equipment 8
Goodwill and other intangible assets 9
Trade and other receivables 11
Trade and other payables 12
Provisions 13
Borrowings and financial instruments 14
Capital and reserves 15
Employee benefits 16
Share schemes 17
Non-controlling interest 20
2 Operating segments and presentation of results
Accounting policy
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for services rendered, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Revenue	from	services	rendered	on	short-term	projects	is	generally	recognised	in	the	income	statement	when	the	relevant	service	
is completed, usually when the report of findings is issued.
On	long-term	projects	the	Group	records	transactions	as	sales	on	the	basis	of	value	of	work	done,	with	the	corresponding	amount	
being included in trade receivables if the customer has been invoiced or in accrued income if billing has yet to be completed. 
Expenses are recharged to clients where permitted by the contract.
Operating segments
The Group is organised into business lines, which are the Group’s operating segments. These operating segments are aggregated 
into the five divisions, which are the Group’s reportable segments and are reported to the CEO, the chief operating decision 
maker. The five divisions, each of which offer services to different industries and are managed separately, are: Industry & Assurance; 
Commodities; Consumer Goods; Commercial & Electrical and Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals. The costs of the corporate head office 
and other costs which are not controlled by the five divisions are allocated appropriately.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. There is no significant seasonality in the Group’s operations.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
The performance	of	the	segments	is	assessed	based	on	adjusted	operating	profit	which	is	stated	before	Separately	Disclosed	Items.	
Unallocated	items	include	group-wide	projects	that	do	not	sit	in	any	one	division.	A	reconciliation	to	operating	profit	by	division,	
and Group profit for the year is included overleaf.
Principal activities are as follows:
Industry & Assurance – using in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, nuclear, power, renewable energy, construction, food, 
chemical and agricultural industries, the division provides a diverse range of services to help customers meet global quality 
standards. These include asset integrity management, exploration and production support, consulting, training and third-party 
management systems auditing. The division also provides certification services, second-party supplier auditing, sustainability data 
verification and process performance analysis.
Commodities – provides independent cargo inspection, analytical assessment, calibration and related research and technical 
services to the world’s petroleum, mining, minerals and biofuels industries. The division also provides services to governments 
and regulatory bodies to support trade activities that help the flow of goods across borders.
1 Significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign operations
The	assets	and	liabilities	of	foreign	operations,	including	goodwill	and	fair	value	adjustments	arising	on	acquisition,	are	translated	
to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at cumulative average rates of exchange during the 
year. Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations are taken directly to equity in the translation reserve. 
They are released to the income statement upon disposal. For the policy on net investment hedging see note 14.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates:
Value of £1 
Assets and liabilities
Actual rates
Income and expenses
Cumulative average rates
31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 2013 2012
US dollar 1.65 1.61 1.56 1.59
Euro 1.20 1.22 1.18 1.23
Chinese renminbi 10.06 10.12 9.68 10.01
Hong Kong dollar 12.78 12.46 12.12 12.31
Australian dollar 1.86 1.55 1.62 1.53
Use of judgements and estimates
The	preparation	of	financial	statements	in	conformity	with	IFRSs	requires	management	to	make	judgements	and	estimates	that	
affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected.
Judgements
In	applying	the	Group’s	accounting	policies,	management	has	applied	judgement	in	the	following	areas	that	have	a	significant	
impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Income tax
The tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations. Where the effect of these laws and regulations 
is unclear,	judgements	are	used	in	determining	the	liability	for	the	tax	to	be	paid;	see	note	6.
Deferred tax
Deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	require	management	judgement	in	determining	the	amounts	to	be	recognised,	with	
consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income; see note 6.
Basis of consolidation
Judgement	is	applied	when	determining	if	the	Group	‘controls’	a	subsidiary	or	associate.	In	assessing	control,	the	Group	considers	
whether	it	has	power	over	the	investee	to	affect	the	amount	of	investor	returns;	see	page	81	‘Basis	of	consolidation’	policy.
Intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management determines whether any intangible assets should be recognised separately 
from goodwill; see note 9.
Estimates
Discussed below are key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation at the reporting date, that have 
a risk	of	causing	a	material	adjustment	to	the	carrying	amount	of	assets	and	liabilities	within	the	next	financial	year.
Claims
In making provision for claims, management bases its estimate on the circumstances relating to each specific event, internal and 
external legal advice, knowledge of the industries and markets, prevailing commercial terms and legal precedents; see note 13.
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines on an annual basis whether goodwill is impaired. This requires an estimation of the future cash flows of the 
cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated; see note 9.
Contingent consideration
When the Group acquires businesses, the total consideration may consist of an amount paid on completion plus further amounts 
payable on agreed post completion dates. These further amounts are contingent on the acquired business meeting agreed 
performance targets. At the date of acquisition, the Group reviews the profit and cash forecasts for the acquired business and 
estimates the amount of contingent consideration that is likely to be due; see note 13.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
82 83
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Geographic segments
Although the Group is managed through a divisional structure, which operates on a global basis, under the requirements of IFRS 8 
the Group must disclose any specific countries that are important to the Group’s performance. The Group considers the following 
to be the material countries in which it operates; Australia, China (including Hong Kong), the United Kingdom and the United States.
In presenting information on the basis of geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the location of the entity generating 
that revenue. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Revenue from external 
customers Non-current assets
 2013
£m
 2012
£m
2013
£m
2012*
£m
China (including Hong Kong) 397.2 353.4 41.8 40.0
Australia 100.1 112.7 64.2 77.9
Other 272.5 264.4 53.4 47.2
Total Asia Pacific 769.8 730.5 159.4 165.1
United States 529.3 514.4 520.9 407.4
Other 175.1 161.0 32.4 27.6
Total Americas 704.4 675.4 553.3 435.0
United Kingdom 190.1 171.5 406.0 390.5
Other 520.1 476.9 148.2 162.4
Total Europe, Middle East and Africa 710.2 648.4 554.2 552.9
Unallocated – – 7.2 1.1
Total 2,184.4 2,054.3 1,274.1 1,154.1
*	 2012	non-current	assets	have	been	restated	to	reflect	a	reallocation	and	an	updated	shared	asset	allocation	methodology.
Major customers
No	revenue	from	any	individual	customer	exceeded	10%	of	total	Group	revenue	in	2012	or	2013.
3 Separately Disclosed Items
Accounting policy
Adjusted results
In order to present the performance of the Group in a clear, consistent and comparable format, certain items are disclosed 
separately on the face of the income statement.
Separately Disclosed Items are items which by their nature or size, in the opinion of the Directors, should be excluded from 
the adjusted	result	to	provide	readers	with	a	clear	and	consistent	view	of	the	business	performance	of	the	Group	and	its	
operating divisions.
When applicable, these items include amortisation of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill and other assets, the profit 
or loss on disposals of businesses or other significant fixed assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, the cost of any 
fundamental restructuring of a business, material claims and settlements, significant recycling of amounts from equity to the 
income statement and unrealised gains/losses on financial assets/liabilities.
2 Operating segments and presentation of results (continued)
Consumer Goods – the division is a market leading provider of services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food and retail 
industries. As a partner to retailers, manufacturers and distributors it offers expertise on issues ranging from restricted hazardous 
substances and sustainability, to supply chain security and legislation relating to environmental, ethical and trade security issues. 
Services include testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality assurance and hazardous substance testing.
Commercial & Electrical – the global network of accredited facilities provides manufacturers and retailers with the most 
comprehensive scope of safety, performance and quality testing and certification services. The division supports customers in 
a wide range of industries including home appliances, consumer electronics, lighting, medical, building, industrial and HVAC/R 
(heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration), information and communications technology, renewable energy and 
transportation technologies.
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals – serving a wide range of industries including chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and 
automotive and aerospace, the division offers advanced laboratory measurement and expert consultancy related technical support 
services and sustainability solutions. It has an established track record of success in laboratory outsourcing with many large, 
internationally recognised companies and the division’s technical experts also support internal technical development.
The results of these divisions for the year ended 31 December 2013 are shown below:
Year ended 31 December 2013 
Revenue
from
 external
 customers
£m
Depreciation
 and
 software
amortisation *
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 Disclosed
 Items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Industry & Assurance 709.3 (8.4) 82.2 (17.7) 64.5
Commodities 586.6 (23.0) 70.0 (9.2) 60.8
Consumer Goods 381.3 (11.0) 124.5 (2.0) 122.5
Commercial & Electrical 338.4 (18.1) 49.3 (2.3) 47.0
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 168.8 (4.6) 16.6 (1.4) 15.2
Total 2,184.4 (65.1) 342.6 (32.6) 310.0
Unallocated Separately Disclosed Items – – –
Group operating profit 342.6 (32.6) 310.0
Net financing costs (27.7) (0.5) (28.2)
Profit before income tax 314.9 (33.1) 281.8
Income tax expense (72.4) 7.6 (64.8)
Profit for the year 242.5 (25.5) 217.0
*	 Depreciation	and	software	amortisation	of	£70.9m	(2012:	£63.6m)	includes	unallocated	charges	of	£5.8m	(2012:	£3.3m).
Year ended 31 December 2012
Revenue 
from
 external
 customers
£m
Depreciation
 and
 software
amortisation *
£m
Adjusted
 operating
 profit
£m
Separately
 Disclosed
 Items 
£m
Operating
 profit
£m
Industry & Assurance 665.6 (7.0) 77.4 (27.1) 50.3
Commodities 572.3 (22.1) 77.2 (1.7) 75.5
Consumer Goods 343.4 (11.5) 112.8 (6.0) 106.8
Commercial & Electrical 318.2 (14.0) 50.6 (3.1) 47.5
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 154.8 (5.7) 17.1 (7.2) 9.9
Total 2,054.3 (60.3) 335.1 (45.1) 290.0
Unallocated Separately Disclosed Items – (6.7) (6.7)
Group operating profit 335.1 (51.8) 283.3
Net financing costs (26.7) – (26.7)
Profit before income tax 308.4 (51.8) 256.6
Income tax expense (80.3) 11.9 (68.4)
Profit for the year 228.1 (39.9) 188.2
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
84 85
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 Employees
Total employee costs are shown below: 
Employee costs 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 818.9 739.8
Equity-settled transactions 10.9 10.4
Social security costs 92.3 79.8
Pension costs (note 16) 36.6 32.6
Total employee costs 958.7 862.6
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report. Details of pension arrangements and 
equity-settled transactions are set out in notes 16 and 17 respectively. 
Average number of employees by division 2013 2012
Industry & Assurance 8,668 7,313
Commodities 10,268 10,524
Consumer Goods 10,409 9,880
Commercial & Electrical 4,853 4,184
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 1,719 1,586
Central 257 260
Total average number for the year ended 31 December 36,174 33,747
Total actual number at 31 December 36,864 34,882
6 Taxation
Accounting policy
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the same primary statement as the 
accounting transaction to which it relates.
Current tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted  
at	the	reporting	date,	and	any	adjustment	to	tax	payable	in	respect	of	previous	years.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due. 
Amounts are accrued based on management’s interpretation of specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement. Where the 
outcome of discussions with tax authorities is different from the amount initially recorded, this difference will impact the tax 
provisions in the period the determination is made.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for:
•	 initial recognition of goodwill;
•	 the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit; and
•	 differences	relating	to	investments	in	subsidiaries,	branches,	associates	and	interest	in	joint	ventures,	the	reversal	of	which	
is under the control of the Group and where it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of 
assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, for the periods 
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right 
to offset current tax liabilities and assets and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable 
entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and 
liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the temporary difference can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
tax asset to be utilised.
Any additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend.
3 Separately Disclosed Items (continued)
Separately Disclosed Items
The Separately Disclosed Items are described in the table below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating costs:
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (a) (22.5) (29.3)
Acquisition and integration costs (b) (1.5) (5.5)
Project	costs (c) – (2.8)
Restructuring costs (d) (8.8) (11.0)
Goodwill impairment (e) – (3.2)
Gain on disposal of investment in associates 0.2 –
Total operating costs (32.6) (51.8)
Net financing costs (0.5) –
Total before income tax (33.1) (51.8)
Income tax credit on Separately Disclosed Items 7.6 11.9
Total (25.5) (39.9)
(a)  Of the amortisation of acquisition intangibles in the current year, £15.6m (2012: £19.7m) relates to the customer contracts 
and customer	relationships	acquired	with	the	purchase	of	Moody	International	Limited	(‘Moody’)	in	2011.
(b)  Acquisition and integration costs comprise £1.5m (2012: £1.8m) for transaction costs in respect of acquisitions and £nil 
(2012: £3.7m) in respect of integration costs.
(c)	 	 Project	costs	relate	to	the	Group’s	Business	Process	Outsourcing	initiative,	which	concluded	during	2012.
(d)  Restructuring costs relate to asset write-offs and staff redundancies in certain regions in which the Group operates. 
(e)  Goodwill impairment relates to the disposal of certain operations in Europe.
4 Expenses and auditor’s remuneration
Certain expenses are outlined below, including fees paid to the auditors of the Group: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Included in profit for the year are the following expenses:
Property rentals 57.6 48.1
Lease and hire charges – fixtures, fittings and equipment 16.3 14.6
Depreciation and software amortisation 70.9 63.6
Loss on disposal of property, fixtures, fittings, equipment and software 0.6 0.1
Auditor’s remuneration: 
Audit of these financial statements 0.4 0.4
Amounts receivable by the auditors and their associates in respect of: 
 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.7 1.6
 Total audit fees payable pursuant to legislation 2.1 2.0
 Taxation compliance services 0.4 0.4
 Taxation advisory services 0.1 0.2
 Other 0.2 0.3
Total 2.8 2.9
The auditors and their associates were paid £15,000 (2012: £15,000) in respect of the audit of Group pension schemes.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
86 87
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 6 Taxation (continued)
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’)
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax 
recognised on items recorded in other comprehensive income is shown below:
Before tax
2013
£m
Tax credit
2013
£m
Net of tax
2013
£m
Before tax
2012
£m
Tax credit
2012
£m
Net of tax
2012
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences of 
foreign operations
(48.9) – (48.9) (37.2) – (37.2)
Net exchange gain on hedges of net investments 
in foreign operations
16.7 – 16.7 25.4 – 25.4
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges 
transferred to profit or loss
(0.2) – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.3)
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes
5.2 (0.9) 4.3 (6.5) 0.1 (6.4)
Deferred tax assets recognised in other 
comprehensive income – 5.1 5.1 – 1.4 1.4
Total other comprehensive income for the year (27.2) 4.2 (23.0) (18.6) 1.5 (17.1)
Income tax recognised directly in equity
As noted in the accounting policy, tax is recognised in the same place as the relevant accounting charge. The income tax on items 
recognised in equity is shown below:
Before tax
2013
£m
Tax credit
2013
£m
Net of tax
2013
£m
Before tax
2012
£m
Tax credit
2012
£m
Net of tax
2012
£m
Equity-settled transactions 10.9 0.8 11.7 10.4 3.3 13.7
Deferred tax
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
Assets
2013
£m
Assets
2012
£m
Liabilities 
2013
£m
Liabilities 
2012
£m
Net
2013
£m
Net
2012
£m
Intangible assets 0.8 0.5 (52.2) (52.1) (51.4) (51.6)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 8.6 4.4 (4.3) (1.7) 4.3 2.7
Pensions 0.9 1.5 – – 0.9 1.5
Equity-settled transactions 6.8 4.9 – – 6.8 4.9
Provisions and other temporary differences 25.6 28.4 (1.9) (0.6) 23.7 27.8
Tax value of losses 9.9 10.2 – – 9.9 10.2
Total 52.6 49.9 (58.4) (54.4) (5.8) (4.5)
As shown on balance sheet:
Deferred tax assets
* 28.3 28.3
Deferred tax liabilities
* (34.1) (32.8)
Total (5.8) (4.5)
*	 	 The	deferred	tax	by	category	shown	above	is	not	netted	off	within	companies	or	jurisdictions.	The	balance	sheet	shows	the	net	position	within companies	
or jurisdictions.	The	difference	between	the	two	asset	and	liability	totals	is	£24.3m,	but	the	net	liability	of	£5.8m	is	the	same	in	both	cases.	
6 Taxation (continued)
Tax expense
The	Group	operates	across	many	different	tax	jurisdictions.	Income	and	profits	are	earned	and	taxed	in	the	individual	countries	
in which they occur.
The income tax expense for the profit before tax for the year end 31 December 2013 is £64.8m (2012: £68.4m). The Group’s 
consolidated	effective	tax	rate	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2013	is	23.0%	(2012:	26.7%).
The	income	tax	expense	for	the	adjusted	profit	before	tax	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2013	is	£72.4m	(2012:	£80.3m).	
The Group’s	adjusted	consolidated	effective	tax	rate	for	the	12	months	ended	31	December	2013	is	23.0%	(2012:	26.0%).
Differences	between	the	consolidated	effective	tax	rate	of	23.0%	and	the	notional	statutory	UK	rate	of	23.25%	include,	but	are	
not	limited	to;	the	mix	of	profits,	the	effect	of	tax	rates	in	foreign	jurisdictions,	non-deductible	expenses,	the	effect	of	utilised	tax	
losses and under/over provisions in previous periods.
The	Group	receives	tax	incentives	in	certain	jurisdictions,	resulting	in	a	lower	tax	charge	to	the	income	statement.	Without	these	
incentives	the	adjusted	effective	tax	rate	would	be	25.4%	(2012:	28.0%).	There	is	no	guarantee	that	these	reduced	rates	will	
continue to be applicable in future years (see note 22).
Tax charge
The total income tax charge, comprising the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax, recognised in the income 
statement is analysed as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current tax charge for the period 69.7 81.9
Adjustments	relating	to	prior	year	liabilities (3.1) 2.0
Current tax 66.6 83.9
Deferred tax movement (1.8) (15.5)
Total tax in income statement 64.8 68.4
Tax	on	adjusted	result 72.4 80.3
Tax on Separately Disclosed Items (7.6) (11.9)
Total tax in income statement 64.8 68.4
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The following table provides a reconciliation of the UK statutory corporation tax rate to the effective tax rate of the Group on 
profit before taxation.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit before taxation 281.8 256.6
Notional	tax	charge	at	UK	standard	rate	23.25%	(2012:	24.5%) 65.5 62.8
Differences in overseas tax rates (6.5) (3.5)
Tax on dividends 4.6 4.3
Non-deductible expenses 9.0 10.9
Tax exempt income (4.2) (3.4)
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax – (0.6)
Adjustments	in	respect	of	prior	years (1.7) (0.9)
Other (1.9) (1.2)
Total tax in income statement 64.8 68.4
During	2010,	the	UK	Government	announced	a	phased	reduction	in	the	main	UK	corporation	tax	rate	from	28%	to	24%	over	a	
period of four years from 1 April 2011. Further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate were announced in subsequent years, to 
reduce	the	corporation	tax	rate	to	20%	from	1	April	2015.	The	reduction	in	the	UK	corporation	tax	rates	to	21%	from	1	April	2014	
and	to	20%	from	1	April	2015	was	substantively	enacted	in	July	2013.	
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
88 89
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In	addition	to	the	earnings	per	share	required	by	IAS	33:	Earnings	Per	Share,	an	adjusted	earnings	per	share	has	also	been	
calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and other 
Separately Disclosed Items. It has been calculated to allow shareholders a better understanding of the trading performance of the 
Group.	Details	of	the	adjusted	earnings	per	share	are	set	out	below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 200.5 173.8
Separately Disclosed Items after tax (note 3) 25.5 39.9
Adjusted earnings 226.0 213.7
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 161.2 160.6
Potentially dilutive share awards 1.9 2.3
Diluted weighted average number of shares 163.1 162.9
Basic earnings per share 124.4p 108.2p
Potentially dilutive share awards (1.4)p (1.5)p
Diluted earnings per share 123.0p 106.7p
Adjusted basic earnings per share 140.2p 133.1p
Potentially dilutive share awards (1.6)p (1.9)p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 138.6p 131.2p
8 Property, plant and equipment
Accounting policy
Property, plant and equipment
Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Leased assets
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Where land 
and buildings are held under finance leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings. 
Leased assets acquired by way of finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value 
of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Other leases are operating leases
These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and 
equipment. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the expected lease term and their useful lives. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 50 years
Short leasehold buildings Term of lease 
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment 3 to 10 years
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of assets are reassessed at each reporting date.
Impairment
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each 
reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated to determine the level of any impairment.
6 Taxation (continued)
Movements in deferred tax temporary differences during the year
The movement in the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below:
1 January 
2013
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
and OCI
£m
31 December
 2013
£m
Intangible assets (51.6) 1.6 (4.5) 3.1 – (51.4)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 2.7 0.1 (2.0) 3.5 – 4.3
Pensions 1.5 – – 0.3 (0.9) 0.9
Equity-settled transactions 4.9 – – 2.0 (0.1) 6.8
Provisions and other temporary differences 27.8 (1.1) 0.4 (3.4) – 23.7
Tax value of losses 10.2 (0.8) 0.1 (3.7) 4.1 9.9
Total (4.5) (0.2) (6.0) 1.8 3.1 (5.8)
1 January 
2012
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
Acquisitions
£m
Recognised 
in income
 statement
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
and OCI
£m
31 December
 2012
£m
Intangible assets (56.7) 2.0 (2.1) 5.2 – (51.6)
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 2.2 (0.1) – 0.6 – 2.7
Pensions 1.4 – – – 0.1 1.5
Equity-settled transactions 5.5 – – (1.1) 0.5 4.9
Provisions and other temporary differences 17.0 (0.4) – 11.2 – 27.8
Tax value of losses 9.0 0.2 – (0.4) 1.4 10.2
Total (21.6) 1.7 (2.1) 15.5 2.0 (4.5)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items shown below. The numbers shown are the gross temporary 
differences, and to calculate the potential deferred tax asset it is necessary to multiply these by the tax rates in each case:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Property, fixtures, fittings and equipment 9.1 31.5
Pensions 8.8 6.8
Equity-settled transactions 3.2 7.7
Provisions and other temporary differences 22.7 13.1
Tax losses 31.1 41.0
Total 74.9 100.1
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be 
available	in	certain	jurisdictions	against	which	the	Group	can	utilise	the	benefits	from	them.
There is a temporary difference of £192.7m (2012: £188.7m) which relates to unremitted post-acquisition overseas earnings. 
No deferred tax is provided on this amount as the distribution of these retained earnings is under the control of the Group and 
there is no intention to either repatriate from or sell the associated subsidiaries in the foreseeable future.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
90 91
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Commitments
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected term of 
the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the 
term of the lease.
At 31 December, the Group had future unprovided commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due as follows:
Land and
 buildings
2013
£m
Other
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Land and
 buildings
2012
£m
Other
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Within one year 64.7 5.9 70.6 42.2 7.2 49.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 66.8 5.9 72.7 73.0 5.8 78.8
Over five years 37.9 – 37.9 45.6 0.1 45.7
Total 169.4 11.8 181.2 160.8 13.1 173.9
The Group leases various laboratories, testing and inspection sites, administrative offices and equipment under lease agreements 
which have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contracts for capital expenditure which are not provided in the financial statements amounted to £9.1m (2012: £6.3m).
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Accounting policy
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of businesses. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the 
Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs) and  
is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
From	1	January	2010,	the	Group	has	prospectively	applied	IFRS	3	‘Business	Combinations	(revised	2008)’.	
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control 
is obtained.
The Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred less the net recognised amount (generally fair 
value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. 
Costs relating to acquisitions are shown in Separately Disclosed Items.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised 
in profit or loss.
If at the reporting date the fair values of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities can only be 
established	provisionally,	then	these	values	are	used.	Adjustments	to	the	fair	values	can	be	made	within	12	months	of	the	
acquisition	date	and	are	taken	as	adjustments	to	goodwill.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition 
over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the acquiree. 
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection 
with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not restated goodwill on acquisitions prior to 
1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount 
recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework.
8 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
The property, plant and equipment employed by the business is analysed below: 
Land and
buildings
£m
Fixtures,
fittings,
plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2012 57.7 543.8 601.5
Exchange	adjustments (1.9) (18.4) (20.3)
Additions 5.1 96.2 101.3
Disposals (1.0) (9.9) (10.9)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 3.0 4.5 7.5
At 31 December 2012 62.9 616.2 679.1
Depreciation
At 1 January 2012 11.1 325.4 336.5
Exchange	adjustments (0.5) (9.7) (10.2)
Charge for the year 2.3 57.5 59.8
Disposals (0.2) (8.9) (9.1)
At 31 December 2012 12.7 364.3 377.0
Net book value at 31 December 2012 50.2 251.9 302.1
Cost
At 1 January 2013 62.9 616.2 679.1
Exchange	adjustments (3.5) (34.3) (37.8)
Additions 8.6 104.8 113.4
Disposals (0.9) (17.1) (18.0)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 0.6 10.5 11.1
At 31 December 2013 67.7 680.1 747.8
Depreciation
At 1 January 2013 12.7 364.3 377.0
Exchange	adjustments (0.7) (18.5) (19.2)
Charge for the year 2.6 63.1 65.7
Disposals (0.7) (12.1) (12.8)
At 31 December 2013 13.9 396.8 410.7
Net book value at 31 December 2013 53.8 283.3 337.1
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment include assets in the course of construction of £24.4m at 31 December 2013 (2012: £21.6m), 
mainly comprising laboratories under construction. These assets will not be depreciated until they are available for use.
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Freehold 49.2 45.1
Long leasehold 2.6 2.5
Short leasehold 2.0 2.6
Total 53.8 50.2
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
92 93
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Intangibles
The intangibles employed by the business are analysed below:
Other intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Licences
£m
Other
 acquisition
 intangibles
£m
Computer
 software
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2012 651.0 205.5 8.3 17.1 37.0 267.9
Exchange	adjustments (6.8) (2.8) (0.2) (0.4) (1.5) (4.9)
Additions – – – – 13.7 13.7
Businesses acquired (note 10) 41.1 6.7 – – – 6.7
At 31 December 2012 685.3 209.4 8.1 16.7 49.2 283.4
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2012 14.0 56.6 6.3 14.4 21.1 98.4
Exchange	adjustments (0.4) (1.2) (0.2) (0.4) (0.8) (2.6)
Charge for the year – 27.7 0.7 0.9 3.8 33.1
Impairment 3.2 – – – – –
At 31 December 2012 16.8 83.1 6.8 14.9 24.1 128.9
Net book value at 31 December 2012 668.5 126.3 1.3 1.8 25.1 154.5
Cost
At 1 January 2013 685.3 209.4 8.1 16.7 49.2 283.4
Exchange	adjustments (25.7) (3.3) (0.2) – (2.4) (5.9)
Additions – – – – 31.4 31.4
Disposals (3.1) (0.8) – – – (0.8)
Businesses acquired (note 10) 93.9 15.5 – – – 15.5
At 31 December 2013 750.4 220.8 7.9 16.7 78.2 323.6
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2013 16.8 83.1 6.8 14.9 24.1 128.9
Exchange	adjustments (0.1) (2.6) (0.2) – (0.7) (3.5)
Charge for the year – 21.3 0.6 0.6 5.2 27.7
Impairment – – – – – –
Disposal (3.1) – – – – –
At 31 December 2013 13.6 101.8 7.2 15.5 28.6 153.1
Net book value at 31 December 2013 736.8 119.0 0.7 1.2 49.6 170.5
The other acquisition intangibles of £1.2m (2012: £1.8m) consist of covenants not to compete, know-how and guaranteed income. 
The average remaining amortisation period for customer relationships is seven years (2012: eight years).
Computer software net book value of £49.6m at 31 December 2013 (2012: £25.1m) includes software in construction of £28.0m 
(2012: £12.8m).
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Other intangible assets
When the Group makes an acquisition, management review the business and assets acquired to determine whether any intangible 
assets	should	be	recognised	separately	from	goodwill.	If,	based	on	management’s	judgement,	such	an	asset	is	identified,	then	it	is	
valued by discounting the probable future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, over the estimated life of the asset. 
Where there is uncertainty over the amount of economic benefit and the useful life, this is factored into the calculation.
Intangible assets arising on acquisitions and computer software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of 
whether those rights are separable, and which have finite useful lives.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives 
are as follows:
Computer software Up to 7 years
Customer relationships Up to 10 years 
Know-how Up to 5 years 
Licences Contractual life 
Covenants not to compete Contractual life
Impairment
Goodwill	is	not	subject	to	amortisation	and	is	tested	annually	for	impairment	and	when	circumstances	indicate	that	the	carrying	
value may be impaired.
Other	intangible	assets	are	subject	to	amortisation	and	are	reviewed	for	impairment	whenever	events	or	changes	in	circumstances	
indicate that the amount carried in the statement of financial position may be less than its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount	of	each	asset	or	group	of	assets	(‘cash	generating	unit’	or	‘CGU’)	to	which	the	goodwill	relates.	A	CGU	represents	an	 
asset grouping at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in 
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The estimation process is complex due to the inherent 
risks	and	uncertainties	and	if	different	estimates	were	used	this	could	materially	change	the	projected	value	of	the	cash	flows.	
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
94 95
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 Acquisitions
Acquisitions in 2013
During the year, the Group acquired a number of companies as set out below. 
Date Company
Investment 
value
£m Business Country
Percentage
acquired %
Goodwill
arising
£m
4 March 2013 E-TEST Laboratorio de Ensaios e 
Tecnologia Ltda.
6.6 Consumer Goods Brazil 85 5.0
4 July 2013 Melbourn Scientific Limited 10.5 Chemicals & Pharma UK 100 7.4
4 October 2013 Global X-Ray & Testing Corporation 36.5 Industry & Assurance USA 100 32.0
24 December 2013 Architectural Testing, Inc. 52.9 Commercial & Electrical USA 100 48.3
Other 2.0 Industry & Assurance 100 1.2
Total 108.5 93.9
Including debt assumed, the purchase price of these acquisitions totals £121.7m.
In the prior year, the Group acquired six companies.
The	total	net	assets	and	fair	value	adjustments	are	set	out	in	the	following	table:
2013 2012
Total
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Book value
 prior to
 acquisition
£m
Fair value
 adjustments
£m 
Fair value 
to Group on
 acquisition
£m
Property, plant and equipment 11.1 – 11.1 7.5 – 7.5
Goodwill – 93.9 93.9 – 30.9 30.9
Other intangible assets – 15.5 15.5 – 6.7 6.7
Inventories 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 13.7 (0.5) 13.2 6.0 6.0
Trade and other payables (17.8) (1.1) (18.9) (6.9) – (6.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) – (0.3)
Corporation tax payable – – – (0.7) – (0.7)
Deferred tax liabilities (1.5) (4.5) (6.0) – (2.1) (2.1)
Net assets acquired 5.8 102.7 108.5 5.9 35.5 41.4
Cash outflow (net of cash acquired) 108.1 39.6
Contingent consideration 0.4 1.8
Total consideration 108.5 41.4
Goodwill
The total goodwill arising on acquisitions made during 2013 was £93.9m. There was an increase of £nil to goodwill in respect 
of prior years’ acquisitions. 
The goodwill arising is chiefly attributable to the technical excellence on analytical and formulation services to the pharmaceutical 
industry	(‘Melbourn’),	staff	expertise	and	operational	synergies	in	offshore	and	onshore	non-destructive	testing	within	the	Industry	
and	Assurance	division	(‘GXT’)	and	the	expansion	of	building	products	development	and	assessment	(‘ATI’).	
The goodwill on other acquisitions is mainly related to the significant value placed on the technical knowledge, experience 
and abilities of employees of the companies acquired, along with the future operational synergies anticipated as a result of 
these acquisitions. 
Consideration paid
The total cash consideration paid for the acquisitions in the year was £108.1m (2012: £39.6m).
Contribution of acquisitions to revenue and profits
In total the acquisitions made during 2013 contributed revenues of £14.3m and profit after tax of £2.7m from their respective 
dates of acquisition to 31 December 2013.
The Group revenue and profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2013 would have been £2,235.0m and £221.2m 
respectively if all the acquisitions were assumed to have been made on 1 January 2013.
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill arising from acquisitions in the current and prior year has been allocated to reportable segments as follows: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Industry & Assurance 33.2 30.5
Commodities – 6.1
Consumer Goods 5.0 3.4
Commercial & Electrical 48.3 –
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 7.4 1.1
At 31 December 93.9 41.1
The total carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment is as follows, which is also used for the disclosure of the Group’s 
impairment review:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Industry & Assurance 454.6 433.2
Commodities 66.6 73.9
Consumer Goods 14.0 9.8
Commercial & Electrical 103.3 59.0
Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals 98.3 92.6
Net book value at 31 December
* 736.8 668.5
*			 All	goodwill	is	recorded	in	local	currency.	Additions	during	the	year	are	converted	at	the	exchange	rate	on	the	date	of	the	transaction	and	the	goodwill	at	the	end	
of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment review
In order to determine whether impairments are required, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each operating segment, 
which	are	then	disclosed	by	reportable	segment.	The	calculation	is	based	on	projecting	future	cash	flows	over	a	five-year	period	
and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter. A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use 
which is the recoverable amount.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions include the rate of revenue and profit growth within each of the territories and business lines in which the 
Group operates. These are based on the Group’s approved budget and plan. The long-term growth rate is also key since it is used 
in the perpetuity calculations. Finally, the discount rate used to bring the cash flow back to a present value varies depending on the 
location of the operation and the nature of the operations. The estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The calculation of the value in use is sensitive to long-term growth rates and discount rates. Long-term growth rates predict 
growth	beyond	the	Group’s	planning	cycle,	and	range	from	2.1%	to	3.5%	(2012:	2.5%	to	3.9%).	The	discount	rate	for	each	 
CGU	reflects	the	Group’s	weighted	average	cost	of	capital	adjusted	for	the	risks	specific	to	the	CGU.	Discount	rates	ranged	 
from	10.1%	to	13.4%	(2012:	8.5%	to	11.1%).
Sensitivity analysis
None of the reasonable downside sensitivity scenarios carried out by management on key assumptions would cause the carrying 
amount of each reporting segment to exceed its recoverable amount. These sensitivities include:
(i)		 	 	 Assuming	revenues	decline	each	year	by	1%	in	2015	to	2017	from	the	2014	budgeted	revenues,	with	margins	increasing	
with base assumptions, all reportable segments continue to show sufficient headroom.
(ii)  Assuming zero growth in operating profit margins in 2014 to 2017, with revenues increasing per base assumptions, 
all reportable segments continue to show sufficient headroom.
(iii)		 Assuming	an	increase	in	the	discount	rates	used	by	1%,	all	reportable	segments	continue	to	show	sufficient	headroom.	
Management considers that the likelihood of any or all of the above scenarios occurring is low.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
96 97
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013  12 Trade and other payables
Accounting policy
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier. The carrying value of trade payables is considered 
approximate to fair value.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are analysed below:
Current
2013
£m
Current
2012
£m
Non-current
2013
£m
Non-current
2012
£m
Trade payables 48.2 50.1 – –
Other payables
* 40.9 57.3 – –
Accruals and deferred income 215.5 216.9 4.7 6.2
Total trade and other payables 304.6 324.3 4.7 6.2
*	 Other	payables	include	£nil	(2012:	£0.2m)	of	deferred	consideration	in	respect	of	acquisitions.
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk related to trade payables is disclosed in note 14.
 1 3 Provisions
Accounting policy
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated 
reliably as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions
Contingent
consideration
£m
Claims
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 3.3 8.6 16.8 28.7
Exchange	adjustments 0.1 (0.1) – –
Provided in the year: – 6.3 14.5 20.8
 in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.5 – – 0.5
 in respect of current year acquisitions 0.4 0.6 – 1.0
Released during the year (1.2) (0.4) (3.2) (4.8)
Utilised during the year – (5.3) (16.5) (21.8)
At 31 December 2013 3.1 9.7 11.6 24.4
Included in:
Current liabilities 0.7 9.7 11.6 22.0
Non-current liabilities 2.4 – – 2.4
At 31 December 2013 3.1 9.7 11.6 24.4
The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business. The outcome of such litigation 
and	the	timing	of	any	potential	liability	cannot	be	readily	foreseen,	as	it	is	often	subject	to	legal	proceedings.	Based	on	information	
currently available, the Directors consider that the cost to the Group of an unfavourable outcome arising from such litigation is 
unlikely to have a materially adverse effect on the financial position of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The provision for claims of £9.7m (2012: £8.6m) represents an estimate of the amounts payable in connection with identified 
claims from customers, former employees and other plaintiffs and associated legal costs. The timing of the cash outflow relating 
to the provisions is uncertain but is likely to be within one year. Details of contingent liabilities in respect of claims are set out in 
note 22.
The other provision of £11.6m (2012: £16.8m) includes restructuring provisions. The timing of the cash outflow is uncertain but 
is likely to be within one year.
11 Trade and other receivables
Accounting policy
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts 
considered recoverable (amortised cost).
Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected. Based on 
historic default rates, reflecting the track record of payments by the Group’s customers, the Group believes that no impairment 
allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables which are less than six months outstanding, unless there are specific 
circumstances such as the bankruptcy of a customer which would render the trade receivable irrecoverable.
The Group provides fully for all trade receivables over 12 months old as these are considered likely to be irrecoverable. Where 
recovery is in doubt, a provision is made against the specific trade receivable until such time as the Group believes the amount 
to be irrecoverable. At that time the trade receivable is written off.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are analysed below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 358.5 362.2
Other receivables 65.4 52.8
Prepayments and accrued income 87.0 87.4
Total trade and other receivables 510.9 502.4
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for impairment losses of £16.6m (2012: £16.7m) and are all expected to be 
recovered within 12 months. Impairment on trade receivables charged as part of operating costs was £6.6m (2012: £4.2m).
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value, due to their 
short-term duration. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number 
of customers who are internationally dispersed.
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Under 3 months 307.3 306.4
Between 3 and 6 months 39.4 39.7
Between 6 and 12 months 18.9 20.3
Over 12 months 9.5 12.5
Gross trade receivables 375.1 378.9
Allowance for impairment (16.6) (16.7)
Trade receivables, net of allowance 358.5 362.2
Included in trade receivables under three months of £307.3m (2012: £306.4m) are trade receivables of £170.1m (2012: £163.5m) 
which are not yet due for payment under the Group’s standard terms and conditions of sale.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Impairment allowance for doubtful trade receivables
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 January 16.7 15.4
Exchange differences (0.9) 0.6
Acquisitions 0.5 –
Cash recovered (0.6) (0.5)
Impairment loss recognised 6.6 4.2
Receivables written off (5.7) (3.0)
At 31 December 16.6 16.7
There were no material individual impairments of trade receivables.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
98 99
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Borrowings and financial instruments
Financial instruments
Accounting policy
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, facility fees, interest receivable on funds invested, net foreign 
exchange gains or losses, interest income and expense relating to pension assets and liabilities and gains and losses on hedging 
instruments that are recognised in the income statement. Interest income and interest expense are recognised as they accrue 
using the effective interest rate method.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables. Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses (including bad debt provision).
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
statement of cash flows. Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at their amortised cost.
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, to hedge 
economically its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised 
in profit or loss when incurred. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value at each period end is recognised immediately in 
the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the 
balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the 
difference between the quoted forward price and the exercise price of the contract.
Hedging
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities
Where a derivative financial instrument is used economically to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary 
asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income 
statement in the same caption as the foreign exchange on the related item.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is 
determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
The Group has external borrowings denominated in foreign currencies which are used to hedge the net investment in its 
foreign operations.
 
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Impairment
A	financial	asset	is	assessed	at	each	reporting	date	to	determine	whether	there	is	any	objective	evidence	that	it	is	impaired.	
A financial	asset	is	considered	to	be	impaired	if	objective	evidence	indicates	that	one	or	more	events	have	had	a	negative	effect	
on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs are shown below:
Recognised in income statement
2013
£m
2012
£m
Finance income
Interest on bank balances 1.5 2.7
Pension interest (note 16) 3.8 4.8
Total finance income 5.3 7.5
Finance expense
Interest on borrowings (26.0) (25.9)
Pension interest (note 16) (4.3) (4.2)
Foreign exchange differences on revaluation of net monetary assets and liabilities (1.7) (2.7)
Facility fees and other
* (1.5) (1.4)
Total finance expense (33.5) (34.2)
Net financing costs (28.2) (26.7)
*	 Includes	£0.5m	(2012:	£nil)	relating	to	SDIs.
Recognised directly in other comprehensive income 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Foreign exchange translation differences of foreign operations (48.9) (37.2)
Net exchange gain on hedges of net investment in foreign operations 16.7 25.4
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.3) (0.5)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss 0.1 0.2
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (32.4) (12.1)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (31.0) (11.6)
Non-controlling interest (1.4) (0.5)
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (32.4) (12.1)
Recognised in:
Translation reserve and non-controlling interest (32.2) (11.8)
Retained earnings (0.2) (0.3)
Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax (32.4) (12.1)
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
100 101
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Analysis of net debt
The components of net debt are outlined below:
1 January 
2013
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2013
£m
Cash 166.5 (45.4) (4.7) 116.4
Borrowings:
Revolving credit facility US$600m 2016 (235.5) 41.7 2.1 (191.7)
Bilateral multi-currency facility 2016 (38.3) 0.4 0.6 (37.3)
Bilateral term loan facilities – (25.2) 1.0 (24.2)
Senior notes US$25m 2014 (15.5) – 0.4 (15.1)
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (62.2) – 1.5 (60.7)
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (46.7) – 1.2 (45.5)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 (62.2) – 1.5 (60.7)
Senior notes US$20m 2019 (12.4) – 0.3 (12.1)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 (93.3) – 2.3 (91.0)
Senior notes US$140m 2022 (87.1) – 2.2 (84.9)
Senior notes US$40m 2023 – (25.8) 1.5 (24.3)
Senior notes US$105m 2024 (65.4) – 1.7 (63.7)
Senior notes US$40m 2025 – (25.8) 1.5 (24.3)
Other
* 1.4 (0.6) 0.1 0.9
Total borrowings (717.2) (35.3) 17.9 (734.6)
Total net debt (550.7) (80.7) 13.2 (618.2)
*	 Other	borrowings	of	£0.9m	(2012:	£0.8m)	and	facility	fees.
1 January 
2012
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
 adjustments
£m
31 December 
2012
£m
Cash 181.9 (10.3) (5.1) 166.5
Borrowings:
Revolving credit facility US$600m 2016 (304.4) 62.3 6.6 (235.5)
Bridge facility US$300m (155.1) 151.5 3.6 –
Bilateral multi-currency facility 2016 (13.4) (26.6) 1.7 (38.3)
Senior notes US$25m 2014 (16.1) – 0.6 (15.5)
Senior notes US$100m 2015 (64.6) – 2.4 (62.2)
Senior notes US$75m 2016 (48.5) – 1.8 (46.7)
Senior notes US$100m 2017 (64.6) – 2.4 (62.2)
Senior notes US$20m 2019 – (12.9) 0.5 (12.4)
Senior notes US$150m 2020 (96.8) – 3.5 (93.3)
Senior notes US$140m 2022 – (90.5) 3.4 (87.1)
Senior notes US$105m 2024 – (68.1) 2.7 (65.4)
Other
* 0.9 0.5 – 1.4
Total borrowings (762.6) 16.2 29.2 (717.2)
Total net debt (580.7) 5.9 24.1 (550.7)
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Borrowings
Borrowings are split into current and non-current as outlined below:
Current
2013
£m
Current
2012
£m
Non-current
2013
£m
Non-current
2012
£m
Senior term loans and notes 14.5 – 719.2 716.4
Other borrowings 0.9 0.8 – –
Total borrowings 15.4 0.8 719.2 716.4
Analysis of debt
2013
£m
2012
£m
Debt falling due:
In one year or less 15.4 0.8
Between one and two years 84.3 15.0
Between two and five years 334.8 443.4
Over five years 300.1 258.0
Total borrowings 734.6 717.2
Description of borrowings
Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2013 were £175m (2012: £164m).
US$600m revolving credit facility
The Group’s principal bank facility comprises a US$600m multi-currency revolving credit facility signed in February 2011 and 
available to 31 March 2016. Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR, or their local currency equivalent, 
plus a margin, depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 2013 were £191.7m 
(2012: £235.5m).
Bilateral multi-currency facility
In December 2010 the Group signed a multi-currency facility available to March 2016. The facility comprises a £30m multi-currency 
revolver facility and a €12m multi-currency term loan facility. Drawings under these facilities at 31 December 2013 were £37.3m 
(2012: £38.3m).
Bilateral term loan facility 1
On 21 December 2012 the Group signed a US$20m bilateral term loan available to March 2015. Advances under this facility bear 
interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility at 31 December 
2013 were £12.1m (2012: £nil). 
Bilateral term loan facility 2
On 21 December 2012 the Group signed a US$20m bilateral term loan available to December 2015. Advances under this 
facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin depending on the Group’s leverage. Drawings under this facility  
at 31 December 2013 were £12.1m (2012: £nil).
Private placement bonds
In June 2008 the Group issued US$100m of senior notes. The notes are repayable on 26 June 2015 and pay a fixed annual interest 
rate	of	5.54%.
In December 2008 the Group issued US$100m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$25m repayable 
on	21	January	2014	at	a	fixed	annual	interest	rate	of	7.5%	and	US$75m	repayable	on	10	June	2016	at	a	fixed	annual	interest	rate	
of	8.0%.
In December 2010 the Group issued US$250m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$100m repayable 
on	15	December	2017	at	a	fixed	annual	interest	rate	of	3.2%	and	US$150m	repayable	on	15	December	2020	at	a	fixed	annual	
interest	rate	of	3.91%.
In October 2011 the Group issued US$265m of senior notes. These notes were issued in three tranches with US$20m repayable  
on	18	January	2019	at	a	fixed	annual	interest	rate	of	3.0%,	US$140m	repayable	on	18	January	2022	at	a	fixed	annual	interest	rate	
of	3.75%	and	US$105m	repayable	on	18	January	2024	at	a	fixed	annual	interest	rate	of	3.85%.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
102 103
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
In February 2013 the Group issued a further US$80m of senior notes. These notes were issued in two tranches with US$40m 
repayable	on	14	February	2023	at	a	fixed	annual	interest	rate	of	3.10%	and	US$40m	repayable	on	14	February	2025	at	a	fixed	
annual	interest	rate	of	3.25%.
Financial risks
Details of the Group’s treasury controls, exposures and the policies and processes for managing capital and credit, liquidity, 
interest rate and currency risk are set out below and in the Directors’ Report – Financial Review that starts on page 25.
Credit risk
Exposure to credit risk
Credit risks arise mainly from the possibility that customers may not be able to settle their obligations as agreed. The Group 
monitors the creditworthiness of customers on an ongoing basis. The Group’s credit risk is diversified due to the large number 
of entities, industries and regions that make up the Group’s customer base.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. At the reporting date this was as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables, net of allowance (note 11) 358.5 362.2
Cash and cash equivalents 116.4 166.5
Total 474.9 528.7
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Asia Pacific 97.1 109.0
Americas 107.7 113.4
Europe, Middle East and Africa 153.7 139.8
Total 358.5 362.2
Counterparty risk
Cash and cash equivalents and available borrowing facilities are at risk in the event that the counterparty is not able to meet 
its obligations in regards to the cash held or facilities available to the Group. The Group also enters into transactions with 
counterparties in relation to derivative financial instruments. If the counterparty was not able to meet its obligations, the Group 
may be exposed to additional foreign currency or interest rate risk.
The Group, wherever possible, enters into arrangements with counterparties who have robust credit standing, which the Group 
defines as a financial institution with a credit rating of at least A-. The Group has existing banking relationships with a number 
of ‘relationship	banks’	that	meet	this	criterion,	and	seeks	to	use	their	services	wherever	possible	while	avoiding	excessive	
concentration of credit risk. Given the diverse geographic nature of the Group’s activities, it is not always possible to use a 
relationship bank. Therefore the Group has set limits on the level of deposits to be held at non-relationship banks to minimise  
the risk to the Group. It is also Group policy to remit any excess funds from local entities back to Intertek Group Treasury  
in the UK. Given the controls in place, and based on a current assessment of our banking relationships, management does  
not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its obligations as and when they fall due. The Group’s policy is to:
•	 ensure sufficient liquidity is available to Group companies in the amounts, currencies and locations required to support the 
Group’s operations;
•	 ensure the Group has adequate available sources of funding to protect against unforeseen internal and external events; and
•	 avoid excess liquidity which restricts growth and impacts the cost of financing.
To	ensure	this	policy	is	met,	the	Group	monitors	cash	balances	on	a	daily	basis,	projects	cash	requirements	on	a	rolling	basis	
and funds itself using debt instruments with a range of maturities.
The following are the contractual cash flows of financial liabilities including interest (for floating rate instruments, interest 
payments are based on the interest rate at 31 December 2013):
2013
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes 733.7 851.3 27.2 12.1 152.3 443.7 216.0
Other loans 0.9 0.9 – 0.9 – – –
Trade payables (note 12) 48.2 48.2 44.6 3.6 – – –
782.8 900.4 71.8 16.6 152.3 443.7 216.0
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts:
 Outflow 2.5 239.3 218.7 20.6 – – –
 Inflow – (236.8) (216.2) (20.6) – – –
2.5 2.5 2.5 – – – –
Total 785.3 902.9 74.3 16.6 152.3 443.7 216.0
2012
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual
 cash flows
£m
Six months 
or less
£m
6-12 
months
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Senior term loans and notes 716.4 868.1 18.8 5.7 40.0 499.8 303.8
Other loans 0.8 0.8 – 0.8 – – –
Trade payables (note 12) 46.2 46.2 43.3 2.9 – – –
763.4 915.1 62.1 9.4 40.0 499.8 303.8
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts:
 Outflow 1.0 122.9 120.9 2.0 – – –
 Inflow – (121.9) (119.9) (2.0) – – –
1.0 1.0 1.0 – – – –
Total 764.4 916.1 63.1 9.4 40.0 499.8 303.8
Interest rate risk
The	Group’s	objective	is	to	manage	the	risk	to	the	business	from	movements	in	interest	rates,	and	to	provide	stability	and	
predictability of the near term (12 month horizon) interest expense. Under the Group’s Treasury policy, management may fix the 
interest	rates	on	up	to	80%	of	the	Group’s	debt	portfolio	for	the	period	of	the	current	and	succeeding	financial	year.	The	Group’s	
debt	portfolio	beyond	this	period	is	to	be	managed	within	the	range	of	a	30%	–	70%	fixed	to	floating	rate	ratio.	To	do	this	the	
Group uses hedging instruments where considered appropriate. 
Sensitivity
At	31	December	2013,	it	is	estimated	that	the	impact	on	variable	rate	net	debt	of	a	general	increase	of	3%	in	interest	rates	would	
be a decrease in the Group’s profit before tax of approximately £4.2m (2012: £5.1m). This analysis assumes all other variables 
remain constant.
Foreign currency risk
The	Group’s	objective	in	managing	foreign	currency	risk	is	to	safeguard	the	Group’s	financial	assets	from	economic	loss	due	to	
fluctuations in foreign currencies, and to protect margins on cross currency contracts and operations. To achieve this, the Group’s 
policy is to hedge its foreign currency exposures where appropriate.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
104 105
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent a significant portion of the Group’s shareholders’ funds and a substantial 
percentage of the Group’s revenue and operating costs are incurred in currencies other than sterling. Because of the high 
proportion of international activity, the Group’s profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Two types of risk arise as a result: 
(i) translation risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency fluctuations in the translation of foreign currency operations and foreign 
assets and liabilities into sterling and (ii) transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on 
the value of the Group’s commercial cash flows in various currencies.
The foreign currency profiles of cash, trade receivables and payables at the reporting date were as follows:
2013
Carrying
 amount 
£m
Sterling 
£m
US dollar 
£m
Chinese
 renminbi 
£m
Hong Kong
 dollar 
£m
Euro 
£m
Other 
currencies 
£m
Cash 116.4 8.5 17.8 29.3 3.1 4.8 52.9
Trade receivables (note 11) 358.5 52.4 94.3 34.5 9.2 39.3 128.8
Trade payables (note 12) 48.2 6.1 9.5 2.6 2.2 10.0 17.8 
2012
Cash 166.5 17.1 24.8 55.3 3.3 6.3 59.7
Trade receivables (note 11) 362.2 44.7 93.4 33.1 9.2 39.4 142.4
Trade payables (note 12) 46.2 6.0 8.5 4.0 1.9 10.1 15.7 
Recognised assets and liabilities
Changes in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign 
currencies and for which no hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group’s foreign currency denominated loans are designated as a hedge of the Group’s investment in its respective 
subsidiaries. The carrying amount of these loans at 31 December 2013 was £717.5m (2012: £707.7m).
A foreign exchange gain of £16.7m (2012: £25.4m) was recognised in the translation reserve in equity on translation of these loans 
to sterling.
Sensitivity
It	is	estimated	that	a	general	increase	of	10%	in	the	value	of	sterling	against	the	US	dollar	(the	main	currency	impacting	the	Group)	
would have decreased the Group’s profit before tax for 2013 by approximately £16.6m (2012: £15.4m). This analysis assumes all 
other variables remain constant.
Fair values
The table below sets out a comparison of the book values and corresponding fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments 
by class.
Book value
2013
£m
Fair value
2013
£m
Book value
2012
£m
Fair value
2012
£m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 116.4 116.4 166.5 166.5
Trade receivables (note 11) 358.5 358.5 362.2 362.2
Total financial assets 474.9 474.9 528.7 528.7
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 734.6 740.2 717.2 751.5
Trade payables (note 12) 48.2 48.2 46.2 46.2
Total financial liabilities 782.8 788.4 763.4 797.7
The	major	methods	and	assumptions	used	in	estimating	the	fair	values	of	the	Group’s	financial	instruments	are	summarised	below.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of the floating interest bearing loans and borrowings is equal to the book value, since the floating interest rates were 
reset	just	prior	to	the	year	end.	The	fair	value	of	the	fixed	interest	bearing	loans	and	borrowings	has	been	calculated	based	on	the	
present value of future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate at the reporting date.
Trade receivables and payables
For trade receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. 
All others are estimated as the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
15 Capital and reserves
Accounting policy
Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised as a movement in equity when they are paid. Final dividends are reported as a movement  
in equity in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust (‘ESOT’)
Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT are included in the Group financial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases  
of shares in the Company are debited directly in equity to retained earnings.
Share capital
Group and Company
2013
Number
2013
£m
2012
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 1p each at start of year 160,807,503 1.6 1.6
Share options exercised (note 17) 70,009 – –
Share awards (note 17) 484,265 – –
Ordinary shares of 1p each at end of year 161,361,777 1.6 1.6
Shares classified in shareholders’ funds 1.6 1.6
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends and are entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company. 
During the year, the Company issued 70,009 (2012: 116,161) ordinary shares in respect of the share options exercised, for 
consideration of £0.4m (2012: £0.7m) settled in cash and issued 484,265 (2012: 530,377) shares under the Intertek 2011 Long 
Term Incentive Plan for £nil consideration.
Purchase of own shares for trust
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company financed the purchase of 300,000 (2012: 27,500) of its own shares with 
an aggregate nominal value of £3,000 (2012: £275) for £9.1m (2012: £0.8m) which was charged to retained earnings in equity and 
was held by the ESOT. This trust is managed and controlled by an independent offshore trustee. During the year, 1,015 shares were 
utilised to satisfy the vesting of share awards (note 17). At 31 December 2013, the ESOT held 323,739 shares (2012: 24,754 shares) 
with an aggregate nominal value of £3,237 (2012: £247). The associated cash out flow of £9.1m (2012: £0.8m) has been presented 
as a financing cash flow.
Dividends
2013
£m
2013
Pence per
 share
2012
£m
2012
Pence per
 share
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 – – 37.0 23.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 – – 20.9 13.0
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 45.2 28.0 – –
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 24.2 15.0 – –
Dividends paid 69.4 43.0 57.9 36.0
After the reporting date, the Directors proposed a final dividend of 31.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2013,	which	is	expected	to	amount	to	£50.0m.	This	dividend	is	subject	to	approval	by	shareholders	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting	
and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting date, it has not been included as a liability in these financial 
statements. If approved, the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 6 June 2014.
Reserves
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Other
This relates to a merger difference that arose in 2002 on the conversion of share warrants into share capital.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
106 107
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 Employee benefits (continued)
Defined benefit schemes
The cost of defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current service cost (2.8) (2.5)
Scheme administration expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Interest income (note 14) 3.8 4.8
Pension interest cost (note 14) (4.3) (4.2)
Total charge (3.5) (2.1)
The current service cost is included in operating costs in the income statement and pension interest cost and interest income are 
included in net financing costs.
Included in Other Comprehensive Income:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from:
 Demographic assumptions (1.1) (10.3)
 Financial assumptions (0.8) –
	 Experience	adjustment (0.9) (0.3)
 Asset valuation 8.0 4.1
Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.6 0.3
Merger of Group scheme (0.4) –
Other (0.2) (0.3)
Total 5.2 (6.5)
Company contributions
The Company is currently assessing the triennial actuarial valuation and its impact on the scheme funding plan in 2014 and future 
years. Pending the outcome of this assessment, in 2014 the Group expects to make normal contributions of £2.4m (2013: £2.0m) 
and a special contribution of £0.9m (2013: £nil) to the UK pension scheme.
Pension liability for defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position for defined benefit schemes were as follows:
United
 Kingdom
 Scheme
£m
Hong Kong
 Scheme
£m
Switzerland
Scheme
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 82.2 16.1 15.0 113.3
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (91.0) (19.0) (16.4) (126.4)
Deficit in schemes (8.8) (2.9) (1.4) (13.1)
16 Employee benefits
Accounting policy
Pension schemes
Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate 
entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined 
contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
The Group’s net obligation in respect of material defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating 
the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years; that benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised past service costs are recognised immediately and the fair value of 
any plan assets are deducted.
In calculating the defined benefit deficit, the discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit-rated bonds that have 
maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the 
benefits	are	expected	to	be	paid.	The	calculation	is	performed	annually	by	a	qualified	actuary	using	the	Projected	Unit	credit	method.	
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged 
to the operating profit in the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value 
of the schemes’ liabilities, during the accounting period, are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively.
The Group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. In most locations, these are defined contribution 
arrangements. However, there are significant defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Switzerland. 
The United Kingdom and Hong Kong schemes are funded schemes, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds and 
the Swiss scheme is an insured scheme. The schemes in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were closed to new entrants in 2002 
and 2000, respectively. Other funded defined benefit schemes are not considered to be material and are therefore accounted for 
as if they were defined contribution schemes.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses in each year in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
In June 2011, the International Accounting Standards Board issued revisions to IAS 19 Employee Benefits that provide changes 
in the recognition, presentation and disclosure of post-employment benefits. The Group has adopted the revised accounting 
standard from 1 January 2013. The new standard does not have a material impact on the Group financial statements, and 
therefore the prior year amounts have not been restated.
Total pension cost
The total pension cost included in operating profit for the Group was:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Defined contribution schemes (33.6) (29.9)
Defined benefit schemes – current service cost and administration expenses (3.0) (2.7)
Pension cost included in operating profit (note 5) (36.6) (32.6)
The pension cost for the defined benefit schemes was assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. The last full 
triennial	actuarial	valuation	of	The	Intertek	Pension	Scheme	in	the	United	Kingdom	(‘United	Kingdom	Scheme’)	was	carried	out	
as at 1 April 2013, and for accounting purposes has been updated to 31 December 2013 for IAS 19 purposes. The last full 
actuarial valuation of the Hong Kong scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2012, for local accounting purposes but this 
has been updated to 31 December 2013 for IAS 19 purposes. The Swiss scheme was actuarially valued for IAS 19 purposes 
at 31 December 2013. The average duration of the schemes are 20 years, 10 years and 10 years for the UK, Hong Kong and 
Switzerland schemes respectively.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
108 109
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 Employee benefits (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 121.6 108.0
Current service cost 3.0 2.7
Interest cost 4.3 4.2
Contributions by scheme participants 0.6 0.7
Benefits paid (6.6) (3.6)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes (1.0) (1.0)
Actuarial losses 2.8 10.6
Merger of Group scheme 1.7 –
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 126.4 121.6
Principal actuarial assumptions:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme Switzerland Scheme
2013
%
2012
%
2013
%
2012
%
2013
%
2012
%
Discount rate 4.5 4.5 2.4 0.7 2.3 2.0
Inflation rate (based on CPI) 2.7 2.2 n/a n/a 0.0 0.0
Rate of salary increases 3.5 3.0 4.0 4.0 1.5 1.5
Rate of pension increases:
CPI	subject	to	a	maximum	of	5%	p.a	 2.7 2.2 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Increases	subject	to	a	maximum	of	2.5%	p.a 2.0 1.8 n/a n/a n/a n/a
The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays a lump sum to members instead of a pension and the Switzerland Scheme is an insured plan.
The assumption for the annualised expected return on scheme assets in 2013 represents the discount rate in accordance with 
IAS19(R) which was effective from 1 January 2013. 
Life expectancy assumptions at year end for:
 United Kingdom Scheme Hong Kong Scheme * Switzerland Scheme
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Male aged 40 46.9 46.7 n/a n/a 41.6 41.6
Male aged 65 22.1 21.2 n/a n/a 18.9 18.9
Female aged 40 48.9 48.9 n/a n/a 44.6 44.6
Female aged 65 24.3 23.8 n/a n/a 21.4 21.4
*	 	 The retirement arrangement in Hong Kong pays a lump sum to members instead of a pension at the point of retirement. Since the amount of the lump sum is not 
related to the life expectancy of the member, the post-retirement mortality is not a relevant assumption for the Hong Kong Scheme.
  The table above shows, for the United Kingdom Scheme, the number of years a male or female is expected to live, assuming they were aged either 40 or 65 at 
31 December.	The	mortality	tables	adopted	in	both	2013	and	2012	for	the	United	Kingdom	Scheme	are	the	S1PA	projected	by	year	of	birth,	with	an	allowance	
for the	medium	cohort	effect	and	a	minimum	improvement	of	1%.	For	the	Switzerland	Scheme,	the	mortality	table	adopted	for	both	2013	and	2012	is	the	BVG	
2010,	an industry	standard	in	Switzerland	which	is	based	on	statistical	evidence	of	major	Switzerland	pension	funds.
16 Employee benefits (continued)
The fair value changes in the scheme assets are shown below: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 104.6 96.7
Interest Income 3.8 4.8
Normal contributions by the employer 2.0 2.0
Special contributions by the employer – 0.6
Contributions by scheme participants 0.6 0.7
Benefits paid (6.6) (3.6)
Effect of exchange rate changes on overseas schemes (0.4) (0.7)
Actuarial gains 8.0 4.1
Merger of Group scheme 1.3 –
Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 113.3 104.6
Asset Allocation:
United Kingdom Scheme
Investment statements were provided by the Investment Managers which showed that, as at 31 December 2013 the invested 
assets of the Scheme totalled £82.0m broken down as follows:
Asset Class
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK Equities 22.2 19.1
Overseas Equities 22.2 21.4
Property 1.2 –
Corporate Bonds 12.2 12.0
Absolute Return Fund
* 16.2 15.1
Liability Driven Investment
** 2.1 2.0
Cash 5.9 5.5
Total 82.0 75.1
*	 	 The	Absolute	Return	Fund	aims	to	provide	positive	investment	returns	in	all	conditions	over	the	medium	to	long-term.	The	investment	managers	have	a	wide	
investment remit and look to exploit market inefficiencies through active allocation to a diverse range of market positions. The Fund uses a combination of 
traditional assets and investment strategies based on derivatives and is able to take long and short-term positions in markets.
**	 	 The	LDI	Fund	provides	the	hedge	against	adverse	movements	in	inflation	and	interest	rates.	It	seeks	to	match	the	sensitivity	of	the	Scheme’s	liability	cash	flow	
to changes in interest rates and inflation; it is invested in gilts, swaps, futures, repo contracts and money market instruments.
The Intertek Pension Scheme had bank account assets of £0.2m as at 31 December 2013.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
110 111
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Share schemes
Accounting policy
Share-based payment transactions
The share-based compensation plans operated by the Group allow employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value 
of the employee services, received in exchange for the grant of share options or shares, is measured at the grant date and is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The charge is calculated using the Monte Carlo method and 
expensed to the income statement over the vesting period of the relevant award. The charge for the share options and for the 
Share	Awards	is	adjusted	to	reflect	expected	and	actual	levels	of	vesting	for	service	conditions.	The	expense	of	the	Performance	
Awards	(previously	Matching	Awards),	is	also	adjusted	for	the	probability	of	performance	conditions	being	achieved.
The Group has taken advantage of the provisions of IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, 
and has recognised an expense only in respect of share options and awards granted since 7 November 2002.
Share option schemes
The Company established a share option scheme for senior management in March 1997. The maximum number of options that 
can be granted under the scheme have been allocated and that scheme has been discontinued. In May 2002, the Intertek Group 
plc	2002	Share	Option	Plan	(‘2002	Plan’)	and	the	Intertek	Group	plc	2002	Approved	Share	Option	Plan	(‘Approved	Plan’)	were	
established for employees to be granted share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. These plans have also 
been discontinued and the last grants under these plans were made in September 2005.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
 2013 2012
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
Number of
 options
At beginning of year 656p 162,740 628p 285,264
Exercised 598p (70,009) 594p (116,161)
Forfeited 548p (5,814) 533p (6,363)
Outstanding options at end of year 710p 86,917 656p 162,740
Exercisable at end of year 710p 86,917 656p 162,740
The weighted average share price of the Company at the date of exercise of share options was 3,249p (2012: 2,532p).  
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 359p to 778p and a weighted average contractual 
life of 1.0 year.
The outstanding options at 31 December 2013 are exercisable as follows:
Option Scheme
Number of
 options
 outstanding
Exercise
 price 
per share Exercisable between
2002 Plan 22,603 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
61,312 778.0p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
83,915
Approved Plan 496 523.5p 7 April 2007 7 April 2014
2,506 778.0p 7 April 2008 7 April 2015
3,002
Total 86,917
16 Employee benefits (continued)
Sensitivity analysis
The table below sets out the sensitivity on the UK and Hong Kong pension assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2013 of the two 
main assumptions:
Change in assumptions
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Deficit
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) 
in deficit
£m
No change (110.0) 98.3 (11.7) –
0.25%	rise	in	discount	rate (105.1) 98.3 (6.8) (4.9)
0.25%	fall	in	discount	rate (115.0) 98.3 (16.7) 5.0
0.25%	rise	in	inflation (112.2) 98.3 (13.9) 2.2
0.25%	fall	in	inflation (107.7) 98.3 (9.4) (2.3)
The	UK	scheme	is	also	subject	to	the	mortality	assumption.	If	the	mortality	tables	used	are	rated	down	one	year/rated	up	one	year,	
the value placed on the liabilities increases/decreases by £2.5m and (£2.4m) respectively.
Funding Arrangements 
United Kingdom Scheme
The	trustees	use	the	Projected	Unit	credit	method	with	a	three	year	control	period.	Currently	the	scheme	members	pay	
contributions	at	the	rate	of	8.5%	of	salary.	The	employer	pays	contributions	of	14%	of	salary,	plus	£0.2m	per	year	to	fund scheme	
expenses, and is due to make an additional contribution of £0.9m in 2014 to reduce the deficit disclosed by the 2010 valuation.
Intertek Hong Kong Retirement Scheme
The Trustees use the Attained Age funding method. The last actuarial valuation was as at 31 December 2012. Scheme members 
do	not	contribute	to	the	scheme.	The	employer	pays	contributions	of	10.0%	of	salaries	including	0.6%	in	respect	of	
scheme expenses.
Funding Risks
The main risks for the Schemes are:
Investment return risk: If the assets underperform the returns assumed in setting the funding targets then additional 
contributions may be required at subsequent valuations.
Investment matching risk: 
 
The schemes invest significantly in equities, whereas the funding targets are closely related to 
the returns on bonds. If equities fall in value relative to the matching asset of bonds, additional 
contributions may be required.
Longevity risk: If future improvements in longevity exceed the assumptions made for Scheme funding then 
additional contributions may be required.
Role of Third Parties
The UK pension scheme is managed by Trustees on behalf of its members. The Trustees take advice from appropriate third parties 
including investment advisors, actuaries and lawyers as necessary.
 
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
112 113
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Share schemes (continued)
Share Plans
The Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 was replaced in 2011 with the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan. Share Awards (previously 
Deferred Awards) and Performance Awards (previously Matching Awards) have been granted under this plan. The first awards 
were	granted	on	7	April	2006.	The	awards	under	these	plans	vest	three	years	after	grant	date,	subject	to	fulfilment	of	the	
performance conditions.
Outstanding Awards
2013 2012
Share 
Awards
Performance 
Awards
Total 
awards
Share 
Awards
Performance 
Awards
Total 
awards
At beginning of year 1,168,317 860,557 2,028,874 1,540,375 1,112,018 2,652,393
Granted
* 285,807 181,770 467,577 388,195 278,009 666,204
Vested
** (423,418) (296,110) (719,528) (704,005) (488,400) (1,192,405)
Forfeited (31,427) (32,888) (64,315) (56,248) (41,070) (97,318)
At end of year 999,279 713,329 1,712,608 1,168,317 860,557 2,028,874
*	 Includes	3,535	Share	Awards	(2012:	4,767)	and	2,325	Performance	Awards	(2012:	3,642)	granted	in	respect	of	dividend	accruals.
**		 Of	the	719,528	awards	vested	in	2013,	484,265	were	satisfied	by	the	issue	of	shares	and	1,015	by	the	transfer	of	shares	from	the	ESOT	(see	note	15).	 
The balance of 234,248 awards represented a tax liability of £7.6m which was settled in cash by the Group, of which £7.3m was settled by the Company.
Equity-settled transactions
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group recognised an expense of £10.9m (2012: £10.4m). The fair values and the 
assumptions used in their calculations are set out below:
Awards
Share
 Awards
*
Performance
Awards TSR
element
Share
 Awards *
Performance 
Awards TSR
element
Share
 Awards *
Matching
Awards
Year shares awarded 2013** 2013 ** 2012 ** 2012 ** 2011 2011
Fair value at measurement date (pence) 3,440 1,945 2,262 1,299 1,872 1,253
Share price (pence) 3,440 3,440 2,262 2,262 1,955 1,955
Expected volatility n/a 23.4% n/a 25.2% n/a 30.8%
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 1.4% 1.4%
Risk free interest rate n/a 0.4% n/a 0.5% n/a 1.4%
Time to maturity (years) 3 3 3 3 3 3
*	 The	fair	values	and	assumptions	are	also	the	same	for	the	EPS	element	of	the	Performance	Awards.
**	The	2013	and	2012	grants	accrue	dividends.
The	expected	volatility	is	based	on	the	historical	volatility,	adjusted	for	any	expected	changes	to	future	volatility	due	to	publicly	
available information.
All Share Awards are granted under a service condition. Such condition is not taken into account in the fair value measurement at 
grant date. The Performance Awards (TSR element) are granted under a performance related market condition and as a result this 
condition is taken into account in the fair value measurement at grant date.
 18 Subsequent events
No post balance sheet events were identified between 31 December 2013 and the date of signing this report.
 19 Capital management
The Directors determine the appropriate capital structure of Intertek; specifically how much capital is raised from shareholders 
(equity) and how much is borrowed from financial institutions (debt) in order to finance the Group’s activities. These activities 
include ongoing operations as well as acquisitions as described in note 10.
The Group’s policy is to maintain a robust capital base (including cash and debt) to ensure the market and key stakeholders 
retain confidence in the capital profile. Debt capital is monitored by Group Treasury assessing the liquidity buffer on a short 
and longer-term basis as discussed in note 14.
The	Group	uses	KPIs,	including	return	on	invested	capital	and	adjusted	diluted	earnings	per	share	to	monitor	the	capital	position	
of the Group to ensure it is being utilised effectively.
The dividend policy also forms part of the Board’s capital management policy, and the Board ensures there is appropriate earnings 
cover for the dividend proposed at both the interim and year end.
20 Non-controlling interest
Accounting policy
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore 
no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. 
Non-controlling interest
An analysis of the movement in non-controlling interest is shown below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 January 25.3 24.0
Exchange	adjustments (1.4) (0.5)
Share of profit for the year 16.5 14.4
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (14.4) (12.6)
Purchase of non-controlling interest (1.9) –
At 31 December 24.1 25.3
21 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its key management.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not discussed in this note.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel compensation, including the Group’s Directors, is shown in the table below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term benefits 4.7 5.9
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4
Equity-settled transactions 2.8 2.0
Total 7.9 8.3
More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlements, share options and other  
long-term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Remuneration Report.
Apart from the above, no member of key management had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Group.
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
114 115
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 As at 31 December 2013 Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings (d) 301.2 297.8
Current assets
Debtors due after more than one year (e) 171.3 60.2
Debtors due within one year 11.4 7.1
182.7 67.3
Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 3.2
183.0 70.5
Creditors due within one year
Other creditors (7.2) (9.0)
Net current assets 175.8 61.5
Total assets less current liabilities 477.0 359.3
Net assets 477.0 359.3
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (f) 1.6 1.6
Share premium (f) 257.8 257.4
Profit and loss account (f) 217.6 100.3
Shareholders’ funds 477.0 359.3
The financial statements on pages 117 to 120 were approved by the Board on 28 February 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Wolfhart Hauser  Lloyd Pitchford 
Director  Director
22 Contingent liabilities
2013
£m
2012
£m
Guarantees, letters of credit and performance bonds 16.1 12.0
Litigation
The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of its business, including claims for damages, 
negligence and commercial disputes regarding inspection and testing, and disputes with employees and former employees. 
The Group is not currently party to any legal proceedings other than ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of business. 
The Group	maintains	appropriate	insurance	cover	to	provide	protection	from	the	small	number	of	significant	claims	it	is	subject	
to from time-to-time.
Tax
The	Group	operates	in	more	than	100	countries	and	is	subject	to	a	wide	range	of	complex	tax	laws	and	regulations.	At	any	point	
in	time	it	is	normal	for	there	to	be	a	number	of	open	years	in	any	particular	territory	which	may	be	subject	to	enquiry	by	local	
authorities.	In	some	jurisdictions	the	Group	receives	tax	incentives	which	are	subject	to	renewal	and	review	and	reduce	the	amount	
of tax payable. Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax 
to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements. The Group considers the estimates, assumptions 
and judgements	to	be	reasonable	but	this	can	involve	complex	issues	which	may	take	a	number	of	years	to	resolve.	The	final	
determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reflected in these financial statements. In addition, 
the	Group	benefits	from	tax	incentives	which	are	subject	to	renewal	and	review.
23 Principal subsidiary undertakings
As permitted by Section 410 (1) of the Companies Act 2006, only the principal subsidiaries whose results or financial position, 
in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures of the Group in 2013 and 2012 have been shown below. A full list 
of subsidiaries will be attached to the Company’s next Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies. All the subsidiaries 
shown were consolidated at 31 December 2013.
Company name
Country of 
incorporation Activity
Percentage of ordinary  
shares held in 2013 and 2012
Group Company
Intertek Testing Services Shenzhen Ltd China Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Ltd Shanghai China Trading 85 –
Intertek USA Inc USA Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services NA Inc USA Trading 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited England Holding 100 100
Intertek Finance plc England Finance 100 –
Intertek Testing Services Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Trading 100 –
Testing Holdings USA Inc USA Holding 100 –
Intertek USD Finance Ltd England Finance 100 –
Intertek Holdings Limited England Holding 100 100
Labtest Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Trading 100 –
Intertek Overseas Holdings Limited England Holding 100 –
Intertek Holdings Nederland B.V. Netherlands Holding 100 –
Intertek Group plc England Finance 100 100
RCG Moody International Limited England Holding 100 –
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued
116 117
Intertek Group plc Company balance sheet
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 (a) Accounting policies – Company
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation 
to the Company’s financial statements.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and under 
the historical cost accounting rules.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that it is included in the 
consolidated financial statements which it has prepared.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. 
All foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes, which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by 
FRS 19. Deferred tax assets in respect of timing differences are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not there 
will be sufficient taxable profits to offset the future reversal of these timing differences.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in 
the notes to the financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment.
Intercompany financial guarantees
When the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies in the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats 
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability, until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make 
a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments
Intertek Group plc runs a share ownership programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.  
Details of the share schemes are given in note 17 of the Group financial statements.
The fair value of options and Share Awards granted to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with 
a corresponding increase in equity. As the Company has no employees, there is no recognition of an employee expense nor the 
corresponding increase in equity. However, the Company grants options and awards over its own shares to the employees of 
its subsidiaries and therefore the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries, equivalent to the 
equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in respect of employees of the subsidiaries, with the corresponding credit 
being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled 
to the options. The fair value granted is measured using the Monte Carlo model. This method, in calculating the fair value, takes 
into account various factors including the expected volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest rate.
The fair value of shares granted under the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan is also measured using the Monte Carlo model 
and is spread over the period during which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
(b) Profit and loss account
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the 
Company’s financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated 
basis. The Company does not have any employees.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
(c) Dividends
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in that year 45.2 37.0
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 24.2 20.9
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 69.4 57.9
The aggregate amount of dividends proposed and recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2013 is £nil (2012: £nil). The 
aggregate amount of dividends proposed and not recognised as liabilities as at 31 December 2013 is £50.0m (2012: £45.2m).
(d) Investment in subsidiary undertakings
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 297.8 305.1
Additions due to share-based payments 10.9 10.4
Recharges of share-based payments to subsidiaries (7.5) (17.7)
At 31 December 301.2 297.8
The Company has granted options over its own shares and made Share Awards to the employees of its direct and indirectly-owned 
subsidiaries, and as such, the Company recognises an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries of £10.9m (2012: £10.4m). 
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out in note 23 to the Group financial statements.
The Company had three direct subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2013; Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited and 
Intertek Holdings Limited, both of which are holding companies, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in 
England and Wales, and Intertek Luxembourg S.a.r.l., incorporated in Luxembourg. All interests are in the ordinary share capital 
and all are wholly owned. In the opinion of the Directors, the value of the investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than 
the amount at which the investments are stated in the balance sheet.
There is no impairment to the carrying value of these investments.
(e) Debtors due after more than one year
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 171.3 60.2
The amounts owed by Group undertakings represent long-term loans due in two to five years, which carry interest based on the 
denomination of the borrowing currency.
Financial statements
118 119
Notes to the Company financial statements
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 (f) Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Profit 
and loss
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 1.6 256.7 102.7 361.0
Profit for the financial year – – 51.3 51.3
Dividends paid – – (57.9) (57.9)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 10.4 10.4
Tax paid on share awards vesting – – (5.4) (5.4)
Purchase of own shares – – (0.8) (0.8)
Shares issued – 0.7 – 0.7
At 31 December 2012 1.6 257.4 100.3 359.3
Profit for the financial year – – 192.2 192.2
Dividends paid – – (69.4) (69.4)
Credit in relation to share-based payments – – 10.9 10.9
Tax paid on share awards vesting – – (7.3) (7.3)
Purchase of own shares – – (9.1) (9.1)
Shares issued – 0.4 – 0.4
At 31 December 2013 1.6 257.8 217.6 477.0
Details of share capital are set out in note 15 and details of share-based payments are set out in note 17 to the Group 
financial statements.
A profit and loss account for Intertek Group plc has not been presented as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The profit for the financial year, before dividends paid to shareholders of £69.4m (2012: £57.9m), was £192.2m (2012: £51.3m) 
which was mainly in respect of dividends received from subsidiaries.
The Group settled in cash the tax element of the share awards vested in March 2013 amounting to £7.6m of which the Company 
settled £7.3m (2012: £5.4m). 
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company purchased, through its Employee Benefit Trust, 300,000 (2012: 27,500) 
of its own shares with an aggregate nominal value of £3,000 (2012: £275) for £9.1m (2012: £0.8m) which was charged to profit 
and loss in equity.
(g) Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 21 of the Group financial statements.
(h) Contingent liabilities
The Company is a member of a group of UK companies that are part of a composite banking cross guarantee arrangement.  
This	is	a	joint	and	several	guarantee	given	by	all	members	of	the	Intertek	UK	cash	pool,	guaranteeing	the	total	gross	liability	
position of the pool which was £16.1m at 31 December 2013 (2012: £22.7m).
From time-to-time, in the normal course of business, the Company may give guarantees in respect of certain liabilities of 
subsidiary undertakings.
(i) Post balance sheet events
Details of post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and the Group are given in note 18 of the Group financial statements.
Shareholders’ enquiries
Any shareholder with enquiries relating to their shareholding 
should, in the first instance, contact our Registrars, Equiniti 
using the address on this page. 
Electronic shareholder communications
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation 
electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by 
email each time the Company distributes documents, instead 
of receiving a paper version of such documents. Registering 
for electronic communication is very straightforward and can 
be done via Shareview, www.shareview.co.uk. Shareview is 
Equiniti’s suite of online services that helps shareholders to 
manage their holdings and gives access to a wide range of 
useful information. 
There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically 
receive confirmation that a request has been registered. Should 
you wish to change your mind or request a paper version of any 
documents in the future, you may do so by contacting the 
Registrar by email or by post. 
The facility also allows shareholders to view their holding 
details, submit a proxy vote for shareholder meetings, complete 
a change of address and provide dividend mandates online. 
Shareholders can also find out what to do if a share certificate 
is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes of 
address, dividend mandates and share transfers. 
ShareGift
If you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell, 
you may want to consider donating it to ShareGift. The Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share donation 
scheme. Details of the scheme are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org 
T: +44 20 7930 3737
Share price information
Information on the Company’s share price is available from the 
investor pages of www.intertek.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 31 December 2013
Results announced 3 March 2014
Annual General Meeting 16 May 2014
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 21 May 2014
Record date for final dividend 23 May 2014
Final dividend payable 6 June 2014
Interim results announced 4 August 2014
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 1 October 2014
Record date for interim dividend 3 October 2014
Interim dividend payable 14 October 2014
All	future	dates	are	indicative	and	subject	to	change.
Investor relations
E: investor@intertek.com
T: +44 20 7396 3400
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T:	0871	384	2653	(UK)*
T: +44 121 415 7047 (outside UK)
*	 	 Calls	to	this	number	cost	8p	per	minute	plus	network	
extras; other providers’ costs may vary. Lines open 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
T: +44 20 7311 1000
Brokers
J.P.Morgan Cazenove
6th Floor
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
T: +44 20 7742 4000
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London EC4A 2BB
T: +44 20 7774 1000
Registered office
Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London W1S 2ES
T: +44 20 7396 3400
F: +44 20 7396 3480
www.intertek.com
Registered number: 4267576
ISIN: GB0031638363
London Stock Exchange
Support Services
FTSE 100
Symbol: ITRK
121
Financial statements
120
Notes to the Company financial statements continued Shareholder and corporate information
Other
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance indicators Inclusion Location Comments
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ✔ p. 76 to 120
EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations ✔ p. 108 to 112
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired  
from the local community at significant level of the organisation
P p. 32 Description of employment policies 
and practices
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ✔ p. 35
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ✔ p. 35
EN5 Energy saved due to conversation and efficiency improvements P p. 35 Description of activities undertaken
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy based products and 
services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 
P p. 34 and 35 Description of some of the services 
provided to clients
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved P p. 35 Description of some of the initiatives 
undertaken in reporting period
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ✔ p. 35
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved P p. 35 Some initiatives identified
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken P p. 32 Description of employment policies 
and practices
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region P p. 33 Data exists on number of employees 
by global region
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes,  
including whether it is specified in collective agreements 
✔ – Minimum notice periods, where 
applicable, are governed by local law
LA7 Rates	of	injury,	occupational	diseases,	lost	days	and	absenteeism,	 
and number of work-related fatalities
✔ p. 34 Data	on	rates	of	injuries	 
and work-related fatalities
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the  
continued employability of employees assist them in managing career endings
P p. 33 Number of courses and number of 
courses undertaken by employees
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 
according to gender, age group and minority group membership
P p. 32,  
38 to 48
SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,  
impact assessments, and development programs
P p. 36 to 37 Description of activities undertaken
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies  
and procedures
✔ p. 33
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ✔ p. 33
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,  
politicians, and related institutions by country
✔ p. 71 ‘Political	Donations’
‘P’	indicates	partial	reporting.	The	above	index	indicates	the	section	references	for	the	Global	Reporting	Initiative	(GRI)	requirements	and	supports	our	alignment	 
to	a	level	‘C’	of	reporting.	Some	requirements	include	references	to	our	governance	and	organisational	structure	which	are	included	throughout	the	Annual	 
Report content.
Profile disclosures Inclusion Location Comments
1 Strategy & analysis
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation ✔ p. 4 and 5
2 Organisational profile
2.1 Name of the organisation ✔ Intertek  
at a glance
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ✔ Intertek  
at a glance
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions ✔ Intertek  
at a glance
2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters ✔ p. 121
2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates ✔ Intertek  
at a glance
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ✔ p. 81
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,  
and types of customers/beneficiaries)
✔ Intertek  
at a glance
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation ✔ Intertek  
at a glance
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size,  
structure or ownership
✔ p. 2 and 3 Operating Review, no significant 
changes to report
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ✔ p. 32 and 36
3 Report parameters
3.1 Reporting period ✔ – 1 January – 31 December 2013
3.2 Date of most recent previous report ✔ – 2012 Annual Report
3.3 Reporting cycle ✔ – Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ✔ p. 121
3.5 Process for defining report content ✔ p. 72
3.6 Boundary of the report ✔ p. 116
3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ✔ p. 81
3.8 Basis	for	reporting	on	joint	ventures,	subsidiaries	and	other	entities ✔ p. 81
3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports ✔ N/A
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,  
boundary or measurement methods applied in the report
✔ N/A
3.12 GRI Content Index ✔ p. 1 22  
and 123 
GRI Content Index
4 Governance, commitments and engagement
4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under  
the highest governance body
✔ p. 41 to 48 Corporate Governance Report
4.2 Independence of the Chair of the highest governance body ✔ p. 45 Board balance and independence
4.3 Details of the organisation’s unitary board structure, if applicable ✔ p. 44 and 45
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations  
or direction to the highest governance body
✔ p. 32 and 55
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation ✔ Intertek  
at a glance  
p. 2 to 5 
and 43
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ✔ p. 6 to 8,  
14 to 17
Underpinned by business model, 
strategy and risk management
122 123
Global Reporting Initiative Index
Other
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Designed and produced by c o n r a n d e s ign gr o u p Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001. FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its alcofree
®
 and pureprint
®
 
environmental printing technology. Vegetable inks were used 
throughout. Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the 
manufacturing paper mill and the printer are registered to the 
Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
The CO 2 emissions from the production and distribution of this 
report have been offset through the purchase of carbon credits 
in the Pureprint Gold programme. The offsets are always in Gold 
Standard	accredited	projects	and	currently	come	from	the	Basa	
Magogo	project	in	South	Africa.	The	first	Gold	Standard	project	
of its kind in the world, this innovative behaviour-change 
programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn 
coal more efficiently thereby reducing carbon emissions and 
reducing health risks by producing less smoke.
If you have finished with this document and no longer wish to 
retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose 
of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you.
Directors’ report – Governance
Overview Contents Strategic report Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Intertek Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Intertek Group plc
25 Savile Row
London
W1S 2ES
United Kingdom
t: +44 20 7396 3400
f: +44 20 7396 3480
e: info@intertek.com
www.intertek.com
Offering a broad range of certification and accreditation marks accepted in markets around the 
world. Intertek’s mark of quality.
