 Unlocking our potential 
through Invensys Values
Annual report + accounts 2008  
Natee Nimitsiriwat
Process Systems
Invensys is a global technology and controls 
company focussing upon industrial automation, 
rail transportation and controls.
By combining industry-leading software and technological 
expertise with our in-depth industrial knowledge, we offer 
customers real-time applications which can effectively 
control and optimise their specific processes. In a world 
increasingly focussed on the efficient use of resources 
driven mainly by economic and environmental concerns, 
our offerings allow customers to improve productivity, 
reduce waste and make crucial decisions based on the 
most timely information. We also enable our Controls 
customers, particularly in the domestic appliance, 
water heating and HVAC (heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning) industries, to improve their products’ energy 
efficiency and use of resources through the expertise of 
our engineers and our ability to supply highly engineered, 
bespoke components and assemblies.
With facilities in more than 60 countries and our 
software or other solutions in use in around 180 
countries, we are a truly global business. Our breadth 
of industrial coverage is equally broad. The rail 
transportation, oil and gas, petrochemical, domestic 
appliance and power generation markets are our primary 
focus, although we provide technology and products to 
meet the needs of customers in process, batch, discrete 
and hybrid manufacturing enterprises. Our vision – as unquestioned leaders in 
our markets, our inspired global teams 
deliver innovative engineered solutions 
and maximise value for all stakeholders.
Our mission – our global teams provide 
innovative solutions enabling our customers 
to achieve greater efficiency. We unlock our 
potential, enabling our customers to unlock 
their own.
Our values – Our vision and mission 
act as a guide in meeting our business 
objectives, but to be meaningful they 
must be underpinned by a set of values. 
In March 2008, we launched the Invensys 
Values across the entire Group – values 
that we all share, that are the basis of 
how we conduct ourselves and of how 
we do business. 
Around 1,000 employees have taken part in 
workshops and meetings helping us develop 
the values of innovation, agility, integrity, 
meritocracy and courage. Within this report 
you will see what these values mean to 
employees across the Group.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 1
02 Highlights of our year
04 Our businesses
08 What we do
09 Our world
10 Your Board of directors 
12 Chairman’s statement 
14 Chief Executive’s statement
 Business review
16 Financial review
25 Process Systems
27 Eurotherm
30 Rail Group
32 Controls
35 Corporate social responsibility
42 Risks and uncertainties
45 Corporate governance
49 Remuneration report
59 Directors’ report
61  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities in respect of  
the preparation of the accounts
	 Group 	 financial	 statements
62  Contents of the Group financial 
statements
63  Independent auditors’ report to  
the shareholders of Invensys plc
64 Consolidated income statement
65 Consolidated balance sheet
66 Consolidated cash flow statement
67  Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
68 Accounting policies
75 Notes to the financial statements
	 	 P arent 	 comp any 	 financial 	
statements
123   Independent auditors’ report to  
the shareholders of Invensys plc
124 Parent company financial statements
125 Parent company accounting policies
126  Notes to the Parent company 
financial statements
137 Financial summary
139  Principal subsidiaries  
as at 31 March 2008
140 Shareholder information
“ I am delighted to launch our shared set of values – innovation, 
agility, integrity, meritocracy and courage. We asked ourselves 
what was important to us, what we thought united us and 
made Invensys unique. These five values embody our response. 
They underpin our vision of the future and define what makes 
us all Invensys people.” Ulf Henriksson, Chief Executive 2 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
•  Orders from continuing 
operations were £2,036 million 
(2007: £2,101 million), down 2% 
at constant exchange rates (CER)
•  Revenue from continuing 
operations was £2,108 million 
(2007: £1,999 million), up 6%  
at CER
•  Operating profit from continuing 
operations was £254 million 
(2007: £216 million), up 19% at CER
•  Operating margin for continuing 
operations was 12.0% (2007: 10.8%)
•  Underlying earnings per share from 
continuing operations were 17.0p 
(2007: 12.6p), up 35%
•  Operating cash flow from continuing 
operations was £234 million (2007: 
£237 million) 
•  Return on operating capital was 53% 
(2007: 42%) 
•  Net cash at 31 March 2008 was 
£73 million (31 March 2007: 
£166 million net debt)
HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR YEAR
We have transformed our financial position through the 
redemption of the remainder of the High Yield Bonds and 
the repayment of our Term Loans on 7 May 2008, and have 
achieved good improvement in revenue, operating profit
1
, 
return on operating capital
2
 and underlying earnings per 
share
3
. We have put ourselves into a very strong financial 
position: following the repayment of the Term Loans we 
are now effectively debt free.
Continuing operations
4
2008 2007 2006 2005
Orders (£m) 2,036 2,101 2,069 1,909
Revenue (£m) 2,108 1,999 1,919 1,865
Operating profit (£m) 254 216 173 149
Operating margin
1
 (%) 12.0 10.8 9.0 8.0
Operating cash flow (£m) 234 237 187 165
Employees at year end (numbers) 22,928 22,817 23,886 24,565
1  All references to operating profit and operating margin are arrived at before 
exceptional items.
2  Return on operating capital at comparable exchange rates is calculated as 
OPBIT divided by capital employed excluding goodwill, net pension liabilities, 
non‑operating provisions and net taxation liabilities.
3  Underlying earnings per share comprise earnings per share before exceptional 
finance costs, foreign exchange gains and losses and PPP settlement credit.
4  Continuing operations are Process Systems, Eurotherm, Rail Group and Controls 
on which basis the Group is managed. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 3
Free cash flow (£m)
2005 2006 2007 2008
(124)
(59)
111
64
Orders (£m)
2005 2006 2007 2008
1,909
2,069
2,101
2,036
Operating cash flow (£m)
5
2005 2006 2007 2008
165
187
237
234
Net cash/(debt) (£m)
2005 2006 2007 2008
(802)
(166)
73
(757)
2005 2006 2007 2008
1,865
1,919
1,999
2,108
Revenue (£m) Employees (numbers)
6
2005 2006 2007 2008
24,565
23,886
22,817 22,928
Operating profit (£m)
5
2005 2006 2007 2008
149
173
216
254
Underlying earnings per share (p)
2005 2006 2007 2008
(25.0)
(0.3)
12.6
17.0
PROCESS SYSTEMS designs, manufactures, installs, tests and commissions 
software and computer‑ based hardware for the automation and regulation 
of plant operations, the management of certain administrative functions of 
manufacturing business and simulations of manufacturing process operations. 
It delivers solutions and consultancy services that improve the productivity 
and safety of customers’ plants.
EUROTHERM provides control, data and measurement instrumentation 
products, solutions and services to manage specific parameters of the 
manufacturing process, such as temperature and pressure, for the global 
industrial control and process markets.
RAIL GROUP’s broad offering ranges from highly complex integrated control 
centre solutions that supervise and control complete railways to sophisticated 
train-based systems that automate train operation and protection, interlocking 
systems that ensure safe running across a network and a complete range of 
trackside products.
CONTROLS provides engineered components, systems and services used in 
appliances, heating, air conditioning and cooling, refrigeration and thermostatic 
products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets, 
together with utility monitoring services in the UK.
5  Annual totals for operating profit and operating cash flow include corporate costs.
6 Employee numbers are as at the year end and the total includes corporate employees. 4 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Pro c e ss 	 S y s te m s
Invensys Process Systems (IPS) is a technology, software and 
consulting firm helping clients take advantage of the real-time 
convergence of manufacturing and business operations. IPS offers 
an integrated portfolio of proven services in process automation 
and safety systems, manufacturing operations and optimisation 
software, and plant-to-business intelligence solutions. The firm’s 
industry-specific expertise and its market-leading products (such 
as Foxboro
®
, Triconex
®
, SimSci‑Esscor
®
 and Avantis
®
) allow IPS 
clients to operate more efficiently and make better informed 
decisions. 
Tying all of these capabilities together is the IPS InFusion™ 
enterprise control system (ECS). The InFusion system provides a 
common engineering, automation and applications environment 
that connects, collects and leverages all the knowledge and data 
available from disparate systems and technologies. The InFusion 
system is an example of the IPS commitment to be a new breed 
of open integrator for its clients. 
IPS is a highly valued strategic partner fundamentally attached 
to, and enabling, the world’s premier players in vital vertical 
industries. As these companies look to maximise their performance 
improvement strategies, they turn to IPS to uncover and advance 
new integrated approaches to plant, manufacturing, supply chain 
and business operations.
Wonderware is the world’s leading software solutions supplier for 
production/manufacturing IT and supervisory automation, with 
an installed base of over 500,000 active licenses in over 100,000 
global customer locations. Wonderware
®
 software transforms 
data into vital plant information in order to enable customers to 
visualise, analyse and optimise the performance, speed and agility 
of their production operations. Wonderware led the Invensys 
development of the unique ArchestrA
®
 software architecture. 
This platform integrates software and hardware from virtually any 
vendor, significantly reducing customers’ total cost of ownership 
through easy installation, operation, modification, maintenance 
and replication of industrial software applications. Wonderware 
software capabilities are utilised by end customers, OEMs, systems 
integrators, and within other Invensys business unit offerings. 
E u rot he r m
Eurotherm’s commitment is to provide market‑ leading control and 
automation solutions, and to help customers meet the demands 
of the statutory regulations and validation requirements for their 
industry. 
The Eurotherm offering includes consultancy in the initial project 
planning phase, solution and system design, project management, 
installation, on-site services and operator training. These 
services are supported by market-leading products ranging from 
sensors and measurement indicators through process and power 
controllers to graphical paperless data recorders and integrated 
process automation equipment.
Eurotherm has global expertise in many industrial markets, with 
dedicated specialists in some key areas including life sciences, 
glass manufacturing, metals and plastics and the heat treatment 
of metals (for industries such as aerospace and automotive).
OUR BUSINESSES
INdUSTRIAL AUTOMATION Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 5
Rail Group
Invensys Rail Group is a multinational leader in delivering state-of-
the-art railway control and communication solutions. Rail Group 
enables the world’s railways to help meet the ever-increasing 
demand for rail services by providing a range of solutions that 
safely increase the capacity of their networks by increasing 
frequency and maximising operational effectiveness. 
Rail Group’s broad offering ranges from highly complex integrated 
control centre solutions that supervise and control complete 
railways to sophisticated train-based systems that automate train 
operation and protection, interlocking systems that ensure safe 
running across a network and a complete range of trackside 
products. 
As the global business in rail control and communication is 
highly regionalised, Rail Group operates through its regional 
businesses at the point of delivery, with close cooperation and 
coordination to ensure customers throughout the world benefit 
from the resources and expertise of the whole Rail Group. 
W est ing hou se	 Rail	 S y ste m s
Westinghouse Rail Systems is the leading supplier of signalling 
systems for mainline and mass transit railways in the UK and is 
helping export this expertise to customers in Northern Europe 
and the Far East.
D im e t ro n ic 	 S ig nal s
Dimetronic Signals, based in Madrid, is the leading supplier of 
signalling and control systems for both mainline and mass transit 
railways in the Iberian peninsula and is helping Rail Group’s export 
push across Latin America, North Africa, the Middle East and Asia. 
W e s ting ho us e 	 Ra il 	 S y s te m s 	 Aus tr al ia
The leading mainline railway signalling and control specialist in 
Australasia, the company is also leading Rail Group’s export plans 
across the South East Asia region with facilities in Hong Kong, 
Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. 
S afet r an 	 S y s te m s
Safetran Systems is a leading supplier to the US railroad and transit 
markets where it is the leading supplier of grade crossing warning 
systems. Safetran products are sold in all the markets served by 
Rail Group businesses.
TRANSPORTATION 6 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Co nt ro l s
The Controls business group is a global provider of control devices 
for products in residential homes and commercial buildings, with 
strong positions in the markets it serves. Its objective is to become 
the number one value provider to its customers. 
Controls operates in the following major markets:
A p p l i a n c e	
Controls designs, engineers and manufactures components 
and control systems for cooking, refrigeration, laundry and 
dishwashing products sold in both the commercial and residential 
sectors. Our solutions help our customers improve consumer 
satisfaction with enhanced features while providing performance 
that exceeds the energy consumption standards of regulatory 
agencies. The business supplies to the North and South American, 
European and Asian appliance markets. 
W a t e r 	 h e a t i n g , 	 H V A C , 	 a u t o m o t i v e 	 a n d 	 c o m m e rc i a l	
ref r i ger a t io n
Controls develops products used in the water heating, HVAC, 
automotive and commercial refrigeration markets. It is a leading 
designer and manufacturer of products that control and sense 
temperature and humidity in residential, light commercial and 
automotive applications, and improve air quality in homes. 
As with Appliance, the supply is on a global scale.
IMServ 
This UK-based business specialises in energy data management. 
IMServ provides, installs and maintains energy meters and 
provides automatic and manual capture of the data they 
provide. Its customers include retailers, banks, manufacturing 
businesses, utility companies, building and construction firms 
and governments.
A f t e r m a r k e t	
Controls distributes a vast array of replacement products 
for OEM equipment, encompassing thermostats, valves, zone 
controls, timers and electronic components marketed under 
our leading brands. In addition, a variety of ambient controls are 
manufactured for both commercial and residential applications. 
As with Appliance, the supply is on a global scale.
OUR BUSINESSES (CONTINUEd)
CONTROLS Emma Hollis
Westinghouse Rail Systems
I n n ovati on
W e 	 a p p l y 	 i n s p i r a t i o n , 	 i m a g i n a t i o n 	 a n d 	 c r e a t i v i t y	
for 	 h i g h 	 p erforman ce
Finding an innovative use for technology from one business to create 
market-leading solutions in another, Rail Group adapted control technology 
from Process Systems to create WESTLOCK
TM
 – a new generation 
interlocking for railway signalling. Following a series of phased trials for 
Network Rail in the UK, in december 2007 WESTLOCK was approved for 
use and replaced solid state interlocking control at Leamington Spa. 
Its incorporation into an operational system proves how easily WESTLOCK 
can be integrated into existing signalling, whilst also demonstrating its greater 
processing speed and power, as well as enhanced system maintainability. 8 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
WHAT WE dO
WHO WE dO IT WITH
A. O. Smith 
ADIF 
Alcoa 
Bayer 
Beam Global Spirits
Bodycote 
BP 
BP Castrol
British Gas 
Carrier 
Chevron 
Enodis 
Exxon Mobil Corp. 
Fisher & Paykel 
General Mills 
Georgia Pacific 
GIS Calorex 
Haier 
Kingfisher Group
Madrid Metro 
Martens Brewery 
Masterfoods 
Nestle 
Network Rail 
Norfolk Southern 
Pernod 
Queensland Rail 
RasGas 
Reliance 
RENFE 
SAB Miller 
Samsung 
Starbucks 
Sub-Zero Wolf 
Viking 
Whirlpool
Wolseley 
Wrigley 
Yamatake
Process 	 in dustry , 	 oil 	 an d 	 g as, 	 hyd rocarb ons,	 
p ower 	 an d 	 uti lities
Our real‑ time solutions control process plants for increased 
efficiency and profitability, and offer improved information and 
decision-making to the energy sector.
Mainli ne 	 rail 	 transp ort , 	 mass 	 transit
Our train control solutions enable rail operators to increase 
capacity with faster and more frequent trains, delivered safely. 
Discrete 	 manu facturi ng, 	 p harmaceuti cal,	
heat 	 treatment
Our control and automation solutions help meet statutory and 
validation requirements.
Ap pl iance 	 an d 	 resid en tial 	 p rop erty
Making buildings more comfortable and appliances for home 
and work more functional through engineering and software‑ driven design. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 9
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY SECTOR
1
A Rail transportation 26%
B Consumer cyclical 24%
C Oil and gas 17%
D General industries 8%
E Discrete manufacturing 7%
F Utilities and power 6%
G Petrochemicals 5%
H Basic materials 3%
I Pharmaceuticals 2%
J Other 2%
G
H
I J
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY
(DESTINATION)
1
A United Kingdom 17%
B Rest of Europe 28%
C North America 31%
D South America 5%
E Asia Pacific 15%
F Africa and Middle East 4%
A
B
C
D
E
F
EMPLOYEES BY REGION
1
 
A United Kingdom 14%
B Rest of Europe 18%
C North America 39%
D South America 10%
E Asia Pacific 17%
F Africa and Middle East 2%
OUR WORLd 1 For continuing operations. 10 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
01	 Mar tin	 Jay CBE MA (aged 68) 
Appointed a non-executive director in January 2003 and became 
Chairman in July 2003. Mr Jay was Chief Executive of VT Group plc 
from 1989 to 2002 and then Chairman until 2005. Previously held 
a range of leadership positions at GEC, was a member of the GEC 
Management Board and also non‑ executive Chairman at EADS 
UK Limited until October 2006. Mr Jay is the Chairman of the 
Tall Ships Youth Trust.
02	 Ulf	 Henrik sson BA Econ MSc (aged 45) 
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2005. Mr Henriksson joined 
Invensys plc as Chief Operating Officer in May 2004 and was 
appointed to the Board in July 2004. He was appointed a non-
executive director at Hexagon AB on 2 May 2007. Formerly an 
executive and senior leader for Eaton Corporation, Honeywell 
International/Allied Signal Inc. and Volvo Aero.
0 3 	 Steve 	 H a re BCom ACA (aged 47) 
Appointed Chief Financial Officer and joined the Board of Invensys 
plc in July 2006. Mr Hare was previously Group Finance director of 
Spectris plc, the precision instrumentation and controls company. 
Prior to joining Spectris in 2004, he was a founding partner of 
HBA Partners LLP, an operational turnaround and business support 
consultancy. Between 1997 and 2003, he was with Marconi, latterly 
as a director and Chief Financial Officer, where he was involved in 
the company’s financial restructuring. Previously, he spent eight 
years with GPT, the joint venture between GEC and Siemens.
0 4	 Bay	 Green FCA (aged 64) 
Appointed a non-executive director in January 2005 and 
became the chairman of the Audit Committee in December 2006. 
Mr Green also holds the positions of Vice Chairman of Dresdner 
Kleinwort, senior non-executive director of RPC Group plc, 
non‑ executive director of Axis‑Shield plc and trustee of Help the 
Hospices. He serves as the chairman of the audit committees at 
RPC Group plc and Axis‑Shield plc. In September 2006, he was 
appointed as a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional 
Markets Business Unit of the Financial Services Authority. 
0 5 	 J ea n - C l au de 	 G ue z MS (aged 64) 
Appointed a non-executive director in January 2003 and became 
the chairman of the Remuneration Committee in January 2004. 
Mr Guez is a non-executive director of Eurostar Group Limited and 
Eurostar (UK) Limited. He is also an advisory partner with VC Fund 
Rocket Ventures LLP, US. Formerly a non-executive director of Exel 
plc and a management consulting partner at Accenture, where he 
spent his entire career since 1966.
YOUR BOARd OF dIRECTORS Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 11
0 6	 Michael	 Parker (aged 62) 
Appointed a non-executive director in May 2006 and became the 
Senior Independent Director in December 2006. Mr Parker has 
been Group Chief Executive of BNFL, the nuclear company, since 
2003. Previously he was President and Chief Executive Officer 
of The dow Chemical Company in Midland, Michigan, US from 
November 2000 to December 2002 and had been a member of 
the board of directors of dow since 1995. He has recently been 
appointed Chairman of Liverpool’s new regeneration company, 
Liverpool Vision.
07 	 P at 	 Z ito (aged 59) 
Appointed a non-executive director in May 2007. Mr Zito is 
President of the worldwide automotive original equipment and 
aftermarket operations of Pilkington and Nippon Sheet Glass 
Company. He joined Pilkington in 1985 as Finance director of the 
Group’s Australian operations. He became President, Automotive 
OE Europe in 1997 and President of the worldwide automotive 
business in 2002. He was appointed to the board of Pilkington plc 
in 2002 and the board of Nippon Sheet Glass Company in 2007.
01
05
02
06
03
07
04
Director Position Board committees
01 Martin Jay Chairman Chairman of Nominating Committee, member of Remuneration Committee
02 Ulf Henriksson Chief Executive Member of Nominating Committee
03 Steve Hare Chief Financial Officer
04 Bay Green Non‑executive director Chairman of Audit Committee, member of Nominating Committee, member of Remuneration Committee
05 Jean‑Claude Guez Non‑executive director Chairman of Remuneration Committee, member of Nominating Committee
06 Michael Parker Senior Independent Director Member of Audit Committee, member of Nominating Committee, member of Remuneration Committee
07 Pat Zito Non‑executive director Member of Audit Committee, member of Remuneration Committee 12 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
reached a series of agreements following extensive negotiations 
over several months whereby we have been adequately 
compensated for a reduction in the scope of our work. 
We continued to shape our portfolio of businesses with the 
disposals of some non-core businesses and made the first 
acquisition by the Group for several years. We sold APV, our 
food manufacturing project and equipment business, to SPX 
Corporation for £250 million and also three of our smaller 
businesses, namely Safety and Reversing Valves in Controls 
and the North American logistics business Burco in Rail Group. 
Building upon the success of the 2006 Refinancing, the financial 
transformation of the Group has also continued. By March 2008, 
we had built up sufficient cash resources to enable us to redeem 
the remaining High Yield Bonds, further reducing our finance 
costs. Since the year end, we have repaid the Term Loans, which 
has left us effectively debt free, and we have a significant cash 
position.
Our strategy, which was explained in last year’s Annual report, is 
unchanged and the Board is pleased with the success being made 
in its implementation. We now have a strong financial position 
with significant net cash on the balance sheet, a considerable 
change from the heavily indebted position that I inherited when 
I became Chairman in 2003. 
We have continued to improve our environmental, health and 
safety performance across the Group as demonstrated by the 
quantitative disclosures in the corporate social responsibility 
report on page 35. The Board is committed to ensuring that 
Invensys acts as a good corporate citizen across the world. 
We have improved our operational and 
financial performance, with each of our 
three major businesses now reporting 
double digit operating margins.
I am very pleased to report that Invensys has continued the 
considerable progress of recent years with another year of high 
activity and significant achievement. We have improved our 
operational and financial performance, with each of our three 
major businesses now reporting double digit operating margins. 
We have also substantially improved the strength of our balance 
sheet through a good operating cash performance and disposals 
of some non‑ core businesses for good value, and are now in the 
advantageous position of having net cash on the balance sheet. 
A	 year	 of	 fur ther	 progress
In each of the five years that I have been Chairman, Invensys 
has been an extremely busy place, demonstrating the level of 
demands that we place upon our people in order to achieve a 
turnaround in our performance, and this year was no exception.
We produced another increase in profits with each of our 
three major businesses, Process Systems, Rail Group and 
Controls, reporting good improvements. I am particularly 
pleased that we were able to deal effectively with the problems 
created by the entrance into administration of Metronet, the 
company responsible for two thirds of London Underground’s 
infrastructure, which raised concerns over the largest contract the 
Group has ever signed. As explained in the Rail Group review, we 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Marti n 	 Jay
Chairman Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 13
F u t u re 	 re p o r t in g
The redemption of the remaining High Yield Bonds on 17 March 
2008 has removed the requirement to announce detailed 
quarterly results. The Group will continue to publish detailed half 
year and full year results announcements and, instead of first and 
third quarter results announcements, the Board has decided to 
publish interim management statements. These statements will 
update shareholders on any significant changes to the operational 
performance or financial position of Invensys, and the first such 
statement will be issued prior to the opening of business on Friday, 
18 July 2008, the day of our 2008 Annual General Meeting.
T h e 	 B o a rd 	 a nd 	 our 	 pe op le
There have been no changes to the membership of the Board 
since the publication of last year’s Annual report and accounts. 
The Board and some of its committees have had to meet on 
several ad hoc occasions during the year in addition to our 
scheduled meetings and I would like to thank each member 
of the Board for their commitment. 
I have informed the other members of the Board that I am 
intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company 
at the 2009 Annual General Meeting. By then, I will have been 
Chairman for six years and I believe that it will be an appropriate 
time to hand over to my successor. I have made my intentions clear 
now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly 
process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth 
transfer of responsibilities can take place.
I would like to thank everyone across Invensys for their contribution 
to another very successful year. The achievements of the year would 
not have happened without their considerable efforts.
D ivide nd
The Group is taking the necessary actions to enable the Board, at 
the end of 2008/09 and in suitable circumstances, to recommend 
the payment of a dividend. For the year ended 31 March 2008, the 
Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend (2007: nil).
O u t lo o k
Overall, we expect the Group to make further progress in the new 
financial year. The global energy and infrastructure markets for 
Process Systems and Rail Group remain strong and we expect them 
to continue to grow. At Controls, we expect at least to maintain 
its operating profit and cash flow performance despite continued 
softness in some of its markets. 
Mar tin	 Jay
Chairman
Overall, we expect the Group to make 
further progress in the new financial year. 14 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
•  leveraged capabilities and expertise across the Group. In 
particular we are seeing much closer collaboration between 
Process Systems and Rail Group in developing leading-edge 
information and platform technologies;
•  made great progress leveraging our global support functions, 
including global procurement, IT and co-sourcing of our 
finance function. We have begun to see the efficiency benefits 
of these actions and have initiated a similar process within the 
human resources function; 
•  become effectively debt free through the redemption of the 
High Yield Bonds in March and repayment of the Term Loans 
in May. We also have a significant cash position. This, together 
with an expected refinancing of our banking facilities, will 
remove any remaining significant limitations which may inhibit 
the Group’s ability to achieve its growth potential; 
•  grown in emerging markets, so that 22% of our revenue is now 
generated in these markets; and
•  achieved safety performance standards at world-class levels 
relative to our peers, as a result of our intense focus on best 
practice and robust process.
Looking	 to	 the	 future
Our objective is to become a technology and controls company 
providing intelligent solutions to customers on a global basis 
across a broad range of industries. 
We create value for our customers by offering efficiency, safety 
and ease of use. To differentiate ourselves from our competitors, 
we drive this value through information and optimisation 
technology and engineered content. 
The global macroeconomic demand in which we operate remains 
generally favourable with overall global GdP growth, urbanisation 
in developing countries, the demand for increased productivity 
and efficiency and the need for sustainability. However, we are 
alert to the effects of the problems in the mature financial and 
consumer cyclical industries and the possibility that these effects 
could spread deeper into the global economy and other industries. 
The progress that we have made over the past few years gives us the 
agility and resilience to better respond to these market challenges.
Our clear objective is to become a 
technology and controls company 
providing intelligent solutions to 
customers on a global basis across  
a broad range of industries.
I am pleased to report that, during the past year, we have 
continued to transform the financial position of Invensys through 
a combination of further improved operating performances across 
the businesses, the disposals of non‑ core activities for good value 
and the successful negotiation of the PPP settlement (as described 
in the Rail Group business review). 
Today we have around £200 million of cash and, following the 
redemption of the remaining High Yield Bonds and the repayment 
of the Term Loans, we are effectively debt free. We are looking to 
further modify our financing facilities in due course to ensure that 
we have arrangements in place that support the implementation 
of our business strategy.
We are also making good progress on our journey to become an 
unquestioned leader in our markets by unlocking the potential 
of both ourselves and our customers. We are building a strong 
foundation for growth with high performing processes, human 
and execution capabilities and a cohesive business for our 
customers, employees and shareholders in an ever-changing 
environment. Our clear objective is to become a technology and 
controls company providing intelligent solutions to customers on 
a global basis across a broad range of industries. 
O ur 	 achie v e m e n t s
This year we have made structural improvements that deliver 
a deep and enduring impact for our businesses. We have:
•  improved performance in delivery and quality essential to 
securing our current customer base;
•  increased our investments in research and development and 
built on our ability to provide engineering and technology 
solutions and services to our customers;
C HIEF	 Ex ECU TIVE ’ S	 S T A TEME n T
U lf 	 Henri ksson
Chief Executive Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 15
O u r 	 b u s ine s s e s:
Process Systems
Operating in generally infrastructure and long cycle markets 
such as oil and gas, power, mining and petrochemicals, Process 
Systems is positioning itself for growth through becoming a 
technology solution provider and using real-time information 
to give businesses unprecedented enterprise-wide visibility and 
control. The ease of use of our solutions together with increased 
efficiency, productivity and safety through better decision-making 
and through optimisation of their enterprise operations processes 
provide increased demand and value. 
Eurotherm
We have seen good progress in our vertical and geographic 
strategy to capture growth in the life sciences, glass and heat 
treatment markets and in the Eastern European and Asia Pacific 
regions. The migration of manufacturing from Western Europe 
both into the supply chain and to new facilities in Poland and 
China has largely been completed. 
Rail Group
Our core markets of the UK, Iberia and Australia have continued 
to perform well with high levels of activity underpinned by 
significant expenditures on rail infrastructure improvements 
and expansion. Much of our future growth will come from our 
success in export markets and we are making good progress in 
developing our relationships within our target markets of Latin 
America, North Africa, the Middle East, India and the rest of Asia. 
We are focussing resource on winning in these export markets, 
and continuing to develop our integrated technology to become 
a transportation solution provider. 
Controls
Our aim with Controls is at least to maintain the level of operating 
profit despite any adverse effects on revenue of changes in its 
markets. By disposing of a number of its non-core businesses and 
focussing upon more resilient markets such as the mid to higher 
end of the global appliance sector, we achieved our immediate 
aims for the year and are confident that we can maintain the 
positive performance trend during the coming year. 
Cor por a te 	 s ocia l 	 re s pon s i b il i t y 	 ( C S R )
As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, we remain committed to 
ensuring that we act in a socially responsible fashion. We have 
continued to make good progress during the year and our CSR 
report, contained in this document, provides both qualitative and, 
particularly in the case of health, safety and the environment, 
detailed quantitative descriptions of our achievements. Our CO2 
emissions have been reduced for the third straight year, we have 
consumed less energy overall and have significantly increased the 
level of recycling of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste. 
I am particularly pleased that our safety performance is now at 
world‑ class levels relative to our peers. 
Our people
I am delighted that we have very good people across each 
of our businesses who are engaged in forming our future as 
unquestioned leaders in our markets. Their commitment, 
capabilities and achievements are reflected in our improved 
performance and I would like to thank each of them for their 
contributions to this success. In return, we are increasing our 
investment in learning and development so that everyone can 
achieve their own potential as well as helping them to play their 
part in the successful future of Invensys.
Our values
during the year we launched an Invensys-wide vision and mission 
to act as a guide in meeting our business strategies and objectives. 
Around 1,000 Invensys people took part in workshops and 
meetings helping us develop our values of innovation, agility, 
integrity, meritocracy and courage.
We have used these values as the basis of this Annual report so 
that shareholders can see how they are being adopted across 
the Group.
U lf 	 H e n r i k sso n
Chief Executive
Today we have around £200 million of 
cash and, following the redemption of 
the remaining High Yield Bonds and the 
repayment of the Term Loans, we are 
effectively debt free. 16 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
I nt ro d u c t i o n 	 a n d 	 s u mma r y
As I stated in my report last year the key priorities for the year to 
31 March 2008 have been to focus on cash generation, through 
improved working capital management, and margin development 
with an emphasis on driving productivity. In my second year as 
Chief Financial Officer I am therefore pleased to report a set of 
results that has delivered:
•  cash conversion of 92% (102% excluding restructuring), given 
that my criteria for strong cash performance is 90%+; 
•  an expansion in operating margin of over 100 basis points 
from 10.8% to 12.0%; and
•  a 35% increase in underlying earnings per share
1
 and a 157% 
increase in basic earnings per share.
The level of cash conversion achieved has been mainly due to 
improved operating profits. There has been a reduction in the 
level of capital expenditure, with greater emphasis placed on 
restructuring spend in order to reduce our cost base, particularly 
in Controls. A minor working capital outflow was generated in the 
year, leaving us with opportunities for improvement in working 
capital management over the coming year. Return on operating 
capital
2
 improved to 53% from 42% in the prior year.
In terms of the increase in operating margin, this has been driven 
by volume growth and improved productivity. Volume growth has 
been experienced in our major long‑ term contracting businesses, 
Process Systems and Rail Group, and our three major businesses 
have delivered productivity improvements. This has been in areas 
such as supply chain, overhead structure rationalisation and 
enhanced project execution. The improved margin is particularly 
pleasing given a backdrop of inflationary pressures and 
management’s proactive decision to invest in higher levels of sales 
and marketing and research and development costs to support 
future growth in our Process Systems and Rail Group businesses.
Regarding the capital structure, the Group has made significant 
progress in the year. This included the redemption of our 
remaining High Yield Bonds in March and a net cash position of 
£73 million at 31 March 2008. Key items that have contributed 
to the net cash position include the gross receipt of £294 million 
from divested businesses and the generation of £64 million of 
free cash flow in the year.
F I n A n C I A L 	 R E V I E W	
Steve 	 Hare
Chief Financial Officer
Highlights for the year include a 
high level of cash conversion, margin 
expansion of over 100 basis points, a 
35% increase in underlying EPS, a 157% 
increase in basic EPS and a strengthening 
in the Group’s balance sheet.
1  Calculated by reference to earnings before exceptional finance costs, foreign 
exchange gains and losses, and PPP settlement credit.
2  Return on operating capital at comparable exchange rates is calculated as 
OPBIT divided by capital employed excluding goodwill, net pension liabilities, 
non‑operating provisions and net taxation liabilities. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 17
Since the year end, further progress has been made. We have 
received cash of £95 million in settlement from Bombardier 
with respect to Rail Group’s PPP contract (described in detail in 
the Rail Group business review) and have repaid £155 million of 
Term Loans that were secured as part of our 2006 Refinancing. 
Therefore, at the time of signing of this report the Group is 
effectively debt free, with about £200 million cash. 
A detailed look at our financial performance for the year and 
financial position at the year end are set out in the sections 
that follow.
Review	 of	 per formance	 during	 the	 year
The table below sets out financial Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs) that the directors and group management use to track and 
drive performance. A more detailed explanation of these KPIs 
and other financial measures in the context of the Group’s trading 
performance during the year is set out throughout this financial 
review.
Growth
 
KPIs for the year ended 31 March
 
2008
 
2007
% change at  
CER
1
 
% total  
change 
Orders (£m) 2,036 2,101 (2) (3)
Revenue (£m) 2,108 1,999 6 5
Operating profit
2
 (£m) 254 216 19 18
Operating margin
2
 (%) 12.0 10.8 – –
Operating cash flow (£m) 234 237 (1) (1)
Cash conversion (%) 92 110 – –
Net finance cost cover
3
 (times) 5.6 3.3 – –
Earnings per share – underlying
4
 (p) 17.0 12.6 – 35
Free cash flow (£m) 64 111 – (42)
Return on operating capital
5  
(%) 53.0 42.0 – –
1 % change is measured as the change at CER as a percentage of the 2007 adjusted base and is calculated based on underlying amounts in £’000s.
2	 All 	 refere nce s 	 to 	 ope rating 	 profit 	 and 	 ope rating 	 margin 	 are 	 arrive d 	 at 	 before 	 e xce ptional 	 items, 	 unle ss 	 otherwise 	 state d.
3	 Net 	 finance	 cost 	 cove r 	 is 	 me asure d 	 as 	 the 	 number 	 of 	 ti mes 	 ope rating 	 profit 	 before 	 e xce ptional 	 items 	 cove rs 	 net 	 finance	 costs.
4	 	 Calculated 	 by 	 refere nce 	 to 	 e arnings 	 before 	 e xce ptional 	 finance	 costs, 	 fore ign 	 e xchange 	 gains 	 and 	 losse s, 	 and 	 PP P 	 settlement 	 cre di t .
5	 	 R e turn 	 on 	 ope rating 	 capital 	 at 	 comparable 	 e xchange 	 rate s 	 is 	 calculate d 	 as 	 OPBIT 	 divide d 	 by 	 capital 	 e mploye d 	 e xcluding 	 goodwill, 	 net 	 pension 	 liabilitie s, 	 non‑operating 	 provi sions 	 and 	 net 	 taxation 	 liabilitie s.
Note : 	 All 	 data 	 relate s 	 to 	 continuing 	 ope rations 	 (othe r 	 than 	 fre e 	 cash 	 flow) 18 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
O rd e r s
Orders for continuing operations were £2,036 million, a decrease 
of 2% at CER (2007: £2,101 million). This reflects the uneven nature 
of order intake at Rail Group and the anticipated reduction at 
Controls. A summary of orders and movements at CER by business 
group is set out below:
The order book for continuing operations was £1,294 million at 
31 March 2008 (2007: £1,854 million). This decrease in order book 
was due to the cancellation of £545 million of orders at Rail Group 
following the PPP settlement.
FInAnCIAL	REVIEW	(CONTINUEd)
 
 
Orders for the year ended 31 March
2007 
orders 
£m
 
Exchange 
£m
2007 
at CER 
£m
Change at 
CER 
£m
2008 
ord ers 
£m
 
Change
1
 
%
Process Systems 845 (19) 826 44 870 5
Eurotherm 111 – 111 8 119 7
Rail Group 479 5 484 (55) 429 (11)
Controls 666 (2) 664 (46) 618 (7)
Co n ti n u i n g 	 op erati on s 2,101 ( 16) 2,085 ( 49) 2,036 ( 2)
1 % change is measured as the change at CER as a percentage of the 2007 adjusted base and is calculated based on underlying amounts in £’000s.
Revenue
Revenue for the year was £2,108 million, an increase of 6% at 
CER (2007: £1,999 million) representing good growth within the 
North America and Asia Pacific regions in Process Systems and Rail 
Group’s strong performance in the majority of its core markets. 
A summary of revenue and movements at CER by business group 
is set out below:
O p e r a t i ng 	 profit 	 an d 	 m arg i n
Operating profit before exceptional items was £254 million 
(2007: £216 million), representing an increase of 19% at CER. 
Operating margin increased to 12.0% (2007: 10.8%) due to higher 
volume and improved productivity. A summary of operating profit 
and movements at CER by business group is set out opposite:
 
 
Revenue for the year ended 31 March
2007 
revenue 
£m
 
Exchange 
£m
2007 
at CER 
£m
Change at 
CER 
£m
2008 
revenue 
£m
 
Change
1
 
%
Process Systems 779 (17) 762 68 830 9
Eurotherm 109 1 110 5 115 5
Rail Group 449 2 451 88 539 20
Controls 662 (3) 659 (35) 624 (5)
Co n ti n u i n g 	 op erati on s 1,999 ( 17) 1,982 126 2,108 6
1 % change is measured as the change at CER as a percentage of the 2007 adjusted base and is calculated based on underlying amounts in £’000s. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 19
O p e r a t i ng 	 c a s h 	 flow 	 a n d 	 c a s h 	 c o nve r s io n
Operating cash flow was broadly flat at CER at £234 million 
(2007: £237 million), with cash conversion of 92% (2007: 110%). 
Cash conversion excluding restructuring was 102% for the 
year (2007: 116%). A summary of operating cash flow and cash 
conversion by business group is set out below:
E x c e p t i o n a l 	 it e m s
Income from exceptional items for the year totalled £62 million 
(2007: £27 million charge). Key elements of this were a credit 
of £95 million from the PPP settlement partially offset by 
restructuring costs of £27 million (2007: £13 million). The 
restructuring costs relate to major projects at Controls locations 
in Europe and North America, along with costs associated with 
a transfer of finance transactional processing activities to a 
co‑sourcing partner. 
 
 
Operating profit for the year ended 31 March
2007 
OPBIT 
£m
 
Exchange 
£m
2007 
at CER 
£m
Change at 
CER 
£m
2008 
OPBIT 
£m
 
Change
1
 
%
Process Systems 104 (3) 101 16 117 16
Eurotherm 13 – 13 (4) 9 (27)
Rail Group 77 1 78 15 93 19
Controls 59 – 59 10 69 17
Corporate (37) – (37) 3 ( 34) 9
Co n ti n u i n g 	 op erati on s 216 ( 2) 214 40 254 19
Operating cash flow Cash conversion
 
Operating cash flow and conversion for the year ended 31 March
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2008 
%
2007 
%
Process Systems 100 94 85 90
Eurotherm 6 12 67 92
Rail Group 93 133 100 173
Controls 68 45 99 76
Corporate ( 33) (47) – –
Co n ti n u i n g 	 op erati on s 234 237 92 110
1 % change is measured as the change at CER as a percentage of the 2007 adjusted base and is calculated based on underlying amounts in £’000s. 20 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Fo rei g n 	 e x ch ange 	 lo sse s
Foreign exchange losses of £21 million (2007: £35 million gain) 
are principally attributable to exchange differences on the Group’s 
non-sterling denominated currency borrowings held in companies 
whose functional currency is sterling. Of the exchange losses, 
£19 million arose on net external euro borrowings following its 
significant strengthening.
E x c e p t i o n a l 	 fi n a n c e 	 c o s t s
Exceptional finance costs were £36 million (2007: £67 million), of 
which £18 million was the redemption premium on the remaining 
High Yield Bonds. In addition, there was an £18 million write‑ off 
of facility fees in relation to the High Yield Bonds and existing 
financing facilities.
n e t 	 fi n a n c e 	 c o s t s 	 a n d 	 c o ve r
Net finance costs reduced to £45 million in the year (2007: 
£66 million) reflecting the significant reduction in gross debt in the 
year. Net finance cost cover improved from 3.3 times to 5.6 times. 
Ta xation	
The tax charge for continuing operations was £30 million (2007: 
£20 million) which comprises a current year income tax charge 
of £38 million (2007: £28 million), offset by prior year credits of 
£3 million (2007: £2 million charge), which result from favourable 
resolution of historic tax disputes, and deferred tax credits of 
£5 million (2007: £10 million). 
Pro fi t 	 f rom 	 d i sc on t i n u e d 	 ope r a t i on s
during the year the APV, Safety, Reversing Valves and Burco 
businesses were disposed, raising a gross cash consideration 
of £294 million. Profit from discontinued operations was 
£167 million, including a gain on disposal of £170 million. 
n et 	 profit 	 fo r 	 t h e 	 y e ar
Net profit increased to £336 million (2007: £209 million), reflecting 
the increase in operating profit, the PPP settlement credit 
and a reduction in total finance costs, partly offset by foreign 
exchange losses.
E ar ni ng s 	 p e r 	 sh are
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations were 21.1p 
(2007: 8.2p). Underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations were 17.0p (2007: 12.6p) arising from improved 
operating profit and lower finance costs.
Free	 cash	 flow
Free cash flow for the year was £64 million (2007: £111 million), 
with the reduction being driven by an operating cash outflow in 
discontinued operations and an £18 million accelerated pension 
funding payment following the APV disposal, partially offset by 
lower finance costs. 
F i nanc i al 	 posit i on 	 a t 	 y ear 	 e n d
C a pi t al 	 s t r uc t u re
The Group’s capital structure is as follows:
FInAnCIAL	REVIEW	(CONTINUEd)
 
As at 31 March
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
Capital employed 373 26
Cash and cash equivalents 235 307
Borrowings (162) (473)
Net cash/(debt) 73 (166)
T otal 	 eq ui ty 	 – 	 fund s/(d eficit) 446 (140)
Comprising:
 – Equity holders of parent 377 (200)
 – Minority interests 69 60
446 (140) Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 21
T ot al 	 e qui t y
At the end of the year the Company had issued share capital 
of 797 million ordinary shares of 10p. Total equity improved from 
a negative to a positive position due to the improved performance 
of the Group and a reduction in the reported pension deficit. 
However, the parent company continues to have negative 
distributable reserves, an issue which we intend to resolve 
in the coming year.
M i n o r it y 	 i nt e re s t s
The minority interest balance is £69 million (2007: £60 million), 
the majority of which relates to the interests of the minority in 
Baan Company NV.
n et 	 c a sh
Net cash was £73 million (2007: £166 million net debt). The 
improvement of £239 million was largely due to the receipt of 
the gross disposal proceeds of £294 million combined with free 
cash flow of £64 million. 
This improved cash position has enabled us to reduce our level 
of gross debt with the redemption of the High Yield Bonds 
in March 2008.
Since the year end, our cash position has improved further with 
£95 million received as a result of the PPP settlement. With this 
additional cash, we have repaid our £155 million Term Loans and 
are now effectively debt free, with around £200 million of cash.
C a p it a l 	 e mplo y e d
Capital employed increased to £373 million in the year, 
attributable to a reduction in the pension liability of £304 million, 
and an increase in working capital of £76 million. The operating 
element of our capital employed has generated improved returns, 
with the return on operating capital improving to 53% (2007: 42%).
P e n si o n 	 l i a b il it ie s
Actuarial assessments of pension assets and liabilities have been 
updated as at 31 March 2008, resulting in an overall pension 
liability at the year end of £218 million (2007: £522 million). 
The decrease is attributable to an actuarial gain of £218 million 
(2007: £56 million loss), contributions related to business disposal 
proceeds of £55 million and £18 million of accelerated funding 
deficit payments for the UK Main Scheme.
The triennial valuation of the UK Main Scheme is currently 
underway and is expected to be finalised in the second half 
of the year to 31 March 2009.
S u mma r y 	 a n d 	 c o n clu si o n s
Overall the results for the year to 31 March 2008 show good 
progress against the prior year. Highlights, as described in 
the introduction of this section, include a high level of cash 
conversion, margin expansion of over 100 basis points, a 35% 
increase in underlying EPS, a 157% increase in basic EPS and 
a strengthening in the Group’s balance sheet. This is a strong 
position against which to set both my operational and financial 
priorities for the coming year, which are described below. 
Operationally, my priorities are focussed on supporting the 
Group’s strategy to build a strong foundation for growth. 
Specifically, these priorities are to:
•  continue the focus on improved working capital management 
in order to drive the generation of consistently strong levels 
of cash throughout the year;
•  continue the focus on margin expansion, with a push 
for greater levels of productivity, including execution 
on restructuring programmes where the business case is 
compelling; and
•  strongly enhance operational processes to support the Group’s 
journey towards becoming a high performing, sustainable and 
cohesive business. This will include creating greater efficiency 
in the finance function and it will be the second year of the 
Group’s four-year initiative to transfer transactional processing 
activities to its selected co‑ sourcing partner. 22 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
From a financial perspective, the overall goal is to further improve 
the efficiency of the Group’s balance sheet. In order to achieve 
this, my key areas of priority will be to: 
•  secure a financing package to give the Group greater 
flexibility in which to execute its strategy. discussions with our 
relationship banks with respect to this are progressing well; 
•  modify the capital structure of the Group to put the Group 
into a position where the Board can recommend the payment 
of a dividend; 
•  maximise value from our tax losses; and
•  continue to successfully manage our pension liabilities. As 
previously noted, a major milestone relating to this is the 
conclusion of the next triennial valuation of the UK Main 
Scheme.
Stev e 	 H a re 
Chief Financial Officer
F ina nc ial 	 p ol i c i e s
S t at e me nt 	 o f 	 a c c o u nt i n g 	 p o l ic ie s
The Group’s Consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) in issue that are endorsed by the European Commission and 
effective at 31 March 2008. The Group’s accounting policies under 
IFRS are set out in the Accounting policies section in the Group 
financial statements.
The Company accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). details 
of the Company’s accounting policies can be located in the Parent 
company financial statements.
T rea s u r y 	 p ol ic y
The Group’s treasury policy is approved by the Board and seeks 
to ensure that:
•  appropriate financial resources are available for the 
maintenance and development of the Group’s businesses; 
•  the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty 
credit exposure is optimised; and 
•  treasury operates as a cost centre and no speculative 
transactions are undertaken.
Funding, liquidity and treasury management
Operating within the strict controls of this policy, the Group’s 
treasury function manages these financial risks, ensuring in 
particular that sufficient funding and liquidity is available to meet 
the expected needs of the Group. In addition to the free cash flow 
of the Group, Invensys adopts a prudent approach to liquidity 
management using a mixture of long‑ term debt facilities and 
short‑ term cash deposits. Core funding and guarantee issuance 
is provided by bank facilities maturing in december 2010. These 
facilities hold security over property, plant and equipment, 
working capital, cash and share certificates of subsidiaries.
FInAnCIAL	REVIEW	(CONTINUEd) Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 23
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to set the proportion of fixed and floating 
rate debt, taking into account several factors including:
•  the profitability of the Group in relation to the business cycle 
and the consequent level of interest rates in relation to that 
business cycle;
• the absolute levels of interest rates; and
• the financial leverage of the Group.
To implement this policy the Group uses fixed-rate borrowings, 
interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and currency swaps 
to manage its interest rate exposure.
As at 31 March 2008, in line with the Group being in a net cash 
position, Invensys had no significant fixed-rate borrowings 
(2007: £431 million, including interest rate swaps). 
C u r re n c y 	 r i s k	
Transaction exposure
Currency transaction exposure arises when the Group’s businesses 
face revenues or costs in a currency other than their own. The 
incidence of this risk varies across the Group and is subject to 
change. Usually however the majority of revenues and costs will 
be in the functional currency of the business unit undertaking 
the transaction. Where this is not the case and the exposure is 
significant, it is the Group’s policy for businesses to hedge their 
exposure. 
The Group is also subject to exchange risk in making bids, 
particularly on major contracts. The assumption of a specific 
exchange rate within a bid would lead to a change in the 
anticipated margin on the contract should a bid be successful; 
this risk is hedged if significant. 
The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts 
to manage transaction exposure.
Translation exposure
The majority of the Group’s operating capital is employed in 
overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, 
particularly US dollars. As a consequence, changes in exchange 
rates affect both net asset values and reported results. This risk 
is not hedged directly, but debt which is held in foreign currency 
reduces the level of net assets exposed to currency fluctuations. 
The interest expense of foreign currency debt may also reduce 
the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements. 
Credit risk
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom 
it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as 
to control exposure to any territory or institution. As far as it is 
both feasible and practical to do so cash is held centrally. Risk is 
assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies. 
Further information on the risks arising from financial instruments 
is included in Note 22 to the Group financial statements. Name
Title
Division
Anil Kumar
Process Systems
Agility
We adapt, grow and swiftly change for 
a sustainable future
We meet our customers’ complex needs through our agility at mixing 
technologies and talent. The ExxonMobil Lubricants and Specialties 
Company selected an InFusion system to address process control at its 
plant in Louisiana, with the added benefits of facilitating production 
flexibility and improving work flow, showing how our InFusion technology 
can serve as an efficient platform for plant-wide integration. 
The client’s sophisticated requirements were successfully achieved through a 
combination of technology and delivery talent, resulting in enhanced operational 
collaboration and improved supply chain performance. The system’s scalability 
has enabled it to become a template for other ExxonMobil lubricant facilities. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 25
ruNNiNg heAder
Process Systems designs, manufactures, installs, tests and 
commissions software and computer-based hardware for the 
automation and regulation of plant operations, the management 
of certain administrative functions of manufacturing business 
and simulations of manufacturing process operations. It delivers 
solutions and consulting services that improve the productivity 
and safety of customers’ plants.
Markets
Our major end markets within the oil and gas, petrochemical, 
refining and power sectors remain strong on a global basis with 
little evidence that the turmoil in the financial markets is affecting 
expenditure in these sectors. 
The upstream and downstream oil and gas and petrochemical 
markets are being supported by high crude oil and natural gas 
prices, with expenditure on new greenfield sites, particularly in 
the Middle East and Asia, and investments to improve productivity 
at brownfield sites in North America and Europe. The increasing 
demand for energy is also having the similar effect of boosting 
demand in the utilities and power generation markets across the 
globe. Although key markets remain robust, in common with the 
industry as a whole, there have been some delays in the formal 
award of certain contracts due to civil engineering capacity 
constraints and political debates in some jurisdictions between 
governments and oil companies over the share of costs and 
revenue.
developments
We have continued to invest in strengthening Process Systems’ 
ability to sell high value solutions to our customers. We have 
recruited additional expertise in our sales and marketing team 
to drive the solutions offering and to ensure that Invensys 
is considered an integral partner of our customers. As part 
of this, we have been investing in strengthening our sales 
and marketing, engineering and research and development 
teams, which contributed to an 8% headcount increase 
during the past 12 months, and we are seeing evidence 
of the benefits of this in the increased order pipeline. 
Process systeMs
Paulett eberhart
CEO and President
Invensys Process Systems
 
For the year ended 31 March
 
2008
 
2007
% change 
at CER
% total 
change
Orders (£m) 870 845 5 3
Revenue (£m) 830 779 9 7
Operating profit (£m) 117 104 16 13
Operating margin (%) 14.1 13.4
Operating cash flow (£m) 100 94 11 6
Employees at year end (numbers) 7,795 7,245 8
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY SECTOR
A Oil and gas upstream 27%
B Oil and gas downstream 17%
C General industries 16%
D Utilities and power 12%
E Petrochemicals 12%
F Other 16%
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY
(DESTINATION)
A United Kingdom 3%
B Rest of Europe 24%
C North America 35%
D South America 6%
E Asia Pacific 22%
F Africa and Middle East 10%
sudipta Bhattacharya
President
Wonderware 26 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
InFusion, the world’s first enterprise control system, has gained 
further momentum during the year, particularly with some of 
our larger customers; order intake is currently running at an 
annualised rate of around £100 million. We recently implemented 
a comprehensive InFusion system installation at ExxonMobil’s Port 
Allen Lubricants plant in Louisiana and have received an InFusion 
system order for BP’s Bulwer Island refinery in Queensland, 
Australia. In Thailand we have been awarded a major contract to 
provide an InFusion system for a new 300,000 tonnes per annum 
low-density polyethylene plant for the PTT Polyethylene Company 
Limited.
In the oil and gas sector, we have been awarded a contract by 
PEMEX to automate eight offshore platforms in the Ku-Maloob-
Zaap oilfield using I/A Series
®
 process controls systems and 
Foundation Fieldbus technology. In the UK, we will be using the 
same technology to upgrade the Petroplus Coryton refinery.
In the power sector, we won a contract from the Saudi Electricity 
Company to provide plant performance, monitoring and safety 
solutions to one of the country’s most critical power stations. The 
PP8 plant, which is based in Central Province, is one of two power 
stations that supply the capital city Riyadh with its electricity 
needs; the plant is currently rated at 1850 MW, which will rise to 
2330 MW after this expansion. Our drive to expand our related 
consulting services also saw success including a contract to deliver 
cyber security protection services to Husky Energy’s Upgrader 
plant in Saskatchewan, Canada.
During the year, Wonderware achieved the significant milestone 
of having more than 500,000 software licenses being actively 
deployed by its customers around the globe. Software licenses 
have been sold to more than 100,000 plants and facilities 
worldwide, which accounts for around one third of the world’s 
300,000 plants with 20 or more employees. 
The £12 million acquisition of Cimnet, Inc., a manufacturing 
execution system (MES) software company, was completed on 
1 July 2007 and it is now fully integrated into our Wonderware 
business. Cimnet’s MES technology is being combined with our 
open industry standard based ArchestrA technology to ensure 
rapid deployment and ease of use by the large installed base. 
Performance 
Order intake in the year increased by 5% at CER to £870 million 
(2007: £845 million) with particularly strong improvements in 
North America and Asia Pacific. Revenue in the year was up 9% at 
CER at £830 million (2007: £779 million) with growth in all regions, 
especially in North America and Asia Pacific. 
Operating profit was up 16% at CER at £117 million (2007: 
£104 million) despite the significantly increased investment in 
sales and marketing and research and development. Operating 
margin rose to 14.1% (2007: 13.4%), helped by productivity 
improvements.
Operating cash flow was £100 million (2007: £94 million), resulting 
in cash conversion for the year of 85% (2007: 90%).
o utlook
The outlook for Process Systems’ global markets remains 
strong, particularly in oil and gas, petrochemicals and power. 
As the process industries become more competitive and cost 
conscious, automation is an area of investment to provide greater 
productivity and profitability. We are confident that we can 
increase the level of growth given the significant increase in the 
pipeline of order prospects.
The outlook for Process Systems’ global 
markets remains strong, particularly in oil 
and gas, petrochemicals and power. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 27
ruNNiNg heAder
Eurotherm provides control, data and measurement 
instrumentation products, solutions and services to manage 
specific parameters of the manufacturing process, such as 
temperature and pressure, for the global industrial control 
and process markets. 
Eurotherm has global expertise in many industrial markets with 
dedicated specialists in some key areas including life sciences, 
glass manufacturing, metals and plastics and the heat treatment 
of metals (for industries such as aerospace and automotive).
Markets
Our traditional markets in Western Europe and North America 
are being affected by the migration of industrial manufacturing 
capacity to lower cost countries. In contrast, the emerging 
markets, in particular in Asia Pacific, continue to grow 
strongly, and we are experiencing increased demand for the 
application of our extensive industry knowledge within our key 
vertical markets of life sciences, heat treatment and glass. The 
demand for solutions rather than just products is also driving 
growth in the business.
developments
The migration of manufacturing from Western Europe both into 
the supply chain and to new facilities in Poland and China is now 
substantially completed. We are also continuing to execute our 
strategy to capture the growth in the key vertical markets of life 
sciences, glass and heat treatment, and in the Eastern European 
and Asia Pacific regions. 
eurotherM
Jeff greene
President
Eurotherm
 
For the year ended 31 March
 
2008
 
2007
% change 
at CER
% total 
change
Orders (£m) 119 111 7 7
Revenue (£m) 115 109 5 6
Operating profit (£m) 9 13 (27) (31)
Operating margin (%) 7.8 11.9
Operating cash flow (£m) 6 12 (59) (50)
Employees at year end (numbers) 1,147 1,123 2
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY SECTOR
A Discrete manufacturing 42%
B Heat treatment 20%
C General industries 11%
D Pharmaceutical 10%
E Utilities and power 6%
F Other 11%
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY
(DESTINATION)
A United Kingdom 13%
B Rest of Europe 50%
C North America 19%
D South America 2%
E Asia Pacific 15%
F Africa and Middle East 1% 28 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Performance
Orders for the year rose 7% at CER to £119 million (2007: 
£111 million) with good increases in our three key vertical markets, 
which saw order growth of 24%, while the greatest geographical 
impact was seen in Asia Pacific and EMEA. 
Revenue was £115 million (2007: £109 million), 5% higher at CER, 
principally mirroring the growth seen in orders. 
Operating profit was down 27% at CER to £9 million 
(2007: £13 million) due mainly to some duplicated costs during 
the manufacturing reorganisation and changes in sales mix. 
Operating margin was 7.8% (2007: 11.9%). Operating cash flow was 
£6 million (2007: £12 million), due mainly to the lower operating 
profit and a working capital outflow.
o utlook
Eurotherm’s end markets remain good and the focus on key 
verticals and emerging markets is expected to contribute to 
further growth.
Eurotherm’s end markets remain  
good and the focus on key verticals  
and emerging markets is expected  
to contribute to further growth. hayley Mchenry
Eurotherm
Meritocracy
We develop, evaluate and recognise high 
performing ability and achievement
As we continue our journey towards becoming unquestioned leaders in our 
target markets, we attract and retain talent with high performing capabilities, 
ensuring that we have the right people with the right skills and abilities to 
make this a reality. To unlock this potential we conduct an ongoing review of 
our people capabilities and succession plans, ensuring we have the execution 
capabilities necessary to sustain our results and provide each of our people 
with the opportunity to prosper. 30 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Rail Group is a multinational leader in delivering state-of-the-
art railway control and communication solutions. We enable the 
world’s railways to help meet ever-increasing demand for rail 
services by providing a range of solutions that safely and cost-
effectively increase the capacity of their networks by increasing 
frequency and maximising operational effectiveness. 
Our broad offering ranges from highly complex integrated control 
centre solutions that supervise and control complete railways to 
sophisticated train-based systems that automate train operation 
and protection, interlocking systems that ensure safe running 
across a network and a complete range of trackside products.
Markets
The global rail infrastructure market continues to grow through a 
combination of upgrading and expansion of mainline rail networks 
being driven by the increased demand for the cost-effective 
and low carbon emission characteristics of rail transportation. 
Additional demand arises from the need to create mass transit 
systems to deal with increased urbanisation, particularly in the 
developing world. The difficulties in the financial markets do not 
appear to have had any significant impact upon the financing of 
projects since most are funded directly or indirectly by national 
and local governments rather than by commercial organisations.
The Rail Group’s core markets of the UK, Iberia and Australia 
remained robust throughout the year, with high levels of 
demand in both mainline and mass transit infrastructure projects. 
Despite the increased level of federal funding contained in the 
Transportation Bill, our other core market of North America 
was flat as spending by the railroad companies focussed upon 
capacity expansion rather than on our main offering, rail crossings; 
however, there are early signs that activity levels are increasing 
in the new financial year. 
Outside our core markets, there are a significant number of 
major projects which are likely to be commenced during the next 
five years, and we are focussing in particular upon Latin America, 
North Africa, India and the rest of Asia. The opportunities are 
large but the exact timing of the award of orders is difficult 
to predict. 
rA il grou P 
James drummond
CEO and President
Rail Group
 
For the year ended 31 March
 
2008
 
2007
% change 
at CER
% total 
change
Orders (£m) 429 479 (11) (10)
Revenue (£m) 539 449 20 20
Operating profit (£m) 93 77 19 21
Operating margin (%) 17.3 17.1
Operating cash flow (£m) 93 133 (31) (30)
Employees at year end (numbers) 3,512 3,046 15
A
C
B
REVENUE BY SECTOR
A Mainline engineering 
 and contracting 51%
B Mass transit engineering 
 and contracting 32%
C Products 17%
A
B
C
D
REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY
(DESTINATION)
A United Kingdom 47%
B Rest of Europe 28%
C North America 14%
D Asia Pacific 11% Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 31
developments
In the UK, we continue to be awarded significant orders from 
Network Rail under the Category A framework agreements and since 
the year end one of our framework agreements has been expanded 
to include the signalling for the significant improvements planned 
for the Thameslink network through London.
On 31 March 2008, we reached a series of agreements as part of 
the arrangements being put in place following Metronet entering 
into administration last year. London Underground Limited (LUL) 
had decided to rescope the new signalling work for the Sub Surface 
Lines (SSL) and this resulted in a cash payment from Bombardier 
to Invensys of £95 million on 2 April 2008 and a reduction in the 
Westinghouse Rail Systems Limited order book of £545 million 
in respect of work that would have been carried out mainly in 
the period 2010 to 2014. This development has provided us with 
a significant opportunity to win the rescoped contract when it is 
retendered in accordance with public procurement rules. We have 
the certified engineering capacity and the capabilities to meet LUL’s 
vision for the London Underground. Our other signalling work on 
the SSL and the Victoria Line, representing around £180 million of 
future revenue, is unaffected by this change.
Our significant investment in technology produced several 
developments during the year. Our new WESTLOCK computerised 
interlocking, which is based upon Process Systems’ Triconex safety 
system, was approved by Network Rail for use on the UK mainline. 
One of our new mass transit train control systems, Distance to 
Go – Radio, was successfully trialled during engineering hours in 
February 2008 on the Victoria Line of the London Underground 
and is due to be trialled during passenger hours shortly. 
We also continue to actively address a very significant pipeline of 
major prospects in export markets totalling in excess of £1 billion 
for orders expected to be placed during the next five years.
On 31 March 2008, we sold our North American rail logistics 
business Burco to a US company, Railroad Controls Limited, for 
£15 million. Burco was not core to our signalling and related 
systems operations. In the year ended 31 March 2008, Burco 
reported revenue of £64 million and operating profit of £2 million 
and has been treated as a discontinued operation in the 
Group’s results.
Performance
Order intake during the year was down 11% at CER, to £429 million 
(2007: £479 million) as the prior year included some large 
contracts in Spain. Revenue was 20% higher at CER at £539 million 
(2007: £449 million), with strong growth in all core markets except 
the US. The book-to-bill ratio is being adversely affected since 
significant revenue arose from the PPP contracts for the London 
Underground in respect of orders booked in 2003/04.
Operating profit rose to £93 million (2007: £77 million), an increase 
of 19% at CER reflecting the substantial increase in volume partially 
offset by increased spending on business development, particularly 
sales and marketing and research and development. Operating 
margin was 17.3% (2007: 17.1%), higher than previous guidance 
reflecting the one percentage point increase following the transfer 
of Burco to discontinued operations. Operating cash flow was 
£93 million (2007: £133 million), continuing to give good cash 
conversion of 100%.
o utlook
The markets in the UK, Iberia and Australia are expected to 
remain robust and there are early signs of a pick up in rail crossing 
orders in the US. We are confident that, over the next two years, 
our strong order book and the level of demand for rail projects 
across the world will enable Rail Group to achieve double digit 
revenue growth, and an improved sales mix will result in improved 
operating margins during this period.
In the longer term, the strength of Rail Group’s technology, its 
leading positions in its core markets and the significant prospects 
in export markets provide a sound base for continued delivery of 
its excellent financial performance. 
In the longer term, the strength of Rail 
Group’s technology, its leading positions 
in its core markets and the significant 
prospects in export markets provide a 
sound base for continued delivery of its 
excellent financial performance. 32 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Bernard Biolchini
President
Controls EMEA
Controls provides engineered components, systems and 
services used in appliances, heating, air conditioning/cooling, 
refrigeration and thermostatic products across a wide 
range of industries in residential and commercial markets, 
together with utility monitoring services in the UK.
Markets
Conditions within Controls’ markets worldwide have remained 
uncertain during the year. Around 60% of Controls’ revenue comes 
from supplying highly engineered components and assemblies 
to the mid to higher end of the global appliance market. Although 
the North American appliance market gradually weakened during 
the year with shipments, measured by the US Association of Home 
Appliance Manufacturers, down 5.7% in the year to 31 March 2008, 
much of this reduction was due to the decline in demand in the 
US new residential construction market, which is typically supplied 
with lower end products. Controls’ other major appliance market 
in Europe was softened slightly during the year. 
developments
During 2006/07, we had organised Controls’ operations along end 
markets and supply chain, which has enabled us to measure the 
performance of each operation and allowed increased focus upon 
performance improvement. We have continued to concentrate 
upon maintaining the absolute level of operating profit and 
improving the cash performance of the business. We are achieving 
this through pricing for value, supply chain savings, restructuring, 
productivity gains and the disposal of underperforming 
operations. 
On restructuring, we have continued with projects only where 
we see a compelling financial return. During the year, we ceased 
manufacturing at two European facilities and have also closed the 
Long Beach plant in California, consolidating all North American 
gas valve production into our Mexicali plant in Mexico. We also 
announced a reduction in workforce at a plant in Belluno,  
Italy, due to declining demand for electromechanical timers.  
This increase in restructuring above previous expectations has 
coNtrols
Mark Balcunas
President
Controls Americas & APAC
 
For the year ended 31 March
 
2008
 
2007
% change 
at CER
% total 
change
Orders (£m) 618 666 (7) (7)
Revenue (£m) 624 662 (5) (6)
Operating profit (£m) 69 59 17 17
Operating margin (%) 11.1 8.9
Operating cash flow (£m) 68 45 49 51
Employees at year end (numbers) 10,334 11,236 (12)
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY SECTOR
A Appliance 61%
B Residential property 20%
C Discrete manufacturing 9%
D Commercial property 5%
E Utilities and power 3%
F General industries 2%
A
B
C
D
E
F
REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY
(DESTINATION)
A United Kingdom 12%
B Rest of Europe 29%
C North America 41%
D South America 10%
E Asia Pacific 7%
F Africa and Middle East 1% Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 33
been offset by a reduced requirement for capital expenditure, so 
that the combined spend on restructuring and capital expenditure 
was less than the previous year.
In order to eliminate non-core activities and reduce Controls’ 
exposure to the US new residential construction market, we 
sold our Reversing Valve business to Sanhua Holdings and sold 
the Safety business to the UTC Fire & Security Division of United 
Technologies Corporation (UTC) for a total cash consideration 
of £29 million. The disposal of the Safety business has reduced 
Controls’ revenue exposure to the US new residential construction 
market from around 10% to 5%, and to 2% for the Group’s 
continuing operations. 
Performance
Orders during the year were £618 million (2007: £666 million), 
down 7% at CER, and revenue for the year was £624 million (2007: 
£662 million), a 5% decrease at CER. The reductions in orders and 
revenue were mainly due to some softening of demand in the 
US and Europe and the termination earlier in the year of a major 
customer contract in the water heating business following price 
increases previously implemented in order to ensure an economic 
return in that business. 
We were able to achieve our objective of protecting the 
profit and cash performance of the business. We have done this 
through pricing actions, plant productivity improvements and 
restructuring benefits. Operating profit was up 17% at £68 million 
(2007: £59 million) and operating margin improved to 11.1% 
(2007: 8.9%).
Operating cash performance gradually improved during the 
year, resulting in an inflow for the year of £68 million (2007: 
£45 million) with cash conversion of 99%; excluding payments 
in respect of restructuring, cash conversion was 123%.
o utlook
We continue to see softer market conditions in some of Controls’ 
markets, particularly in North America. We have built a stronger 
foundation for Controls and will continue to invest in capital 
expenditure and restructuring at least to maintain its operating 
profit and cash flow performance.
We have built a stronger foundation for 
Controls and will continue to invest in 
capital expenditure and restructuring  
at least to maintain its operating profit 
and cash flow performance. Alvaro Martinez
Wonderware
integrity
We do what we say we will do
We promise to deliver solutions that ensure quality and increase value. 
Wonderware made the promise to deliver a solution that ensured quality 
and increased value to the City of Thunder Bay in Ontario, Canada by 
linking up a local pumping station with 20 remote pumping stations using 
various control systems. Wonderware distributed control software not 
only kept water quality high, but is repaying the investment in record 
time. Real-time reporting enables maintenance to be targeted, and the 
ability to check performance trends has increased visibility and helped 
to identify efficiencies. We did what we said what we would do. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 35
corPorA te sociAl resPoNsiBility
code of conduct
The Invensys Code of Conduct (the Code) remains a key element 
of our commitment to ensuring that our employees and suppliers 
act with integrity and in accordance both with local law and our 
own legal and ethical standards. The Code, which is available 
on our website, sets out our ethical practice as a business. The 
Code is the first and core part of a broader Invensys Compliance 
Programme, in which specific issues relevant to our conduct as 
a business and as individuals are being highlighted.
In March 2008, the Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) 
compliance training module was launched with the intent of 
assisting all employees in understanding and complying with 
the guidelines on EHS contained in the Code and other relevant 
Invensys policies – especially the Invensys EHS Policy itself. The 
module stresses that health, safety and environmental stewardship 
are the responsibility of every Invensys employee, and that all 
employees must actively contribute to the EHS performance of the 
business. Further modules will be developed and launched as part 
of an ongoing commitment by Invensys to inform and educate our 
employees.
environmental, health, safety and sustainability (ehs &s)
We have an increasing commitment to our EHS philosophy with 
regard to our responsibility to provide products, services and 
ongoing support in a sustainable manner. We continue to strive 
for EHS excellence in conjunction with our efforts to become 
a world-class organisation relative to our peers. Therefore in 
February 2008 we formally restructured the EHS function and 
integrated sustainability into the EHS&S function.
As part of the restructuring of the function, we established EHS&S 
Centres of Excellence (CoEs) at the Group level which will lead 
strategies, programmes and processes around key functional 
areas. The CoE – Compliance/Assurance and Health and Safety is 
charged with ensuring that Invensys locations worldwide operate 
in compliance with the law and with Invensys standards, and that a 
consistent standard of care is instituted. The CoE – Environmental 
Affairs and Sustainability is charged with coordinating 
environmental remediation, managing environmental compliance 
and driving the sustainability strategy into our businesses. The 
CoE – Mobile Personnel is charged with ensuring the health and 
safety of employees working off-site at customer or project 
locations. The CoEs will focus on delivering valued solutions that 
are aligned with our EHS&S and business strategies.
We have also continued to encourage our operating locations 
to achieve third-party certifications for their EHS management 
systems. A total of eight Invensys locations are now certified 
ISO 14001 and four additional locations are currently working 
towards certification.
Additionally, during the past year we have continued to drive 
our internal EHS management systems through the deployment 
of EHS standards across all the businesses. These standards 
define and establish expectations, and provide a common base 
for implementation and planning at all our global locations.
In 2007, we completed the second year of our Compliance 
Assurance Verification Process for our major locations. An 
independent and external organisation performed 18 EHS 
compliance audits to evaluate our performance against legal 
requirements during this past year, and we intend to complete 
another 18 EHS compliance audits this coming year. Under this 
three-year rotational programme, we will complete a total of 51 
EHS compliance audits across all our major locations by next year. 
Senior managers at the locations provide a commitment letter 
that outlines the corrective actions and timeframes for closing 
out the findings. All compliance findings and corrective actions 
are tracked until closure is achieved, and the results are integrated 
into operational business reviews. Next year, the process will  
be improved to include review of compliance against our internal 
EHS standards.
We improved our Loss Control Survey Programme by integrating 
relevant EHS elements into the existing programme. We 
completed 43 external loss control surveys which evaluated the 
physical risks to property assets at Invensys locations and their 
compliance with relevant codes such as life safety, fire protection 
and occupancy hazards. Again, the findings from these surveys 
are tracked until closure is achieved and are integrated into 
the business performance reviews. The survey programme will 
continue next year at 37 locations. 36 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
corPorA te sociAl resPoNsiBility (CONTINUED)
Finally, we have used our internal EHS&S website as a global tool 
to deliver information to all our business operations. The website 
contains our EHS&S standards, guidelines and procedures, which 
establish the expectations for our businesses. It also provides 
a summary of our performance against key EHS&S metrics. 
Additionally, it serves as the portal for the EHS learning system 
which makes online training in eight key EHS&S areas available 
to all employees in a variety of languages.
environment
In 2006, we established the following as environmental Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) for our manufacturing locations 
using the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 
(DEFRA) guidelines (Environmental Key Performance Indicators – 
Reporting Guidelines for UK Business, 2006):
• total energy use (KWh);
• total CO2 emissions (kg);
• total water consumption (m
3
);
• total non-hazardous wastes (kg); and
• total hazardous wastes (kg).
In the calendar year 2007, we continued to collect environmental 
KPI data from our manufacturing locations to validate baseline 
performance, and we have now established a 5% reduction target 
for the upcoming fiscal year for each of these five KPIs for all 
manufacturing locations over the prior year’s results.
We extended our Environmental Performance Questionnaire 
(EPQ) for a sixth consecutive year and collected environmental 
data from 55 major locations, with 52 of those locations also 
reporting in the calendar year 2006.
For these 52 major locations reporting for the calendar years 
2007 and 2006, the summary table above illustrates the data:
•  a decrease in total energy use of 1.3% and a decrease of 
CO2 emissions of 0.5% attributed to greater conservation 
awareness;
•  a decrease in the percentage of energy acquired from 
renewable resources due to the changing composition in 
energy available from the local utilities (at most locations, 
Invensys does not have the ability to choose the source of 
energy as it is regulated by the local utilities);
•  a decrease in total water consumption of 8.7% due to 
efficiencies at key locations in China and Mexico;
•  an increase in total non-hazardous waste generated of 14% 
due to increased production at several key locations; however, 
there was also a corresponding 30.9% increase in non-
hazardous waste recycled, driven through better segregation 
and handling practices primarily by these same locations; and
•  an increase in total hazardous waste generated of 24.2% driven 
by a one-time decommissioning of a manufacturing site in 
the UK; additionally, there was a corresponding increase in 
hazardous waste recycled of 70.2% also driven by the same site 
in the UK. Excluding the one-time decommissioning of waste 
from the UK location, an increase in total hazardous waste 
generated of 4% was observed due to increased production 
at a key location in Brazil.
Looking forward into next year, we plan to measure and report 
CO2 contributions associated with business-related travel and our 
major office locations.
The Board continues to be briefed on Group EHS&S performance 
and receives monthly reports on any violations, citations 
or environmental releases. In the past year, no violations, 
citations or fines were issued by governmental bodies related to 
environmental affairs. 
We have continued our efforts to eliminate the use of chlorinated 
solvents in our operations. During the past year, nine locations 
eliminated the use of these solvents or found suitable substitute 
chemicals. The two remaining locations in France and Brazil that 
use chlorinated solvents have well-developed elimination plans 
and are scheduled to completely eliminate solvent use in 2008.
health and safety 
Health and safety concerns are intrinsic to our operations and 
our value propositions. Our objective is that we will do business 
without harming people or the environment.
Over the past year, we made further progress in making Invensys 
a safer organisation. We launched EHS Induction Training to all 
Invensys employees, temporary workers and contractors in order 
to stress the importance of safety to our organisation and raise 
Note: all values rounded to the nearest 1,000
Further details regarding environmental performance can be found at www.invensys.com
Dates in this table refer to calendar year.
Full survey Comparable sites
Environmental Key Performance Indicators Units 2007 2007 2006 % change
Number of sites 55 52 52
Energy use KWh 183,491,000  182,016,000  184,433,000 (1.3)
Energy from renewable resources % 23 23  27 (4.0)
CO2 emissions kg 103,816,000  102,847,000  103,338,000 (0.5)
Water consumed m
3
 819,000  813,000  890,000 (8.7)
Waste generated (non-hazardous) kg 14,397,000  14,002,000  12,281,000 14.0 
Waste recycled (non-hazardous) kg 10,105,000  9,967,000  7,612,000 30.9 
Waste generated (hazardous) kg 868,000  868,000  699,000 24.2 
Waste recycled (hazardous) kg 320,000  320,000  188,000 70.2  Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 37
safety and environmental awareness. This training highlights the 
philosophy that all employees are responsible for health and 
safety, and that we aspire to prevent all incidents. This training 
has been integrated into the new employee induction process 
and must be completed within the first 10 days of employment.
A measurement of our progress and commitment to health and 
safety is reflected by our ongoing reduction in Injury/Illness 
Incident Frequency Rates. For the period under review, the Total 
Recordable Case Incident Rate (TRCIR) fell 24% from 0.74 to 0.56 
and the Lost Workday Case Incident Rate (LWCIR) fell 37% from 
0.35 to 0.22.
Each of our individual businesses also compares favourably against 
our industry peers in terms of Injury/Illness Incident Frequency 
Rates. For example our largest business, Invensys Controls, ended 
the year with a TRCIR of 0.42 as compared to a peer company 
average of 5.1. For the same business, the LWCIR was 0.17 
compared to a peer company average of 1.0; the peer company 
average is based on the 2006 US Bureau of Labour Statistics North 
American Industry Classification System code 335000 for electrical 
equipment, appliance, and component manufacturing. We are 
proud of our significant accomplishments in reducing injuries 
and injury rates, but recognise that we still have more progress to 
make to keep all employees safe.
In order to monitor our safety and compliance performance, we 
launched the EHS Decision Support System (EHS DSS) in early 2007. 
This web-based data system is used by all global locations to gather, 
track and manage all EHS events that are critical to our business 
performance. Events such as work-related injuries and illnesses, 
environmental excursions, EHS compliance audits, loss control 
surveys, thermographic surveys, industrial hygiene surveys, security 
assessments, safety tours, and government regulatory inspections 
are managed within the data system. All findings and corrective 
actions are managed and tracked until closure is achieved.
We also launched the Safety Awareness Metric (SAM) to all our 
major locations in 2007 in order to drive and measure proactive 
safety performance. The SAM measures several leading EHS 
activities at an operational level such as on-time closure of 
corrective actions, completion of EHS training, and safety 
tours/inspections conducted by all levels of the organisation. 
Performance against the SAM is measured monthly with the EHS 
DSS and integrated into the overall metrics of each of the business 
groups. Starting next year, the EHS&S function will review this 
data with the Board on an annual basis to ensure that the proper 
elements are incorporated into the business strategies.
Our Chief Executive reviews, on a monthly basis, and presents 
to the Board the EHS&S performance data, including any 
major incidents. We are pleased to report that there were no 
major incidents or work-related fatalities during the past year. 
Additionally, no violations, citations or fines were issued by 
governmental bodies related to health and safety.
Beyond the traditional safety programmes which look to prevent 
injuries and illnesses, we have also continued to promote wellness 
programmes in an effort to improve the overall health and  
well-being of our employees. For example, in our Mexico locations 
we have focussed campaigns on early detection and management 
of health issues such as cancer, osteoporosis, hypertension, 
diabetes control, cholesterol and weight management. We also 
provide onsite health support, vaccinations and family planning 
support. We have begun to see benefits from these programmes 
including improvements in overall employee health, an increase in 
employee motivation and morale, a reduction in absenteeism and 
an improvement in the working environment.
Also in 2007, our Westinghouse Rail Systems Limited business 
based in the UK won ‘Best Achievement in Health and Safety for 
Manufacturing’ at the prestigious Safety and Health Practitioner 
(SHP) awards. SHP is the official magazine of the Chartered 
Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) with more 
than 30,000 readers. The SHP awards encourage and recognise 
genuine good safety practice and achievement above and beyond 
the normal practices.
employees
We believe that to achieve maximum value for our shareholders 
and customers, we need to unlock the potential of every employee 
to perform to the best of their abilities. We are working hard to 
create an environment where this is possible.
Per 100 employees
Total recordable case incident rate
Lost workday case incident rate
Mar 04
Jun 04
Sep 04
Dec 04
Mar 05
Jun 05
Sep 05
Dec 05
Mar 06
Jun 06
Sep 06
Dec 06
Mar 07
Jun 07
Sep 07
Dec 07
Mar 08
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
Note: further details regarding health and safety performance can be found at www.invensys.com 38 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
This year we have focussed on creating an ‘I want to work here’ 
culture. In 2007 we launched our mission, vision and objectives 
and started the creation of our company-wide values, which we 
launched across the organisation in March 2008.
We continue to respect and support the principles of the European 
Convention on Human Rights and other equivalent legislation by 
ensuring we comply with the labour laws of the countries in which 
we operate and by creating an inclusive culture for our employees, 
including men and women from different nations, cultures, ethnic 
groups, generations and backgrounds.
Our Code of Conduct training continues to be developed and new 
modules released at regular intervals. We also have in place local 
policies and procedures which set out our commitment to create 
an environment where our employees can work without concerns 
that they will not be treated appropriately as a result of their 
gender, marital status, sexual orientation, colour, religion, race, 
nationality, ethnic origin, age or disability.
The Invensys European Employees Forum, with elected employee 
representatives, promotes dialogue with management. Globally  
we communicate with our employees through local 
communications networks, town hall meetings, ‘skip level’ 
meetings and employee newsletters, webchats and blogs. This 
year we have launched our Invensys Employee Engagement 
Survey globally, increasing our cross-Invensys communication 
opportunities, so we can hear ideas, suggestions and feedback 
from as many employees as possible.
We are continuing our commitment from 2007 to targeting a 2% 
of payroll investment in our employees’ learning and development 
in each Invensys business. This provides financial support for 
employees seeking to gain professional qualifications, access to 
leadership development programmes and many other learning 
interventions.
Top talent in the organisation is assessed and developed through 
our annual Organisational Capability Review (OCR). Through 
this review we manage internal global career progression for key 
leaders in line with our succession plans and also identify and 
develop future talent. In addition, we use this process to ensure 
that leaders who are not performing are given this feedback and 
given an opportunity to improve their performance. Also, in the 
last year over 400 senior leaders have gone through Leadership 
Development programmes.
During the year we invested in goal deployment and performance 
management tools and processes to help our employees to 
understand Invensys’ organisational goals and objectives and 
align them with their own. We require managers to hold annual 
performance reviews with all employees who report to them, 
where they can discuss their performance, set personal objectives 
for the year and where appropriate create a personal development 
plan. 
One of our values is meritocracy and we strive to offer competitive 
remuneration and benefits in each market in which we participate 
through a system of differentiated base pay, cash and equity 
bonuses based on the individual’s contributions to Invensys’ 
success.
We continue to strive to make Invensys a place where high 
performing people choose to be: where they can enhance their 
lives and careers, and are motivated to perform their best and 
continue to better their performance.
sustainability
At Invensys, we believe that sustainability is part of our 
core business offering because we apply our technologies 
to help our customers increase productivity, reduce waste, 
improve efficiencies and reduce impact on the environment 
and communities. In doing so, we enable our customers to 
improve the economic success of their business.
As we continue our journey to create a high performing, 
sustainable and cohesive business, we have recognised the need 
to look at how we manage social and environmental performance 
to ensure that we address economic success whilst balancing 
profitability and meeting customer and market expectations. 
corPorA te sociAl resPoNsiBility (CONTINUED)
We believe that by fully embracing the 
principles of sustainability we can make a 
positive impact on the future of Invensys 
and on the world. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 39
In other words, we recognise that sustainability is a guiding 
principle that underpins our overall business vision, mission, 
strategy and corporate values. We believe that by embracing fully 
the principles of sustainability we can make a positive impact on 
the future of Invensys and on the world.
Our goal is to be a recognised leader in sustainability, achieved 
through continuous improvement in enhancing the well-being 
of people, communities and the environment. We are focused 
on delivering products and services to assist our customers in 
achieving similar goals.
To support our effort to integrate sustainability into the business, 
Invensys is launching Sustainability Awareness Training to all 
employees in 2008. This training is intended to raise awareness 
among employees on sustainability issues that they might face 
both at home and at work, explain Invensys’ commitment and 
encourage employees to actively participate in sustainability 
activities.
To support our sustainability goals, we are committed to making 
improvements in the following areas in a responsible and ethical 
manner:
•  reduce our environmental footprint
• engineer our products and services in a sustainable fashion
• support the well-being of our employees and communities
• mitigate and repair environmental impact
• enhance the sustainability performance of our suppliers
• communicate our sustainable performance
In 2007, Invensys renewed its commitment to advance the 10 
universal principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 
in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-
corruption. In particular, we have made progress in supporting 
a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and 
promoting greater environmental responsibility. For example, we 
have had success with programmes that eliminate chlorinated 
solvents use and reduce hazardous waste generation. For 
those properties where environmental impacts have occurred 
historically, we have a formalised programme of remediating these 
impacts and restoring the properties back to beneficial use in their 
communities. We have also established programmes for evaluating 
the environmental issues associated with the acquisition, divesture 
or decommissioning of physical operations.
Our continuing efforts in the areas of sustainability and corporate 
responsibility have resulted in Invensys being recognised again 
on the UK FTSE4Good Index Series. For next year, our goal is to 
demonstrate improvements in the Environment, Human Rights 
and Stakeholder categories.
Last year, Invensys participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP5) for the first time to report on greenhouse gas emissions, 
and risks and opportunities presented by climate change. We 
intend to continue our participation this coming year in the CDP6 
and to ensure that an effective carbon emissions/reductions 
strategy is made integral to our business.
Additionally, we continued to make progress in evaluating the 
sustainability performance of our suppliers through the ongoing 
deployment of the Supplier Self Assessment Process. This process 
evaluates the quality of our global suppliers and also contains 
qualifying criteria in the areas of corporate citizenship, health and 
safety and restricted substances. Next year, the process will be 
updated to include criteria on sustainability and eco-efficiency.
community investment
We continue to recognise the importance of our role in and 
relationship with communities in which we operate. Community 
outreach is encouraged by Invensys at the local level, where our 
businesses have ties with the communities where our employees 
work and live, and implemented by our site managers. Our 
businesses provide a variety of programmes such as matching 
gifts, sponsorships of activities and paid volunteer time that allow 
our employees to actively participate in community events.
For example, an initiative was introduced for our UK-based Rail 
Group employees which recognises employees consistently using 
‘green’ options to travel to work (car sharing, walking, cycling and 
public transport). As a result of this initiative and in collaboration  40 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
with the International Tree Foundation, 400 new trees will be 
planted on behalf of Westinghouse. They also continue to support 
local schools, providing sponsorship awards for outstanding 
science students.
In the US, our Process Systems employees have adopted an 
overall approach of combining employee volunteerism on visible 
community and educational projects with targeted charitable 
donations.
For instance, an annual ‘Community Day of Caring’ took place 
in which teams of employees worked on community projects, 
where they shared their time and talents. A Women In Technology 
programme was conducted with three area high schools, state 
workforce consortia, and a local community college as part of 
an overall School To Career Partnership. An Invensys engineer 
led a team of college engineering bound students through a 
facilitated product and project development process to create 
an IT product. Beyond getting hands-on experience with a real 
workplace project, these students became acquainted with a 
variety of engineering careers, and received college course credit 
and a scholarship.
Invensys remains committed to acting as a good corporate citizen, 
in local communities and the wider environment.
corPorA te sociAl resPoNsiBility (CONTINUED)
Invensys remains committed to acting 
as a good corporate citizen, in local 
communities and the wider environment. laurent rueff
Controls
courage
We stand up for what we believe in and are 
willing to accept team decisions as our own
By showing the courage to take risks, we can find innovative and competitive 
ways to meet customer needs. Drayton™, an Invensys Controls brand, 
offers a wide range of heating controls, installed and serviced by installers 
with limited access to real-time information. Challenging conventional 
communications methods and accepting the necessity for change, Invensys 
Controls developed the Drayton ‘in touch’ solution.
Enabling installers to download, save and display the latest technical 
information on their mobile phones, the Drayton ‘in touch’ software makes 
it easier than ever to install and use Drayton controls. By committing to a 
bold development decision, Controls has created new options for installers. 42 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Invensys operates globally in varied markets and is affected by a 
number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are within 
its control. 
The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk 
management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board 
through the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the business. 
It also monitors the mitigating actions put in place by the relevant 
operational managers to address identified risks. As part of the 
regular review of activities, disclosures in the Annual report have 
been revised to reflect the global changes to the business and the 
competitive business environment in which it operates. 
The principal risks, which could cause the Group’s actual results 
to vary materially from historic and expected results, are set out 
below.
t he g roup faces intense competition, and failure to maintain 
a competitive and technologically advanced product range 
could reduce its margins and revenue growth
Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Group’s 
products and services are characterised by continually evolving 
industry standards and rapidly changing technology driven by 
the demands of the Group’s customers. Failure to keep pace with 
technological changes and system or application requirements in 
the industrial sectors may result in loss of market share and lower 
margins. In addition, competitors are consolidating and offering 
a widened product portfolio to provide integrated or bundled 
solutions to customers, thus providing enhanced competition 
to Invensys.
The Group invests in research and development to develop new 
technologies and products to sustain or improve its competitive 
position. However, all new technologies and products involve 
business risk in terms of possible abortive expenditure, reputation 
risk and the potential for onerous contracts and customer claims. 
The Group reviews its portfolio of technologies as part of the 
strategic planning process. In addition, the businesses control 
individual development projects through a stage gate review 
process.
t he timing and frequency of substantial contract awards, 
particularly in the group’s r ail group business, are uneven
The revenue of the Group’s Rail Group business depends on a 
small number of large railway operators, such as Network Rail 
and London Underground in the UK and other large rail and 
mass transit operators in Europe, Asia Pacific and the US. New 
contract awards are often associated with major transport 
infrastructure upgrades and as a result are by nature large and 
infrequent. Funding for these new projects is often dependent on 
governmental investment decisions, and these may be affected 
by changes in political and economic conditions. As a result, the 
timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards may 
result in volatility in the results of the Rail Group business. 
The business monitors sales activity, sales cover in its order book 
and the impact of potential delays on the expected results to allow 
appropriate mitigating actions to be considered.
t he group’s Process systems business is reliant on the capital 
expenditure requirements from the oil, gas and chemical 
sectors
A substantial part of the Group’s Process Systems business is 
associated with the supply of technology, software and consulting 
to the oil, gas and chemical industries. Capital expenditure 
requirements from customers in these industries are often 
highly cyclical and linked to the international supply, demand 
and pricing of hydrocarbons. These may fluctuate depending on 
natural events, economic conditions, political developments or 
conflicts involving major oil exporting countries. Consequently, 
in addition to the inherent uncertainties of any competitive 
bid process, demand for products and services may fluctuate 
significantly based on the timing of investment decisions made 
by multinational customers. 
The business tracks major sales opportunities and regularly 
reviews the status of the order book. Progress against plans 
is monitored through regular operational business reviews.
risKs ANd uNcert AiNties Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 43
t he g roup is subject to ongoing litigation and environmental 
liabilities
As a consequence of the past disposal of a significant number of 
businesses, the Group has retained certain liabilities in relation 
to environmental claims (including the cost associated with the 
remediation of contaminated sites no longer owned by the Group), 
disputed taxes, litigation (including personal injury claims arising 
from alleged exposure to asbestos and silica), indemnity claims 
and other disposal costs relating to the disposed businesses. These 
risks have receded over time as warranties and indemnities in 
relation to past disposals have expired, existing disputes have been 
settled and remediation work on contaminated sites has been 
completed. The Group also has environmental liabilities in relation 
to the remediation of vacant sites owned by it. All of the above 
liabilities are subject to a number of uncertainties, assumptions 
and contingencies.
The Group continually monitors the remaining liabilities, regularly 
reviews the related provisions and aims in negotiations to limit 
the risk of future liabilities or disputes. However, there can be no 
assurance that the liabilities will not be substantially higher or 
become payable sooner than anticipated or that the provisions 
in the Group’s accounts in respect of any such liabilities will be 
sufficient or if currently unknown liabilities should arise.
o perating in global markets subjects the group to risks 
associated with changes in political and economic conditions 
and in applicable laws and regulations
The Group operates in global markets, with facilities in more than 
60 countries. It is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations 
and standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. In 
addition, a number of its production, engineering and back office 
services have been or are in the process of being relocated to 
countries in Asia and Eastern Europe. 
Also, a significant portion of its revenues is from customers 
outside Europe and North America, and the Group has become 
increasingly engaged with the development of new business in 
these markets. This brings increased risk through exposure to the 
different laws, regulations, political and economic conditions and 
other variable factors in these growth territories. 
These risks are managed principally through the regular 
operational business reviews.
t he g roup may be subject to liability as a result of product 
liability claims
Errors and defects in the Group’s products, systems or 
applications, which may be utilised in safety-critical applications, 
could cause injury to persons or damage to property and 
equipment. These occurrences could result in claims, loss of 
revenue, warranty costs, costs and damages associated with 
product recalls, litigation, delays in market acceptance or harm 
to the Group’s reputation for safety and quality.
Each business has an established quality control function and if 
an event occurs there are processes to investigate and manage 
the occurrence. 
The Group could be exposed to deterioration in its financial 
results if the performance improvement initiatives of certain 
of the group’s operations are not successful
In response to increased competition and to enhance business 
opportunities, a number of significant business improvement 
initiatives have been identified. The objective of these initiatives 
is to increase market competitiveness by changing the mix of 
products and services offered to customers and by improving 
operational and manufacturing efficiencies. Initiatives include 
the modification of business practices and in certain instances 
the transfer of business operations. Whilst the Group has 
committed substantial resources to complete these performance 
improvement initiatives successfully, there can be no assurance 
that these will ultimately be completed as planned. 
These activities are monitored through the regular operational 
review process to confirm progress on their implementation and 
to minimise any associated risks.
t he g roup may be exposed to liability through the actions of 
joint venture partners, co-source partners or its supply chain
The business activities of the Group are often conducted in 
conjunction with joint venture, consortium, co-development and 
co-source partners whose day-to-day management actions are 
outside of the control of the Group. 44 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
risK s ANd uNcert AiNties (CONTINUED)
A significant element of the Group’s risk profile is the delivery 
performance of its supply chain. Given the nature of the Group’s 
businesses, a quality or other failure in the supply chain could 
present a risk to safety and delivery which could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial performance 
and reputation.
Assessment, mitigation and management of these risks are 
addressed by the businesses in conjunction with the Group’s 
legal, supply chain and risk functions.
undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the group’s 
business to risk of loss
A significant amount of the Group’s business involves long-term 
projects that can take many months or even years to complete. 
These projects may be subject to delays and cost overruns due 
to delays in equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work 
stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials 
or skilled labour or other unforeseen problems inherent in the 
nature of such projects. 
The Group has established a process with clear delegated 
authorities for the approval of major contracts which includes 
a system for the approval of bids submitted to customers. 
Contracts with a large monetary value or onerous contractual 
terms require Board approval. Contract execution is monitored 
against the approved plans. 
t he group may be exposed to additional liabilities with 
respect to its u K and us pension plans
The Group has a high proportion of pensioners relative to its 
active workforce. With respect to both the Group pension plans 
for its UK operations and for its US operations, any decline in 
the equity market, improvements in life expectancy, changes in 
expected morbidity rates or future decreases in interest rates 
could increase the funding deficit and require additional funding 
contributions in excess of those currently expected. UK deficit 
funding payments may be revised in the light of the forthcoming 
triennial valuation and the Group has recently appointed 
independent actuaries to assist with the review.
In addition to regular financial reporting under IAS 19, the Group 
regularly monitors the performance of the principal UK and US 
schemes. 
if the group is unable to recruit and retain skilled  
personnel, it may not be able to effectively implement  
its business strategy.
The future success of the Group will depend in part upon the 
ability to recruit, develop and retain highly skilled personnel in 
a competitive market environment for technology companies.
The Group has invested in its HR function and processes to 
mitigate the risk. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 45
Combined Code – principles and compliance
This report has been prepared in accordance with Section 1 of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial
Reporting Council in June 2006 (the Combined Code). The report,
together with the Remuneration report on pages 49 to 58,
describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code have
been applied.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance
and is pleased to report that throughout the year under review
Invensys has been compliant with the provisions of the Combined
Code. The Invensys Code of Conduct (which is part of a broader
Compliance Programme) aims to ensure the businesses act with
integrity and comply with all laws.
The Board
The Board is chaired by Martin Jay, who was appointed non-
executive Chairman in July 2003. At 14 May 2008, the Board
consisted of two executive directors and four non-executive
directors, in addition to the Chairman. Biographies of all directors
are presented on pages 10 and 11. Pat Zito was appointed to the
Board as a non-executive director on 23 May 2007. The Senior
Independent Director is Michael Parker, who has held this role
since 7 December 2006. Mr Parker, as Senior Independent Director,
is available for shareholders to contact.
Mr Jay has informed the other members of the Board that he
is intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company
at the 2009 Annual General Meeting. By then, he will have been
Chairman for six years and believes that it will be an appropriate
time to hand over to a successor. He has made his intentions clear
now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly
process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth
transfer of responsibilities can take place.
Executive directors are encouraged not to hold more than one
external non-executive directorship which is in line with the
Combined Code requirement that boards should not agree to full-
time executive directors taking on more than one non-executive
directorship. Mr Henriksson joined the board of Hexagon AB as a
non-executive director on 2 May 2007. In line with the Combined
Code requirement, this is the only non-executive directorship that
Mr Henriksson holds. Hexagon AB is a Swedish global technology
group, listed on the Swedish Stock Exchange, specialising in
measurement technologies, polymers and key components.
Prior to giving Mr Henriksson permission to accept this role, the
Board undertook a review to ensure there was no conflict between
the business of the Group and Hexagon AB.
Board independence
The Board meets the Combined Code requirement that at least half
of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent
non-executive directors. The Board considers that all of the
non-executive directors are independent for Combined Code
purposes.
The Board has a majority of independent non-executive directors
and a good balance between non-executive and executive
directors, ensuring that no individual or small group dominates the
Board’s decision making. Terms and conditions of appointment of
non-executive directors are available on request from the Company
Secretary. Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three
year term from the date of their first election by shareholders until
the date of the third Annual General Meeting thereafter. After the
initial term, their appointment may be extended for a second term,
subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
Division of responsibilities
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman
and the Chief Executive which is defined in writing and approved
by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the
Board and ensuring its effectiveness. He facilitates the contribution
of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations
between the executive and non-executive directors and effective
communication with shareholders. The Chief Executive is
responsible for executing the strategy approved by the Board and
leadership of the Group.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and advises
on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board
procedures are followed and that there is a good information flow.
To enable the Board to perform its duties, all directors have full
and timely access to all relevant information and to the services
of the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is Victoria Hull
who was appointed on 1 January 2006 and who acts as secretary
to all of the committees of the Board. Ms Hull is also the General
Counsel. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary
is decided upon by the Board as a whole.
Meetings
There is an agreed schedule of Board and committee meetings.
During the year each of the directors attended such scheduled
meetings as set out in the table below. This analysis includes the
members’ attendance at meetings and does not include attendance
of other directors attending at the invitation of the respective
committees.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board met on a further
10 occasions, the Remuneration Committee on six occasions, and
the Nominating Committee on two occasions. There were also
informal meetings of the Chairman and the non-executive directors
without the executive directors being present. The Senior
Independent Director and non-executive directors also met during
the year to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Audit
1
Remuneration
1
Nominating
1
Board
1
Committee Committee Committee
Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
Martin Jay 10 10 – – 6611
Ulf Henriksson
2
10 10 ––– –––
Steve Hare 10 10 ––– –––
Bay Green 10 10 666 611
Jean-Claude Guez
3
10 10 226 611
Michael Parker
2
10 10 666 6 – –
Pat Zito
4
885 555 – –
1
Scheduled Board/committee meetings.
2
Attendance at Nominating Committee meetings from date of appointment as a member on 6 February 2008.
3
Attendance at Audit Committee meetings until 1 August 2007 when he stepped down as a member.
4
Attendance at Board, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings from his date of appointment to the Company on 23 May 2007. Independent financial and professional advice is available to the
directors and Board committees, collectively and individually, as
circumstances require at the Company’s expense.
Role and procedures
There is a formal schedule of matters relating to all major strategic
and financial decisions which are reserved for the decision of the
Board. During the year, these matters were reviewed against the
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators’ model and
subsequently updated.
The matters reserved for the Board include approval of the interim
results and the formulation of strategic and annual operating
plans. In addition, certain decision-making is delegated through
structured procedures to committees and, for operational matters,
to senior management. Although all the directors have an equal
responsibility for the operations of Invensys, the role of the
non-executive directors is particularly important in ensuring that
the strategy and business proposals of the executive management
team are fully discussed and examined to ensure that they meet
the long-term interests of shareholders and also take account of
issues affecting employees, customers, suppliers and the many
communities within which Invensys conducts its business. At least
one full day’s meeting every year is devoted to the overall strategic
planning of the Group. The Board delegates specific authorities to
its Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration
Committee. Reports of these committees are set out on pages 46
to 58. All directors receive copies of all committee minutes and the
chairman of each committee provides an update on matters of
significance at the Board meeting following the committee meeting.
Board and committees: performance evaluation
The Board has a formal review process with discrete components
covering the evaluation of the Board’s collective performance, the
appraisal of the performance of individual directors, including the
Chairman, and each of the Board’s committees.
Evaluation of executive directors is conducted by the Chairman and
non-executive directors. Appraisal of the non-executive directors is
led by the Chairman in consultation with all directors. Additionally,
each non-executive director is asked to assess themselves. The
evaluation of the Chairman is led by the Senior Independent
Director in consultation with the other non-executive directors,
taking into account the views of the executive directors. Individual
feedback is provided by the Chairman to each of the non-executive
directors and by the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
In relation to the evaluation of the Board and its committees, an
internal questionnaire based on the Combined Code provisions is
used for this process. The evaluation process involves assessment
by reference to the relevant roles and responsibilities under review,
the current terms of reference of the committees and best
practice. The results of the evaluation provide the basis for
continuous improvement in the Board’s procedures and the
Board’s action plans and objectives for the following year.
The Board remains satisfied that each ongoing director remains
committed to his role and that the Board and each of its
committees remains effective.
Induction and development
On appointment, new directors receive an induction programme
tailored to their experience, including an induction pack
comprising relevant information, scheduled meetings with key
personnel and advisers and site visits. As part of his induction,
Mr Zito, who was appointed as a non-executive director on 23 May
2007, met senior corporate and business leaders and advisers of
the Group. The continuing development of directors, collectively
and individually, is mainly effected through the provision to them
by relevant external and internal advisers of briefings on matters
of current significance to the Group and also through attendance
at external briefings. During the year directors received regular
updates on legislative developments (e.g. the Companies Act 2006
and the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act
2007) and other matters of legal significance. A pensions training
session was also organised, which all directors attended. The Board
ensures that directors have access to independent professional
advice on how to discharge their responsibilities as directors of
the Company.
Communication with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is at all times given a high
priority and a number of means are used to promote greater
understanding and dialogue with investment audiences. In order
to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders,
the Board receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and
the Group’s investor relations team. The Chairman and the Senior
Independent Director are available to meet with major
shareholders on request.
As explained in the Chairman’s statement, the Board has decided to
cease full quarterly reporting following the redemption of the
remaining High Yield Bonds in March 2008. Shareholders will
however be kept informed of the progress of the Group during
the course of a year through half year and full year results, interim
management statements and other announcements of significant
developments that are released through the London Stock
Exchange and other news services. The Chief Executive and Chief
Financial Officer maintain regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders and participate in sector conferences. Shareholders
can also raise questions directly with the Company at any time by
contacting the investor relations team, whose contact details are
listed on the Group’s website.
Additionally, directors are available at the Annual General Meeting
for shareholders’ questions. The Annual report and accounts are
made available to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to
the Annual General Meeting. Voting on resolutions proposed
separately is conducted by polls at general meetings and voting
results are announced through the London Stock Exchange and
other news services; the results and proxy levels are available on
the website and on request. At the last Annual General Meeting,
the Company’s Articles of Association were amended to permit the
Company to send or supply communications to shareholders
electronically and the Company now supplies information such as
notices of meetings, forms of proxy and the annual report via the
website. Shareholders will be notified by email or post when new
information is available on the website. The Company will continue
to send hard copy communications to those shareholders who
have requested to receive communications in hard copy form.
Shareholders may at any time revoke a previous instruction in
order to receive hard copies or electronic copies of shareholder
information.
Nominating Committee report
Membership
The Nominating Committee currently comprises the Chairman
(who chairs the Nominating Committee), the Chief Executive
and three independent non-executive directors. The table below
details members of the Nominating Committee during the year
under review:
46 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED) Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 47
Name Date of appointment
Current members
Martin Jay January 2003, Chairman of the Nominating
Committee since 23 July 2003
Bay Green 1 January 2005
Jean-Claude Guez 23 July 2003
Ulf Henriksson 6 February 2008
Michael Parker 6 February 2008
Role
The current terms of reference for the Nominating Committee are
available on the Group’s website.
The Nominating Committee’s responsibilities include:
• making recommendations to the Board for the appointment,
reappointment and retirement of directors;
• reviewing the performance of directors;
• reviewing the composition and size of the Board and its
committees;
• setting the procedure for the appointment of new directors
to the Board; and
• succession planning.
Meetings
The Nominating Committee held one scheduled meeting and two
unscheduled meetings during the year under review. Attendance at
the scheduled meeting is shown in the table on page 45. At the
request of the Nominating Committee, the Chief Executive (prior
to his appointment as a member) and Chief Financial Officer were
invited to attend some meetings of the Committee.
Principal matters considered during the year under review included
the evaluation of those directors proposed for election or
re-election at the Annual General Meeting (with no individual
director participating in any matter relating to himself) and Board
succession planning.
All directors are required to retire by rotation no later than the
third Annual General Meeting following their appointment or
reappointment. No director is proposed for election for a further
term of three years unless the Nominating Committee has,
following evaluation, recommended such reappointment to the
Board. The recommendation of the Nominating Committee on the
re-election of Bay Green as a director is described in the Notice of
Annual General Meeting. The terms and conditions of appointment
of non-executive directors are available on request from the
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee report
Membership
The Audit Committee currently comprises three independent
non-executive directors. Details regarding members of the Audit
Committee during the year under review are set out below:
Name Date of appointment
Current members
Bay Green Acting Chairman of the Audit Committee
from 3 August 2006 and appointed
permanent Chairman from 7 December 2006
Michael Parker 2 August 2006
Pat Zito 23 May 2007
Jean-Claude Guez served on the Audit Committee from 20 September
2006 until 1 August 2007.
Mr Green is a qualified chartered accountant and fellow of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and, with
over 30 years in financial roles, he is considered to have recent and
relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Combined
Code. He has held a number of senior positions in Dresdner
Kleinwort and is a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional
Markets Business Unit of the Financial Services Authority.
Role
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-
executive directors of the Company. The current terms of reference
for the Audit Committee are available on the Group’s website.
The Audit Committee’s responsibilities include:
• monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and
reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting
policies;
• reviewing the Group’s systems of internal control and risk
management;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function;
• making recommendations to the Board on the appointment,
dismissal, remuneration and terms of engagement of external
auditors;
• reviewing the external auditors’ qualification, expertise,
resources, independence and effectiveness, taking into account
professional and regulatory requirements;
• implementing policies on the engagement of external auditors
to supply non-audit services; and
• reporting to the Board any matters where it considers
improvement is needed and making recommendation as to the
steps to be taken.
Meetings
The Audit Committee held six scheduled meetings during the
year under review. There were no unscheduled meetings.
Attendance is shown in the table on page 45. At least once a year,
the Audit Committee and external auditors meet without
management present. At the invitation of the Audit Committee,
all directors who are not members normally attend all meetings.
In addition, other senior managers are invited as required.
Principal matters considered during the year under review
included:
• review of the financial disclosures in the Group’s Annual report
and accounts, half-yearly financial report and quarterly
financial results;
• review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function,
consideration of internal audit reports and the annual internal
audit programme;
• review of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and
risk management processes and procedures;
• approval of the external audit plan and fee proposal;
• the policy on auditor independence and provision of audit and
non-audit services by the auditor;
• the assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditors;
• recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of
Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor; and
• monitoring, through the Risk Committee, the Group’s whistle-
blowing programme.
The Audit Committee has guidelines to ensure that the independence
of Ernst & Young LLP, as the auditor of the Group’s financial
statements, is not impaired by providing non-audit services.
These guidelines govern the provision of non-audit services by
Ernst & Young LLP by identifying certain non-audit services that 48 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
the auditor is prohibited from providing. Permitted categories
of non-audit services are defined and approved by the Chairman
of the Audit Committee. The engagements for non-audit services
are subject to formal approval based on the level of fees involved.
The Audit Committee has agreed a pre-approval process whereby
certain non-audit services up to an agreed value can be provided.
Such services are subsequently reported to the Audit Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to Ernst & Young LLP as external
auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out
in Note 5 to the Group financial statements.
Remuneration Committee report
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, together
with information on the remuneration and share interests of
directors, is set out in the Remuneration report on pages 49 to 58.
Internal control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Each of the Group’s
businesses is individually accountable to the Chief Executive and is
managed by a president who, with his senior management team,
provides day-to-day control over the business’operations within
the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities determined by
the Board. The internal control system is designed to meet the
Group’s particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, but it
should be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal
control is, it can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a structured approach to risk
management with the processes to identify and manage key risks
facing the Group being an integral part of the control environment.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board through the Audit
Committee. The Risk Committee is responsible for the system
of risk management and for the reporting of key risks and the
associated mitigating management actions. The Risk Committee
includes the Head of Business Risk (Chairman of the Risk
Committee since 6 March 2007), the Chief Financial Officer,
the Chief Executive, the General Counsel and Company Secretary,
the Group Financial Controller, the VP Tax and Treasury, the SVP
Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability and the VP Risk
Management and Insurance. During the year, its activities have
included reviewing the Group’s risk framework and its monitoring
processes. A summary of the principal risks facing the Group is
presented on pages 42 to 44.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that
it has undertaken its annual assessment of the Group’s system of
internal control. Inputs into the assessment undertaken by the
Audit Committee included:
• consideration of the key risks facing the businesses as part
of the review of the Group’s strategic planning and annual
operating planning processes;
• review of the enhancements to the overall control environment;
• consideration of the key elements of the Group’s control
processes including organisational structure, the application
of governance rules and systems, information management
including monthly reporting routines and risk management
activities;
• reports received from both internal and external audit during
the course of the year; and
• the findings from the annual self-assessment questionnaire
which requires all senior managers, from reporting unit level
upwards, to certify compliance with the Group’s financial and
operational procedures and controls, including environmental,
health and safety matters and the Invensys Code of Conduct.
Following detailed review, the Audit Committee reported on its
findings to the Board. The Board is satisfied that the information
that it has received throughout the year and for its annual review
together with the procedural review framework that has been
established are sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness
of the Group’s system of internal control. Whilst areas for
improvement in control have been identified and actions initiated
on account of the above processes, no significant shortcomings
in internal control were identified as a result of the annual
assessment. The internal control process has been in place for the
year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual
report and accounts.
Internal audit
Internal audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the
Audit Committee and its responsibilities include the examination
and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal control. The audit plan is constructed to provide
geographic coverage over broadly a three year cycle with a degree
of tailoring to address specific risk concerns. During the year, it
reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its assessment of
internal control issues arising in the course of its internal audit
reviews of the Group’s operations. Each year a consolidated review
is provided to assist the Board to undertake its own annual review
of internal control.
Historically the internal audit plan has been discharged by a team
of in-house auditors. Having regard to the changing nature of the
Group’s business, the geographic spread of operators and the need
for certain specialist audit resources (e.g. IT), the decision was
taken to outsource the majority of internal audit work to Deloitte
& Touche LLP. The transition was largely completed by the end of
April 2008. A small function, reporting to the Head of Business Risk,
has been retained to manage the outsourcing contract and
undertake certain ad hoc assignments.
Whistle-blowing
The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s arrangements under
which staff can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns about
potential irregularities and arrangements for follow-up actions.
A helpline is operated by Global Compliance Services Inc., an
independent company, and is publicised to employees via the
Invensys Code of Conduct. Any investigations are undertaken by
the Company Secretary, or at her direction, and any material
investigations are brought to the immediate attention of the Audit
Committee which determines an appropriate follow-up action.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of calls are reported
annually to the Audit Committee and the Board. In addition, staff
raise concerns through other means such as email or letter sent
to the Board or management, which correspondence is investigated
in the same manner as concerns raised through the helpline.
No material issues were reported through these processes during
the year. REMUNERATION REPORT
Dear Shareholder
It gives me pleasure to present the report by the Remuneration
Committee (the Committee) on directors’ remuneration
(Remuneration report) for the year to 31 March 2008.
As set out in the Chairman’s statement on page 12, Invensys has
continued the considerable progress of recent years with another
year of high activity and significant achievement. This has been an
important year of transition for the Committee as we implemented
the results of the comprehensive 2007 Remuneration Strategy
Review in support of our business strategy. In the evolution of this
remuneration strategy, the Committee is guided by the principle
that a high proportion of executive directors’ remuneration is linked
to the ongoing creation of shareholder value at this critical stage in
the resurgence of your Company.
The Committee believes that the remuneration policy detailed in
this Remuneration report is appropriate to enable Invensys to
recruit the people we need, and retain and motivate those already
with us at this critical time.
The Committee considers that the individual elements of the
remuneration package that will apply in 2008/09 constitute an
appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
The Remuneration report was approved by the Board of directors
on 14 May 2008 and signed on its behalf by:
Jean-Claude Guez
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee
Membership
The Committee comprised at the end of the year five non-
executive directors, and the table below provides details of the
members of the Committee during the year under review:
Name Date of appointment
Current members
Jean-Claude Guez Appointed 21 January 2003; appointed
Chairman of the Committee 9 January 2004
Bay Green Appointed 13 December 2006
Martin Jay Appointed 2 August 2006
Michael Parker Appointed 2 August 2006
Pat Zito Appointed 23 May 2007
They are all independent non-executive directors save for Mr Jay
who, as Chairman of the Company, is permitted by the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting
Council in 2006 (the Combined Code) to be a member of the
Committee.
No non-Committee member may attend other than by invitation
of the Committee Chairman. At the request of the Committee
Chairman the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, EVP Human
Resources and VP Total Reward are invited to attend and speak at
meetings, except when their own remuneration is being
considered.
The terms of reference of the Committee, a copy of which can
be found on the Company’s website at www.invensys.com, are
reviewed annually to ensure that they meet best practice.
Meetings
The Committee held six scheduled meetings and six unscheduled
meetings during the year under review. Individual members’
attendance records at the scheduled meetings is given on page 45.
The adoption of this Remuneration report is subject to a separate
shareholder resolution at the Annual General Meeting.
The principal matters considered during the year under review
included amongst others:
• review of executive remuneration, including base salary and
incentive arrangements;
• approval of revised Share Ownership Guidelines in light of the
changed retention levels agreed in 2007/08;
• approval of rules for the Executive Bonus Plan (including
deferred share arrangement), 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan
and the 2007 CEO Special Award;
• assessment of performance conditions relating to executive
share awards vesting during the year;
• review and update of the Committee’s terms of reference;
• review and approval of termination packages for executives
of divested businesses;
• review of delegated authorities and adoption of framework
for approval of share awards and leaver guidelines; and
• consideration and approval of an international launch of the
Savings Related Share Option Scheme in 2008/09.
Role
The Committee is a committee of the Board and its principal duties
are to:
• determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad
policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive
directors, Company Secretary and first layer of management
below Board level (the Executive Leadership Team) taking into
account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that the
interests of executives are aligned with those of shareholders.
The remuneration of non-executive directors will be a matter
for the Chairman and the executive members of the Board.
No director or manager will be involved in any decisions as to
their own remuneration;
• review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the
remuneration policy, review and note annually the
remuneration trends across the Company and obtain up to date
information about remuneration structures in other companies;
• approve the design of, and determine targets for, any
performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company
and approve the total annual payments made under such
schemes;
• review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by
the Board and shareholders and, for any such plans, determine
each year whether awards will be made, and if so the overall
level of such awards, the individual awards to executive
directors and other senior executives and the performance
targets to be used;
• ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any
payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company,
that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss
is fully recognised;
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 49 • determine, within the terms of the agreed policy and in
consultation with the Chairman and/or Chief Executive as
appropriate, the total individual remuneration package of
each executive director and other senior executives including
bonuses, incentive payments and share awards, pension
arrangements and expatriation allowances, giving due regard
to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions and
recommendations in the Combined Code and the UK Listing
Authority’s Listing Rules and associated guidance;
• oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures
throughout the Company;
• ensure that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration
including pensions, as set out in the relevant provisions of the
Companies Act and the Combined Code, are fulfilled;
• be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria,
selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for
any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee; and
• consider any other matters as referred to the Committee by
the Board.
The Committee will not determine any matters reserved for
the Board.
The Committee Chairman attends the Annual General Meeting
and is available to answer questions from shareholders on
remuneration matters.
Committee performance evaluation
As detailed in the Corporate governance report on page 46, the
Committee’s performance is reviewed annually both by the Board
as a whole and by the Committee itself, with the emphasis on
continued improvement and effectiveness.
Advice
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices remain market
competitive and compliant, during the year advice was received
from:
• Deloitte & Touche LLP, who were the principal source of
external advice as independent remuneration consultants to the
Committee on issues relating to the review of remuneration
arrangements for the executive directors. A copy of the terms
of reference in relation to the appointment of Deloitte &
Touche LLP is available on the Company’s website. In addition,
Deloitte & Touche LLP undertook tax compliance work for
certain members of the Executive Leadership Team, provided
advice in relation to some corporate tax matters and provided
internal audit services;
• Hewitt New Bridge Street, who provided data in relation
to total shareholder return (TSR) and ranking information
for the various incentive schemes;
• Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP in their capacity as lawyers
to the Company; and
• internally, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer,
the EVP Human Resources and the VP Total Reward.
Compliance
The Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with
the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 (the
Companies Act) and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
It also describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code
have been applied in relation to remuneration for the current and
forthcoming financial years. Ernst & Young LLP has audited the
contents of the report to the extent required by the Companies Act
(the tabular information on pages 57 to 58 relating to directors’
remuneration and directors’ interests (over shares and all share
incentive plans)).
2007 Remuneration Strategy Review
To take account of the ongoing development of the Company
and of its strategic plan, during 2007 the Committee undertook
a comprehensive review of all aspects of reward for executive
directors and senior executives.
The results of the Remuneration Strategy Review were supported
by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting. The 2007/08
financial year was, therefore, the first year for the implementation
of this strategy, and the 2008/09 financial year will reflect some
evolution of this reward strategy in order to strengthen our
competitive market position and create greater success for our
shareholders.
These key elements of our remuneration strategy, the
improvements to be introduced for 2008/09, and the relevant
circumstances which exist in the Company at this current time
are described in detail below.
Base salary
The Committee determines the level of base salary for each
executive director annually. For 2007/08 and 2008/09, base salaries
were set within a market competitive range based on analysis of
salaries paid in FTSE 350 companies, taking account of the relative
complexity, international scope and size of comparator companies.
The Committee additionally takes into account salaries in relevant
key competitor companies, specific factors relating to the
individual (including personal performance), internal relativities,
wage inflation elsewhere in the Group, and overall affordability.
In establishing individual salary levels, the Committee is conscious
that it should pay no more than is necessary to retain and motivate
the executive whilst ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
There is no automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
Taking account of the factors above, with effect from 1 April 2008,
the Chief Executive’s base salary is £820,000 (2007: £750,000) and
the Chief Financial Officer’s base salary is £490,000 (2007:
£430,000). The Committee considers these base salary levels are
necessary and appropriate to meet its objective of retaining the
executive directors and maintaining competitive pay levels, having
taken full account of the performance of the directors and the
business criticality of their contribution.
The next review date for base salaries will be 1 April 2009.
Annual incentive arrangements
Performance-related bonuses may be paid under the Executive
Bonus Plan, which provides annual incentives for the executive
directors in order to encourage the achievement of predefined
annual financial objectives and focus on the most important
measures of business success, whilst rewarding them for
outstanding performance. In this way, the Executive Bonus
Plan seeks to align the interests of shareholders and those
participating in it.
For 2007/08 the annual bonus targets related to free cash flow
after legacy items (calculated on a per share basis) accounting for
40%, EPS accounting for 40% and revenue accounting for 20%.
Bonus payments were also influenced, through exercise of
discretion by the Committee, by the achievement of personal
objectives.
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
50 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 For executive directors and certain nominated senior leaders the
pay-out levels for the plan for 2007/08 were capped at 150% of
base salary for maximum performance, with 100% of salary payable
for on-target performance. Below this level, lower pay-out rates are
set. Any bonus earned in excess of target is paid in deferred shares.
Deferred shares will only be transferred at the end of a three-year
period for executive directors (or two years in the case of other
participants) and are only forfeitable in the event of dismissal
for cause.
Each year, the Committee sets out in its Remuneration report the
basis on which bonuses have been paid in relation to the targets set
at the beginning of the financial year under review. This ensures
that shareholders are able to assess the bonus targets and the link
between bonuses payable and the performance of the business.
The bonuses paid to the executive directors in relation to the year
under review are set out on page 57. In line with the Executive
Bonus Plan rules, the salary used for bonus calculation purposes is
the salary effective from 1 April 2007. In respect of 2007/08 actual
performance the bonus payments reflect the fact that the pre-
determined maximum level of performance was achieved for both
EPS and free cash flow, with revenue performance at around target
level. The aggregate out-turn was, therefore, a bonus payment of
136.6% of the predetermined target. Bonus in excess of 100% of
target (i.e. 100% of salary for executive directors) is paid in deferred
shares which will be transferred to the individual after three years.
Having rigorously reviewed the results achieved against the
performance targets set for 2007/08, the Committee is satisfied
that the targets it set upfront were challenging and that the
bonuses awarded were earned by actual performance that was very
strong given general market conditions.
For 2008/09, there is no revenue target for executive directors and
underlying EPS
1
and free cash flow per share are weighted 50%/50%.
Bonus payments may also be influenced, through exercise of
discretion by the Committee, by the achievement of personal
objectives and broader contextual factors such as performance on
corporate social responsibility issues. In establishing personal
objectives and financial targets for bonus, the Committee ensures
that no environmental, health, safety and sustainability risks
are raised by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee considers these measures of performance are
appropriate to support continued delivery of the Group’s strategy.
For 2008/09, in order to better support the drive for truly
exceptional performance, the maximum bonus opportunity under
the Executive Bonus Plan has been set at 200% of target (i.e. 200%
of salary for executive directors), whereby any bonus in excess of
150% of target (i.e. up to 200% of target) will only be earned for the
achievement of ‘super-stretch’ performance. Performance targets
are set such that, in the view of the Committee, the level of
performance required to achieve bonus of 150% of target in
2008/09 is no less stretching than that required to achieve 150% of
target for 2007/08.
The Committee considers the increased maximum bonus
opportunity to be in the best interests of shareholders since
additional rewards are only available if the Company delivers the
super-stretch levels of underlying EPS and free cash flow per share
performance over and above that relating to bonus of 150% of
target. Furthermore, the targets that must be met in order to earn
any bonus in excess of 150% of target are harder to achieve
compared to those that apply between 100% and 150% of target.
The Committee will review the case for the application of a super-
stretch incentive opportunity in subsequent years, depending on
the prevailing business circumstances at that time.
Any bonus earned in excess of target (100% of salary for executive
directors) is paid in deferred shares which will only be transferred
at the end of a three year period. Deferred shares will only be
forfeitable in the event of dismissal for cause.
Long-term incentive arrangements
As part of the Remuneration Strategy Review, the Committee
determined that a new share-based long-term incentive plan,
known as the 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan (2007 LTIP), should be
established. The 2007 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the
2007 Annual General Meeting. Awards were made in 2007/08 and
will be made thereafter. A separate award was implemented for the
Chief Executive as detailed below.
The maximum annual award level for executive directors and other
participants will normally be 200% of base salary (although the
Committee has discretion to make awards in excess of this level in
exceptional circumstances). Vesting of awards is based on meeting
stretching performance targets over a three-year performance
period and, subject to meeting all relevant conditions, shares will
normally be released to participants as soon as possible following
the third anniversary of the award. The satisfaction of all performance
targets will be subject to external third-party verification.
For 50% of an award, the performance measure is relative TSR
performance measured against that of the constituents of the
Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital Goods Index. This measure
was chosen to provide a focus on delivering high levels of returns
to shareholders. The Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital
Goods Index was selected as the comparator group because its
constituents represent a wide grouping of over 100 companies
that have businesses that are, in whole or in part, similar to or in
competition with some or all of those operated by Invensys, and
cover a wide geographic range including the Americas, Europe and
Asia Pacific.
25% of the TSR part of an award will vest for performance equal to
the unweighted mean of the index constituents, excluding outliers.
The calculation will not be weighted by reference to market
capitalisation of index constituents to avoid any single large
company unduly influencing the results. For similar reasons, an
equal number of outliers at the top and bottom of the TSR range
will be excluded.
100% of the TSR part of an award will vest for outperformance
of the mean of index constituents (excluding outliers) equivalent
to upper quartile performance. For 2007/08 awards this has
been calculated by the Committee’s remuneration advisers as
outperformance by a factor of 1.3 (i.e. 30%) over the three-year
performance period. For 2008/09 awards this calculation remains
unchanged.
For awards made in 2007/08, the TSR performance period for
the Company and each constituent of the index was based on
the nine-month average to 31 March 2010 compared to the
nine-month average to 31 March 2007. This period was chosen to
include the 2006 Refinancing of the Company in the base period.
For awards made in 2008/09, the TSR performance period for
the Company and each constituent of the index will be based on
the three-month average to 31 March 2011 compared to the
three-month average to 31 March 2008.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 51
1
Underlying earnings per share comprise earnings before exceptional finance costs and
foreign exchange gains and losses. For the other 50% of an award, the performance target will be
the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) in underlying EPS.
This measure was chosen to provide a focus on delivering
stretching internal financial targets.
25% of the EPS part of the 2007/08 award will vest for EPS CAGR of
12.4%. 100% of the EPS part of the award will vest for EPS CAGR of
26.3%. Growth will be measured from a base of 14.5p
1
being the
2006/07 underlying EPS.
For the 2008/09 award, 25% of the EPS part of the award will vest
for EPS CAGR of 10.7%. 100% of the EPS part of the award will vest
for EPS CAGR of 22.4%. Growth will be measured from a base of
17.0p being the 2007/08 underlying EPS.
The Committee will have discretion to exclude from the calculation
matters such as one-off items of a non-recurring nature, to ensure
that the focus is on underlying growth in EPS.
The Committee will in all cases retain discretion to ensure that,
as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall
performance of the Company has been satisfactory. For the TSR
part of the award, factors that will be taken into account will
include EPS growth and the Group’s cash position. Vested awards
will include an additional number of shares representing the value
of any dividends that would have been paid on those vested shares
had they been held throughout the vesting period.
The performance conditions do not apply to 30% of an award for
executive participants below executive director level. This is to
address specific recruitment and retention issues facing the Group.
Under the 2007 LTIP, the usual maximum annual award level for an
executive director is 200% of salary. The Committee has discretion
to make awards above this level in exceptional circumstances.
For the reasons set out below, the Committee determined that
exceptional circumstances existed justifying an additional award to
Steve Hare in 2008/09 of 100% of salary, making a total award of
300% of salary for 2008/09.
As was set out in the Chairman’s statement last year, Invensys has
a clear strategy in place that will enable the Company to become a
high performing, sustainable and cohesive business. To enable us to
best deliver our strategic goals, it is important that your Company
retains the services of Mr Hare. Therefore, in recognition of the
importance of Mr Hare’s contribution to growing value in our
business, and to strengthen the retention element of his package,
the Committee determined that it was appropriate to make an
additional award under the Company’s 2007 LTIP of 100% of salary.
The performance conditions applying to this additional award
will reflect those applying to awards made in 2008/09 under the
2007 LTIP.
If a participant resigns or is dismissed for cause before shares are
released, they will be forfeited. If their employment ceases due to
ill health or disability, performance will be measured at the normal
vesting date and the award will then be pro rated based on the
period of service, save that the Committee may moderate the
application of the pro rata reduction if it considers that the
participant’s contribution to the business would not be properly
recognised if the award was scaled down. The Committee will have
discretion to accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
In the event of a change of control during the performance period,
performance will be measured at the latest possible date before
the change of control to assess the proportion vesting based on
performance. The proportion of the award that may be released
will then be time pro rated.
The Committee will have discretion to disapply the impact of time
pro rating and to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a change
of control if, due to exceptional business circumstances to be
assessed by the Committee, returns to shareholders are considered
to be at a superior level.
Chief Executive’s long-term incentive arrangements
For 2007/08 and thereafter, the Chief Executive is entitled to
participate in the 2007 LTIP. However, after careful consideration
(including a specific review of companies that have undertaken
similarly challenging business turnarounds) and thorough
consultation with major shareholders and shareholder
representative bodies, culminating in shareholder approval at the
2007 Annual General Meeting, the Committee concluded that Ulf
Henriksson should be granted a special one-off long-term incentive
award, known as the 2007 CEO Special Award (Special Award), in
addition to his normal annual award under the 2007 LTIP.
Subject to meeting very demanding performance conditions, the
Special Award entitles Mr Henriksson to 1,608,554 shares, being
700% of Mr Henriksson’s 2007/08 base salary (£750,000).
In conjunction with the introduction of the Special Award, the
Chief Executive will build up to an increased level of shareholding
of 300% of base salary. This increased requirement will continue to
apply until May 2010. Thereafter, the normal 200% of base salary
under the Share Ownership Guidelines will apply.
The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflect
those applying to the 2007 LTIP, with some elements being more
demanding as described below. Additionally, the Special Award is
split into two layers, each of which vests on a different basis.
For the first layer, being 200% of base salary, 20% of the Special
Award will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum
performance. For the second layer, being the balance of 500%
of base salary, 0% of the Special Award will vest for threshold
performance and 100% for maximum performance. Vesting in
each layer will be on a straight-line basis between these points.
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
52 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
1
See Note 11 to the Financial statements. For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and
50% based on underlying EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP. However,
for the TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will
require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile.
This has been calculated by the Committee’s remuneration advisers
as outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poor’s Global
1200 Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 (i.e. 40%).
The calculation of TSR will follow that as described for the 2007
LTIP. Vesting can be summarised as follows:
EPS part of TSR part of
Special Award (50%) Special Award (50%)
Target for EPS CAGR of 12.4% Performance equal to
threshold vesting mean of Index constituents
(excluding outliers)
Target for EPS CAGR of 26.3% Equivalent to upper quintile
maximum vesting (outperformance of mean
of Index constituents
(excluding outliers) by
factor of 1.4 (i.e. 40%))
Performance will be measured over a three-year period ending
31 March 2010 (as for the 2007 LTIP). 50% of vested shares will be
released at the end of the performance period (or as soon as
practicable thereafter) and the balance of 50% will be released
after a 12-month holding period. Shares released will include an
additional number of shares representing the value of any
dividends that would have been paid on those released shares had
they been held throughout the vesting/holding periods.
The Committee in all cases retains discretion to ensure that as
a condition for the vesting of shares the underlying overall
performance of the Company has been satisfactory. In the case of
the TSR part of the award, factors that will be taken into account
will include EPS growth and the Company’s cash position.
If Mr Henriksson resigns or is dismissed for cause before shares
are released, they will be forfeited. If his employment ceases due
to ill health or disability, performance will be measured at the
normal vesting date and the award will then be pro rated based
on the period of service save that the Committee may moderate
the application of the pro rata reduction if it considers that
Mr Henriksson’s contribution to the business would otherwise
not be properly recognised. The Committee will have discretion
to accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
In the event of a change of control in the performance period,
performance will be measured at the latest possible date before
the change of control to assess the proportion vesting based on
performance. The proportion of the award that may be released
will then be time pro rated.
In the event of a change of control in the holding period, all vested
shares will be released.
The Committee will have discretion to disapply the impact of time
pro rating and to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a change
of control if, due to exceptional business circumstances to be
assessed by them, returns to shareholders are considered to be
at a superior level.
An increased level of shareholding over and above that set out
under the Share Ownership Guidelines will apply until May 2010.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 53
Remuneration policy for executive directors 2008/09
The table below summarises the key elements of the executive directors’ remuneration as they will apply for 2008/09:
Element of
remuneration
package Purpose Policy Summary of operation
Base salary • Provide a market competitive
salary to help recruit and
retain key employees
• To set pay in a competitive
range by reference to
relevant comparator
companies and groups
• Reflect the individual’s
role within the Group and
have regard to skills and
experience and other relevant
factors (such as personal
performance)
• Paid monthly in cash
• Reviewed annually and fixed for the 12 months
commencing 1 April
• The Chief Executive’s base salary rose to £820,000 from
1 April 2008
• The Chief Financial Officer’s base salary rose to £490,000
from 1 April 2008
Annual bonus • Incentivise key executives to
achieve specific, stretching
predetermined goals over a
short-term period
• Reward ongoing contribution
to core values
• Focus executives on targets
relevant to the Group’s
current strategic goals
• Bonus determined by
reference to financial targets,
influenced by personal
objectives
• Stretch bonus potential set
by reference to UK and
international market
comparators (currently 150%
of base salary)
• For the achievement of
super-stretch performance,
a maximum annual bonus
payment of 200% of salary is
available for 2008/09
• The Committee sets a threshold performance level
(where 10% of salary is paid), a target level (where 100%
of salary is paid) increasing on a straight-line basis to a
stretch level (where 150% of salary is paid). For levels of
performance above stretch, the targets are harder to
achieve to a level of super-stretch performance at which
the maximum annual bonus payment is 200% of salary
• Bonus payments are determined by the Committee after
year end, based on targets set at the start of the year.
The bonus amount up to target performance level is
paid in cash. Any bonus earned in excess of the target
performance level will be paid in deferred shares
which will be released after three years (subject to the
executive director not being dismissed for cause) Remuneration policy for executive directors 2008/09 (continued)
Element of
remuneration
package Purpose Policy Summary of operation
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
54 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
• Incentivise executives to meet
truly stretching financial
targets and achieve superior
returns to shareholders
• Align interests of executives
and shareholders through
building a shareholding
• Retain key executives over
three-year performance
period
• Reward ongoing contribution
during Invensys career
• Maximum usual annual grant
of 200% of base salary, actual
award levels determined by
individual performance
• The award level to the Chief
Executive in 2008/09 will be
200% of base salary
• The award level to the Chief
Financial Officer in 2008/09
will be 300% of salary in
light of the exceptional
circumstances outlined above
• Facilitate the accumulation of
an appropriate level of post-
retirement benefits
• Awards of shares made annually, conditional on
performance measured over the three subsequent years
(ending 31 March 2011 for awards in 2008/09)
• For 50% of the award the performance condition will
relate to the Company’s TSR performance relative to
the constituents of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200
Capital Goods Index. 25% will vest for performance
equal to the mean of the index constituents and 100%
will vest for outperformance of the mean of the index
constituents representing upper quartile (excluding
outliers in each case)
• For 50% of the award the performance condition will
relate to the CAGR of the Group’s underlying EPS. 25% will
vest for 10.7% CAGR and 100% will vest for 22.4% CAGR
• Shares will only vest to participants if the Committee
is satisfied that the underlying performance of the
Company has been sufficient to justify this
• The Chief Executive is entitled to a pension allowance
equal to 35% of base salary in lieu of pension
entitlement, part of which is paid as a contribution
to a personal pension scheme
• The Chief Financial Officer is entitled to a pension
allowance equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of pension
entitlement, all of which is paid as a contribution to a
personal pension scheme
• The Company bears no additional costs to the executive
directors arising from changes to pension taxation
legislation in April 2006
Long Term
Incentive Plan
Pension
• To align the interests of
executive directors and other
senior executives with those
of shareholders
• Executive directors required
to build and maintain a
shareholding of 200% of
base salary
• A more stringent
shareholding requirement
applies to the Chief Executive
until May 2010
• Executive directors are expected to retain shares (net of
taxes) acquired through the vesting of shares under the
Group’s share incentive plans until the target holding is
achieved. Existing shareholdings and shares acquired in
the market are also taken into account
• Exceptionally, in conjunction with the Special Award an
increased shareholding requirement of 300% of base
salary will apply to the Chief Executive until May 2010
Share
Ownership
Guidelines
• To provide suitable protection
to both the executives and
the Company
• Notice periods not to exceed
12 months (except, where
necessary, for a transitional
period on joining)
• To provide for mitigation
and/or phasing of any
payment
• The Chief Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s
contracts provide for 12 months’ notice. The Chief
Executive’s contract permits any termination payment to
be made on a phased basis
Service
contracts
Other share schemes
1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan
(1998 LTIP)
For awards made during 2005/06 and 2006/07 under the 1998 LTIP,
vesting is conditional on the Company’s TSR relative to a basket of
12 global comparators over a three-year performance period, and
on meeting specific ‘underpin’ targets. 25% of an award vests for
median performance with full vesting requiring upper decile
performance. 50% of vested shares are released at the end of the
performance period and the remainder after one year, subject to
continued employment. The usual annual award level for executive
directors was 200% of base salary per annum.
No further awards can be granted under the 1998 LTIP and awards
are now made under the 2007 LTIP.
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan
(TBOP)
On a transitional basis, the Committee operated the TBOP in
2005/06 and in 2006/07. The TBOP was subject to the same
performance targets as the Executive Bonus Plan but only
commenced payment where an above target level of performance
was achieved. At target, no payment was due with the potential
bonus increasing, on a straight-line basis, to 100% of salary if the
maximum bonus was earned. To align the interests of executive directors and shareholders, any
bonuses earned under the TBOP are paid in shares, with 50% of the
shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of
those shares being awarded and the other 50% being released
following the second anniversary.
Executive Share Option Scheme
The Company has in the past operated its Executive Share Option
Scheme and received shareholder approval for a deferred bonus
plan. However, the Company does not propose using these plans
in relation to executive directors.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The Company also operates an RSP that grants executive management
participants restricted share awards, nominal/nil price options or
cash awards over Invensys shares. Release of the shares is generally
subject to continued employment at the relevant date, although
shares may be released early in defined good leaver cases or with
the consent of the Committee.
The executive directors did not receive RSP awards during the
financial year.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
The Company has a Savings Related Share Option Scheme for
operation in the UK and other countries. The Scheme enables
employees to purchase shares in the Company at a favourable
price, using the proceeds of a savings account to which they make
monthly contributions for a three, five or seven-year period.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in this Scheme, which
operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore
not subject to performance conditions.
The last invitation under this Scheme was in 2005 although
following a review by the Committee it has been agreed that a
further invitation will be offered in 2008/09.
Dilution limits
The Company has, at all times, complied with the dilution limits
contained within its share plans (principally a limit of 10% in 10
years). In the 10-year period to 31 March 2008 awards made under
the Company’s share schemes represented 2.89% (2007: 2.77%) of
the Company’s issued ordinary share capital.
Shares to satisfy the TBOP, the deferred share element of Executive
Bonus Plan and the RSP will be purchased in the market.
Employee benefit trust
During 2007/08 the Company established two employee benefit
trusts which are administered by an independent trustee, one of
which holds ordinary shares in the Company to meet the various
obligations under its executive share schemes, as appropriate. This
Trust held 1,766,545 ordinary shares at 31 March 2008 (2007: nil).
Pension
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer received pension
allowances, as detailed in the remuneration table on page 57.
Other benefits
Other benefits provided for executive directors comprise the
provision of a cash allowance in place of a company car, typical life
assurance/permanent health insurance benefits, private medical
insurance and annual health checks.
Share Ownership Guidelines (SOGs)
The SOGs, requiring executives to build up and maintain a
shareholding over time, were introduced in 2004/05 and were
amended with effect from 2007/08 and thereafter such that,
except as required to meet tax obligations, executives have to
retain at least 50% of the shares (100% of shares for executive
directors) which vest under all executive share incentive plans or
the payment of annual incentives in shares, until the minimum
level of shareholding is achieved.
The following requirements as to the minimum level of retention
will apply:
• Executive directors – 200% of base salary
• Executive Leadership Team – 50% of base salary
• Other participants – 25% of base salary
As noted above, a further requirement applies to the Chief
Executive to retain shares over and above these levels until
May 2010.
Service contracts
(i) Policy
The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors
recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set
as an objective for executive directors and that any payments to
a departing executive director should be determined having full
regard to the duty of mitigation. It is the Company’s policy to
achieve these objectives, wherever possible.
(ii) Specific contracts
Set out below is a summary of the main provisions of the service
contracts of those executive directors who served during the year:
Date of Unexpired Notice
Director Notes contract term period
Ulf Henriksson 1, 2, 3 28 April 12 months 12 months
2004
Steve Hare 1, 3, 4 20 April 12 months 12 months
2006
Notes
1. In the event of early termination of the director’s service contract (other than where
summary dismissal is appropriate) the Company has the right to pay, in lieu of notice,
the salary and contractual benefits which he would have received during the relevant
notice period. Alternatively, in the case of Mr Hare, the Company may continue to
provide such benefits during that period.
2. The Company may elect to pay the amount due in lieu of notice as a single lump
sum or pay the first six months’ worth on departure and then on a phased basis at
six-monthly intervals with appropriate reduction in the event that Mr Henriksson
finds alternative employment.
3. The Committee approved during the year changes to Mr Henriksson’s and Mr Hare’s
contracts entitling them, in the event of a material adverse change to their titles,
responsibilities or status following a change of control of the Company to terminate
their employment and receive a payment equal to the termination payment set out
in Note 1.
4. Mr Hare’s service contract will terminate automatically on his 70th birthday.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 55 Chairman and non-executive directors
Chairman
Martin Jay was appointed non-executive Chairman in July 2003 for
an initial period of three years. This appointment was extended by
the Board and approved by shareholders in 2006.
Mr Jay’s letter of appointment dated 28 May 2003 requires, except
in the case of dismissal for cause, 12 months’ notice by either
party; on early termination at the request of the Company any
compensation will be subject to mitigation.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Chairman’s
fees. The Chairman is not involved in any decision on his own
remuneration. The fees currently paid to the Chairman and the
other non-executive directors are subject to the limits set in the
Articles of Association. The Chairman’s fee was set on appointment
at £250,000 per annum. During 2007/08 the Chairman elected to
join the same arrangement as the other non-executive directors
(as set out below) whereby £8,000 of his fee per annum is paid
in shares.
Mr Jay has informed the other members of the Board that he is
intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company
at the 2009 Annual General Meeting. By then, he will have been
Chairman for six years and believes that it will be an appropriate
time to hand over to a successor. He has made his intentions clear
now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly
process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth
transfer of responsibilities can take place.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the
Company. All non-executive directors (including the Chairman) are
appointed under the Company’s Articles of Association, under
which they are required to seek re-election not later than the third
Annual General Meeting following their last election, are subject
to review by the Nominating Committee prior to being considered
for election or re-election by shareholders and serve the Company
under letters of appointment that do not contain any notice
period. They do not participate in any bonus or performance
related plans or any of the Group’s share incentive, option or
pension schemes.
Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are
determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman
and the executive directors. Fee levels are determined taking
account of time commitments and responsibilities, together with
comparative market rates and benchmarking data. The fees
currently paid to non-executive directors are subject to the limits
set in the Articles of Association.
To ensure that the interests of the non-executive directors are
aligned with those of shareholders, the current fee structure for the
non-executive directors is a basic fee of £50,000 per annum, with
£8,000 to be paid in shares. Mr Zito has elected to use his entire
non-executive director’s basic fee (after tax) to acquire shares on
a quarterly basis. Each non-executive director has committed to
retain these shares for the period of their directorship. The
remuneration table on page 57 includes that part of the fee used
to purchase shares and the shares are included in the table of
directors’ interests also on page 57.
Additional payments of £10,000 are paid to the chairman of the
Audit Committee and £8,000 to the chairman of the Remuneration
Committee.
External directorships
The executive directors are encouraged to hold not more than one
external non-executive directorship in order to broaden their
experience for the benefit of the Company. Such appointments are
subject to approval by the Board and the director may retain any
fees paid in respect of such directorship. Mr Henriksson joined the
board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive director in 2007 from
which he retains the fees payable of SEK 350,000 (approximately
£26,576) per annum.
Performance graph
The Company is required to include a graph indicating their TSR
performance (that is, share price assuming reinvestment of any
dividends) over the last five years relative to a recognised equity
index. Accordingly the graph below shows the Company’s
performance relative to the FTSE 250, which the Committee
considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes as the
Company had been a constituent during all of that period.
The graph above highlights the movement in TSR since March 2005.
REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
56 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Total shareholder return 
Source: Thomson Financial
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
31-Mar-03 31-Mar-04 31-Mar-05 31-Mar-06 31-Mar-07 31-Mar-08
Value (£)
Invensys plc
FTSE 250 Index
Total shareholder return 
Source: Thomson Financial
50
100
150
200
250
31-Mar-05 31-Mar-06 31-Mar-07 31-Mar-08
Value (£)
Invensys plc
FTSE 250 Index
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2008, of £100 invested in Invensys plc on 31 March 2003
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2008, of £100 invested in Invensys plc on 31 March 2005
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 57
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 was as follows:
Salary/ Pension Total Total
fees allowance Benefits
7
Bonuses
8
2008
9
2007
Notes ££££££
Chairman
Martin Jay 3 250,000 ––– 250,000 250,000
Executive directors
Steve Hare 1 430,000 129,000 14,186 587,380 1,160,566 693,139
Ulf Henriksson 2 750,000 262,497 15,857 1,024,500 2,052,854 1,562,738
Non-executive directors
Bay Green 3 60,000 ––– 60,000 56,603
Jean-Claude Guez 3 58,000 ––– 58,000 58,000
Michael Parker 3, 4 50,000 ––– 50,000 42,821
Pat Zito 3, 5 43,013 ––– 43,013 –
Former directors
Larry Farmer ––– –– 17,244
Adrian Hennah 6 ––– –– 212,365
Andrew Macfarlane ––– –– 20,692
Totals 1,641,013 391,497 30,043 1,611,880 3,674,433 2,913,602
Notes
1. The comparative figure for Mr Hare relates to the period from his date of appointment on 21 July 2006 to 31 March 2007. The 2007 figure includes £50,000 paid to Mr Hare as
a one-off payment on joining the Company to cover transitional costs and relocation.
2. The emoluments of the highest-paid director, Mr Henriksson, excluding pension rights were £2,052,854 (2007: £1,562,738).
3. The fee structure for the non-executives (including the Chairman from 9 November 2007) includes £8,000 per annum (or, in the case of Mr Zito, all of his fee) which, after tax, is
used to buy shares in the Company for each non-executive director as described on page 56. The shares purchased on their behalf are included in the table of directors’ interests
set out below.
4. The comparative figure for Mr Parker relates to the period from his date of appointment on 24 May 2006 to 31 March 2007.
5. Mr Zito was appointed on 23 May 2007 and therefore his emoluments for 2008 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2008.
6. As disclosed in the 2006 Remuneration report, the Committee exercised its discretion and agreed to make a bonus payment of £75,000 to Mr Hennah as a result of successful
completion of personal objectives during the period of his 2006/07 employment. This was paid in June 2007.
7. Taxable and other benefits comprise items such as cash allowances in lieu of a company car, life assurance/permanent health assurance, medical care and annual health check.
All executive directors are entitled to such benefits.
8. Any payment due in excess of 100% of salary is paid in ordinary shares in the Company the vesting of which is deferred (for executive directors) for a period of three years.
Included in the bonus column above are the amounts of £274,500 and £157,380, to be granted as deferred shares to Mr Henriksson and Mr Hare respectively in respect of their
annual bonus for 2007/08.
9. No directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 (2007: none).
Directors’ interests
Ordinary shares
The interests of the directors and their families in the shares of the Company are set out below:
At 1 April 2007
Notes At 31 March 2008 (or at date of appointment if later)
1, 2 ordinary shares of 10p each ordinary shares of 10p each
Bay Green 3 10,488 9,317
Jean-Claude Guez 3 27,573 26,026
Steve Hare ––
Ulf Henriksson 566,819 305,200
Martin Jay 3 13,746 9,538
Michael Parker 3 2,653 1,639
Pat Zito 3 6,359 –
Notes
1. The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2008 was 225p. Between 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2008, the highest mid-market price was 428.25p and the lowest
mid-market price was 185.75p.
2. All interests referred to are beneficial.
3. As described on page 56, as part of the non-executive directors’ fee arrangements, a proportion (or all, in the case of Mr Zito) of their fee (including the Chairman’s) is used to
acquire ordinary shares in the Company. On 1 April 2008 Mr Jay, Mr Green, Mr Guez, Mr Parker and Mr Zito acquired 465, 459, 609, 398 and 2,895 ordinary shares respectively at
251p per share as part of the non-executive directors’ fee arrangement. There have been no further changes in the interests of directors in ordinary shares between 1 April 2008
and 14 May 2008. REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
58 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Long-term incentive awards
Details of the ordinary shares in the Company which have been conditionally awarded to executive directors under various executive
plans and arrangements are set out below. The relevant performance conditions relating to these conditional awards are set out on pages
51 to 55 of this Report and in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Mid-market
2
adjusted Mid-market
Awards Awards Awards share price at share price at
As at granted vested lapsed As at date awards date awards
Notes 1 April during during during 31 March granted vested Performance Release date/
1 2007 the year the year the year 2008 per share p per share p period period
Steve Hare
1998 Long Term Incentive Plan
50% 11 Aug 2009 –
10 Nov 2009
11 Aug 2006 – 50% 11 Aug 2010 –
2006 461,600 –– – 461,600 166.75 – 10 Aug 2009 10 Nov 2010
2007 Long Term Incentive Plan
1 Apr 2007 – 9 Aug 2010 –
2007 – 263,497 –– 263,497 331.25 – 31 Mar 2010 8 Nov 2010
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan
50% 1 Jun 2008
2007 – 69,765 –– 69,765 385.13 –– 50% 1 Jun 2009
Ulf Henriksson
1998 Long Term Incentive Plan
24 Jun 2004 – 24 Jun 2009 –
2004 3 338,842 –– 213,470 125,372 170.47 – 23 Jun 2007 23 Sep 2009
50% 22 Jul 2008 –
21 Oct 2008
22 Jul 2005 – 50% 22 Jul 2009 –
2005 1,643,534 –– – 1,643,534 126.09 – 21 Jul 2008 21 Oct 2009
50% 1 Jun 2009 –
31 Aug 2009
1 Jun 2006 – 50% 1 Jun 2010 –
2006 641,100 –– – 641,100 217.17 – 31 May 2009 31 Aug 2010
2007 Long Term Incentive Plan
1 Apr 2007 – 9 Aug 2010 –
2007 – 459,587 –– 459,587 331.25 – 31 Mar 2010 8 Nov 2010
Restricted Share Award
2004 4 214,116 – 214,116 –– 149.45 375.50 – 24 May 2007
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan
50% 1 Jun 2007
2006 276,107 – 138,053 – 138,054 217.17 385.13 – 50% 1 Jun 2008
50% 1 Jun 2008
2007 – 167,977 –– 167,977 385.13 –– 50% 1 Jun 2009
2007 CEO Special Award
1 Apr 2007 – 50% 31 Mar 2010
2007 – 1,608,554 –– 1,608,554 331.25 – 31 Mar 2010 50% 31 Mar 2011
Notes:
1. The conditional awards shown in the table are the maximum number of ordinary shares that can vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
2. Mid-market ordinary share prices adjusted for variations in share capital since the date of grant.
3. On 24 June 2007 37% of the conditional award granted in 2004 was converted into a deferred right to acquire the relevant number of ordinary shares. Subject to the rules
of the 1998 LTIP these deferred shares will become eligible for release at the end of a two-year retention period.
4. Under the terms under which the Restricted Share Award was granted, Mr Henriksson remains subject to an obligation to retain the shares released (except any sold to satisfy tax
liabilities) until 20 May 2009.
Share options
The following option over ordinary shares in the Company was granted to the named director under an individual arrangement pursuant
to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules:
Date from
As at 1 April As at 31 March Option price which first Expiry
Notes 2007 2008 per share p exerciseable date
Ulf Henriksson 1, 2 535,290 535,290 154.59 50% 21 Nov 2005 31 May 2014
50% 21 May 2007
Notes:
1. The option is not subject to performance conditions. The exercise of the option is contingent on continued employment or, at the discretion of the Committee, leaving in certain
compassionate circumstances.
2. No options were granted, lapsed or exercised during the year. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 59
The directors submit their report and the audited accounts for
the year ended 31 March 2008 as set out on pages 63 to 136 and
page 139.
Principal activities
The principal activities for the year are contained in the Business
review on pages 16 to 44. The principal subsidiaries which affect
our profit or net assets in the year are listed on page 139.
Business review
The Company is required by the Companies Act 1985 to set out in
this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the
financial year ended 31 March 2008 and the position of the Group
at the end of the year.
This review is contained in the Business review section of the
Annual report and accounts (pages 16 to 44), with further
commentary on the Group’s strategy, performance and
development in the Chairman’s statement (pages 12 and 13) and
the Chief Executive’s statement (pages 14 and 15). The Business
review includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
facing the Group (pages 42 to 44), a discussion of key financial
performance measures (pages 17 to 22), information on our use
of financial instruments and a description of our financial risk
management objectives and policies (pages 22 and 23).
Dividends
The directors do not propose a dividend (2007: nil). The Company
currently has a significant deficit on distributable reserves and is
therefore unable to pay a dividend.
Board of directors
The current directors of the Company and their biographical details
are given on pages 10 and 11. A statement of their remuneration
and interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in
the Remuneration report on page 57.
Martin Jay has informed the other members of the Board that he is
intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company at
the 2009 Annual General Meeting. By then, he will have been
Chairman for six years and believes that it will be an appropriate
time to hand over to a successor. He has made his intentions clear
now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly
process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth
transfer of responsibilities can take place.
The rules governing the appointment and retirement of directors
are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. All directors
served throughout the year other than Pat Zito who was appointed
on 23 May 2007. At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, Bay Green
will retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association
of the Company and, being eligible, will offer himself for
reappointment. The Chairman’s letter and Notice of Annual General
Meeting explains why the Board believes that Mr Green should
be reappointed.
The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and
the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company,
together with any specific authorities that may be given to the
directors by shareholders from time to time, such as the power to
allot shares and the power to make market purchases of the
Company’s shares. Further information regarding matters reserved
for the Board are set out in the Corporate governance report
on page 46.
Directors’ indemnity and insurance
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company has
provided to all the directors an indemnity (to the extent permitted
by the Companies Act 1985) in respect of liabilities incurred as a
result of their office, and the Company has taken out an insurance
policy in respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be
indemnified. Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover
in the event that the director is proved to have acted dishonestly
or fraudulently.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 1 July 2007 the Group acquired Cimnet, Inc., an MES software
company based in Pennsylvania, US for £12 million on a debt/cash
free basis. The following disposals have taken place during the year:
Effective
Proceeds Proportion date of
£m disposed disposal
APV 250 100% 31 December 2007
Safety 22 100% 31 December 2007
Burco 15 100% 31 March 2008
Reversing Valves 7 100% 23 November 2007
294
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with
details of movements in the issued share capital of the Company
during the year are shown in Note 27 on page 109. The Company
has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed
income. Each share carries the right to one vote at general
meetings of the Company. There are no specific restrictions on the
size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both
governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association
and prevailing legislation.
The Company operates two employee benefit trusts to hold shares
pending employees becoming entitled to them under the
Company’s employee share plans. Each trust has an independent
trustee which waives its rights to vote on the shareholding. Details
of employee share schemes and shares held by the Invensys No. 2
Employee Benefit Trust are set out in Note 27 on page 110.
Shares acquired through the Company’s employee share plans rank
pari passu with other shares in issue and have no special rights,
save that certain share awards involve retention periods after
vesting. Further, non-executive directors use a proportion of their
fees to purchase shares in the Company which may not normally be
transferred during a director’s period of office.
At the 2007 Annual General Meeting the directors were authorised
to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of
£26.3 million (approximately 33% of the issued ordinary share
capital as at June 2007). Renewal was also sought for the directors
to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash
(up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £4.0 million)
other than on a pre-emptive basis, shareholders having previously
approved similar resolutions. The directors did not utilise this
authority during the year under review save than to issue shares to
satisfy awards under the Company’s share option and incentive
schemes. The directors will seek to renew similar authorities in 2008.
On 7 February 2008, the Company announced its intention to
exercise its option to redeem all outstanding High Yield Bonds and
consequently all remaining Bonds were redeemed on 17 March
2008. Further details are set out in the Financial review on page 16. Articles of Association
Any alteration to the Company’s Articles of Association must be
approved by shareholders in accordance with applicable UK
legislation. As detailed in the Notice of Annual General Meeting
the Company is proposing, subject to shareholder approval, the
adoption of new Articles to enable changes in the new Companies
Act 2006 to be incorporated.
Substantial shareholders
At the date of this report we have been notified, in accordance
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following
interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company:
Interest in issue
Name share capital %
Standard Life Investments 9.711 (direct interest)
8.236 (indirect interest)
Schroders 9.73 (indirect interest)
Legal & General 5.12 (direct interest)
Prudential 8.30 (direct interest)
Supplier payment policy
It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies should
develop long-term relationships with suppliers and establish terms
of trade consistent with established practice in their country of
operation, and to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of
payment and that such terms are followed. The Company is a
holding company and has no trade creditors.
Employee policy and development
The Group seeks to ensure that fair consideration is given to
applications for employment received from disabled persons
and to ensure continued employment, training and advancement
where possible of employees who are or become temporarily or
permanently disabled.
The Group recognises the need to consult and provide information
on matters of concern to employees. To satisfy that need, the
Company provides employees with published financial and
economic information through its consultative procedures. Invensys
also encourages the involvement of all employees in the Group’s
performance through the Invensys Performance Management
System (IPMS), which reinforces the links between the Group’s
business goals, the employee’s contribution and his/her
remuneration.
Further information concerning employees is set out in the
Corporate social responsibility report which begins on page 35.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year Group donations to charities and community
causes worldwide were £0.2 million (2007: £0.3 million) with UK
charities receiving £nil (2007: £0.1 million). The Board is of the view
that it is not appropriate for the Company to make charitable
donations given the Company is not paying dividends. However,
many of the Group’s subsidiaries are influential companies and
important employers in their own countries or localities and it is
therefore believed to be in the best interests of the Group for
those companies’ community involvement to be maintained at
reasonable levels. No donations were made to political parties
(2007: £nil).
Research and development
The Group carries out research and development in support of
its activities. During the year expenditure on the research and
development of new products and processes amounted to
£100 million (2007: £89 million).
Change of control
Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors
disclose that in the event of a change of control in the Company,
(i) the banking facilities described in Note 21, totalling £680 million
at 31 March 2008 (reduced to £525 million on 7 May 2008 and
again to £425 million on 8 May 2008), could cease to be available
to the Group; and (ii) a Master Service Agreement dated 15 May
2007 made with Genpact International, Inc for the provision of
outsourced business services in relation to certain finance and
related functions would become terminable at the option of the
Company.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of the various employee
share plans operated by the Company set out the consequences of
a change of control of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee has approved changes to
Ulf Henriksson’s and Steve Hare’s service contracts entitling them, in
the event of a material adverse change to their title, responsibilities
or status following a change of control of the Company to
terminate their employment and receive a payment equal to the
termination payment set out in the Remuneration report on page 55.
Auditors
In accordance with section 234ZA(2) of the Companies Act 1985,
each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms
that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and the
director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a
director in order to make himself aware of, and to establish that
the auditors are aware of, any relevant information.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in
office as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment
and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on
Friday, 18 July 2008 at 11am. The Notice of Annual General Meeting
available to all shareholders gives full details of the meeting and
the resolutions to be proposed.
Post balance sheet events
On 7 May 2008, the Group repaid and cancelled Term Loans
due in January 2011 of US$190 million and Euro 75 million.
The repayment of the principal amounts, together with accrued
interest, was made out of cash balances. On 8 May 2008, the Group
cancelled bonding facilities of £100 million due for expiry in
December 2010. There were no early redemption penalties to be
made on either of these transactions.
By order of the Board
Victoria Hull
General Counsel and Company Secretary
14 May 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
60 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF
THE PREPARATION OF THE ACCOUNTS
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and
the financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards
as adopted by the European Union or, in the case of the Company’s
financial statements, UK GAAP.
In relation to the Group financial statements, the directors are
required to prepare financial statements for each financial year
which present fairly the financial position of the Group and its
financial performance and cash flows for that period. In relation
to the Company’s financial statements, the directors are required
by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year that
give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Company
and its profit and loss for that period. In preparing the Company
and Group financial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in applicable accounting standards are
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
• state that the Company and the Group have complied with
applicable accounting standards, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and
the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The
directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
(a) the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008,
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted for use in the European Union, give a true
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of
the Group; and
(b) the business review includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the Group,
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
that they face.
By order of the Board
U C I Henriksson S Hare
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
14 May 2008
The directors of Invensys plc are listed on pages 10 and 11.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 61 Page
Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of Invensys plc 63
Consolidated income statement 64
Consolidated balance sheet 65
Consolidated cash flow statement 66
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 67
Accounting policies 68
Notes to the financial statements 75
1 General information 75
2 Segmental analysis 75
3 Operating profit and analysis of revenue 79
4 Group operating profit 79
5 Auditors’ remuneration (total Group) 80
6 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense (total Group) 80
7 Foreign exchange (losses)/gains 80
8 Total finance costs and finance income 81
9 Taxation 82
10 Discontinued operations 83
11 Earnings per share 84
12 Property, plant and equipment 85
13 Intangible assets – goodwill 86
14 Intangible assets – other 88
15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 89
16 Other financial assets 89
17 Inventories 90
18 Amounts due from/(to) contract customers 90
19 Trade and other receivables 91
20 Cash and cash equivalents 92
21 Borrowings 92
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments 93
23 Assets held for sale 99
24 Provisions 100
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits 101
26 Trade and other payables 108
27 Issued capital 109
28 Reconciliation of movements in equity 110
29 Share-based payment plans 111
30 Commitments and contingencies 118
31 Reconciliation of cash flows 119
32 Analysis of business disposals and business combinations 120
33 Related party transactions 121
34 Events after the balance sheet date 122
35 Exchange rates 122
Principal subsidiaries as at 31 March 2008 139
CONTENTS OF THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
62 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF INVENSYS PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements (financial
statements) of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008
which comprise the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated
balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated
statement of recognised income and expense, Accounting policies,
the related Notes 1 to 35 and the list of Principal subsidiaries as at
31 March 2008. These financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent company financial
statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and
the information in the Remuneration report that is described as
having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members
as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union as set out in the
Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view, the financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the information given
in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003
FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. This other information comprises the Board of
directors, the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s
statement, Business review, Corporate governance report,
Remuneration report, Statement of directors’ responsibilities,
Financial summary, listing of Principal subsidiaries as at 31 March
2008 and Shareholder information. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatement
or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial
statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state
of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit
for the year then ended;
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4
of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent
with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
London
14 May 2008
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 63 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
64 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
2008 2007
For the year ended 31 March Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 2, 3 2,108 1,999
Operating expenses before exceptional items (1,854) (1,783)
Operating profit before exceptional items 2, 3 254 216
Exceptional items 3 62 (27)
Operating profit 316 189
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains 7 (21) 35
Exceptional finance costs 8 (36) (67)
Finance costs 8 (63) (82)
Total finance costs (99) (149)
Finance income 8 18 16
Other finance charges – IAS 19 25 (15) (10)
Profit before taxation 199 81
Taxation – UK 9 (1) –
Taxation – overseas 9 (29) (20)
Profit after taxation – continuing operations 169 61
Profit after taxation – discontinued operations 10 167 148
Profit for the year 336 209
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 334 207
Minority interests 22
336 209
Earnings per share
Continuing operations
Earnings per share (basic) 11 21.1p 8.2p
Earnings per share (diluted) 11 20.9p 8.1p
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share (basic) 11 20.9p 20.0p
Earnings per share (diluted) 11 20.6p 19.7p
Total Group
Earnings per share (basic) 11 42.0p 28.2p
Earnings per share (diluted) 11 41.5p 27.8p CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 65
2008 2007
At 31 March Notes £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 282 314
Intangible assets – goodwill 13 215 206
Intangible assets – other 14 92 90
Deferred income tax assets 15 21 17
Amounts due from contract customers 18 68
Other receivables 19 15 39
Other financial assets 16 77
Pension asset 25 13
639 684
Current assets
Inventories 17 144 229
Amounts due from contract customers 18 152 196
Trade and other receivables 19 648 565
Cash and cash equivalents 20 235 307
Income tax receivable 22
Derivative financial instruments 22 12
1,182 1,301
Assets held for sale 23 23
TOTAL ASSETS 1,823 1,988
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (161) (472)
Provisions 24 (103) (93)
Income tax payable (24) (22)
Deferred income tax liabilities 15 (15) (16)
Amounts due to contract customers 18 (10) (37)
Other payables 26 (17) (16)
Pension liabilities 25 (219) (525)
(549) (1,181)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 26 (480) (615)
Amounts due to contract customers 18 (240) (223)
Borrowings 21 (1) (1)
Derivative financial instruments 22 (1) (1)
Income tax payable (47) (34)
Provisions 24 (59) (73)
(828) (947)
TOTAL LIABILITIES (1,377) (2,128)
NET ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) 446 (140)
Capital and reserves
Equity share capital 27, 28 80 80
Treasury shares 27, 28 (7) –
Other reserves 28 4,189 4,158
Retained earnings 28 (3,885) (4,438)
Equity holders of parent 377 (200)
Minority interests 28 69 60
TOTAL EQUITY 446 (140)
These accounts were approved by the directors on 14 May 2008 and are signed on their behalf by:
M Jay U C I Henriksson S Hare
Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
1
66 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
2008 2007
For the year ended 31 March Notes £m £m
Operating activities
Operating profit:
– Continuing operations 2, 3 316 189
– Discontinued operations 10 7 22
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 47 52
Amortisation of intangible assets – other 19 14
Provision for impairment charged to operating profit 52
Gain on sale of assets and operations – (5)
PPP settlement credit to operating profit (95) –
Sale of property, plant and equipment 14
Sale of subsidiaries – continuing operations 32 –6
Sale of associates –3
Non-cash charge for share-based payment 8 10
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 7 (35)
Increase in receivables (35) (34)
Increase in net amounts due to contract customers 12 56
(Decrease)/increase in payables and provisions (29) 40
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in operating profit (102) (10)
Cash generated from operations 161 314
Income taxes paid (37) (23)
Interest paid (55) (92)
Exceptional finance costs (18) (38)
Net cash flows from operating activities 51 161
Investing activities
Interest received 16 18
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (37) (49)
Expenditure on intangible assets – other (21) (26)
Purchase of minority interest – (1)
Purchase of subsidiaries (12) –
Sale of financial assets – 10
Sale of subsidiaries 32 295 146
Net cash disposed of on sale of subsidiaries 32 (19) (2)
Cash flows from investing activities 222 96
Financing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital – 342
Share issue expenses – (19)
Purchase of Invensys plc shares by Employee Share Trust (9) –
Purchase of shares on vested share awards (4) –
Facility fees – (19)
Increase in long-term borrowings – 155
Repayment of short-term borrowings – (11)
Repayment of long-term borrowings (363) (820)
Capital element of finance lease repayments – (2)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1) (3)
Cash flows from financing activities (377) (377)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (104) (120)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 307 450
Net foreign exchange difference 32 (23)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 20 235 307
1
Further information on the Consolidated cash flow statement is set out in Note 31. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 67
2008 2007
For the year ended 31 March Notes £m £m
Income and expense recognised directly in equity
Gains on valuation of available-for-sale investments:
– Transferred to income statement for the year – (2)
Cash flow hedges:
– Gains taken to equity 11
– Transferred to income statement for the year (2) (4)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 41 (23)
Foreign exchange gain transferred on disposal of operations 10 (1) (1)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised on defined benefit pension schemes 25 218 (56)
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 257 (85)
Profit for the year 336 209
Total recognised income for the year 593 124
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 582 126
Minority interests 11 (2)
593 124 Statement of compliance
The Group’s Consolidated financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of preparation
The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and
measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008. The
Consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling and
all amounts are rounded to the nearest million (£m) unless
otherwise indicated.
The Group’s date of transition to IFRSs was 1 April 2004.
Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated financial statements comprise Invensys plc
and its subsidiaries together with the Group’s share of the results
of its associates for the financial year to 31 March each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the
same reporting year as the Parent company, using consistent
accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are
consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase
method. The cost of the business combination is measured as
the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and
liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs
directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the
Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded
as goodwill.
In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied by
the Group on transition to IFRSs, business combinations prior
to IFRS transition have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3,
Business Combinations.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the
previous financial year except as follows:
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs and
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
interpretations during the year.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements:
Capital Disclosures
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions
The principal effects of these changes are as follows:
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
IFRS 7 has replaced the disclosure requirements previously
included in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation. IFRS 7 requires disclosures that enable users to
evaluate the significance of the Group’s financial instruments and
the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial
instruments. In general, these disclosures are equivalent to those
made previously under IAS 32. The new disclosures are included
throughout the financial statements. The most significant changes
are in Note 19, Trade and other receivables, and Note 22, Financial
risk management and financial instruments.
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements:
Capital Disclosures
This amendment requires the Group to make new disclosures to
enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing capital. These new
disclosures are shown in Note 22, Financial risk management and
financial instruments.
Other than the changes to disclosures noted above, adoption of
these standards and interpretations has not had any material effect
on the financial statements of the Group.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items of income and expense that
should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the
Group’s financial performance and in making projections of future
results. Such items may be operating or non-operating in nature.
Exceptional items are presented separately on the face of the
income statement and analysed in the Notes to the financial
statements.
Foreign currencies
The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency
of Invensys plc is sterling.
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries and
associates are prepared using their functional currency. The
functional currency is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which an entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies
are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet
date. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income
statement unless:
a) the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the
hedging instrument in a cash-flow hedging relationship that
qualifies for hedge accounting; or
b) the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part
of a net investment in a foreign operation;
in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at
the date of the initial transaction.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
68 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a
foreign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair
value was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are
included in the income statement for the period, except for
exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities
where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
Financial statements of foreign operations
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries and associates are
translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during
the year. Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including
goodwill, are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange
ruling at the balance sheet date. All resulting exchange differences
are recognised directly in a separate component of equity. On
disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange
differences held in equity are transferred to the Consolidated
income statement, as part of the profit or loss on sale.
Translation differences that arose before the date of transition
to IFRS are presented in equity but not as a separate component.
Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations were
deemed to be zero at that date. When the foreign operation is
sold, these cumulative exchange differences are not recognised
in the income statement.
Revenue
Composition of revenue
Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services
supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions, sales
by associated undertakings and sales taxes. Revenue relating to
construction contracts, including long-term service provision
contracts, represents the value of work performed during the year
determined by reference to the stage of completion of the
contract. Discounts given to customers against list prices, such as
trade or volume discounts, are deducted in arriving at the value of
revenue. Settlement discounts are reported as an expense in the
income statement.
Recognition of revenue and profits
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be
reliably measured. The specific methods used to recognise the
different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant
risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the
buyer and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
For sales of software solutions, revenue is recognised when a
signed contract exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, no
significant vendor obligations remain and collection of the sales
proceeds is considered probable. A contract to deliver goods,
including software solutions, that requires significant production,
modification, customisation or integration of the goods, is
accounted for in its entirety as a construction contract.
Profit is recognised at the time of sale.
Construction contracts and rendering of services
Revenue from construction contracts, including long-term service
provision contracts, is recognised by reference to the stage of
completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is
normally determined by the proportion that contract costs
incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except
where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
If the nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred
do not accurately reflect the progress of contract activity, an
alternative approach is used such as the achievement of
pre-determined contract milestones.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are
included in revenue from construction contracts when certain
criteria are met. Variations are included when the customer has
agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation
in principle. Claims are included when negotiations with the
customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer
is certain to accept the claim. Incentive payments are included
when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the
performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final
outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed. On all
contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in which
they are first foreseen.
Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis is
recognised when the service is complete.
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision
of a significant service, revenue from the provision of the service
is recognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods
by reference to the stage of completion of the service unless the
service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, in
which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction
contract. Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply
of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the
supply of goods.
Research and development
All research expenditure is expensed as incurred. Development
expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria
for recognition as an intangible asset (see policy on Other
intangible assets).
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits
For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement
benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating
profit or loss in the year. The cost of providing benefits under the
defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using
the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. The full cost
of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service is
also charged to operating profit or loss in the year. The expected
return on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the
market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is
included within other finance charges – IAS 19. This also includes
a charge representing the expected increase in liabilities of the
schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities of the scheme
being one year closer to payment. Differences between actual and
expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the
statement of recognised income and expense in the year, together
with differences from changes in assumptions. The net surplus or
deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the
balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the
income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions
payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable in
the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 69 Goodwill
On a business combination, the net fair value of the identifiable
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is assessed and
adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of
businesses acquired into alignment with those of the Group. The
excess of the price paid over the Group’s interest in the fair value
of identifiable net assets acquired is included in intangible assets as
goodwill. Any costs of integrating the acquired business are taken
to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has
been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or
more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently carried
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. The Group’s policy on
testing assets for impairment is set out under ‘Impairment of non-
financial assets’ below.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying
amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of
intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair
value at acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired intangible
assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price
and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is
calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost less residual
value of assets over their estimated useful lives using the following
annual rates:
Development costs 10 to 25%
Computer software costs 10 to 25%
Patents, trademarks and licenses Shorter of period
of the agreement or 15 years
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments
where applicable are made on a prospective basis. No intangible
assets other than goodwill are considered to have indefinite
useful lives.
Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as
an intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in
IAS 38, Intangible Assets. These require it to be probable that the
expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be
measured reliably. To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able
to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of
completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for
use or sale.
Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project
are considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the
income statement as incurred. These costs are incurred to
determine the product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the
alternatives and related risks, assess the technical feasibility of
concepts, make the final selection from the possible alternatives
and prepare the high level design and project planning. The costs
incurred in the following development stage for substantially
new or improved products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria
and considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those
criteria. These costs are generally incurred in developing the
detailed product design, software configuration and software
interfaces; the coding of software, building of prototypes and
integration of the software with hardware; and testing and
releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental
improvements in existing products does not qualify for recognition
as an intangible asset.
In general the costs of developing software products that are sold
in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are
not recognised as intangible assets. The uncertainties associated
with the functionality of these products mean that technical
feasibility is achieved only immediately prior to or after field trial
tests at customer sites. As a result minimal or no costs are
considered to meet the IAS 38 criteria for recognition.
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is
recognised separately from the goodwill arising on the business
combination if the asset’s fair value can be measured reliably,
regardless of whether the asset had been recognised previously
by the acquiree.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase
price and directly attributable costs.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their
residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives at the following rates applied to original cost:
Freehold land nil
Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5%
Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease
Plant and equipment 7 to 35%
Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis and
adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Impairment of non-financial assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any
indication that any non-financial asset (excluding goodwill) may be
impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or not
there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill was also tested for
impairment at the date of transition to IFRS. If there is an indication
of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s
recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds
its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable
amount and an impairment loss is recognised in the income
statement.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less
costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual
asset. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset
belongs is determined.
The calculation of an asset’s value in use uses a discount rate that
reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
70 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 Leased assets
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in
property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present
value of the minimum lease payments. Capitalised leased assets
are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or
the asset’s useful life. Obligations related to finance leases, net
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as
appropriate within liabilities. Lease payments are apportioned
between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as
to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of
the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Other leases are classified as operating leases. Lease payments,
including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under
operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term
on a straight-line basis.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a
lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date
and an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement
is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the
arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one
of the following applies:
(a) there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal
or extension of the arrangement;
(b) a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the
term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the
lease term;
(c) there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment
is dependant on a specified asset; or
(d) there is a substantial change to the asset.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or
ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to
the reassessment for scenarios a), c) or d) and at the date of renewal
or extension period for scenario b).
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net
realisable value. Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving
items. Cost comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a
first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of labour
and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity,
to reflect the costs incurred in bringing the product to its present
location and condition.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits and
other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three
months or less.
Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset
against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off exist
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Taxation
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to
the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute
the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by
the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all
temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial
reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for
all taxable temporary differences:
• except where the deferred income tax liability arises from
the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition
of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects
neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint
ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the
temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable
that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences,
and the carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses
can be utilised, except:
• where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of
an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither
the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
• in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint
ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in
the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to
allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each
balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all
or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to
apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on
tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date.
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in
equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally
enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity
and the same taxation authority.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 71 Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts and
interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuations in
interest and foreign exchange rates. These instruments are
accounted for as hedges when designated as hedges at the inception
of the contract. The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for financial trading purposes.
All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value
in the balance sheet. The fair values of forward foreign exchange
contracts and interest rate swaps are calculated by reference
to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar
maturity profiles.
The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is
carried out according to the Group’s risk management policies.
Hedges fall into three categories:
(a) Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the
fair value of a recognised asset or liability;
(b) Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash
flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast
transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment;
and
(c) Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in the
value of the Group’s net investment in foreign operations due to
foreign currency exposure.
The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below:
Fair value hedges
When the hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any
resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Any gain
or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk is
adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and
similarly recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow and net investment hedges
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is
determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity. Any
ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income
statement. When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged item
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the
associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are
included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all
other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in
equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in
which the hedged item affects the income statement (on disposal of
the hedged investment in the case of a net investment hedge).
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Group’s net investment in
foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the borrowings
that is determined to be an effective hedge, in accordance with IAS
39, is recognised in equity.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative
financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised in
the income statement.
Derivative instruments held by the Group’s pension and post-
retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes
themselves and are reflected in the Group financial statements
within the amounts reported for those schemes.
Other financial assets
Other financial assets are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured as follows: (a) at fair value for available-for-
sale financial assets. Gains and losses are recognised in equity except
for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from these
assets which are recognised in the income statement; (b) at fair
value for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Net gains or losses are based on changes in fair value; and (c) at
amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, for held-to-
maturity financial assets. Changes to the carrying amount of held-to-
maturity financial assets are recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less
any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables are
discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Any change in their value is recognised in the income statement.
Debt instruments
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the
consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method. This cost is computed as the amount initially
recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the
cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially
recognised amount and the maturity amount. Amortised cost is
calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount
or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the
liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation
process.
Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group that
requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the
holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified
debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the
original or modified terms of a debt instrument. In a very limited
number of cases, the Group has issued such contracts to guarantee
certain borrowings by third parties.
Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at fair value and
subsequently measured at the higher of (a) the estimated outflow of
resources required to meet any present obligation under the
contract (in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities
and Contingent Assets), and (b) the amount initially recognised less,
when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance
with IAS 18, Revenue.
Derecognition of financial instruments
A financial instrument is derecognised when the Group no longer
controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial
instrument.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to
the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial
assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; held-
to-maturity investments; or as available for sale financial assets, as
appropriate.
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or
part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised where:
ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
72 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 • the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired;
• the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset,
but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without
material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’
arrangement; or
• the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from
the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks
and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but
has transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows
from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially
all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the
asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing
involvement in the asset. Continuing involvement that takes the
form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the
lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum
amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Where continuing involvement takes the form of a written and/or
purchased option (including a cash-settled option or similar
provision) on the transferred asset, the extent of the Group’s
continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that
the Group may repurchase, except that in the case of a written put
option (including a cash-settled option or similar provision) on an
asset measured at fair value, the extent of the Group’s continuing
involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the
transferred asset and the option exercise price.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the
same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or
modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and
the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective
carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial asset
or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
Assets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, are
impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has
been incurred. The loss is measured as the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future
cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not
been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective
interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial
recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through
use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is
recognised in the income statement.
The assessment considers whether objective evidence of impairment
exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant,
and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not
individually significant. If it is determined that no objective evidence
of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, the
asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit
risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively
assessed for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for
impairment and for which an impairment loss is recognised are not
included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a
subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an
event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously
recognised impairment loss is reversed. The reversal is recognised in
the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the
asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when
there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or
significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will
not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original
terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is
reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are
derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial investments
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising
the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and
amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss
previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from
equity to the income statement. Reversals in respect of equity
instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in
the income statement. Reversals of impairment losses on debt
instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the
increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related
to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in
the income statement.
Share-based payment
The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share
schemes. For equity-settled share options, the services received from
employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share
options. The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation
model and recognised in the Consolidated income statement,
together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of
the number of options that will eventually vest. Vesting conditions,
other than market conditions, are not taken into account when
estimating the fair value. Market conditions are those conditions that
are linked to the share price of the Company.
For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated
based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable,
any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period
based on the number of shares expected to vest. No expense is
recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, with the exception
of awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition;
these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the
market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance
conditions are met.
For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees
are measured at fair value and recognised in the Consolidated
income statement as an expense over the vesting period with
recognition of a corresponding liability. The fair value of the
liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date of
settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the Consolidated
income statement.
In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied
by the Group on transition to IFRSs, the requirements of IFRS 2,
Share-based Payment, have not been applied to equity instruments
granted on or before 7 November 2002 and those vesting before
1 January 2005.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 73 Treasury shares
Own equity instruments which are reacquired (treasury shares)
are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit
or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s
own equity instruments. Treasury shares are purchased and held
by the Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares
to employees under the Group’s various share option and share
award schemes.
New standards and interpretations not applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and
interpretations with an effective date after the date of these
financial statements:
Effective date – financial periods
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs) beginning on or after
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (revised) 1 January 2009
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 1 January 2009
Statements (revised)
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (revised) 1 July 2009
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate 1 July 2009
Financial Statements (amended)
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based 1 January 2009
Payment – Vesting Conditions
and Cancellations
IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 Financial 1 January 2009
& IAS 1 Instruments: Presentation and
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial
Statements – Puttable Financial
Instruments and Obligations Arising
on Liquidation
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Effective date – financial periods
Committee (IFRIC) beginning on or after
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 July 2008
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit 1 January 2008
Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements
and their Interaction
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these
standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the
Group financial statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will be required to adopt the
‘management approach’ to reporting on the financial performance
of its operating segments, so that the segment information to be
reported would generally be what management uses internally for
evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate
resources to operating segments. The Group is still evaluating the
effect of this standard, but considers that its adoption will not have
a significant impact on the segment information reported. There
will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
Critical accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is
required to make judgments and assumptions concerning the
future in a number of areas. Actual results may be different
from those estimated using these judgments and assumptions.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting
judgments that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
within the next financial year are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on
an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the ‘value in use’
of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make
an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-
generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order
to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying
amount of goodwill at 31 March 2008 was £215 million (2007:
£206 million). Further details are given in Note 13.
Pension and post-retirement benefits
The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post
employment medical benefits is determined using actuarial
valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions
about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future
salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long term nature of these plans, such estimates are
subject to significant uncertainty. The net pension liability at
31 March 2008 is £218 million (2007: £522 million). Further details
are given in Note 25.
Development costs
Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s
accounting policy for other intangible assets. Determining the
amounts to be capitalised requires management to make
assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash
generation of the assets and the expected period of benefits.
At 31 March 2008, the carrying amount of capitalised development
costs was £81 million (2007: £76 million).
Provisions and contingent liabilities
The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of
liabilities including environmental claims and onerous lease
rentals. The amounts recognised for provisions represent the
best estimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits that will be required to settle these liabilities.
No provisions are recognised for contingent liabilities. Contingent
liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed
only by uncertain future events, or current obligations that are
not recognised because it is not probable that they will result
in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits or
because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with
sufficient reliability.
The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed as a
contingent liability or recognised as a provision requires judgments
to be made on the existence of a present obligation and the
probability of future events. When a provision is required, the
amount recognised is determined using judgments and assumptions,
based on current knowledge, to estimate the amount and timing
of future cash outflows arising from the liabilities. At 31 March
2008, the estimated amount of liabilities requiring provisions
was £162 million (2007: £166 million). Further details are given in
Note 24. Details of the Group’s contingent liabilities are set out
in Note 30.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
74 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 75
1 General information
The Group financial statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 were authorised for issue in accordance with a
resolution of the directors on 14 May 2008 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by Martin Jay, Ulf Henriksson and
Steve Hare. Invensys plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
Invensys Group comprises continuing operations and discontinued operations.
Continuing operations consist of the following businesses: Process Systems, Eurotherm, Rail Group and Controls. The principal activities of
each of the continuing operations businesses are as follows:
• Process Systems – designs, manufactures, installs, tests and commissions software and computer-based hardware for the automation
and regulation of plant operations, the management of certain administrative functions of manufacturing business and simulations
of manufacturing process operations. It delivers solutions and consultancy services that improve the productivity and safety of
customers’ plants.
• Eurotherm – provides control, data and measurement instrumentation products, solutions and services to manage specific parameters
of the manufacturing process, such as temperature and pressure, for the global industrial control and process markets.
• Rail Group – designs, manufactures, supplies, installs, tests and commissions safety-related rail signalling and control systems and
other rail signalling products for mainline, metro and freight railways.
• Controls – provides engineered components, systems and services used in appliances, heating, air conditioning/cooling, refrigeration
and thermostatic products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets, together with utility monitoring
services in the UK.
Further detail on the activities of each of the above continuing operations are given in the Business review. This is the basis on which the
Group is managed. Discontinued operations are explained in Note 10.
2 Segmental analysis
Total Inter-company
1
External Total Inter-company
1
External
revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
Revenue £m £m £m £m £m £m
Business
Process Systems 835 5 830 784 5 779
Eurotherm 116 1 115 110 1 109
Rail Group 548 9 539 462 13 449
Controls 624 – 624 662 – 662
Eliminations (5) (5) – (5) (5) –
Continuing operations 2,118 10 2,108 2,013 14 1,999
APV 311 3 308 424 3 421
Controls – Reversing Valves, Safety and IBS 49 12 37 120 21 99
Rail Group – Burco 67 3 64 71 4 67
Discontinued operations 427 18 409 615 28 587
Eliminations (28) (28) – (42) (42) –
Total Group 2,517 – 2,517 2,586 – 2,586
1
Inter-company revenue is invoiced at prevailing market prices. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
76 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
Operating Operating Operating Operating
profit/(loss)
1
profit/(loss)
1
profit/(loss) profit/(loss)
2008 2007 2008 2007
Result £m £m £m £m
Business
Process Systems 117 104 113 104
Eurotherm 9 13 8 13
Rail Group 93 77 187 77
Controls 69 59 49 53
Corporate (34) (37) (41) (58)
Continuing operations 254 216 316 189
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains (21) 35
Exceptional finance costs (36) (67)
Finance costs (63) (82)
Finance income 18 16
Other finance charges – IAS 19 (15) (10)
Taxation (30) (20)
Profit after taxation – continuing operations 169 61
APV 9 16 2 9
Controls – Reversing Valves, Safety and IBS 3 10 3 10
Rail Group – Burco 2 3 2 3
Corporate – profit on disposal of business –– 170 120
Taxation – – (10) 6
Discontinued operations 14 29 167 148
Total Group 268 245 336 209
Total Total Total Total Net assets/ Net assets/
assets assets liabilities liabilities (liabilities) (liabilities)
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Assets and liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Business
Process Systems 550 508 (269) (260) 281 248
Eurotherm 164 150 (25) (24) 139 126
Rail Group 417 280 (312) (277) 105 3
Controls 405 393 (135) (126) 270 267
Corporate 28 43 (169) (181) (141) (138)
Continuing operations 1,564 1,374 (910) (868) 654 506
APV 224 (171) 53
Controls – Reversing Valves and Safety 40 (12) 28
Rail Group – Burco 21 (7) 14
Discontinued operations 285 (190) 95
Cash and cash equivalents 235 307 –– 235 307
Borrowings –– (162) (473) (162) (473)
Pension assets/(liabilities) 13 (219) (525) (218) (522)
Current tax assets/(liabilities) 2 2 (71) (56) (69) (54)
Deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) 21 17 (15) (16) 6 1
Total assets/(liabilities) 1,823 1,988 (1,377) (2,128) 446 (140)
1
Before exceptional items. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 77
Capex: Capex:
Capex: Capex: intangibles intangibles
PPE PPE – other – other Depreciation Depreciation Amortisation Amortisation
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Other information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Business
Process Systems 11 9 6 13 12 12 8 4
Eurotherm 2 2 – – 2 2 – –
Rail Group 6 6 11 11 5 4 11 9
Controls 16 23 1 1 25 27 – –
Corporate – 2 – – 1 1 – –
Continuing operations 35 42 18 25 45 46 19 13
APV 3 7 3 1 2 6 – 1
Discontinued operations 3 7 3 1 2 6 – 1
Total Group 38 49 21 26 47 52 19 14
Gain/(loss) Gain/(loss)
Impairment: Impairment: on sale of on sale of Other Other
PPE/ PPE/ assets and assets and exceptional exceptional
Restructuring Restructuring intangibles intangibles operations operations items
1
items
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Other information £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Business
Process Systems (4) (1) – – – – – 1
Eurotherm – – (1) – – – – –
Rail Group – – (1) – – – 95 –
Controls (16) (11) (3) (2) (1) 2 – 5
Corporate (7) (1) – – – – – (20)
Continuing operations (27) (13) (5) (2) (1) 2 95 (14)
APV (7) (10) – – – 3 – –
Discontinued operations (7) (10) – – – 3 – –
Total Group (34) (23) (5) (2) (1) 5 95 (14)
External External Operating Operating Operating Operating
revenue revenue profit/(loss)
2
profit/(loss)
2
profit/(loss) profit/(loss)
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Revenue and result £m £m £m £m £m £m
Geographical analysis by origin
United Kingdom 402 340 57 55 151 55
Rest of Europe 568 534 75 57 60 47
North America 704 741 109 97 100 99
South America 103 96 13 12 13 12
Asia Pacific 283 239 33 27 32 29
Africa and Middle East 48 49 1 5 1 5
Corporate – – (34) (37) (41) (58)
Continuing operations 2,108 1,999 254 216 316 189
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains (21) 35
Exceptional finance costs (36) (67)
Finance costs (63) (82)
Finance income 18 16
Other finance charges – IAS 19 (15) (10)
Taxation (30) (20)
Profit after taxation – continuing operations 169 61
1
Other exceptional items comprise the £95 million PPP settlement credit.
2
Before exceptional items. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
78 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total Group
External External External External External External
revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Revenue £m £m £m £m £m £m
Geographical analysis by destination
United Kingdom 365 314 15 18 380 332
Rest of Europe 590 548 130 187 720 735
North America 644 685 141 205 785 890
South America 111 102 13 14 124 116
Asia Pacific 305 253 80 124 385 377
Africa and Middle East 93 97 30 39 123 136
Continuing operations 2,108 1,999 409 587 2,517 2,586
Total Total Total Total Net assets/ Net assets/
assets assets liabilities liabilities (liabilities) (liabilities)
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Assets and liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Geographical analysis by origin
United Kingdom 453 325 (182) (185) 271 140
Rest of Europe 405 378 (253) (228) 152 150
North America 418 405 (177) (166) 241 239
South America 61 56 (15) (19) 46 37
Asia Pacific 172 148 (100) (82) 72 66
Africa and Middle East 27 19 (14) (7) 13 12
Corporate 28 43 (169) (181) (141) (138)
Continuing operations 1,564 1,374 (910) (868) 654 506
United Kingdom 5 (10) (5)
Rest of Europe 121 (107) 14
North America 76 (31) 45
South America 8 (2) 6
Asia Pacific 66 (30) 36
Africa and Middle East 9 (10) (1)
Discontinued operations 285 (190) 95
Cash and cash equivalents 235 307 –– 235 307
Borrowings –– (162) (473) (162) (473)
Pension assets/(liabilities) 13 (219) (525) (218) (522)
Current tax assets/(liabilities) 2 2 (71) (56) (69) (54)
Deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) 21 17 (15) (16) 6 1
Total assets/(liabilities) 1,823 1,988 (1,377) (2,128) 446 (140)
Capex: Capex:
Capex: Capex: intangibles intangibles
PPE PPE – other – other
2008 2007 2008 2007
Other information £m £m £m £m
Geographical analysis by origin
United Kingdom 6 6 6 6
Rest of Europe 6 8 4 4
North America 15 18 8 15
South America 4 2 ––
Asia Pacific 3 6 ––
Africa and Middle East 1–– –
Corporate – 2 ––
Continuing operations 35 42 18 25
United Kingdom –– 3 1
Rest of Europe 24 – –
North America 12 – –
South America –– ––
Asia Pacific –1 – –
Africa and Middle East –– ––
Discontinued operations 37 31 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 79
3 Operating profit and analysis of revenue
2008 2007
Notes £m £m
Revenue 2,108 1,999
Cost of sales (1,480) (1,402)
Gross profit 628 597
Distribution costs (13) (10)
Administrative costs (361) (371)
Operating profit before exceptional items 254 216
Restructuring costs 2 (27) (13)
Impairment: property, plant and equipment 2 (4) (2)
Impairment: intangible assets – other 2 (1) –
(Loss)/gain on sale of assets and operations 2 (1) 2
Other exceptional items 2 – (14)
PPP settlement credit
1
2 95 –
Exceptional items 62 (27)
Operating profit 316 189
2008 2007
£m £m
Analysis of revenue
Sale of goods – products 1,008 979
Sale of goods – solutions 807 702
Rendering of services 293 318
Revenue 2,108 1,999
Finance income 18 16
Total revenue 2,126 2,015
1
The PPP settlement credit relates to a series of agreements on 31 March 2008 as part of the arrangements being put in place following Metronet entering into administration.
The rescoping of work by London Underground Limited resulted in a cash payment from Bombardier to Invensys of £95 million on 2 April 2008 and a reduction of £545 million in
the Rail Group order book.
The disclosures related to discontinued operations are set out in Note 10.
4 Group operating profit
Total Group
1
operating profit has been arrived at after charging the following:
2008 2007
Notes £m £m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 47 52
Amortisation of intangible assets – other
2
14 19 14
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 12 4 2
Impairment of intangible assets 14 1 –
Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 71 68
Operating lease payments 30 30 38
Auditors’ remuneration 5 5 8
Employee benefits expense 6 737 793
Research and development
3
86 73
1
Continuing and discontinued operations.
2
Of which £16 million (2007: £13 million) is recorded within cost of sales, and £3 million (2007: £1 million) is included within administrative costs.
3
Total research and development expenditure incurred after adding back amounts capitalised as intangible assets is £100 million (2007: £89 million). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
80 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
5 Auditors’ remuneration (total Group)
The Group has recognised the following amounts payable to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and fees for
other services provided to the Group.
2008 2007
£m £m
Audit of the financial statements 11
Other fees to auditors:
– local statutory audits for subsidiaries 23
– other audit related services 11
– taxation advisory services 11
– provision of services relating to Group financing and working capital reporting –2
5 8
6 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense (total Group)
The average number of people employed by the Group (including directors) during the year was as follows:
2008 2007
Production 19,361 20,931
Marketing and distribution 2,942 3,232
Finance and administration 1,886 1,947
Technical 1,813 1,683
26,002 27,793
The aggregate payroll costs of these people were as follows:
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Wages and salaries 599 628
Social security costs 68 82
Pension and post-retirement costs 25 38 40
Share-based payment expense 29 10 12
Other payroll costs 22 31
737 793
7 Foreign exchange (losses)/gains
Foreign exchange losses in the year of £21 million (2007: £35 million gains) relate to exchange differences arising on the translation of
unhedged foreign currency monetary items used in the financing of the Group and its subsidiaries. These are principally attributable
to exchange differences on the Group’s non-sterling denominated currency borrowings, held in companies whose functional currency
is sterling. Of the exchange losses, £19 million arose on net external euro borrowings.
These foreign currency borrowings were held as an economic hedge by reference to the Group’s underlying cash generation by currency.
However, they are not accounted for as net investment hedges under IAS 39 and consequently exchange differences arising on these
borrowings are recorded in the income statement. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 81
8 Total finance costs and finance income
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (12) (14)
Interest payable on other loans (33) (48)
Bonding costs (7) (11)
Amortisation of refinancing costs (6) (7)
Unwind of discount of provisions 24 (2) –
Net loss on financial assets held for trading (1) –
Other (2) (2)
Finance costs (63) (82)
Bank interest receivable 18 16
Finance income 18 16
Net finance costs (45) (66)
£13 million gains (2007: £2 million gains) on derivative instruments are reported within foreign exchange gains and losses in the income
statement.
In addition to the above, £36 million of exceptional finance costs have been charged to the income statement. This comprises a £18 million
redemption premium on the remaining High Yield Bonds and £18 million write-off of facility fees in relation to the High Yield Bonds
and existing financing facilities (2007: £67 million associated with the 2006 Refinancing and subsequent partial redemption for the High
Yield Bonds). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
82 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
9 Taxation
The major components of income tax expense within the Consolidated income statement are:
2008 2007
Note £m £m
UK corporation tax
– Current income tax charge 17 4
– Double taxation relief (12) (4)
– Adjustments in respect of prior years (4) –
1–
Foreign tax
– Current income tax charge 33 28
– Adjustments in respect of prior years 12
34 30
Total current tax – continuing operations 35 30
Deferred income tax
– Origination and reversal of temporary differences (7) (9)
– Changes in tax rates and laws 2 (1)
Total deferred income tax – continuing operations (5) (10)
Taxation – continuing operations 30 20
Taxation – discontinued operations 10 10 (6)
Total income tax expense 40 14
The recognition of the PPP settlement credit gave rise to taxable profits which generated an exceptional tax charge of £5 million (2007:
credit of £6 million relating to the exceptional charge of £20 million for the augmentation of members’ benefits in the Australian
Superannuation Fund).
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysed as:
– Taxation – UK 1– 1 – (2) (2)
– Taxation – overseas 29 10 39 20 (4) 16
30 10 40 20 (6) 14
The total income tax expense for the year is reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Profit before tax:
– Continuing operations 199 99
– Discontinued operations 177 124
376 223
Tax at the domestic income tax rate of 30% (2007: 30%) 113 67
Adjustments in respect of prior years (9) (7)
Net taxable profit on sale of business (51) (36)
Current year losses and other temporary differences not recognised (7) (1)
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 49
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses (23) (15)
Recognition of losses in current period (1) (11)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 58
Tax relating to the disposal of APV 9–
Total income tax expense 40 14 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 83
10 Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations comprise the APV, Safety, Reversing Valves and Burco businesses in 2007/08, the disposals of which were
completed during the year. In addition, the prior year includes IBS (Invensys Building Systems business in the US and Asia Pacific).
Profit for the year from discontinued operations
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Revenue 409 587
Operating expenses before exceptional items (395) (558)
Operating profit before exceptional items 14 29
Exceptional items
1
2 (7) (7)
Operating profit 7 22
Profit on assets divested 177 126
Charge of associated goodwill (8) (7)
Foreign exchange gain transferred on disposal of operations 11
Profit on sale of business 2 170 120
Profit before taxation – discontinued operations 177 142
Current income tax:
– related to pre-tax profit (3) (3)
– on gain on sale of operations (9) –
– adjustments in respect of prior years 29
Profit after taxation – discontinued operations 167 148
Net cash flows from discontinued operations
2008 2007
£m £m
Operating (13) 36
Investing 279 145
Net cash inflow 266 181
1
Exceptional items comprise restructuring costs of £7 million (2007: £10 million). The prior year also includes £3 million gain on the sale of assets. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
84 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
11 Earnings per share
2008 2007
Earnings per share (pence)
Continuing operations
Basic 21.1p 8.2p
Diluted 20.9p 8.1p
Before exceptional finance costs, foreign exchange gains and losses and PPP settlement credit
Basic 17.0p 12.6p
1
Diluted 16.8p 12.3p
Discontinued operations
Basic 20.9p 20.0p
Diluted 20.6p 19.7p
Total Group
Basic 42.0p 28.2p
Diluted 41.5p 27.8p
Weighted average number of shares (million)
Basic 795 733
Effect of dilution – share options 10 12
Diluted 805 745
Earnings (£m)
Continuing operations
Basic 168 60
Before exceptional finance costs, foreign exchange gains and losses and PPP settlement credit
– Operating profit 316 189
– PPP settlement credit (95) –
– Finance costs (63) (82)
– Finance income 18 16
– Other finance charges – IAS 19 (15) (10)
– Operating profit less net finance costs 161 113
– Taxation on operating profit less net finance costs (25) (20)
– Minority interests (1) (1)
135 92
Discontinued operations
Basic 166 147
Total Group
Basic 334 207
1
For purposes of the 2007/08 LTIP award, the base measurement remains at 14.5p as originally calculated. The disclosure of 12.6p is after restatement for discontinued operations.
The basic earnings per share for the year has been calculated using 795 million shares (2007: 733 million), being the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as Treasury shares which are treated as cancelled, and the profit after
taxation and minority interests for continuing operations, discontinued operations and total Group as shown above.
An additional earnings per share calculation for continuing operations has been included since the directors consider that this gives
useful additional indications of underlying performance. This is based on earnings before exceptional finance costs, foreign exchange
gains and losses and PPP settlement credit with an underlying tax charge of £25 million (2007: £20 million).
The diluted earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share without reference to adjustments in
respect of certain share options which are considered to be anti-dilutive.
There have been no significant transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the
date of completion of these financial statements. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 85
12 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 209 732 941
Additions 5 44 49
Disposal of subsidiaries (1) (3) (4)
Disposals (1) (34) (35)
Exchange adjustments (6) (50) (56)
Classified as held for sale (5) – (5)
At 31 March 2007 201 689 890
Additions 5 33 38
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
(25) (97) (122)
Disposals – (35) (35)
Exchange adjustments 18 30 48
Classified as held for sale (3) – (3)
At 31 March 2008 196 620 816
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 April 2006 70 523 593
Charge for the year 6 46 52
Provision for impairment – 2 2
Disposal of subsidiaries – (2) (2)
Disposals (1) (33) (34)
Exchange adjustments (2) (33) (35)
At 31 March 2007 73 503 576
Charge for the year 5 42 47
Provision for impairment 1 3 4
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
(12) (73) (85)
Disposals – (33) (33)
Exchange adjustments 6 22 28
Classified as held for sale (3) – (3)
At 31 March 2008 70 464 534
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 128 186 314
At 31 March 2008 126 156 282
Amounts included in respect of assets held under finance leases are:
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 6 –6
At 31 March 2008 –1 1
1
Included in disposal of subsidiaries are assets with a net book value of £33 million classified as held for sale in the half-yearly financial statements.
There was £nil (2007: £nil) depreciation charged in the year in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease. The title to plant and machinery with a carrying amount of £1 million
(2007: £6 million land and buildings) has been pledged as security for liabilities.
Included in plant and equipment at 31 March 2008 was an amount of £9 million (2007: £14 million) relating to expenditure for plant and
equipment in the course of construction.
Impairment losses of £4 million comprise £3 million for the write-down of assets in relation to the closure of manufacturing plants within
the Controls business and £1 million of property impairments within the Eurotherm business (2007: £2 million represent the write-down
of assets in relation to the closure of a Controls manufacturing plant within Europe following the transfer of production from this site).
The recoverable amounts of these assets were estimated based on their fair value less costs to sell. Fair values were determined based on
an assessment of the current market values of the assets and past experience of sales of similar assets. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
86 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
13 Intangible assets – goodwill
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 368
Disposals (4)
Additions 1
Exchange adjustments (22)
At 31 March 2007 343
Additions 9
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
(10)
Exchange adjustments 11
At 31 March 2008 353
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 April 2006 146
Disposals (1)
Exchange adjustments (8)
At 31 March 2007 137
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
(2)
Exchange adjustments 3
At 31 March 2008 138
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 206
At 31 March 2008 215
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit
from that business combination. An analysis of the carrying amount of goodwill by primary business segment is set out below. Certain
business segments comprise a number of CGUs.
2008 2007
£m £m
Process Systems 69 58
Eurotherm 112 105
Controls 34 35
Continuing operations 215 198
APV 4
Controls – Reversing Valves 3
Rail Group – Burco 1
Discontinued operations 8
215 206
1
Included in disposal of subsidiaries are assets with a net book value of £7 million classified as held for sale in the half-yearly financial statements. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 87
Annual impairment test
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The
recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs are determined from ‘value in use’ calculations using cash flow projections over a five year
period.
The key assumptions for the ‘value in use’ calculations are:
• revenue volumes;
• revenue prices;
• operating costs;
• growth rate assumptions for years four and five of the cash flow projections;
• growth in perpetuity applied to calculate the terminal value; and
• discount rate.
Expected revenue volumes, revenue prices and operating costs are based on past experience and expected future developments
in markets and operations and are the same assumptions used in the most recent financial annual operating plans approved by
management. These projections cover the first three years of the cash flow projections.
Cash flows for years four and five are projected at a growth rate appropriate for the relevant CGU. These growth rates take into
consideration forecast GDP growth rates for the countries of operation, expected market growth rates for those regions and the levels
of growth achieved historically by the CGU and forecast in the periods covered by the annual operating plan. Lower growth rates are
applied in perpetuity to calculate the terminal value for each CGU. These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the
relevant markets. The discount rate applied to each CGU is a pre-tax rate based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted
to reflect management’s estimate of the specific risk profile associated with the cash flow projections for the CGU. These discount rates
and growth rates by CGU are as follows:
Discount Growth Discount Growth
rate rate
1
rate rate
1
2008 2008 2007 2007
% %%%
Process Systems
– IPS
2
11.73 3.6 13.70 3.6
– Wonderware 11.73 3.2 13.70 3.1
Eurotherm 12.09 2.9 14.95 2.8
Controls
– Appliance and Climate Controls 10.97 1.5 11.54 2.0
– IMServ 10.97 1.5 12.55 1.5
1
In perpetuity.
2
CGUs in IPS have been revised to reflect changes in the organisation and reporting structure since April 2007.
In all cases the recoverable amounts of these CGUs were in excess of their carrying values and no impairment arose in the year (2007: £nil).
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With respect to the assessment of ‘value in use’ of all CGUs management believes that no reasonable possible change in any of the above
key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
88 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
14 Intangible assets – other
Computer Patents,
Development software trademarks
costs costs and licences Total
Note £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 99 33 4 136
Additions 16 10 – 26
Disposals – (1) (3) (4)
Exchange adjustments (3) (4) – (7)
At 31 March 2007 112 38 1 151
Additions 14 7 – 21
Additions – acquired through business combinations 32 3 – – 3
Disposals (2) – – (2)
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
– (15) (1) (16)
Exchange adjustments 4 – – 4
At 31 March 2008 131 30 – 161
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 April 2006 25 27 3 55
Charge for the year 12 2 – 14
Disposals – (1) (3) (4)
Exchange adjustments (1) (3) – (4)
At 31 March 2007 36 25 – 61
Charge for the year 15 4 – 19
Impairment losses for the year
2
1 – – 1
Disposals (2) – – (2)
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
– (11) – (11)
Exchange adjustments – 1 – 1
At 31 March 2008 50 19 – 69
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 76 13 1 90
At 31 March 2008 81 11 – 92
1
Included in disposal of subsidiaries are assets with a net book value of £4 million classified as held for sale in the half-yearly financial statements.
2
Impairment losses of £1 million (2007: £nil) relate to the write-down of specific development assets in the Rail Group. The technology represented by these assets is no longer
expected to be used as intended following the PPP settlement and its recoverable amount has been reassessed accordingly. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 89
15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon:
Pension
and other
Property, Investments retirement
Intangible plant and in Tax benefit
assets equipment Inventories subsidiaries losses obligations Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred income tax assets
At 1 April 2006 (5) (9) – – 17 – 5 8
Credit to income statement – – – – 11 2 8 21
Transfers 4 (4) (7) – 9 (3) (11) (12)
At 31 March 2007 (1) (13) (7) – 37 (1) 2 17
Credit/(charge) to income statement –3 4 – (6) 11 3
Transfers –1 1 – (1) –– 1
At 31 March 2008 (1) (9) (2) – 30 –3 21
Deferred income tax liabilities
At 1 April 2006 (22) (33) (2) (4) 5 10 29 (17)
Charge to income statement – – – (1) (5) – (5) (11)
Transfers 15 27 2 – 5 (10) (27) 12
At 31 March 2007 (7) (6) – (5) 5 – (3) (16)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 1– –– (3) –4 2
Transfers – (1) –– 1– (1) (1)
At 31 March 2008 (6) (7) – (5) 3 – – (15)
The Group has unrecognised income tax losses of £1,081 million with a tax value of £339 million (2007: £1,075 million with a tax value of
£345 million) available for offset against future profits. Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of £40 million (2007: £43 million)
that will expire within four years.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised on temporary differences of £306 million with a tax value of £105 million (2007: £525 million
with a tax value of £173 million) in respect of pension and other retirement benefit obligations and other deductible temporary differences.
The above tax values include the impact of changes in tax rates in various territories.
The Group has unrecognised capital losses of £1,966 million (2007: £2,144 million) that are only available for offset against future capital
gains. Included in capital losses are losses of £1,401 million (2007: £1,384 million) that will expire within four years. Other capital losses may
be carried forward indefinitely.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability
has not been recognised aggregate to £998 million (2007: £830 million). No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences
because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
16 Other financial assets
2008 2007
£m £m
Available-for-sale investments 11
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held for trading 66
77
Available-for-sale investments
Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in listed ordinary shares and therefore have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The investments included above represent investments in unlisted securities that offer the Group the opportunity for return through fair
value gains. The securities have final maturity dates between 2010 and 2020, but will be redeemed earlier should the Nikkei Index achieve
specified target levels. Market values have been determined by external security dealers using pricing models, based on various financial
factors including bond prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and the Nikkei Index prices. The total amount of the change in fair
value estimated using a valuation technique that was recognised in the income statement during the year was £1 million (2007: £nil).
These assets are classified as held for trading.
Details of the Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings are included in the listing of Principal subsidiaries on page 139. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
90 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
17 Inventories
2008 2007
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 81 105
Work in progress 23 47
Finished goods 40 77
144 229
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense
2008 2007
£m £m
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,364 1,358
Including:
– Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 49
– Reversals of impairments in inventories –1
18 Amounts due from/(to) contract customers
2008 2007
£m £m
Amounts due from contract customers:
Amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months 152 196
Amounts expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 6 8
158 204
Amounts due to contract customers:
Amounts expected to be settled within 12 months (240) (223)
Amounts expected to be settled after more than 12 months (10) (37)
(250) (260)
Net amount due to contract customers (92) (56)
Analysed as:
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 1,865 2,081
Less: progress billings (1,957) (2,137)
Contracts in progress at balance sheet date (92) (56)
Revenue from construction contracts 1,070 982
At 31 March 2008, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £46 million (2007: £34 million) and advances received
from customers for contract work amounted to £13 million (2007: £17 million).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts due from/(to) contract customers is a reasonable approximation of their
fair value. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 91
19 Trade and other receivables
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Non-current
Prepayments and accrued income – 9
Other receivables 15 30
15 39
Current
Trade receivables 421 456
Prepayments and accrued income 138 39
Other receivables 89 70
648 565
Total trade and other receivables 663 604
Classification to financial assets
Financial assets: loans and receivables 22i 501 519
Non-financial assets 162 85
663 604
Trade receivables are recorded net of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods. The average credit
period taken on sales of goods is 59 days.
The allowance that has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods is £9 million (2007: £13 million).
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience. The impairment gain recognised in the year as a result of
irrecoverable receivables balances is £1 million (2007: £3 million loss).
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing. Other receivables include amounts owed by associated
undertakings, interest receivable, refundable deposits, refunds due in respect of VAT, sales and payroll taxes, commissions earned
and insurance recoveries.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
At 1 April 13 15
Disposal of subsidiaries (2) (4)
Increase in provisions 25
Decrease in provisions (3) (2)
Utilisation of provisions (1) (1)
At 31 March 9 13
As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Neither past due nor impaired 337 378
Past due but not impaired – past due by:
– 1 to 30 days 44 40
– 31 to 60 days 15 15
– 61 to 90 days 97
– 91 to 120 days 65
– 121 days and over 10 11
421 456
Generally the Group does not hold any collateral as security against trade receivables that are impaired or past due but not impaired. The
Group performs credit verification procedures on all customers. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
92 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
20 Cash and cash equivalents
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 133 163
Short-term deposits 102 144
235 307
Cash and cash equivalents attract interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents. Short-term deposits have an average maturity of
2 days (2007: 14 days). The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from their book value.
Restricted cash and short-term deposits
As a global Group, Invensys has operations in a number of territories (such as China, Brazil and Russia) which place restrictions on the
ability of subsidiaries to lend money to other Group entities outside those territories. However, distributions to the Group are permitted
from audited reserves.
For information on the exposure of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents balances to credit risk refer to Note 22.
21 Borrowings
(i) Bank and other loans falling due within and after more than one year
2008 2007
£m £m
On demand or within one year 11
Repayable over one but not more than two years 6 –
Repayable over two but not more than five years 155 472
Total bank and other loans 162 473
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months (current liabilities) (1) (1)
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months (non-current liabilities) 161 472
As at 31 March 2007 certain loans totalling £144 million, and classified as repayable in over two but not more than five years, were drawn
from committed credit facilities as at 31 March 2007. These loans, which totalled £155 million at 31 March 2008, were repaid on
7 May 2008.
(ii) Loan repayment dates, interest rates and principal terms
Committed
facilities
2008 Interest 2008 2007
Notes Maturity £m rate £m £m
Bank loans
Bonding facilities 1, 2 Dec 2010 395 LIBOR + 2.0%– 2.125% ––
Revolving credit facility 1, 2 Dec 2010 130 LIBOR + 1.5% ––
US$190 million A Term 1, 2, 3 Jan 2011 95 LIBOR + 2.0% 95 94
EUR 75 million B Term 1, 2, 3 Jan 2011 60 LIBOR + 2.375% 60 50
680 155 144
Other loans and borrowings
US$ Bonds 2011 4 –– 9.875% – 87
EUR Bonds 2011 4 –– 9.875% – 234
US$ Bonds 2010 5 Jan 2010 6 6.50% 66
Finance leases 1 Various 1 Various 11
Other – various currencies Various – Various –1
7 7 329
687 162 473
Notes
1. These loans and borrowings are secured by fixed and floating charges over certain Group companies’ assets. £1 million (2007: £1 million) of such loans are classified as
current liabilities.
2. The borrowers have the right to prepay these facilities at par on five days notice. The lenders have the right to seek early repayment following any ‘Event of Default’ or ‘Change
of Control’. These facilities carry maintenance covenants that include a maximum ratio of debt to earnings, a minimum level of interest cover and a maximum level of capital
expenditure. The covenants measure these as a number and must show performance better than a defined scale, which changes over the period of the facilities. To date the
Group has shown ratios better than those required by the relevant agreements. Failure to satisfy these covenants would allow the lenders to call for immediate repayment of
loans made to the Group.
3. These loans were repaid in full on 7 May 2008 (Note 34).
4. These bonds were repaid in full on 17 March 2008.
5. Senior Notes issued in the United States under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. The Company has no right to call these Notes prior to maturity but the Notes have been
covenant defeased. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 93
As at 31 March 2008, the committed syndicated loan facilities available to the Group included:
(a) a £395 million (US$170 million, EUR 51 million, £270 million) bonding facility which ceases to be available in December 2010. The
Group cancelled £100 million of these facilities on 8 May 2008 (Note 34). The available facilities at 31 March 2008 are £395 million
(2007: £396 million) of which £246 million (2007: £252 million) is drawn other than as a cash advance. The bonding facilities are only
able to be drawn as cash to finance or refinance cash collateral;
(b) a £130 million revolving multi-currency loan facility which ceases to be available in December 2010;
(c) a £95 million (US$190 million) non-revolving single currency loan facility which ceases to be available in January 2011; and
(d) a £60 million (EUR 75 million) non-revolving single currency loan facility which ceases to be available in January 2011.
(iii) Undrawn committed facilities
2008 2007
£m £m
Expiring in more than two years 279 294
279 294
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank and other loans, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and
trade and other payables. The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily forward currency contracts. This note explains the
nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments; how those risks arise; the objectives, policies and processes used by the
Group for managing the risks; and the methods used to measure the risks.
Overview of treasury policy
The Group manages its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments by the application of its treasury policy.
The Group’s treasury policy is approved by the Board and seeks to ensure that:
• appropriate financial resources are available for the maintenance and development of the Group’s businesses;
• the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty credit exposure is optimised; and
• treasury operates as a cost centre and no speculative transactions are undertaken.
Further details of the treasury policy are included in the Financial Review section of the Annual Report.
Policy in respect of the major areas of treasury management is set out below.
There have been no significant changes in the Group’s exposures to risk, and its approach to managing those exposures, in the year
ended 31 March 2008 compared to the year ended 31 March 2007.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to risk arising from the effect of changes in floating interest rates on the level of interest it pays on its borrowings
and receives on its cash deposits.
The Group’s policy is to set the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt, taking into account several factors including:
• the profitability of the Group in relation to the business cycle and the consequent level of interest rates in relation to that
business cycle;
• the absolute levels of interest rates; and
• the financial leverage of the Group.
To implement this policy the Group uses fixed-rate borrowings, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and currency swaps to
manage its interest rate exposure.
As at 31 March 2008, in line with the Group being in a net cash position, Invensys had no significant fixed rate borrowings (2007:
£431 million, including interest rate swaps representing 260% of net debt and 89% of gross debt).
The interest rate profiles of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents and short and long-term borrowings are set out in Notes 20 and 21
respectively. The Group’s interest rate swaps are set out on page 98. All other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are non-interest
bearing and a statement has been made to that effect in the relevant balance sheet notes. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
94 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant,
of the Group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate cash and borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity.
The same assumptions have been used for the years ended 31 March 2008 and 2007.
Effect on profit Effect on profit
before tax: before tax:
increase/ increase/
Increase/ (decrease) (decrease)
decrease in base 2008 2007
points £m £m
Euro +100 0.1 (0.2)
US dollar +100 (0.7) (0.2)
Euro –100 (0.1) 0.2
US dollar –100 0.7 0.2
Currency risk
Translation exposure
The majority of the Group’s operating capital is employed in overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, particularly
US dollars and Euros. As a consequence, changes in exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported results. This risk is not
hedged directly but debt which is held in foreign currency reduces the level of net assets exposed to currency fluctuations. The interest
expense of foreign currency debt may also reduce the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows:
US dollar Euro Other (excl GBP) US dollar Euro Other (excl GBP)
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
As at 31 March £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net assets of non-GBP functional currency entities 157 (13) 189 (27) (146) 273
Net unhedged monetary assets not held in entities’ 54 (97) 81 (103) (263) (13)
functional currencies
Gross exposure 211 (110) 270 (130) (409) 260
The significant exchange rates that applied during the year are set out in Note 35.
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and Euro exchange rate, with all other
variables held constant, of:
• the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the sterling value of monetary assets and liabilities not held in entities’ functional
currencies (assuming year end levels of such items are held constant);
• the Group’s equity due to changes in the sterling value of year end net assets held by non-GBP functional currency entities.
Effect on profit Effect on Effect on profit Effect on
before tax: equity: before tax: equity:
Strengthening/ increase/ increase/ increase/ increase/
weakening (decrease) (decrease) (decrease) (decrease)
US dollar and 2008 2008 2007 2007
euro rate £m £m £m £m
US dollar +5% 38 (5) (1)
US dollar –5% (3) (8) 51
Euro +5% (5) (1) (13) (7)
Euro –5% 51 13 7
Transaction exposure
Currency transaction exposure arises when the Group’s businesses face revenues or costs in a currency other than their own. The incidence
of this risk varies across the Group and is subject to change. Usually however, the majority of revenues and costs will be in the functional
currency of the business unit undertaking the transaction. Where this is not the case and the exposure is significant, it is the Group’s policy
for businesses to hedge their exposure.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk in making bids, particularly on major contracts. The assumption of a specific exchange rate
within a bid would lead to a change in the anticipated margin on the contract should a bid be successful; this risk is hedged if significant.
The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts to manage transaction exposure. Price risk
The Group’s exposure to changing market prices on the value of financial instruments has an impact on the carrying value of financial
assets that are classified as available-for-sale and on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group monitors changes in the carrying amounts of these assets and any resulting change in exposure to price risk in order to ensure
that its investment in these assets remains appropriate.
On 31 March 2008, the total carrying value of these financial assets was £7 million (2007: £7 million) of which £6 million (2007: £6 million)
related to investments in unlisted securities as described in Note 16 and set out below.
Interest Final Nikkei
Interest payment maturity index
Amount invested at cost (Face amount) Start date rate date date target
JPY 500 million (£2.9 million) 1 Mar 2000 0.05% 1 Mar, 1 Sep 1 Mar 2010 18,180
JPY 1,000 million (£5.9 million) 29 Mar 2000 0.05% 29 Mar, 29 Sep 29 Mar 2020 20,500
The face amount is receivable if the Nikkei index target is reached on (or in the five days preceding) any interest payment date up to and
including the final maturity date. In the case of the JPY 1,000 million debenture, the face amount is receivable on the final maturity date
irrespective of the level of the Nikkei index on that date. For the JPY 500 million debenture, if the Nikkei index has not reached its target
by the final maturity date, the amount receivable at that date is based on the level of the Nikkei index at that date compared to its level
of 1 March 2000.
Counterparty risk
The Group is exposed to risk if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. Such a risk arises
principally in relation to receivables due from customers and cash deposited with banks or other financial institutions.
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as to
control exposure to any territory or institution. As far as it is both feasible and practical to do so, cash is held centrally by treasury.
Risk is assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their respective carrying values as at the balance sheet
date (see (i) on page 97). Credit risks arising from acting as guarantor are disclosed in Note 30.
There are no significant concentrations of counterparty risk within the Group.
Details of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements in respect of receivables are given in Note 19.
Based on past experience, the directors believe that there is no significant credit risk associated with receivables that are neither past
due nor impaired. The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and performs credit verification procedures on all
customers. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Group has not renegotiated the terms of any significant financial assets such that those assets would have been past due or impaired
had the terms not been renegotiated.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
Operating within the strict controls of the Group’s treasury policy, the treasury department manages this risk, ensuring that sufficient
funding and liquidity is available to meet the expected needs of the Group. In addition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys
adopts a prudent approach to liquidity management using a mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Core funding and guarantee issuance is provided by bank facilities maturing in December 2010.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
96 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
The following table summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2008 and 2007 based on contractual
undiscounted payments:
Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years >5 years Total
31 March 2008 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Long-term bank and other loans – 7 157 – – – 164
Finance leases 1 – – – – – 1
Provisions 653 348 29
Trade and other payables 429 412 –1 437
Derivative financial instruments:
– Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 1 – – – – – 1
437 16 161 54 9 632
Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years >5 years Total
31 March 2007 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Long-term bank and other loans 42 43 48 518 – – 651
Finance leases 1 – – – – – 1
Provisions 12 574 3 12 43
Trade and other payables 550 313 –2 559
Derivative financial instruments:
– Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 1 – – – – – 1
– Interest rate swaps 1 – – – – – 1
607 51 56 525 3 14 1,256
Derivatives
Derivatives are used to manage the interest rate and currency risks described above and further detail is provided below.
Capital management
The facilities at 31 March 2008 provide liquidity for the Group until December 2010 and support the objectives of the Group. These are
described further in Note 21(ii). Investigations are continually undertaken to review alternative financing arrangements. In making those
considerations the Board takes into account the cost of any refinancing compared to the benefits, which include both the cost of funding
as well as longer repayment schedules.
There were no significant changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 2007.
The Group’s capital structure is as follows:
2008 2007
As at 31 March £m £m
Capital employed 373 26
Cash and cash equivalents 235 307
Borrowings (162) (473)
Net cash/(debt) 73 (166)
Total equity – funds/(deficit) 446 (140)
Comprising:
– Equity holders of parent 377 (200)
– Minority interests 69 60
446 (140)
As at 31 March 2008, Invensys had a significant deficit on distributable reserves and, accordingly, the Company is currently unable to pay
dividends. As part of its approach to managing capital, the Group is considering available options to optimise further the structure of its
debt and create sufficient distributable reserves to allow dividend payments in the future.
Net cash increased to £73 million during the year from net debt of £166 million at 31 March 2007, a £311 million reduction in gross debt
partially offset by a £72 million decrease in cash and cash equivalents. The principal component of the reduction in gross debt was the
redemption of the High Yield Bonds which was funded by ongoing free cash flow together with proceeds from the sale of APV and other
businesses in the year to 31 March 2008. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 97
(i) Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification, carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. The fair value
is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between informed and willing
parties. Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates
translated at year end exchange rates. Provisions have been included where there is a contractual obligation to settle in cash.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March was:
Book Fair Book Fair
value value value value
2008 2008 2007 2007
Notes £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Available-for-sale investments 16 1 1 1 1
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held for trading 16 6 6 6 6
Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables
1
19 501 501 519 519
Cash and cash equivalents
1
20 235 235 307 307
Derivative financial instruments:
– Interest rate swaps 22ii – – 1 1
– Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 22ii 1 1 1 1
744 744 835 835
Financial liabilities
Long-term bank and other loans 21 (161) (161) (472) (509)
Finance leases 30 (1) (1) (1) (1)
Provisions
1
24 (29) (29) (43) (43)
Trade and other payables
1
26 (437) (437) (559) (559)
Derivative financial instruments:
– Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 22ii (1) (1) (1) (1)
(629) (629) (1,076) (1,113)
1
The directors consider that the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates to their fair value.
The Group has, in the ordinary course of business, provided indemnities to banks in respect of performance guarantees issued to
customers. The fair value of such indemnities is not material as the likelihood of any liability arising from them is considered remote.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group has guaranteed certain borrowings by third parties. At 31 March 2008, the maximum credit
risk to the Group arising from these guarantees was £3 million (2007: £4 million), being the total amount of such borrowings outstanding
at that date.
Financial assets with a carrying value of up to £156 million (2007: £148 million) are subject to charges relating to such loans.
(ii) Derivative financial instruments
A summary of derivative financial instruments is as follows:
Fair Fair
value value
2008 2007
£m £m
Derivative assets 12
Derivative liabilities (1) (1)
–1 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
98 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
The Group uses derivatives to hedge interest rate risk, currency transaction exposure and currency translation exposure. The figures in
the above table are analysed by category as set out below:
Interest rate swaps
During the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 the Group used interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate
movements on its US$ denominated bank borrowings. The last of these expired in October 2007. The following interest rate swaps were
in place at 31 March 2007:
Notional Notional Fair Fair
principal principal value value
2008 2007 2008 2007
Principal Terms US$m US$m Maturity £m £m
Quarterly: Pay Fixed 2.31%, Receive LIBOR – 120 Apr 2007 ––
Quarterly: Pay Fixed 3.74%, Receive LIBOR – 70 Oct 2007 –1
Derivative assets – 190 –1
These instruments were designated and effective as cash flow hedges. £nil (2007: £3 million) was transferred to the income statement
during the year to 31 March 2008 in respect of hedged interest cash flows. This amount is included within net finance costs in Note 8.
Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge transaction exposure
The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to hedge currency exposure arising from sales and purchases made by the
Group’s businesses in currencies other than their own functional currency. The turnover (i.e. notional principal) of such derivatives
(which typically have a term of less than one year), excluding swaps, in the year to 31 March 2008 was £421 million (2007: £255 million)
and their fair value at 31 March was:
Fair Fair
value value
2008 2007
£m £m
Derivative assets 11
Derivative liabilities – (1)
1–
All of these instruments are designated and effective as cash flow hedges. £nil relating to hedged cash flows that have not yet impacted
the income statement has been deferred and recognised in equity at 31 March 2008 (2007: £1 million). £2 million (2007: £1 million) has
been transferred to the income statement during the year to 31 March 2008 in respect of contracts which matured. This amount is
included within operating expenses in the income statement (2007: within operating expenses).
Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge translation exposure
The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to match the currency profile of its net debt to that of its net assets, revenue and
earnings. The fair value of such derivatives (which typically have a term of less than one year) is set out below:
Fair Fair
value value
2008 2007
£m £m
Derivative assets ––
Derivative liabilities (1) –
(1) – Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 99
The currency assets and liabilities created by such derivatives at 31 March were:
Net assets/ Net assets/
Assets Liabilities (liabilities) Assets Liabilities (liabilities)
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 32 – 32 65 – 65
Euro – (47) (47) 2 – 2
United States dollar – (2) (2) – (51) (51)
Australian dollar 3 – 3 – – –
Japanese yen 13 – 13 – (2) (2)
Other – – – – (14) (14)
48 (49) (1) 67 (67) –
Changes in the fair value of such derivatives are taken directly to the income statement. £13 million was credited to the income
statement in the year to 31 March 2008 (2007: £2 million credit).
(iii) Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement
No amounts were recognised in the income statement relating to the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges (2007: £nil).
23 Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale consist of the Group’s surplus freehold property portfolio. These assets are included in Corporate in the segmental
analysis in Note 2.
The major classes of assets classified as held for sale as at 31 March are:
2008 2007
£m £m
Current assets
Surplus property portfolio 23
23 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
100 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
24 Provisions
Onerous
Warranties Restructuring Environmental contracts Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2007 8 17 42 43 56 166
Charged in year 4 34 –1 11 50
Released in year (1) –– – (3) (4)
Utilised in year (1) (31) (6) (13) (3) (54)
Transferred (1) (1) 6 (3) (1) –
Unwind of discount of provisions –– 1 1– 2
Disposal of subsidiaries
1
(1) (2) –– (1) (4)
Exchange adjustments –2 1 –36
At 31 March 2008 8 19 44 29 62 162
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Analysed as:
Current liabilities 59 73
Non-current liabilities 103 93
162 166
Classification to financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22i 29 43
Non-financial liabilities 133 123
162 166
1
Included in disposal of subsidiaries are £4 million of provisions classified as held for sale in the half-yearly financial statements.
Warranties are provided for in the normal course of business based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past claims.
Such costs are generally incurred over the product life cycle. The actual amount of costs that will be incurred will depend upon the level
and nature of future claims.
Restructuring provisions cover committed costs, the majority of which are expected to be incurred within one year of the balance
sheet date.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount can be determined reliably. This
generally coincides with a commitment to a formal plan or, if earlier, on divestment or closure of inactive sites. These costs are expected
to be incurred over the next 30 years.
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to lease rentals in respect of vacant property and the costs of other onerous contracts. An
onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic
benefits expected to be received under it. The provisions represent the best estimate of the unavoidable costs remaining under the
current contractual terms of the contracts. These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next fifteen years.
Other provisions principally relate to legal claims, claims under workers’ compensation or similar employee disability benefit schemes
and other miscellaneous obligations. These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next five years. The costs are estimated
based on the expected outcome of the legal claim or obligation. The amount of the final liability and timing of payment, if any, is
dependent upon the final outcome of any litigation or other negotiation involved.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of provisions equates to their fair value. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 101
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits
(i) Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates many defined contribution schemes. Pension costs in respect of defined contribution schemes represented contributions
payable in the year and amounted to £11 million (2007: £8 million). At 31 March 2008, there were £1 million (2007: £1 million) of
outstanding contributions included in payables.
(ii) Defined benefit schemes – general
The Group operates many funded and unfunded defined benefit pension and post-retirement schemes. Contributions to the defined
benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of the independent actuary of the relevant scheme. There are two
main funded defined benefit schemes in the UK and US, together with other smaller schemes in the rest of the world.
The principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK employees is the Invensys Pension Scheme. The Invensys Pension Scheme is a
funded defined benefit scheme. The assets of this scheme are held separately from those of the Group. These assets are managed by
trustees, who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes’ beneficiaries. The Trustee Board is made up of nine directors, four
nominated by the Company and five by the members. The Company is responsible for appointing the Chairman from the Board. The last
full actuarial valuation of the Scheme for funding purposes was carried out with a valuation date of 30 September 2005 by independent
actuaries using the projected unit credit method for valuing the liabilities. The assumptions that had the most effect on the results of this
valuation for funding purposes are those relating to the discount rate and inflation on scheme liabilities and mortality assumptions.
There are numerous schemes operated by overseas subsidiaries. Of these the largest US scheme is assessed annually by an actuary, and
the other overseas defined benefit schemes are normally assessed periodically by independent actuaries in accordance with local practice.
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, the majority of which relate to the provision of medical
benefits to retired former employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the US. These schemes are generally unfunded.
The last full valuations of all schemes on an IAS 19 basis have been updated to 31 March 2008 to reflect market conditions and material
events in the plans.
(iii) Defined benefit schemes – major assumptions
The major assumptions made when valuing the liabilities of funded and unfunded schemes under IAS 19 are as follows:
For March 2008 the major financial assumptions were:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare
1
Other
%%%%%
Major assumptions
Rates of increase in salaries 4.95 4.00 3.81 – 1.48
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
2
3.80 – 2.78 – 1.11
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 6.10 6.55 6.07 6.55 5.93
Inflation rate 3.70 2.50 3.10 – 2.17
For March 2007 the major financial assumptions were:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare
1
Other
%%%%%
Major assumptions
Rates of increase in salaries 4.45 4.00 3.91 – 1.44
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
2
3.50 – 2.41 – 0.94
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.35 5.95 5.30 5.95 5.36
Inflation rate 3.20 2.50 2.74 – 2.10
For March 2006 the major financial assumptions were:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare
1
Other
%%%%%
Major assumptions
Rates of increase in salaries 4.15 4.00 3.63 – 2.47
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
2
3.35 – 1.91 – 1.68
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.95 6.05 5.11 6.05 4.76
Inflation rate 2.90 2.50 2.26 – 2.16
1
The assumptions used for medical trend rates for beneficiaries of the US healthcare scheme were 9.5% per annum, declining to an ultimate rate of 5.0% in 2008 (2007 and
2006: 9.0% declining to 5.0%).
2
The inflationary pension increases granted for the UK scheme in the year were 3.70% (2007: 3.20%; 2006: 2.90%). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
102 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits (continued)
(iii) Defined benefit schemes – major assumptions (continued)
The demographic assumptions which were consistently applied for the main schemes are as follows:
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK)
Standard actuarial mortality tables PA92 were adopted using year of birth and medium cohort projections. Probability of death at each
age was multiplied by 126%.
By way of illustration the impact of the application of these mortality tables on the expected longevity of pensioners is shown below:
Years
Retiring today at age 65: Male 20.2
Female 23.0
Retiring in 20 years at age 65: Male 21.4
Female 24.1
Invensys Pension Plan (US)
The mortality table adopted was the RP 2000 Table for combined employee/annuitants, projected to 2008 using projection scale AA.
Sensitivities
The Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) is the largest scheme within the Group, representing 79% of gross liabilities of all defined benefit
schemes. The principal sensitivities are illustrated below:
0.1% 0.1%
increase decrease
A 0.1% movement in the assumed inflation rate would have the following effect: £m £m
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) defined benefit obligation: (increase)/decrease (35) 35
0.1% 0.1%
increase decrease
A 0.1% movement in the assumed discount rate would have the following effect: £m £m
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) defined benefit obligation: decrease/(increase) 54 (54)
A 1 year extension to the pensioners lives would have the following effect: £m
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) defined benefit obligation: (increase) (144)
Applying a 1% underpin to the improvement in mortality implicit in the PA92 tables would have the following effect: £m
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) defined benefit obligation: (increase) (62)
US healthcare scheme
Increase Decrease
A 1% movement in the assumed rate of increase in US healthcare costs would have the following effects: £m £m
US healthcare scheme defined benefit obligation: increase/(decrease) 0.97 (0.88) Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 103
(iv) Defined benefit schemes – income and expenses
The amounts that have been recognised in the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense for the year ended 31 March 2008 are set out below:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis of amounts (charged)/credited to the
Consolidated income statement:
Current service cost – continuing (11) (7) (4) – (3) (25)
Curtailments –1 – – –1
Total charge to operating profit
1
(11) (6) (4) – (3) (24)
Current service charge – discontinued (1) (1) –– – (2)
Curtailments –2 – 1 –3
(Loss)/profit after taxation – discontinued operations (1) 1– 1– 1
Expected return on plan assets 207 40 11 –– 258
Interest on plan liabilities (213) (42) (11) (2) (5) (273)
Other finance charges – IAS 19 (6) (2) – (2) (5) (15)
Analysis of amounts recognised in the Consolidated
statement of recognised income and expense:
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets (34) 16 (12) –– (30)
Experience (losses)/gains arising on the scheme liabilities (11) (7) –3 1 (14)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present
value of the plan liabilities 202 47 8– 5 262
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the Consolidated
statement of recognised income and expense 157 56 (4) 36 218
The amounts that were recognised in the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 March 2007 are set out below:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis of amounts (charged)/credited to the
Consolidated income statement:
Current service cost (15) (8) (6) – (3) (32)
Past service cost –– (19) –– (19)
Settlements 2 – (2) –– –
Total charge to operating profit
1
(13) (8) (27) – (3) (51)
Expected return on plan assets 203 40 14 –– 257
Interest on plan liabilities (204) (44) (12) (2) (5) (267)
Other finance (charges)/credit – IAS 19 (1) (4) 2 (2) (5) (10)
Analysis of amounts recognised in the Consolidated
statement of recognised income and expense:
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets (156) 8 4 –– (144)
Experience losses arising on the scheme liabilities (11) (10) (4) – (2) (27)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present
value of the plan liabilities 119 (9) 3 – 3 116
Increase in limit due to IAS 19 paragraph 58(b) –
restriction of asset recognised –– (1) –– (1)
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the Consolidated
statement of recognised income and expense (48) (11) 2 – 1 (56)
1
The amounts (charged)/credited to operating profit were (charged)/credited to the following lines in the Consolidated income statement:
2008 2007
£m £m
Cost of sales (12) (16)
Administrative costs (13) (16)
Other exceptional items 1 (19)
Total charge to operating profit (24) (51) NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
104 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits (continued)
(v) Defined benefit schemes – changes in present value of defined benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year to 31 March 2008 were as follows:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening present value of defined benefit obligation (4,099) (738) (214) (32) (119) (5,202)
Current service cost (12) (8) (4) – (3) (27)
Contributions by employees –– (1) –– (1)
Benefit payments 245 42 17 3 10 317
Interest on plan liabilities (213) (42) (11) (2) (5) (273)
Curtailments –3 – 1 –4
Actuarial gains 191 40 83 6 248
Settlements – disposal of subsidiaries
1
–– 2– 2 4
Exchange adjustments –8 (8) 1 (10) (9)
Closing present value of defined benefit obligation (3,888) (695) (211) (26) (119) (4,939)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year to 31 March 2008 were as follows:
Funded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Opening fair value of plan assets 3,856 637 188 4,681
Expected return on plan assets 207 40 11 258
Contributions by employer 94 18 4 116
Contributions by employees –– 1 1
Benefit payments (245) (42) (17) (304)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (34) 16 (12) (30)
Settlements – disposal of subsidiaries
1
–– (1) (1)
Exchange adjustments – (6) 71
Closing fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 4,722
Actual return on plan assets 173 56 (1) 228
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year to 31 March 2007 were as follows:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening present value of defined benefit obligation (4,235) (806) (222) (37) (125) (5,425)
Current service cost (15) (8) (6) – (3) (32)
Past service cost –– (19) –– (19)
Contributions by employees –– (1) –– (1)
Benefit payments 243 44 11 3 8 309
Reclassed to defined contribution scheme
2
–– 28 –– 28
Interest on plan liabilities (204) (44) (12) (2) (5) (267)
Settlements 4 – (1) –– 3
Actuarial gains/(losses) 108 (19) (2) – 1 88
Exchange adjustments – 95 10 4 5 114
Closing present value of defined benefit obligation (4,099) (738) (214) (32) (119) (5,202)
1
Included within settlements are £3 million of net pension liabilities classified as held for sale in the half-yearly financial statements.
2
Following the repatriation of the surplus within the Australian Superannuation Fund in the year ended 31 March 2007, £28 million of assets and liabilities accrued to defined
contribution scheme members were therefore reclassified. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 105
Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year to 31 March 2007 were as follows:
Funded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Opening fair value of plan assets 4,007 700 229 4,936
Expected return on plan assets 203 40 14 257
Contributions by employer 47 15 (12) 50
Contributions by employees –– 1 1
Benefit payments (243) (44) (11) (298)
Reclassed to defined contribution scheme
1
– – (28) (28)
Settlements (2) – (1) (3)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (156) 8 5 (143)
Exchange adjustments – (82) (9) (91)
Closing fair value of plan assets 3,856 637 188 4,681
Actual return on plan assets 47 48 18 113
1
Following the repatriation of the surplus within the Australian Superannuation Fund in the year ended 31 March 2007, £28 million of assets and liabilities accrued to defined
contribution scheme members were therefore reclassified.
(vi) Defined benefit schemes – reconciliations of balance sheet amounts
Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2008:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (3,888) (695) (211) (26) (119) (4,939)
Fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 –– 4,722
Deficit in the plan (10) (32) (30) (26) (119) (217)
Restrictions of asset recognised –– (1) –– (1)
Net liability (10) (32) (31) (26) (119) (218)
The net asset/(liability) is presented on the
balance sheet as follows:
Non-current pension asset –– 1–– 1
Non-current pension liability (10) (32) (32) (26) (119) (219)
Net liability (10) (32) (31) (26) (119) (218)
Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2007:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (4,099) (738) (214) (32) (119) (5,202)
Fair value of plan assets 3,856 637 188 –– 4,681
Deficit in the plan (243) (101) (26) (32) (119) (521)
Restrictions of asset recognised –– (1) –– (1)
Net liability (243) (101) (27) (32) (119) (522)
The net asset/(liability) is presented on the
balance sheet as follows:
Non-current pension asset –– 3–– 3
Non-current pension liability (243) (101) (30) (32) (119) (525)
Net liability (243) (101) (27) (32) (119) (522)
Liabilities for each scheme are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. This is an accrued benefits
valuation method that discounts the best estimate of future cash flows and makes allowance for projected earnings.
If the UK Pension Scheme were to be wound up, the relevant employers would be responsible, under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995
to fund the UK Pension Scheme up to the levels of the cost of buying out the benefits for all scheme members with an insurer. This cost
would be considerably more than the value placed on the ongoing liabilities for accounting purposes. The deficit in the UK Pension
Scheme calculated on a winding up basis was approximately £1.8 billion as at 30 September 2005, the date of the last actuarial valuation.
This will be reviewed and updated at the next valuation. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
106 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits (continued)
(vii) Defined benefit schemes – expected rate of return and analysis of scheme assets
The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2008 are:
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) Invensys Pension Plan (US) Other Total
Expected Expected Expected
long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market
rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.3 428 8.2 116 7.7 60 604
Bonds 4.6 2,677 6.1 334 5.0 66 3,077
Other 6.9 773 7.0 213 5.9 55 1,041
Fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 4,722
The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2007 were:
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) Invensys Pension Plan (US) Other Total
Expected Expected Expected
long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market
rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 7.9 844 8.2 155 7.9 66 1,065
Bonds 4.7 2,965 5.3 278 4.8 73 3,316
Other 5.3 47 7.5 204 5.8 49 300
Fair value of plan assets 3,856 637 188 4,681
The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2006 were:
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) Invensys Pension Plan (US) Other Total
Expected Expected Expected
long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market
rate of return value rate of return value rate of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 7.6 1,319 8.2 266 7.7 111 1,696
Bonds 4.4 2,611 5.2 373 4.4 89 3,073
Other 4.7 77 5.0 61 5.8 29 167
Fair value of plan assets 4,007 700 229 4,936
The expected return on each asset class has been determined on the basis of market expectations for the rate of return on each asset
class over the life of the related obligation, at the balance sheet date. In respect of the UK Pension Scheme, Government and Corporate
Bond indices have been used to set the expected rate of return on bonds subject to an adjustment for the risk of default, and a risk
premium has been applied to determine the expected long-term rate of return on equity investments. Similar processes are applied to
other schemes.
The Trustee of the UK Pension Scheme adopted a new statement of investment principles which resulted in a change in the investment
strategy of the scheme in the prior year. The Trustees target a long-term rate of return on investments as a whole, at 1% per annum over
Government stock of appropriate duration to the scheme’s liabilities. This investment strategy gives an overall expected rate of return of
5.42% per annum (2007: 5.50%) at the balance sheet date based on market conditions at this date. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 107
(viii) Defined benefit schemes – history of experience adjustments
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 31 March 2008
Present value of defined benefit obligation (3,888) (695) (211) (26) (119) (4,939)
Fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 –– 4,722
Deficit in the plan (10) (32) (30) (26) (119) (217)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (11) (7) 13 1 (13)
Experience adjustments on plan assets (34) 16 (12) –– (30)
Year ended 31 March 2007
Present value of defined benefit obligation (4,099) (738) (214) (32) (119) (5,202)
Fair value of plan assets 3,856 637 188 –– 4,681
Deficit in the plan (243) (101) (26) (32) (119) (521)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (11) (10) (4) – (2) (27)
Experience adjustments on plan assets (156) 85 – – (143)
Year ended 31 March 2006
Present value of defined benefit obligation (4,235) (806) (222) (37) (125) (5,425)
Fair value of plan assets 4,007 700 229 –– 4,936
(Deficit)/surplus in the plan (228) (106) 7 (37) (125) (489)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 53 (10) (2) 14 – 55
Experience adjustments on plan assets 293 (4) 13 –– 302
Year ended 31 March 2005
Present value of defined benefit obligation (3,885) (731) (212) (56) (119) (5,003)
Fair value of plan assets 3,587 634 208 –– 4,429
Deficit in the plan (298) (97) (4) (56) (119) (574)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (2) 11 (1) –1 9
Experience adjustments on plan assets 36 (9) 5–– 32
Year ended 31 March 2004
Present value of defined benefit obligation (3,806) (738) (203) (57) (117) (4,921)
Fair value of plan assets 3,494 624 197 –– 4,315
Deficit in the plan (312) (114) (6) (57) (117) (606)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 65 2 12 9 (19) 69
Experience adjustments on plan assets 206 113 28 –– 347
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the Consolidated statement of recognised income
and expense is a gain of £24 million (2007: loss of £194 million). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
108 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
2009 2015 2021 2027 2033 2039 2045 2051
Benefit payments £m
Year
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits (continued)
(ix) Pensions and post-retirement benefits – other
Total pension service costs charged to the income statement in respect of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes amounted
to £38 million (2007: £40 million).
The estimated levels of contributions expected to be paid to defined benefit schemes in the year to 31 March 2009 are as follows:
Funded schemes Unfunded schemes
Invensys Invensys
Pension Pension US
Scheme (UK) Plan (US) Other healthcare Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
28 853 8 52
Regarding rates of contributions for future years, following the triennial valuation of the UK Pension Scheme (valuation date 30 September 2005)
contributions to the UK Pension Scheme will be made at the rate of 16.3% of pensionable salaries up to the date of the next triennial valuation.
In addition, the Company will continue to make annual supplemental contributions to the scheme. These will amount to £28 million in the year
ending 31 March 2009, £37 million in the year ending 31 March 2010 and increase by £1 million per annum thereafter until 31 March 2015.
Where the proceeds from the sale of a business exceed £1 million, at least 8% of the proceeds net of tax and costs will be paid as additional
contributions to the UK Pension Scheme. The funding plan is subject to revision after the next triennial valuation which will have a reference
date of 31 March 2008. Under the US plan, the Company’s agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation provided for additional
contributions of 4% of net proceeds from future disposals.
The following graph shows a projection of the benefit payments from the UK Pension Scheme based on the assumptions underlying the
IAS 19 assessment of obligations at 31 March 2008:
26 Trade and other payables
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Non-current
Other payables 17 16
17 16
Current
Trade payables 234 333
Accruals and deferred income 135 157
Interest payable 5 5
Other payables 106 120
480 615
Total trade and other payables 497 631
Classification to financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22i 437 559
Non-financial liabilities 60 72
497 631
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows:
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are on average normally settled on 53-day terms. Interest payable on the Group’s major
borrowing facilities is settled quarterly throughout the financial year. Other payables include sales taxes, social security and payroll taxes,
payroll creditors, customer advances (not related to construction contracts), payments received from customers in advance of work
performed on construction contracts and commissions payable. They are non-interest bearing. The majority of non-current other
payables will mature in more than one year but in less than two years; there is a small proportion that will mature in over five years.
The maturity profile of trade and other payables classified as financial liabilities is given in Note 22.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of both current and non-current trade and other payables approximates to their fair value. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 109
27 Issued capital
Authorised and issued share capital
2008 2008 2007 2007
Authorised:
Number Number
of shares of shares
million £m million £m
Ordinary shares of 10p each 5,600 560 5,600 560
Deferred shares of 24p each 3,500 840 3,500 840
9,100 1,400 9,100 1,400
Issued and fully paid:
Number Number
of shares of shares
million £m million £m
Ordinary shares of 10p each 797 80 796 80
A reconciliation of the authorised and issued share capital is as follows:
Issued, Issued,
allotted allotted
and fully and fully
Authorised paid Authorised paid
Number Number Share Share
of shares of shares capital capital
million million £m £m
At 1 April 2006 59,505 5,687 1,400 57
Issue of ordinary shares of 1p each – 2,275 – 23
Share consolidation (50,405) (7,166) ––
At 31 March 2007 9,100 796 1,400 80
Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each –1 – –
At 31 March 2008 9,100 797 1,400 80
Shares reserved for issue under share options and awards
During the year the Company issued 889,349 ordinary shares of 10p each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys Savings
Related Share Option Scheme and 1998 Long Term Incentive Plan (1998 LTIP).
On 1 June 2007 and 18 June 2007, conditional awards over 85,894 shares were granted under the 1998 LTIP. In addition, on 9 August
2007, 14 November 2007 and 7 March 2008 conditional awards over 4,089,507 shares were granted under the 2007 Long Term Incentive
Plan (2007: nil) and on 9 August 2007 1,608,554 shares were granted under the CEO Special Award (2007: nil).
As at 31 March 2008, outstanding executive share options exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition,
at various dates between 2008 and 2014 and at various prices between 154.59p and 2,601.17p per ordinary share, and at a weighted
average price of 1,186.47p per ordinary share, were 2,774,940 (2007: 3,110,465).
Outstanding options under the Company’s various savings related share option schemes at 31 March 2008, exercisable at various dates
between 2008 and 2010 and at various prices between 130.77p and 2,386.96p per ordinary share, and at a weighted average price of
424.46p per ordinary share, were 133,235 (2007: 1,135,664). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
110 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
27 Issued capital (continued)
Shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust
The Invensys No. 2 Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) was established on 24 April 2007. At 31 March 2008, the Trust held 1,766,545 10p ordinary
shares in Invensys plc with a market value of £4 million. The Trust purchases shares in the market in order to satisfy obligations under the
various share option and share award schemes operated by the Company. All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this purpose and
are distributed to employees in accordance with the terms of the Company’s schemes. Shares held by the Trust are accounted for as
treasury shares and deducted from equity. The movement in treasury shares during the year ended 31 March 2008 is set out below.
Number
of shares £m
At 1 April 2007 ––
Purchase of shares 2,358,745 9
Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes (592,200) (2)
At 31 March 2008 1,766,545 7
28 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Issued
capital Treasury shares Retained Other reserves Minority
(Note 27) (Note 27) earnings (see below) interests Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 57 – (4,597) 3,881 66 (593)
Total recognised income/(expense) for the year –– 149 (23) (2) 124
Share-based payment –– 10 –– 10
Disposal of minority interests ––– – (1) (1)
Dividends paid to minority interests ––– – (3) (3)
Issue of share capital 23 –– 319 – 342
Share issue expenses ––– (19) – (19)
At 31 March 2007 80 – (4,438) 4,158 60 (140)
Total recognised income for the year –– 551 31 11 593
Share-based payment –– (5) –– (5)
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust – (9) 9–– –
Distribution of own shares under share-based
payment arrangements –2 (2) –––
Dividends paid to minority interests ––– – (1) (1)
Disposal of subsidiaries ––– – (1) (1)
At 31 March 2008 80 (7) (3,885) 4,189 69 446
The minority interests balance is £69 million (2007: £60 million). The majority of the balance relates to the interests of the minority in
Baan Company NV.
Other reserves
Share Capital Cash flow Foreign
premium redemption Capital hedge exchange Other
account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 440 923 2,509 4 5 3,881
Gains taken to equity ––– 1 – 1
Transferred to income statement for the year ––– (4) – (4)
Issue of share capital 319 –– –– 319
Share issue expenses (19) –– –– (19)
Currency translation differences ––– – (20) (20)
At 31 March 2007 740 923 2,509 1 (15) 4,158
Gains taken to equity ––– 1– 1
Transferred to income statement for the year ––– (2) – (2)
Currency translation differences ––– – 32 32
At 31 March 2008 740 923 2,509 – 17 4,189 Nature and purpose of other reserves
Share premium account
This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital redemption reserve
This reserve arose when the Company repurchased its own shares for cancellation as part of a return of capital programme and is non-
distributable. Subsequently, in the year ended 31 March 2005, 3,499,780,822 deferred shares of 24p each were cancelled, in accordance
with their terms of issue.
Capital reserve
Previously the Group merger reserve, this reserve was created on the merger of BTR plc and Siebe plc in February 1999 and is non-
distributable.
Cash flow hedge reserve
This reserve records, for each hedged item in an effective cash flow hedge, the cumulative change in fair value of the expected future
cash flow on the hedged item from the inception of the hedge relationship.
Foreign exchange reserve
The foreign exchange reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign
subsidiaries. It is also used to record the foreign exchange on net investments in these subsidiaries.
29 Share-based payment plans
The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding as detailed below:
Plans for senior employees
Executive share options
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme
Grant details
An executive share option scheme under which options have been granted to directors and senior executives at no cost. Options are
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date at a price equal to the average middle market quoted price of the
Company’s shares over the five dealing days which precede the date of grant. Options are satisfied by the issue of new shares or in the
case of awards granted as share appreciation rights, in cash.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: (a) for grants made prior to 25 July 2001, earnings per share (EPS) performance of RPI + 12% over a three year
period to be applied each year until the earlier of when the condition is met or the measurement period the last financial year of which is
the year preceding that in which the option will lapse; (b) for grants made between 25 July 2001 and 16 June 2002 EPS of RPI + 12% in the
three years after grant or EPS of RPI + 16% in the four years after grant or EPS of RPI + 20% in the five years after grant, failing which the
option will lapse; and (c) for grants made on 17 June 2002 and after, total shareholder return (TSR) performance against a peer group
of the FTSE100 over a performance period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of grant. 40% will be exercisable if
the median position is achieved, rising to 100% if upper quartile position is achieved. Between these two points the option will vest on
a straight-line basis. If the performance condition is not met in full at the first measurement then it will be retested against the fixed
base in years four and five. If the median position is not achieved by the end of the fifth year the option will lapse.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the option will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although options may be
exercisable for a certain period of time in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
The Company does not propose to operate the Scheme, except in the case of recruitment situations, where it may be considered
appropriate. Hence no options were granted during the years ended 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
112 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
29 Share-based payment plans (continued)
Plans for senior employees (continued)
Details of executive share options outstanding under this scheme including the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate
arrangement on 1 June 2004, are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
share options price (p) share options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,111,299 1,165.24 6,426,119 1,232.40
Granted during the year –– – n/a
Forfeited during the year 23,089 1,151.57 795,540 1,244.01
Exercised during the year –– – n/a
Lapsed during the year 342,804 1,206.95 2,519,280 1,312.83
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,745,406 1,160.14 3,111,299 1,165.24
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,675,971 1,351.46 1,540,587 1,597.34
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year
Weighted
Weighted average
average remaining
Number of exercise contractual
share options price (p) life (years)
2008
154.59p 535,290 154.59 6.2
458.53p to 579.12p 131,800 554.33 4.7
903.14p to 2,601.17p 2,078,316 1,488.32 3.2
2,745,406 1,160.14 3.9
2007
154.59p 535,290 154.59 7.2
458.53p to 579.12p 156,114 559.36 5.7
903.14p to 2,601.17p 2,419,895 1,427.88 4.2
3,111,299 1,165.24 4.9
Closed option schemes
In addition, during the year ended 31 March 2008, there were executive share options outstanding under the Siebe plc Share Option
Scheme 1993, BTR Executive Share Option Scheme (1995) and Eurotherm plc Executive Share Option Scheme 1995. Grants are no longer
made under these closed schemes, the last grant having been made under the Siebe plc Share Option Scheme 1993 in March 1999.
Outstanding options under these schemes were 29,534 (2007: 44,812), with a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.4 years
(2007: 1.2 years) and range of exercise prices between 2,439.11p and 3,419.55p.
Long term incentives
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Grant details
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms:
(a) a nominal price option award which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal payment (unless the Company determines otherwise);
(b) a conditional share award; or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a notional number of shares). Awards are normally subject to
a three year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period. For awards granted prior to 22 July
2005 the retention period was two years; for awards made on or after 22 July 2005, 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the
performance requirements will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being deferred for one year.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements:
TSR test
TSR ranked against a peer group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee (with no retesting opportunities). TSR must
rank at the median position (when the peer group is ranked in descending order of TSR) in order for 25% of the shares subject to the
award to be available (subject to the retention period), rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved. Between these
positions, the number of shares will be calculated on a straight-line basis. If at least the median position is not achieved the whole award
will lapse. The peer groups selected for the relevant awards are as follows:
• awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant; and
• awards granted on or after 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, Schneider,
Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokogawa. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 113
Overall performance test
The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that: (a) for awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 there has been a sustained delivery
over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group
indebtedness; (b) for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins have been met: (1) achievement of stretching internal
free cash flow targets; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items; and (c) for awards granted on or after 1 June 2006 that two
underpin tests have been met: (1) relating to the successful completion of the 2006 Refinancing and in addition that there has been a
sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee after the completion of the first two years of the
performance period.
Scheme use
Given that no further awards can be granted under the LTIP after July 2008, a new share-based long-term incentive plan, known as the
2007 Long Term Incentive Plan has been established and was approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting. Details of
this new scheme are given below.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are detailed below:
LTIP awards LTIP awards
granted in the granted in the
year ended year ended
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Total number of awards granted 229,073 6,202,739
Weighted average fair value 121.87p 101.14p
Exercise price n/a n/a
Expected volatility n/a n/a
Weighted average expected award life 1.5 years
1
3.5 years
Expected dividend yield 0% 0%
Risk free interest rate n/a n/a
Details of relevant LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number Number
of awards of awards
2008 2007
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 21,584,292 23,220,809
Granted during the year 229,073 6,202,739
Forfeited during the year 3,999,002 4,044,343
Vested during the year 324,959 –
Lapsed during the year 1,860,751 3,794,913
Outstanding at the end of the year 15,628,653 21,584,292
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years (2007: 2.3 years).
1
During the year, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to depart from the rules of the 1998 LTIP in a specific termination case (not related to an executive
director). This award of 143,179 shares has therefore been treated as a forfeiture of the original award, followed by a new grant (with a life of three months only, representing
the date of agreement to the date of termination). This has resulted in a shorter weighted average expected award life than is usual. The remaining grants during the year were
therefore 85,894 shares.
2007 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (2007 LTIP)
Grant details
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms:
(a) a nominal price option award which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal payment (unless the Company determines otherwise);
(b) a conditional share award: or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a nominal number of shares). Awards are normally subject to
a three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award. There is no retention period.
Vesting requirement
Performance requirements: awards will be subject to two independent performance conditions. For executive directors (a) 50% of an award
will be based on growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital Goods
Index; and (b) 50% of an award will be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s Earnings Per Share. For all other
participants (a) 35% of an award will be based on growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poor’s
Global 1200 Capital Goods Index; and (b) 35% of an award will be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s Earnings Per
Share. There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award. In addition, the Remuneration Committee retains
discretion to ensure that, as a condition of vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group must be satisfactory.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The 2007 LTIP is used as the Group’s main share-based long term incentive plan under which share awards are granted. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
114 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
29 Share-based payment plans (continued)
Plans for senior employees (continued)
Grants made during the year ended 31 March 2008, the first year during which 2007 LTIP awards were granted, are detailed below:
LTIP awards
granted in the
year ended
31 March 2008
Total number of awards granted 4,357,047
Weighted average fair value 252.65p
Exercise price n/a
Expected volatility n/a
Weighted average expected award life 3 years
Expected dividend yield 0%
Risk free interest rate n/a
Details of relevant 2007 LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number
of awards
2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year –
Granted during the year 4,357,047
Forfeited during the year 211,324
Vested during the year –
Lapsed during the year 203,312
Outstanding at the end of the year 3,942,411
The 2007 LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.4 years.
2007 CEO Special Award (Special Award)
Grant details
Approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Special Award is a one-off conditional share award granted to the
Chief Executive equal to 700% of his 2007/08 base salary. The Special Award is subject to a three-year performance period. 50% of vested
shares will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being released after a 12 month holding period.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflect those applying to the 2007 LTIP with some
elements being more demanding. The Special Award is split into two layers, each of which vests on a different basis. For the first layer
equal to 200% of base salary, 20% will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance. For the second layer equal
to 500% of base salary, there will be no vesting for threshold performance, but 100% will vest for maximum performance. Vesting in each
layer will be on a straight line basis between these points.
For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP. However, for the
TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile. This means
outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 (i.e. 40%).
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The Special Award is a one-off grant at no cost.
Grants made during the year ended 31 March 2008 are detailed below:
Special Award
granted in the
year ended
31 March 2008
Total number of awards granted 1,608,554
Weighted average fair value 204.22p
Exercise price n/a
Expected volatility n/a
Weighted average expected award life 3.5 years
Expected dividend yield 0%
Risk free interest rate n/a Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 115
Details of the Special Award outstanding during the year is as follows:
Number
of awards
2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year –
Granted during the year 1,608,554
Forfeited during the year –
Vested during the year –
Lapsed during the year –
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,608,554
The Special Award outstanding at the end of the year has a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.9 years.
Invensys Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Grant detail
A restricted share plan whereby awards, to be satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior
employees at no cost.
Vesting requirement
Performance requirements: awards are not subject to a specific performance condition apart from continued employment throughout the
vesting period.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are detailed below:
RSP awards RSP awards
granted in the granted in the
year ended year ended
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Total number of awards granted 175,001 3,429,051
Weighted average fair value 297.13p 189.65p
Weighted average exercise price n/a n/a
Expected volatility n/a n/a
Weighted average expected award life 2.2 years 2.4 years
Expected dividend yield 0.00% 0.00%
Risk free interest rate n/a n/a
Details of relevant RSP awards (including a separate restricted share award granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on
1 June 2004) outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number Number
of awards of awards
2008 2007
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,030,072 882,959
Granted during the year 175,001 3,429,051
Forfeited during the year 565,083 51,764
Vested during the year 827,427 230,174
Lapsed during the year ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,812,563 4,030,072
The RSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years (2007: 1.7 years).
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan (TBOP)
Grant details
The Company introduced the TBOP in 2005/06 under which executives have the opportunity to receive a supplemental bonus of up to
100% of their base salary in respect of the relevant financial year to be paid in shares upon reaching specified target levels of
performance. The TBOP operates in addition to the existing Executive Bonus Plan (EBP). Any bonuses earned under the TBOP (the
Overlay Bonus) are payable in shares with 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of those shares being
awarded and the other 50% being released following the second anniversary.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: the amount of the Overlay Bonus (which in turn determines the level of the award) is set by reference to the
performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
116 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
29 Share-based payment plans (continued)
Plans for senior employees (continued)
Service requirements: release of the shares is generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date although shares may be
released early in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
The first grant under the TBOP was made on 1 June 2006. It was originally anticipated that the TBOP would be operated up to and
including the financial year 2007/08. However, as a result of the changes made to the annual incentive arrangements for 2007/08
onwards (as detailed in the Remuneration report), the TBOP ceased to be operated one year early. The final awards under the TBOP
were granted in the year ended 31 March 2008 in respect of the financial year 2006/07.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are detailed below:
TBOP awards TBOP awards
granted in the granted in the
year ended year ended
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Total number of awards granted 1,238,613 1,584,366
Exercise price n/a n/a
Expected volatility n/a n/a
Weighted average expected award life 1.5 years 1.5 years
Expected dividend yield n/a n/a
Risk free interest rate n/a n/a
Details of relevant TBOP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number of Number of
awards awards
2008 2007
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,471,882 –
Granted during the year 1,238,613 1,584,366
Forfeited during the year 67,213 112,484
Vested during the year 830,449 –
Lapsed during the year ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,812,833 1,471,882
The TBOP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.5 years (2007: 0.7 years)
All employee schemes
Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Grant details
The Scheme operates in the UK, is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees. Options may be
granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of invitation. The vesting
period for the options is three, five or seven years.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: the Scheme operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore not subject to performance
conditions other than that a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the option will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although options may be
exercisable for a certain period of time in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The use of the scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis. No options were granted under this Scheme
during the years ended 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007.
Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
share options price (p) share options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 898,443 242.03 1,293,679 298.15
Granted during the year – n/a – n/a
Forfeited during the year 6,555 887.80 100,667 215.95
Exercised during the year 564,390 130.77 16,414 130.77
Lapsed during the year 216,431 415.16 278,155 519.14
Outstanding at the end of the year 111,067 431.93 898,443 242.03
Exercisable at the end of the year 5,763 130.77 7,897 130.77 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 117
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year
Weighted
Weighted average
average remaining
Number of exercise contractual
share options price (p) life (years)
2008
130.77p to 387.03p 101,273 372.44 0.9
810.05p to 2,386.96p 9,794 1,047.00 0.8
111,067 431.93 0.9
2007
130.77p to 387.03p 851,828 203.43 1.0
810.05p to 2,386.96p 46,615 947.41 0.9
898,443 242.03 0.9
Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Grant details
The Scheme operates in a number of overseas countries where it has proved advantageous and practicable based on the numbers of
eligible employees and local legal and tax requirements. It is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date
of invitation.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: there are no performance conditions, other than that a participant is required to complete the savings
contract in order to exercise their options.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the option will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although options may be
exercisable for a certain period of time in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis. No options were granted under this Scheme
during the years ended 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007.
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
Total number of awards granted share options price (p) share options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 237,221 462.89 634,881 771.25
Granted during the year – n/a – n/a
Forfeited during the year – n/a 16,795 592.54
Exercised during the year – n/a – n/a
Lapsed during the year 215,053 391.62 380,865 1,015.88
Outstanding at the end of the year 22,168 387.03 237,221 462.89
Exercisable at the end of the year – n/a 3,989 387.03
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year
Weighted
Weighted average
average remaining
Number of exercise contractual
share options price (p) life (years)
2008
387.03p 22,168 387.03 0.5
810.05p –– –
22,168 387.03 0.5
2007
387.03p 234,888 387.03 0.4
810.05p 2,333 810.05 0.5
237,221 462.89 0.4 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
118 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
29 Share-based payment plans (continued)
All employee schemes (continued)
Measurement of fair value
An ‘adjusted market value’ method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions has
been used to calculate the fair value of all awards granted during the year.
Share-based payment expense
The Group recognised total expenses of £10 million (2007: £12 million) related to share-based payment transactions during the year,
of which £8 million (2007: £10 million) related to equity-settled and £2 million (2007: £2 million) related to cash-settled transactions.
The carrying amount of the liability relating to the cash-settled awards at 31 March 2008 is £3 million (2007: £1 million).
30 Commitments and contingencies
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment contracted at the balance sheet date but for which no provision has been
made in the accounts amounted to £1 million (2007: £2 million).
Operating leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, motor vehicles and items of plant and equipment. Land
and buildings leases are generally subject to periodic rent reviews. Some leases have renewal options. These are at the option of the
Group, sometimes subject to a minimum notice period. In some cases rent escalations are set out in the lease contract. There are no
material contingent rents payable. No significant restrictions are placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Operating lease payments
2008 2007
£m £m
Minimum lease payments 32 41
Sublease payments (2) (3)
Operating lease payments 30 38
Operating lease commitments
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and Land and
buildings Other Total buildings Other Total
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 27 5 32 33 6 39
After one year but not more than five years 74 5 79 95 10 105
Later than five years 72 – 72 76 – 76
173 10 183 204 16 220
The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 March 2008 is
£19 million (2007: £15 million).
Obligations under finance leases
At 31 March 2008 future minimum payments due under finance leases and similar hire purchase arrangements together with the
present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
2008 2007
Present Present
Minimum value of Minimum value of
lease minimum lease minimum
payments payments payments payments
£m £m £m £m
Payable not later than one year 11 1 1
Total gross payments 11 1 1
Less: finance charges allocated to future periods – –
Present value of finance lease obligations 1 1
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 1 1 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 119
There are no future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 March 2008
(2007: £1 million).
The Group leases a small proportion of its plant and equipment under finance leases, but does not currently have any significant finance
lease arrangements. The average effective borrowing rate for the year ended 31 March 2008 was 8% (2007: 7%). The fair value of the
Group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Group’s finance lease liabilities are secured against the assets to which they relate.
Contingent liabilities
Group companies have given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries (and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal) in the
normal course of business. Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of former
subsidiaries. At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to a liability to the Group
under these performance guarantees.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group has guaranteed certain borrowings by third parties. At 31 March 2008, the maximum
contingent liability to the Group arising from these guarantees was £3 million (2007: £4 million), being the total amount of such
borrowings outstanding at that date.
No member of the Group is engaged in nor (so far as the directors are aware) has pending, or is threatened by, or has against it any
legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group.
31 Reconciliation of cash flows
2008 2007
£m £m
Net cash flows from operating activities 51 161
Capital expenditure included within investing activities (58) (75)
Interest paid 55 92
Exceptional finance costs 18 38
Pension contributions on disposal of operations 55 18
Disposal of continuing operations – (6)
Sale of associates – (3)
Taxation paid (operating) 33 20
Legacy items:
– Pension contributions 47 11
– Taxation paid (legacy) 43
– Other legacy payments 11 10
62 24
Operating cash flow 216 269
Net finance costs (39) (74)
Exceptional finance costs (18) (38)
Facility fees capitalised within prepayments – (15)
Proceeds on sale of financial assets – 10
Sale of associates – 3
Taxation paid (operating) (33) (20)
Legacy items (62) (24)
Free cash flow
1
64 111
Operating cash flow attributable to:
Continuing operations 234 237
Discontinued operations (18) 32
216 269
1
Free cash flow excludes pension contributions made from the proceeds on business disposals. Prior year comparatives have been changed accordingly.
The directors consider that the best measure of the Group’s cash performance is free cash flow as calculated above. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
120 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
32 Analysis of business disposals and business combinations
(i) Business disposals
Disposals in the year ended 31 March 2008 relate to the APV business, the Reversing Valves and Safety businesses from within Controls and
the Burco business within Rail Group. The sale of the Reversing Valves business was completed on 23 November 2007. The sales of APV
and the Safety business were completed on 31 December 2007 and the sale of the Burco business completed on 31 March 2008. All four
businesses are classified as discontinued operations. Disposals in the year ended 31 March 2007 relate to the sale of IBS (Invensys Building
Systems business in the US and Asia Pacific), which was classified as a discontinued operation, together with some small disposals of
continuing operations. The aggregate details of these disposals at the date of disposal were as follows:
Discontinued Total Discontinued Continuing Total
2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 37 37 11 2 13
Intangible assets – goodwill 88 7 1 8
Intangible assets – other 55 2 – 2
Working capital 68 68 14 3 17
Cash and cash equivalents 19 19 2 – 2
Provisions (4) (4) (4) – (4)
Pension liability (3) (3) – – –
Borrowings –– (5) – (5)
Net assets divested 130 130 27 6 33
Directly related costs 12 12 8 – 8
Gain on disposal 170 170 120 – 120
Foreign exchange gain transferred on disposal of operations (1) (1) (1) – (1)
Curtailments credit – IAS 19 (3) (3) – – –
Sale consideration 308 308 154 6 160
Satisfied by:
– cash 308 308 154 6 160
308 308 154 6 160
Net cash flow arising on disposal:
– cash consideration 308 308 154 6 160
– cash costs of disposal (13) (13) (8) – (8)
295 295 146 6 152
– cash and cash equivalents disposed of (19) (19) (2) – (2)
276 276 144 6 150 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 121
(ii) Business combinations
On 1 July 2007 Invensys plc acquired 100% of the share capital of Cimnet, Inc., a Manufacturing Execution System software company
based in Pennsylvania, for a cash consideration of £12 million. The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting. The Consolidated financial statements include the results of Cimnet for the nine month period from the acquisition date.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Cimnet as at the date of acquisition were:
Previous Fair value
carrying recognised
value on acquisition
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Intangible assets – other – 3.2
Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.8
Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1
Trade and other payables (1.1) (1.1)
Net (liabilities)/assets (0.1) 3.1
Goodwill arising on acquisition 8.9
Total acquisition cost 12.0
The total acquisition cost comprised:
– cash paid 11.6
– costs directly attributable to the acquisition 0.4
12.0
Cash outflow on acquisition:
– cash paid (12.0)
– net cash acquired with acquisition 0.1
Net cash outflow (11.9)
Cimnet contributed an operating profit of £0.7 million to the Group for the period from acquisition to 31 March 2008.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations would have increased
to £2,109 million and the operating profit before exceptional items for the Group would have remained at £254 million.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of
Cimnet with those of the Group.
33 Related party transactions
(i) Remuneration of key management personnel
Key management comprises the executive directors. Remuneration is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 3 2
Post-employment benefits – –
Other long-term benefits – –
Termination benefits – –
Share-based payment 2 1
5 3
Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. Post-employment
benefits comprise the cost of pensions and post-retirement benefits.
Full details of individual directors’ remuneration are given in the Remuneration report.
(ii) Other related party transactions
There are no other related parties transactions that have a material effect on the financial position or performance of the Group in the
period (2007: none). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
122 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
34 Events after the balance sheet date
On 7 May 2008, the Group repaid and cancelled Term Loans due in January 2011 of US$190 million and Euro 75 million. The repayment
of the principal amounts, together with accrued interest, was made out of cash balances. On 8 May 2008, the Group cancelled bonding
facilities of £100 million due for expiry in December 2010. There were no early redemption penalties to be made on either of these
transactions.
35 Exchange rates
Year ended Year ended As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2008 2007 2008 2007
Average Average Closing Closing
US$ to £1 2.01 1.89 1.99 1.97
Euro to £1 1.42 1.47 1.26 1.47 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF INVENSYS PLC
We have audited the Parent company financial statements (Company
financial statements) of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008
which comprise the Company balance sheet, Accounting policies and
the related Notes 1 to 13. These Company financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have
also audited the information in the Remuneration report that is
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the
Remuneration report and the Company financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice)
as set out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and
the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company
financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be
audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985 and the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent
with the Company financial statements. We also report to you if, in
our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records,
if we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial
statements. This other information comprises the Chairman’s statement,
the Chief Executive’s statement, Business review, Corporate social
responsibility statement, Board of directors, Corporate governance
statement, unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Statement of
directors’ responsibilities, Financial summary, listing of Principal
subsidiaries as at 31 March 2008 and Shareholder information. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatement or material inconsistencies with the Company
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any
other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to
the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial statements and
the part of the Remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the Company financial statements, and
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the
Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration
report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the Company financial statements and the part of
the Remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2008;
• the Company financial statements and the part of the
Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with
the Company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
London
14 May 2008
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 123 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
124 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Parent company balance sheet
2008 2007
At 31 March Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 3,017 3,017
3,017 3,017
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 4 428 –
Cash and short-term deposits 76
435 6
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
– Other creditors 5 (686) (316)
(686) (316)
Net current liabilities (251) (310)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,766 2,707
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
– Long-term borrowings 6 (6) (327)
(6) (327)
Pension liability 9 (24) (25)
2,736 2,355
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 80 80
Treasury shares 10, 11 (7) –
Share premium account 11 740 740
Capital redemption reserve 11 923 923
Merger reserve 11 927 927
Profit and loss account 11 73 (315)
Shareholders’ funds – equity 2,736 2,355
These accounts were approved by the directors on 14 May 2008 and are signed on their behalf by:
M Jay U C I Henriksson S Hare
Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of accounting
These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention
and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The policies are consistent with the previous year except for
the adoption of the following new or amended standards and
interpretations:
FRS 29 (IFRS 7) Financial Instruments: Disclosures;
Amendment to FRS (FRS) 26 (IAS 39) Financial Instruments:
Measurement – Recognition and Derecognition;
UITF Abstract 44 (IFRIC Interpretation 11) FRS 20 (IFRS 2) – Group
and Treasury Share Transactions;
UITF Abstract 42 (IFRIC Interpretation 9) Reassessment of
Embedded Derivatives; and
UITF Abstract 41 (IFRIC Interpretation 8) Scope of FRS 20 (IFRS 2).
Adoption of these standards and interpretations has not had any
material effect on the financial statements of the Company.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account
for the year.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits
For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement
benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating
profit or loss in the year. The cost of providing benefits under the
defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme
using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. The full
cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service
is also charged to operating profit or loss in the year. The net
surplus or deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported
on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit
and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions
payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable in
the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less
provisions for impairment where a permanent diminution in value
has been identified.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Debt instruments
Borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction of
issue costs. The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised over
the life of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that
have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in
an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the
future, with the following exceptions:
(i) provision is made for tax on gains arising from fair value
adjustments of fixed assets or gains on disposal of fixed assets
that have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the
extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding
agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. However, no
provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence
at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the
taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and
charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold;
(ii) provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on
remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the
balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable;
and
(iii) deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is
considered more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences
can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply
in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax
rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date. Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Share-based payment
The Company operates various equity-settled and cash-settled
share schemes. For equity-settled share options, the services
received from employees are measured by reference to the fair
value of the share options. The fair value is calculated at grant date
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and recognised in the
profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in
shareholders’ equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will
eventually vest. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions,
are not taken into account when estimating the fair value. Market
conditions are those conditions that are linked to the share price
of the Company.
For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated
based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable,
any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting
period based on the number of shares expected to vest. No
expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, with
the exception of awards where vesting is conditional upon a market
condition; these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or
not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other
performance conditions are met.
For cash-settled share awards, the services received from
employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and
recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period. The fair value of the liability is remeasured
at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes
in fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
Treasury shares
Own equity instruments which are reacquired (treasury shares) are
deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own
equity instruments. Treasury shares are purchased and held by the
Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares to
employees under the Group’s various share option and share
award schemes.
Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 125 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
126 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
1 Profit/loss attributable to the Parent company
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Parent company, Invensys plc, is £374 million (2007: £252 million loss). In accordance
with the exemption granted under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account for the Company has
not been presented.
2 Auditors’ remuneration
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the financial statements were £0.1 million (2007: £0.1 million).
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the Parent company financial
statements of Invensys plc because the company’s Group financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
3 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2007 3,020
At 31 March 2008 3,020
Amounts written off
At 1 April 2007 (3)
At 31 March 2008 (3)
Net book value
At 1 April 2007 3,017
At 31 March 2008 3,017
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2008 are disclosed in Invensys plc Consolidated financial statements on page 139.
4 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
2008 2007
£m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 428 –
428 –
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2008 2007
£m £m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 686 315
Accruals and deferred income –1
Other creditors 686 316
6 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2008 2007
£m £m
Bank and other loans 6 327
Long-term borrowings 6 327 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 127
7 Borrowings
(i) Bank and other loans falling due after more than one year
2008 2007
£m £m
Repayable over one but not more than two years 6 327
Total bank and other loans 6 327
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months (long-term borrowings) 6 327
(ii) Loan repayment dates, interest rates and principal terms
Committed
facility Interest
Notes Maturity 2008 rate 2008 2007
£m % £m £m
Other loans
US$ Bonds 2011 1 –– 9.875 – 87
EUR Bonds 2011 1 – – 9.875 – 234
US$ Bonds 2010 2 Jan 2010 6 6.50 66
66 327
Notes
1. These bonds were repaid in full on 17 March 2008.
2. Senior Notes issued in the United States under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. The Company has no right to call these Notes prior to maturity but the Notes have been
covenant defeased.
8 Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosure, for the Parent company accounts. NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
128 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
9 Pensions and post-retirement benefits
(i) Pensions and post-retirement benefits
The Company operates one unfunded defined benefit pension scheme. The last full valuation of the scheme on an IAS 19 basis has been
updated to 31 March 2008, to reflect market conditions and material events in the plan.
The Company also belongs to the Invensys Pension Scheme, which is the principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK employees.
The Invensys Pension Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme. However, the Company is unable to separately identify its share of the
underlying assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit scheme to which it participates on a consistent and reasonable basis and
therefore accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme, in accordance with the provisions of FRS 17. The scheme is
currently in deficit. Details of the deficit are included in Note 25 to the Group financial statements. Pension costs in respect of the
Invensys Pension Scheme represented contributions payable in the year and amounted to £1 million (2007: £1 million). At 31 March
2008, there were no outstanding contributions included in creditors (2007: £nil).
(ii) Unfunded defined benefit scheme
The major assumptions relating to the unfunded scheme are:
2008 2007 2006
% %%
Major assumptions
Rates of increase in salaries 4.95 4.45 4.15
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
1
3.80 3.50 3.35
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 6.10 5.35 4.95
Inflation rate 3.70 3.20 2.90
1
The rate of increase for UK deferred pensions was 3.70% (2007: 3.20%; 2006: 2.90%).
The present value of the unfunded scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date is:
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Present value of liabilities 24 25 24
Pension liability 24 25 24
The movement in the deficit in the unfunded scheme is analysed below:
2008 2007
£m £m
Deficit in scheme at beginning of year 25 24
Current service cost
1
11
Benefit payments (1) (1)
Other finance charges
2
11
Actuarial gain
3
(2) –
Deficit in scheme at end of year 24 25
1
Charged to operating profit.
2
Charged to profit before tax.
3
The actuarial gain of £2 million (2007: £nil), which has been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, is 8% of the present value of the scheme liabilities at
31 March 2008 (2007: nil).
History of amounts recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
The amounts that have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year are set out below:
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Experience losses on scheme liabilities:
– Amount (£m) – 1 – 1 1
– Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) – 4 – 5 5
Contributions – rates for future years
The Company expects to contribute £1 million to its unfunded defined benefit pension scheme in the year to 31 March 2009. Regarding
rates of contributions for future years in respect of the Invensys Pension Scheme, following the triennial valuation of the scheme
(valuation date 30 September 2005) contributions to the scheme will be made at the rate of 16.3% of pensionable salaries up to the
date of the next triennial valuation. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 129
10 Called up share capital and treasury shares
Authorised and issued share capital
The authorised share capital of the Company at 31 March 2008 was 5,600 million ordinary shares of 10p each (2007: 5,600 million ordinary
shares of 10p each) and 3,500 million deferred shares of 24p each (2007: 3,500 million deferred shares of 24p each).
The issued, allotted and fully paid share capital was as follows:
2008 2007
Number of Number of
shares shares
million £m million £m
Ordinary shares of 10p each 797 80 796 80
797 80 796 80
A reconciliation of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company is as follows:
Issued, Issued,
allotted allotted
and fully and fully
Authorised paid Authorised paid
Number of Number of Share Share
shares shares capital capital
million million £m £m
At 1 April 2007 9,100 796 1,400 80
Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each –1 – –
At 31 March 2008 9,100 797 1,400 80
Shares reserved for issue under share options and awards
During the year the Company issued 889,349 ordinary shares of 10p each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys Savings
Related Share Option Scheme and 1998 Long Term Incentive Plan (1998 LTIP).
On 1 June 2007 and 18 June 2007, conditional awards over 85,894 shares were granted under the 1998 LTIP. In addition, on 9 August 2007,
14 November 2007 and 7 March 2008 conditional awards over 4,089,507 shares were granted under the 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan
(2007: nil) and on 9 August 2007 1,608,554 shares were granted under the CEO Special Award (2007: nil).
As at 31 March 2008, outstanding executive share options exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition,
at various dates between 2008 and 2014 and at various prices between 154.59p and 2,601.17p per ordinary share, and at a weighted
average price of 1,186.47p per ordinary share, were 2,774,940 (2007: 3,110,465).
Outstanding options under the Company’s various savings related share option schemes at 31 March 2008, exercisable at various dates
between 2008 and 2010 and at various prices between 130.77p and 2,386.96p per ordinary share, and at a weighted average price of
424.46p per ordinary share, were 133,235 (2007: 1,135,664).
Shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust
The Invensys No. 2 Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) was established on 24 April 2007. At 31 March 2008, the Trust held 1,766,545 10p
ordinary shares in Invensys plc with a market value of £4 million. The Trust purchases shares in the market in order to satisfy obligations
under the various share option and share award schemes operated by the Company. All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this
purpose and are distributed to employees in accordance with the terms of the Company’s schemes. Shares held by the Trust are
accounted for as treasury shares and deducted from equity. The movement in treasury shares during the year ended 31 March 2008
is set out below.
Number
of shares £m
At 1 April 2007 ––
Purchase of shares 2,358,745 9
Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes (592,220) (2)
At 31 March 2008 1,766,545 7 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
130 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
11 Reserves
Share Capital Profit
premium redemption Merger Treasury and loss
account reserve reserve shares account
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2007 740 923 927 – (315)
Share-based payment –– –– 5
Actuarial gain on pension liability –– –– 2
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust –– – (9) 9
Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements –– – 2 (2)
Profit for the financial year –– –– 374
At 31 March 2008 740 923 927 (7) 73
The directors consider that £1,373 million of the profit and loss account of Invensys plc is non-distributable, as it arises from the profit
on transfer of Group companies to other Group companies where there was no qualifying consideration.
12 Commitments and contingencies
Operating leases
The Company has no operating lease obligations.
Contingent liabilities
The company has given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries (and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal) in the normal
course of business. Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of former subsidiaries.
These performance guarantees include guarantees in respect of lease obligations. As at 31 March 2008, provisions in the Group accounts
included £8 million (2007: £9 million) in respect of leases guaranteed by the Company.
At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to a liability to the Company under
performance guarantees.
The Company is not engaged in nor (so far as the directors are aware) has pending, or is threatened by, or has against it any legal or
arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on its financial position. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 131
13 Share-based payment plans
The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding as detailed below:
Plans for senior employees
Executive share options
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme
Grant details
An executive share option scheme under which options have been granted to directors and senior executives at no cost. Options are
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date at a price equal to the average middle market quoted price of the
Company’s shares over the five dealing days which precede the date of grant. Options are satisfied by the issue of new shares or in the
case of awards granted as share appreciation rights, in cash.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: (a) for grants made prior to 25 July 2001, earnings per share (EPS) performance of RPI + 12% over a three-year
period to be applied each year until the earlier of when the condition is met or the measurement period the last financial year of which is
the year preceding that in which the option will lapse; (b) for grants made between 25 July 2001 and 16 June 2002 EPS of RPI + 12% in the
three years after grant or EPS of RPI + 16% in the four years after grant or EPS of RPI + 20% in the five years after grant, failing which the
option will lapse; and (c) for grants made on 17 June 2002 and after, total shareholder return (TSR) performance against a peer group of
the FTSE100 over a performance period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of grant. 40% will be exercisable if the
median position is achieved, rising to 100% if upper quartile position is achieved. Between these two points the option will vest on a
straight-line basis. If the performance condition is not met in full at the first measurement then it will be retested against the fixed base
in years four and five. If the median position is not achieved by the end of the fifth year the option will lapse.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the option will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although options may be
exercisable for a certain period of time in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
The Company does not propose to operate the Scheme, except in the case of recruitment situations, where it may be considered
appropriate. Hence no options were granted during the years ended 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007.
Details of executive share options outstanding under this scheme including the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate
arrangement on 1 June 2004, are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
Number of average Number of average
share exercise share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 702,496 336.41 1,047,182 516.07
Granted during the year – n/a – n/a
Forfeited during the year – n/a 273,994 751.95
Exercised during the year – n/a – n/a
Lapsed during the year 23,351 846.59 70,692 1,405.83
Outstanding at the end of the year 679,145 313.53 702,496 336.41
Exercisable at the end of the year 679,145 313.53 327,983 351.93
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year
Weighted
Weighted average
average remaining
Number of exercise contractual
share options price (p) life (years)
2008
154.59p 535,290 154.59 6.2
579.12p 52,451 579.12 4.7
903.14p to 1,213.72p 91,404 1,091.90 3.6
679,145 313.53 5.7
2007
154.59p 535,290 154.59 7.2
579.12p 52,451 579.12 5.7
903.14p to 1,530.08p 114,755 1,073.58 2.2
702,496 336.41 6.7 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
132 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
13 Share-based payment plans (continued)
Long-term incentives
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Grant details
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms:
(a) a nominal price option award which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal payment (unless the Company determines otherwise);
(b) a conditional share award; or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a notional number of shares). Awards are normally subject to
a three year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period. For awards granted prior to 22 July
2005 the retention period was two years; for awards made on or after 22 July 2005, 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the
performance requirements will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being deferred for one year.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements:
TSR test
TSR ranked against a peer group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee (with no retesting opportunities). TSR must
rank at the median position (when the peer group is ranked in descending order of TSR) in order for 25% of the shares subject to the
award to be available (subject to the retention period), rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved. Between
these positions, the number of shares will be calculated on a straight-line basis. If at least median position is not achieved the whole
award will lapse. The peer groups selected for the relevant awards are as follows:
• awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant; and
• awards granted on or after 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, Schneider,
Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokogawa.
Overall performance test
The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that: (a) for awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 there has been a sustained delivery over
the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group
indebtedness; (b) for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins have been met: (1) achievement of stretching internal
free cash flow targets; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items; and (c) for awards granted on or after 1 June 2006 that two
underpin tests have been met: (1) relating to the successful completion of the 2006 Refinancing and in addition that there has been a
sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee after the completion of the first two years of the
performance period.
Scheme use
Given that no further awards can be granted under the LTIP after July 2008, a new share-based long-term incentive plan, known as the
2007 Long Term Incentive Plan has been established and was approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting. Details of
this new scheme are given below.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are detailed below:
LTIP awards LTIP awards
granted in the granted in the
year ended year ended
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Total number of awards granted – 1,816,416
Weighted average fair value n/a 91.59p
Exercise price n/a n/a
Expected volatility n/a n/a
Weighted average expected award life n/a 3.5 years
Expected dividend yield n/a 0.00%
Risk free interest rate n/a n/a Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 133
Details of relevant LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number of Number of
awards awards
2008 2007
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,749,071 5,530,273
Granted during the year – 1,816,416
Transferred in from other Group companies 733,601 –
Forfeited during the year 399,335 1,329,286
Vested during the year 20,073 –
Lapsed during the year 257,376 268,332
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,805,888 5,749,071
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years (2007: 2.4 years).
Invensys 2007 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (2007 LTIP)
Grant details
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms:
(a) a nominal price option award which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal payment (unless the Company determines otherwise);
(b) a conditional share award: or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a nominal number of shares). Awards are normally subject to
a three year performance period, commencing on the date of award. There is no retention period.
Vesting requirement
Performance requirements: Awards will be subject to two independent performance conditions. For executive directors (a) 50% of an
award will be based on growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital
Goods Index; and (b) 50% of an award will be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s Earnings Per Share. For all other
participants (a) 35% of an award will be based on growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard &
Poor’s Global 1200 Capital Goods Index; and (b) 35% of an award will be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s
Earnings Per Share. There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award. In addition, the Remuneration
Committee retains discretion to ensure that, as a condition for vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group must
be satisfactory.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The 2007 LTIP is used as the Company’s main share-based long term incentive plan under which share awards are granted.
Grants made during the year ended 31 March 2008, the first year during which 2007 LTIP awards were granted, are detailed below:
LTIP awards
granted in the
year ended
31 March 2008
Total number of awards granted 1,616,395
Weighted average fair value 241.43p
Exercise price n/a
Expected volatility n/a
Weighted average expected award life 3.0 years
Expected dividend yield 0.00%
Risk free interest rate n/a
Details of relevant 2007 LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number
of awards
2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year –
Granted during the year 1,616,395
Transferred in from other Group companies 19,423
Forfeited during the year –
Vested during the year –
Lapsed during the year –
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,635,818
The 2007 LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.4 years. NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
134 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
13 Share-based payment plans (continued)
2007 CEO Special Award (Special Award)
Grant details
Approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Special Award is a one-off conditional share award granted to the
Chief Executive equal to 700% of his 2007/08 base salary. The Special Award is subject to a three year performance period. 50% of vested
shares will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being released after a 12 month holding period.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflect those applying to the 2007 LTIP with some
elements being more demanding. The Special Award is split into two layers, each of which vests on a different basis. For the first layer equal
to 200% of base salary, 20% will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance. For the second layer equal to 500%
of base salary, there will be no vesting for threshold performance, but 100% will vest for maximum performance. Vesting in each layer will
be on a straight line basis between these points.
For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP. However, for the
TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile. This has been
calculated by the advisors to the Remuneration Committee as outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital
Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 (i.e. 40%).
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The Special Award is a one-off grant at no cost.
Grants made during the year ended 31 March 2008 are detailed below:
Special Award
granted in the
year ended
31 March 2008
Total number of awards granted 1,608,554
Weighted average fair value 204.22p
Exercise price n/a
Expected volatility n/a
Weighted average expected award life 3.5 years
Expected dividend yield 0.00%
Risk free interest rate n/a
Details of the Special Award outstanding during the year is as follows:
Number
of awards
2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year –
Granted during the year 1,608,554
Forfeited during the year –
Vested during the year –
Lapsed during the year –
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,608,554
The Special Award outstanding at the end of the year has a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.9 years.
Invensys Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Grant details
A restricted share plan whereby awards, to be satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior
employees at no cost.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: awards are not subject to a specific performance condition apart from continued employment throughout the
vesting period.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released
in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 135
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are detailed below:
RSP awards RSP awards
granted in the granted in the
year ended year ended
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Total number of awards granted – 554,116
Weighted average fair value n/a 188.44p
Weighted average exercise price n/a n/a
Expected volatility n/a n/a
Weighted average expected award life n/a 2.6 years
Expected dividend yield n/a 0%
Risk free interest rate n/a n/a
Details of relevant RSP awards (including the restricted share award granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on 1 June
2004) outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number of Number of
awards awards
2008 2007
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 875,290 535,290
Granted during the year – 554,116
Transferred in from other Group companies 297,351 –
Forfeited during the year ––
Vested during the year 214,116 214,116
Lapsed during the year ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 958,525 875,290
The RSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.0 years (2007: 1.4 years).
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan (TBOP)
Grant details
The Company introduced the TBOP in 2005/06 under which executives have the opportunity to receive a supplemental bonus of up to
100% of their base salary in respect of the relevant financial year to be paid in shares upon reaching specified target levels of
performance. The TBOP operates in addition to the existing Executive Bonus Plan (EBP). Any bonuses earned under the TBOP (the
Overlay Bonus) are payable in shares with 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of those shares being
awarded and the other 50% being released following the second anniversary.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: the amount of the Overlay Bonus (which in turn determines the level of the award) is set by reference to the
performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: release of the shares is generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date although shares may be
released early in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
The first grant under the TBOP was made on 1 June 2006. It was originally anticipated that the TBOP would be operated up to and
including the financial year 2007/08. However, as a result of the changes made to the annual incentive arrangements for 2007/08
onwards (as detailed in the Remuneration report), the TBOP ceased to be operated one year early. The final awards under the TBOP
were granted in the year ended 31 March 2008 in respect of the financial year 2006/07.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 are detailed below:
TBOP awards TBOP awards
granted in the granted in the
year ended year ended
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Total number of awards granted 497,140 711,839
Exercise price n/a n/a
Expected volatility n/a n/a
Weighted average expected award life 1.5 years 1.5 years
Expected dividend yield n/a n/a
Risk free interest rate n/a n/a NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
136 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
13 Share-based payment plans (continued)
Details of relevant TBOP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number of Number of
awards awards
2008 2007
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 711,839 –
Granted during the year 497,140 711,839
Transferred in from Group companies 15,833 –
Forfeited during the year ––
Vested during the year 355,917 –
Lapsed during the year ––
Outstanding at the end of the year 868,895 711,839
The TBOP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.5 years (2007: 0.7 years).
All employee schemes
Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Grant details
The Scheme operates in the UK, is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees. Options may be
granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of invitation. The vesting
period for the options is three, five or seven years.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: the Scheme operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore not subject to performance
conditions other than that a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
Service requirements: the general rule is that the option will lapse if the participant leaves employment, although options may be
exercisable for a certain period of time in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The use of the scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis. No options were granted under this Scheme during
the years ended 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007.
Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
Number of average Number of average
share exercise share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,968 130.77 10,558 242.20
Granted during the year – n/a – n/a
Forfeited during the year – n/a 2,295 387.03
Exercised during the year 3,889 130.77 – n/a
Lapsed during the year 2,079 130.77 2,295 387.03
Outstanding at the end of the year – n/a 5,968 130.77
Exercisable at the end of the year – n/a 1,989 130.77
Measurement of fair value
An ‘adjusted market value’ method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions has
been used to calculate the fair value of all awards granted during the year.
Share-based payment expense
The Company recognised total expenses of £5 million (2007: £3 million) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions
during the year. Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 137
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Summary Consolidated income statement
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
(note i) (note i) (note i) (note i) (notes i, ii)
For the year ended 31 March £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,108 1,999 1,919 1,865 3,891
Operating expenses before exceptional items (1,854) (1,783) (1,746) (1,716) (3,674)
Operating profit before exceptional items 254 216 173 149 217
Exceptional items 62 (27) (41) (175) (301)
Goodwill amortisation (UK GAAP) – – – – (53)
Operating profit/(loss) 316 189 132 (26) (137)
Loss on disposal of operations (UK GAAP) – – – – (96)
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains (21) 35 (33) 16 –
Exceptional finance costs (36) (67) – – –
Finance costs (63) (82) (150) (156) (125)
Finance income 18 16 31 19 13
Other finance charges – IAS 19/FRS 17 (15) (10) (5) (15) (23)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 199 81 (25) (162) (368)
Taxation (charge)/credit (30) (20) (10) 13 35
Profit/(loss) after taxation – continuing operations 169 61 (35) (149) (333)
Profit after taxation – discontinued operations 167 148 57 43 –
Profit/(loss) for the year 336 209 22 (106) (333)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 334 207 19 (95) (328)
Minority interests 2 2 3 (11) (5)
336 209 22 (106) (333)
Summary Consolidated balance sheet
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
(notes ii, iii)
As at 31 March £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 282 314 348 434 660
Intangible assets – goodwill 215 206 222 310 478
Intangible assets – other 92 90 81 83 –
589 610 651 827 1,138
Net trading (liabilities)/assets (note iv) (6) (66) (23) 84 156
Net cash/(debt) 73 (166) (752) (802) (986)
Deferred taxation 6 1 (9) (11) (6)
Net pension liability (218) (522) (489) (574) (606)
444 (143) (622) (476) (304)
Net assets held for sale 2 3 29 ––
446 (140) (593) (476) (304)
Equity holders of parent 377 (200) (659) (609) (469)
Minority interests 69 60 66 133 165
446 (140) (593) (476) (304)
Notes
(i) The income statements for 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are presented under IFRS and for 2004 under UK GAAP. Therefore for 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 all income
statement line items from revenue to profit/(loss) after taxation relate to continuing operations and the result from discontinued operations is separately disclosed on the
face of the income statement. For 2004 all line items relate to total Group.
(ii) The nature of the main adjustments that would make 2004 comply with IFRS are as follows:
(a) reclassification of the income statement on a line by line basis for discontinued operations and disclosing the total amount for discontinued operations on the line
entitled ‘Profit after taxation – discontinued operations’ in compliance with IFRS 5;
(b) reversal of goodwill amortisation, and of amounts in respect of recycling of goodwill in reserves related to businesses disposed in the period;
(c) capitalisation of development costs that would be capitalised on the balance sheet under IAS 38 criteria; and
(d) recognition of foreign exchange gains and losses on unhedged net debt (recorded directly in equity under UK GAAP).
(iii) The balance sheet for 2004 is presented under UK GAAP. The nature of the main adjustments that would make this period comply with IFRS are as follows:
(a) capitalisation of development costs that would be capitalised on the balance sheet under IAS 38 criteria;
(b) recognition of finance leases on the balance sheet, previously treated as operating leases under UK GAAP;
(c) recognition of full provision for vacation pay under IAS 19; and
(d) increase in capitalised goodwill due to reversal of goodwill amortisation in the income statement.
(iv) Includes fixed asset investments. 138 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
Summary Consolidated cash flow statement
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
(Note i)
£m £m £m £m £m
Operating profit before exceptional items – continuing 254 216 173 149 n/m
Operating profit before exceptional items – discontinued 14 29 38 35 n/m
Operating profit before exceptional items – total Group 268 245 211 184 217
Depreciation 47 52 57 69 110
Amortisation 19 14 14 13 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (37) (46) (44) (58) (126)
Expenditure on intangible assets – other (21) (26) (22) (18) –
Sale of property, plant and equipment 1 4 2 2 4
Non-cash charge for share-based payment 8 10 8 2 –
Pension cost 38 40 44 48 52
Pension contributions (38) (40) (44) (48) (52)
Working capital movement (38) 37 50 51 (53)
Restructuring, product recall and financing cost cash spend (31) (21) (48) (57) (56)
Operating cash flow – continuing 234 237 187 165 n/m
Operating cash flow – discontinued (18) 32 41 23 n/m
Operating cash flow – total Group 216 269 228 188 96
Net finance costs (39) (74) (110) (113) (119)
Exceptional finance costs (18) (38) –––
Transfer of facility costs (to)/from prepayments – (15) – 2 (25)
Sale of associates – 3 –––
Sale of trade investments – 10 –– 7
Operating taxation paid (33) (20) (18) (36) (24)
Legacy pension contributions (47) (11) (130) (67) (131)
Other legacy payments (15) (13) (29) (98) (311)
Free cash flow
1
64 111 (59) (124) (507)
Dividends paid (1) (3) (4) (14) (2)
Net cash inflow from acquisitions, disposals, fundamental
reorganisation costs and closure costs 264 154 183 350 454
Pension contributions from disposal proceeds (55) (18) (16) (16) –
Share (purchases)/issues (13) 323 –– 448
Amortisation of facility fees within debt (11) (25) (7) (7) –
Currency movement (9) 49 (52) 6 177
Movement in net debt 239 591 45 195 570
Opening net debt (166) (757) (802) (997) (1,556)
Closing net cash/(debt) 73 (166) (757) (802) (986)
Note
(i)The Consolidated cash flow statements for 2004 are presented under UK GAAP. The differences between UK GAAP and IFRS have no net impact on the cash flows generated.
In total, net debt would be adjusted for recognition of finance leases on the balance sheet, previously treated as operating leases under UK GAAP.
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Other key data
Orders – continuing operations
2
(£m) 2,036 2,101 2,069 1,909 3,434
Operating margin
3
– continuing operations (%) 12.0 10.8 9.0 8.0 n/m
Operating margin
3
– total Group (%) 10.6 9.5 7.8 6.3 5.6
Net finance cost cover
4
(times) 5.6 3.3 1.5 1.1 n/m
Earnings/(loss) per share (basic) – continuing operations (p) 21.1 8.2 (5.7) (22.3) n/m
Underlying earnings per share (basic)
5
– continuing operations (p) 17.0 12.6 (0.3) (25.0) n/m
Number of employees at year end – total Group 22,928 27,313 28,434 33,987 39,618
Share price – high (p) 428 305 222 203 337
Share price – low (p) 186 167 93 105 90
Share price – at year end (p) 225 291 215 145 182
Number of ordinary shares in issue at year end (million) 797 796 609 609 609
1
Free cash flow excludes pension contributions made from the proceeds on business disposals. Prior year comparatives have been changed accordingly.
2
Orders have not been restated to be consistent with the income statement.
3
Before exceptional items.
4
Net finance cost cover is measured as the number of times operating profit before exceptional items covers net finance cost.
5
Before exceptional finance costs, foreign exchange gains and losses and PPP settlement credit.
n/m – not meaningful
FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008 139
Principal subsidiary undertakings and their country of incorporation
are shown below. A complete list of all subsidiary undertakings will
be filed with the Company’s annual return.
Holding Companies
Curzon Estates Limited England & Wales
Invensys Australia Corporate Pty Ltd Australia
Invensys Canada Finance Inc Canada
Invensys Deutschland GmbH Germany
Invensys Group Limited England & Wales
Invensys Holdings France SAS France
Invensys Holdings Limited England & Wales
Invensys Iberica SA Spain
Invensys Inc USA
Invensys International Holdings Limited England & Wales
Invensys Luxembourg SARL Luxembourg
Invensys USA Finance Inc USA
Process Systems
Foxboro-Eckardt GmbH Germany
Invensys India Private Limited* India
Invensys Korea Limited Korea
Invensys Middle East FZE United Arab Emirates
Invensys Process Systems Australia
(Australia) Pty Limited
Invensys Process Systems (S) Singapore
Pte Limited
Invensys Systems Argentina Inc USA
Invensys Systems Brasil Ltda Brazil
Invensys Systems Canada Inc Canada
Invensys Systems France SAS France
Invensys Systems Inc USA
Invensys Systems Italia SpA Italy
Invensys Systems Mexico SA Mexico
Invensys Systems N.V. Netherlands
Invensys Systems NV/SA Belgium
Invensys Systems (UK) Limited England & Wales
Shanghai Foxboro Co Limited China
(70% owned)
Eurotherm
Eurotherm Automation SAS France
Eurotherm Deutschland GmbH Germany
Eurotherm Espana SA Spain
Eurotherm Inc USA
Eurotherm India Pvt Ltd India
Eurotherm Korea Limited Korea
Eurotherm Limited England & Wales
Eurotherm Limited Hong Kong
Eurotherm Srl Italy
Rail Group
Dimetronic SA Spain
Safetran Systems Corporation USA
Westinghouse Brake and Signal England & Wales
Holdings Limited
Westinghouse Rail Systems Australia
Australia Pty Limited
Controls
Eberle Controls GmbH Germany
Electronika Slovensko AS Slovak Republic
Eliwell Controls Srl Italy
IMServ Europe Limited England & Wales
Invensys (Qingdao) Controls China
Company Limited
Invensys Appliance Controls Ltda Brazil
Invensys Appliance Controls SA France
Invensys Appliance Controls Sro Czech Republic
Invensys Appliance Controls Canada Inc Canada
Invensys Controls Australia Pty Limited Australia
Invensys Controls UK Limited England & Wales
Invensys Controls Italy Srl Italy
Invensys SAM Monaco
Invensys Weihai Controls Co Limited China
Ranco Japan Limited (71% owned) Japan
Ranco North America Inc USA
Robertshaw Controls Company USA
Siebe Appliance Controls GmbH Germany
All subsidiaries are 100% owned unless stated otherwise.
* Company also contains Controls business.
Invensys, Action Instruments, ArchestrA, ArchestrA logo, Avantis,
Chessell, Dimetronic, Drayton, Eberle, Eliwell, EroElectronic,
Eurotherm, Foxboro, I/A Series, InFusion, IMServ, the IPS logo,
the IRG logo, Oreg, Paragon, Ranco, Robertshaw, Safetran,
SimSci-Esscor, Triconex, Uni-Line, Westinghouse, WESTLOCK and
Wonderware are trademarks of Invensys plc, its subsidiaries or
affiliated companies. All other brands mentioned in this report
may be the trademarks of the respective owners.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES AS AT 31 MARCH 2008 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Ordinary shares
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Registrars
For all enquiries about the registration of your shares and changes
of name and address, please contact the Company’s registrars:
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel: 0871 384 2036 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
Calls are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other
telephony provider costs may vary.
www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti also provide the following services:
• Invensys Corporate Sponsored Nominee
• Shareview service
• Shareview dealing service
Shareview dealing service
Shareholders may buy or sell shares by internet or telephone
through Shareview dealing, a share dealing service provided by
Equiniti. For internet purchase and sales log on to
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing and for telephone purchases and
sales call 08456 037 037 (inside the UK only) between 8.00am and
4.40pm, Monday to Friday.
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which
the Deutsche Bank Trust Company acts as Depositary. Each ADR
represents one ordinary share of the Company. The ADRs trade
on the Over-The-Counter market under the ticker symbol IVNSY.
For enquiries, beneficial ADR holders may contact the dedicated
Invensys plc ADR shareholder services line on +1 888 778 1318 (toll
free for US residents only). Further information is also available at
www.adr.db.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 2007/08 31 March 2008
Results 2007/08 announced 15 May 2008
Annual General Meeting 18 July 2008
Half year results announced 6 November 2008
Results announcements
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
and are available to its news services. Shortly afterwards they are
made available on the Company’s website: www.invensys.com
Financial reports
This annual report and accounts, together with other published
summary documents, is available from the date of publication at
www.invensys.com
Shareholders may elect to receive the annual report and accounts
in hard copy by telephoning the Company’s registrars on [Equiniti
confirming no.]. Alternatively shareholders may elect to receive
notification by email of the publication of financial reports by
registering on www.shareview.co.uk
Copies of previous financial reports are available at
www.invensys.com
Unsolicited mail
The Company is legally obliged to make its share register available
to the general public. Consequently some shareholders may receive
unsolicited mail, including correspondence from unauthorised
investment firms. If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail
you receive please contact: The Mailing Preference Service, DMA House,
70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS. Tel: +44 (0)845 703 4599.
Annual General Meeting and Dividend
Park Plaza Victoria London, 18 July 2008
239 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London SW1V 1EQ
The Annual General Meeting is the Company’s principal forum for
communication with private shareholders. Investors holding shares
in the Company through a nominee service should arrange to be
appointed as a corporate representative or proxy in respect of their
shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
No dividend was paid during the financial year 2007/08.
ShareGift
Shareholders with small holdings of shares who do not wish to sell
because the sale commission applied would be disproportionate to
the sale price may consider donating them to charity. The Orr
Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme.
ShareGift can be contacted at 46 Grosvenor Street, London
W1K 3HN or by telephone on +44 (0)20 7337 0501 or online at
www.sharegift.org
Identity theft
Criminals may steal your personal information putting your
shareholding at risk.
Tips on protecting your shareholding:
• Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your
shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
• Keep all correspondence from the registrars which shows
your shareholder reference number in a safe place, or
destroy correspondence by shredding.
• If you change address inform the registrars. If you receive a
letter from the registrars regarding a change of address and
have not recently moved, please contact them immediately.
You may be the victim of identity theft.
• If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers
registered in your country of residence or the UK.
Forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements, within the
meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995,
which are based on market projections, forecasts and expectations.
Forward-looking statements are by their nature subject to
uncertainties and external factors that may affect the actual
outcomes compared with those anticipated.
Registered office
Invensys plc, Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BF
Telephone +44 (0)20 7834 3848
Facsimile +44 (0)20 7834 3879
Registered in England & Wales number 166023
For the latest investor information and news visit our website at
www.invensys.com
140 Invensys plc Annual report + accounts 2008
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Ordinary shares
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Registrars
For all enquiries about the registration of your shares and changes
of name and address, please contact the Company’s registrars:
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel: 0871 384 2036 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7040 outside the UK
Calls are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other
telephony provider costs may vary.
Electronic communications
Shareholders can also view up to date information about their
shareholding and register to receive future electronic
communications from the Company by visiting the shareholders’
website at www.shareview.co.uk (shareholder reference number,
shown on share certificates and tax vouchers, will be required).
Invensys nominee service
The Company has a nominee service under which shareholders
can hold their shares electronically rather than in certificate form.
Through the service, shareholders can also take advantage of
streamlined dealing arrangements. Details of the service are
contained in the Invensys Corporate Nominee Service brochure
which is available from Equiniti.
Shareview dealing service
Shareholders may buy or sell shares by internet or telephone
through Shareview dealing, a share dealing service provided by
Equiniti. For internet purchases and sales log on to
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing and for telephone purchases and
sales call 08456 037 037 (inside the UK only) between 8.00am and
4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which
the Deutsche Bank Trust Company acts as Depositary. Each ADR
represents one ordinary share of the Company. The ADRs trade
on the Over-The-Counter market under the ticker symbol IVNYY.
For enquiries, beneficial ADR holders may contact the dedicated
Invensys plc ADR shareholder services line on +1 888 778 1318 (toll
free for US residents only). Further information is also available at
www.adr.db.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 2007/08 31 March 2008
Results 2007/08 announced 15 May 2008
Annual General Meeting 18 July 2008
Half year results announced 6 November 2008
Results announcements
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
and are available to its news services. Shortly afterwards they are
made available on www.invensys.com
Financial reports
This Annual report and accounts, together with other published
summary documents and copies of previous financial reports, is
available from the date of publication at www.invensys.com
Shareholders may elect to receive the Annual report and accounts
in hard copy by contacting the Company’s registrars. Alternatively
shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the
publication of financial reports by registering on
www.shareview.co.uk
Annual General Meeting and dividend
The Annual General Meeting is the Company’s principal forum for
communication with private shareholders. Investors holding shares
in the Company through a nominee service should arrange to be
appointed as a corporate representative or proxy in respect of their
shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
The meeting will take place at the Park Plaza Victoria London,
239 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London SW1V 1EQ on 18 July 2008
at 11am.
No dividend was paid during the financial year 2007/08.
ShareGift
Shareholders with small holdings of shares who do not wish to sell
because the sale commission applied would be disproportionate to
the sale price may consider donating them to charity. The Orr
Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme.
ShareGift can be contacted at 46 Grosvenor Street, London
W1K 3HN or by telephone on +44 (0)20 7930 3737 or online at
www.sharegift.org
Identity theft
Criminals may steal your personal information, putting your
shareholding at risk.
Tips on protecting your shareholding:
• Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your
shares electronically in CREST via a nominee
• Keep all correspondence from the registrars which shows
your shareholder reference number in a safe place, or
destroy correspondence by shredding
• If you change address inform the registrars. If you receive a
letter from the registrars regarding a change of address and
have not recently moved, please contact them immediately.
You may be the victim of identity theft
• If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers
registered in your country of residence or the UK
Forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements, within the
meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995,
which are based on market projections, forecasts and expectations.
Forward-looking statements are by their nature subject to
uncertainties and external factors that may affect the actual
outcomes compared with those anticipated.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is legally obliged to make its share register available
to the general public. Consequently some shareholders may receive
unsolicited mail, including correspondence from unauthorised
investment firms. If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail
you receive please contact: The Mailing Preference Service, DMA House,
70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS. Tel: +44 (0)845 703 4599.
Registered office
Invensys plc, Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BF
Tel: +44 (0)20 7834 3848
Fax: +44 (0)20 7834 3879
Registered in England & Wales number 166023
For the latest investor information and news visit our website at
www.invensys.com Invensys plc 
Warning to shareholders
Over the last year many companies have become aware that their 
shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 
concerning investment matters which imply a connection to the company 
concerned. These are typically from overseas-based ‘brokers’ who target UK 
shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or 
high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by 
the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount 
lost by investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor who has 
been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing 
for several years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the 
Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
•  Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and 
make a record of any other information they give you, e.g. telephone 
number, address etc.
•  Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting 
involved. You can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register
 
•  The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas 
firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any 
approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that 
this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can 
be considered. If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be 
eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at 
www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml or, if 
you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234
•  Inform the Company’s registrars on 0871 384 2036. They are not able to 
investigate such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass 
them on to the Company and liaise with the FSA
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be 
included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA 
website at www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk
Photography by Richard Davies
Designed and produced by Invensys plc
Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BF
