 New technologies 
New markets 
New opportunities
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Invensys plc
Portland House 
Bressenden Place 
London SW1E 5BF
www.invensys.com
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 02 Highlights of our Year 
04 Our Divisions 
07 Our Board of Directors
08 Our World
10 Chairman’s Statement
12 Chief Executive’s Statement
Business Review
14 Financial Review
18 Financial Policies
19 Invensys Operations Management
21 Invensys Rail
23 Invensys Controls
24 Corporate Social Responsibility
28 Risks and Uncertainties
31 Corporate Governance
38 Remuneration Report
51 Directors’ Report
54  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in 
Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts
55 Group Financial Statements
126 Parent Company Financial Statements
Other Information 
143 Financial Summary
146 Principal Subsidiaries as at 31 March 2010
147 Shareholder Information
© 2010 Invensys plc. All rights reserved. 
Designed by Further 
furthercreative.co.uk
The cover and text pages 1-56 of this  
report have been printed on Revive 50:50 
Silk which is made from 25% pre consumer 
waste, 25% post consumer waste and 50% 
virgin wood fibre. Text pages 57-148 
have been printed on Revive Pure White 
Uncoated which is made from 100% 
de-inked post consumer waste.
These papers have been independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC). All pulps used 
are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and the 
manufacturing mill is accredited with the 
ISO14001 standard for environmental 
management.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, 
ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral®. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01
New technologies 
New markets 
New opportunities
 “ Across all three divisions and 
almost every industry, we measure 
variables, control processes, and 
enable our customers to optimise 
their operations, thereby 
empowering them to improve  
their performance.”
Ulf Henriksson
Chief Executive
In today’s world there is a major focus upon improving efficiency 
and reducing environmental impact: more energy-efficient 
manufacturing processes; increased capacity on rail transportation 
networks with fewer trains; and appliances that use less energy 
and less water, and are built using fewer raw materials. 
Invensys develops and applies advanced technologies that 
enable the world’s manufacturing and energy generating 
facilities, mainline and mass transit rail networks, and appliances 
to operate safely and efficiently. 
In all three of our divisions, across almost every industry and 
always in a user-friendly way, our products and systems measure 
variables, control processes, empower our customers to make 
the best decisions at the right time, and optimise our customers’ 
operations and business value.
The similarities in our core skillsets and know-how across the 
Group allow us to leverage our deep domain knowledge and 
technical capabilities across our industrial markets in an open 
way that differentiates us from the competition.
• Our operations management technologies are in use in  
over 200,000 plants and around 180 countries, and enable 
the generation of 20% of the world’s electricity, the refining  
of 17% of the world’s crude oil, 36% of the world’s nuclear 
energy generation, and the production of 62% of the world’s 
liquefied natural gas. 
• Our rail signalling technologies are in use by over 100 rail 
and mass transit operators in over 30 countries, enabling 
them to maximise freight and passenger capacity in a safe 
and cost-effective manner. 
• Our appliance control technologies are used by the world’s 
top seven appliance manufacturers enabling them to produce 
more efficient units with innovative user interfaces..
Our vision
Our vision is to become the unquestioned leader in our 
markets by unlocking our potential so that we can in turn 
help our customers to unlock theirs. 
We believe that the key to maximising both our customers’ 
and our own potential lies in an open approach. This belief 
shapes the way we work, our mindset and approach, and  
the solutions, technologies and products we develop with 
our customers. 
We respond to market demands and, as a technology 
company, create new markets and demand.
We are committed to finding new ways to realise value for our 
customers using technology, collaboration, responsiveness, 
and flawless execution.
As an unquestioned leader in providing industries with  
open thinking and open technologies, Invensys provides 
customers with the ability to respond more quickly to an 
ever-changing environment with increased confidence. 02 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Highlights of our Year
 £2,473 m
Orders
1
 were £2,473 million (2009: £2,806 
million), down 12% (down 17% at constant 
exchange rates (CER
2
))
 £2,307 m
Order book at 31 March 2010 was £2,307 
million (2009: £2,083 million), up 11%  
(up 10% at CER)
 £2,243 m
Revenue was £2,243 million (2009: 
£2,284 million), down 2% (down 8% at CER)
 £248 m
Operating profit
3
 was £248 million (2009: 
£244 million), up 2% (down 4% at CER). 
Operating profit after exceptional items was 
£223 million (2009: £178 million), up 25%  
(up 18% at CER)
 1 1 . 1 %
Operating margin
3
 was 11.1% 
(2009: 10.7%) 
18.5p
Basic earnings per share (EPS) were  
18.5p (2009: 17 .4p)
 3.0 p
Recommended final dividend of 2.0p per 
share (2009: 1.5p); total dividends of 3.0p 
per share (2009: 1.5p)
 £265 m
Operating cash flow was £265 million 
(2009: £298 million), down 11%  
(down 16% at CER)
 48.6 %
Return on operating capital
4
 was 48.6% 
(2009: 49.0%)
 £363 m
Net cash and deposits at 31 March 2010 
were £363 million (2009: £309 million) 
 
 1 3.2 %
Energy consumption within our 
manufacturing locations was reduced  
by 13.2% 
 9 .7 %
CO2 emissions within our manufacturing 
locations were reduced by 9.7% 
1
  All numbers are for continuing operations unless otherwise stated. Continuing operations 
are Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls, on which basis 
the Group is managed.
2  
Unless otherwise stated, % change is measured as the change at CER as a percentage of 
the 2009 adjusted base and is calculated based on underlying amounts in £’000s.
3  
Unless otherwise stated, references to operating profit and operating margin are arrived 
at before exceptional items.
4  
Return on operating capital at CER is calculated as operating profit divided by capital 
employed excluding goodwill, net pension liabilities, non-operating provisions and net 
taxation liabilities.
We improved our performance and grew our order book by 
delivering on our gameplan for the downturn. 
Converting operating profit to cash continues to be a strength 
of ours: cash conversion for the year was 107%, with free 
cash flow of £100 million and net cash at 31 March 2010 of 
£363 million. The Group remains debt free. 
During the recent recession our customers showed increased 
confidence in us — in our people, our technologies and our 
execution capabilities.
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 03
Invensys Operations Management
Invensys Operations Management is a leading global 
technology, software and consulting business that creates and 
applies advanced technologies to enable the safe and efficient 
operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil 
refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, petrochemical 
works and other manufacturing sites. 
Invensys Rail
Invensys Rail is a multinational technology leader, providing 
state-of-the-art software-based signalling, communication  
and control systems that enable the safe and efficient 
operation of trains in mainline and mass transit networks 
across the world. 
Invensys Controls
Invensys Controls designs, engineers and manufactures 
products, components, systems and services used in 
appliances, heating, air conditioning/cooling and refrigeration 
products across a wide range of industries in residential and 
commercial markets.
5
  Reduction in order book due to the cancellation of £545 million of orders at Invensys Rail 
following the PPP settlement.
6  
Please see Notes 20 and 21 in the Notes to the Financial Statements for further details.
2007
Orders (£m)
2,101
2,036
2,806
2,473
2008 2009 2010 2007
Revenue (£m)
1,999
2,108
2,284
2,243
2008 2009 2010 2007
Operating proﬁt (£m)
216
254
244
248
2008 2009 2010 2007
Operating margin (%)
10.8
12.0
10.7
11.1
2008 2009 2010
2007
Operating cash ﬂow (£m)
251
258
298
265
2008 2009 2010
2007
Order book (£m)
2,058
1,294
2,083
2,307
 2008
5
2009 2010
Revenue by division
 I nvensys Operations 
 Management 45%
 I nvensys Rail 31%
 I nvensys Controls 24%
2007
Cash conversion (%)
110
102
122
107
2008 2009 2010
2007
(166) 
73
309 
363
2008 2009 2010
Net cash/(debt)
6
 (£m)
2007
Basic EPS (p)
8.2
21.1
17.4
18.5
2008 2009 2010 2007
Employees (numbers)
22,817 22,928
20,529
20,044
2008 2009 2010 04 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Our Divisions
Invensys Operations Management
Invensys Operations Management is a leading global 
technology, software and consulting business that creates and 
applies advanced technologies to enable the safe and efficient 
operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil 
refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, petrochemical 
works and other manufacturing sites. 
Invensys Operations Management is the product of the ongoing 
integration of several related businesses into a single division. 
During the past 100 years, our businesses have grown a large 
and global installed base. 
Our customers are principally large global industrial companies 
with complex processes and activities. 
In a user-friendly way and in real time, our products and solutions 
measure variables, control processes to maintain a set value, 
empower our customers to make the best decisions at the right 
time, and optimise our customers’ operations. At the same 
time we maintain our absolute commitment to safety. 
Our products and solutions can be broadly divided into the 
following categories:
Equipment
Invensys Operations Management sells a broad range of 
equipment used in industrial plants, including measurement 
and instrumentation products from our leading Foxboro® 
brand and our Eurotherm® recorders and controllers.
Control and safety
We have a top three position in the world’s installed base of 
distributed control systems (DCS) based on the strength of  
our core Foxboro® product brand. Our Triconex® system is the 
world’s leading safety system and is used extensively in nuclear 
power stations, petrochemical plants and oil refineries. The 
Triconex system will automatically take over the plant in the 
event of a problem and bring it back quickly to a safe state.
Advanced applications 
We have an advanced applications business which enables the 
safe and efficient operation of sophisticated manufacturing and 
infrastructure operations. This business uses industry-leading 
software technology and engineering solutions to help our 
customers to improve their performance. Our SimSci-Esscor™ 
simulation software allows existing and new operators to 
practice dealing with different scenarios without affecting the 
plant, and our Avantis® asset management software monitors 
equipment in a plant to enable predictive maintenance and 
replacement to prevent unexpected downtime. A key factor 
of many of our advanced applications is that they can operate 
within plants that use our competitors’ core systems.
Enterprise Control System
We are combining all our technologies into a single Enterprise 
Control System (ECS). This industry-first system integrates 
all aspects of plant operations, spanning distributed control, 
safety, decision support, execution and visibility, in much the 
same way that Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) platforms 
have done for back office systems. Our InFusion™ ECS, based 
on our world-leading Wonderware® operations management 
software, leverages an open architecture to seamlessly integrate 
the Invensys Operations Management portfolio, as well as third- 
party offerings provided by our vast ecosystem of partners.
How do we generate revenue?
Our revenue can be broken down as follows: 65% base control 
and safety; 18% advanced applications; and 17% equipment. 
Our Enterprise Control System offering is embedded within 
both our control and safety and advanced applications sales.
What is our strategy?
Invensys Operations Management’s strategy is to expand its 
customer base, to broaden the geographic profile of the division 
by focussing on high-growth economies, and to focus on 
high-margin and faster-growing segments of the market such 
as advanced applications and our Enterprise Control System. 
The development of world-class technology and, increasingly, 
the provision of broader system-wide solutions based on our 
open architecture platform remain core to our strategy.
Our ecosystem of technology and distribution partners 
increases our ability to develop, scale and deliver value-adding 
technology to our customers.
Support existing customers
Continuing to ensure that our existing customers receive 
outstanding service and solutions will be an important source 
of future revenue. There will be significant opportunities to 
replace or upgrade controls and safety systems, and to provide 
advanced applications and Enterprise Control System solutions.
Expand geographically
57% of Invensys Operations Management’s revenue is sourced 
from Western Europe and North America. Invensys Operations 
Management is targeting a greater proportion of revenue from 
the faster-growing economies of Asia Pacific, the Middle East 
and South America. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05
Our core strengths lie in the breadth and sophistication of  
our technology and our record for commissioning and delivery 
of projects.
How do we generate revenue?
Rail control is a specialist market within the rail product 
business as a whole and is a higher-margin segment compared 
with rolling stock and infrastructure. In the majority of cases, 
the business is project-based and involves long-term contracts 
spread over a number of years. In 2010, the division generated 
revenue of £700 million. Invensys Rail’s revenue can be broken 
down as follows: 51% mainline engineering and contracting; 
29% mass transit engineering and contracting; and 20% 
products. 
What is our strategy?
Invensys Rail has established a leadership position through 
sustained investment in the research and development of 
state-of-the-art technology solutions and a commitment to the 
highest standards of project execution. This dual approach 
remains at the heart of our strategy. At the same time we will 
seek to increase our exposure outside of our core markets.
Expand geographically
Our four core markets of the UK, Iberia, North America and 
Australia account for 90% of the division’s revenue. Over the 
coming years we expect to grow or maintain market share 
within our core markets and, central to our strategy, to increase 
significantly the contribution from other, faster-growing 
markets. Attractive growth markets include high population 
countries such as Brazil and India. 44% of our order book at  
31 March 2010 related to projects outside our core markets.
Technology development
Increasingly, the success of Invensys Rail will be judged on the 
operational value we provide to our customers by managing 
the entire rail system — driving up capacity and reducing 
journey times, energy usage and operational costs, while 
maintaining an absolute commitment to safety. We continue to 
invest in state-of-the-art technology and spent approximately 
7% of the division’s revenue on research and development 
during the year.
Realise synergies within Invensys
We will continue to leverage Invensys Operations Management’s 
technology. Examples to date include asset management 
for trains and track, and the use of Wonderware technology for 
control room displays and passenger information systems. 
Our systems are in use on networks including the London 
Underground and the Beijing Metro.
 
Acquisitions
In the last three years, Invensys Rail has acquired one technology 
company and will continue to make bolt-on acquisitions that 
deliver unique technologies and/or improved market access.
Increase customer base
A key strategy is to secure new greenfield contracts that 
expand our installed base and provide opportunities to sell 
additional solutions. Currently 70% of Invensys Operations 
Management sales derive from the oil and gas, petrochemicals, 
speciality chemicals, power, and general industries sectors. 
Our aim is to expand the reach of the division into a broader 
range of industries.
Realise synergies within Invensys
It is a strategic aim of the Group to capitalise on the 
technologies within Invensys Operations Management  
to broaden our rail capability further. As an example, our 
Wonderware technology is increasingly being deployed in 
passenger information systems and other non-safety critical 
systems for rail networks.
Acquisitions
In the last three years, Invensys Operations Management has 
acquired three technology companies. We will continue to 
make bolt-on acquisitions to deliver unique technologies that 
increase the breadth of our offerings, particularly in the area  
of advanced applications and applications supporting our 
Enterprise Control System.
Invensys Rail
Invensys Rail is a multinational technology leader, providing 
state-of-the-art software-based signalling, communication and 
control systems that enable the safe and efficient operation of 
trains in mainline and mass transit networks across the world. 
During the past 100 years, our businesses have grown a large 
installed base in over 30 countries. 
Our systems and solutions enable our customers to control  
rail networks safely, increasing capacity at the same time as 
lowering their cost of ownership. Our customers include train 
operators, civil developers, infrastructure owners and  
national railways.
We operate in a highly regional rail industry, where different 
geographies frequently have their own operational and 
signalling requirements. Within our core markets of the UK, 
Iberia, North America and Australia we are the major supplier 
of rail signalling systems. In recent years, we have successfully 
expanded our business into new markets including South 
America and Asia Pacific. 
Our broad systems offering ranges from highly complex 
integrated control centres that supervise and control complete 
railways, to leading-edge systems for Communication Based 
Train Control (CBTC) and European Rail Traffic Management 
System (ERTMS) that automate train operation and protection, 
to the latest generation interlockings that ensure safe running 
across a network. We also provide a complete range of 
trackside products, including crossings, point machines, 
relays and track circuits.  06 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Our Divisions continued
Invensys Controls
Invensys Controls is a leading global provider of control 
devices for products in residential homes and commercial 
applications, with strong positions in the markets it serves. 
Invensys Controls has been providing customers with leading 
technology and engineering since the early 1900s.
Our products measure variables including temperature and 
pressure, and control the operation and optimisation of the 
performance of our customers’ appliances, and thereby 
empower our customers to impress consumers.
Invensys Controls’ customers are principally comprised of 
global residential and commercial appliance manufacturers, 
but also include wholesalers and distributors of HVACR 
controls and services.
Appliance
We design, engineer and manufacture components and 
systems that control the operation of kitchen and other 
appliances including cooking, refrigeration, laundry and 
dishwashing in both the commercial and residential sectors.
We help our customers to delight consumers by enhancing 
the features of their appliances while also exceeding the 
energy-saving standards set by the regulating agencies and 
reducing the raw material content of their products. 
Commercial
We develop products used in commercial refrigeration, cooking, 
heating, ventilation, air conditioning, water heating and 
transportation. We are a leading designer and manufacturer 
of products that control and sense temperature and humidity 
in residential and light commercial applications.
Aftermarket
In the aftermarket segment, we distribute a vast array of 
residential products and replacement products for OEM 
equipment, encompassing thermostats, valves, zone controls, 
timers, electronic components and ambient controls that 
improve air quality.
Our close relationship with our customers ensures that we are 
able to apply our leading technologies to meet the exacting 
standards of today’s consumers.
How do we generate revenue?
Invensys Controls’ revenue is generated from sales of 
components and aftermarket replacements. We supply the 
mid- to high-end of the home appliance market, ensuring  
that our innovation and engineering deliver solutions for our 
customers. We have successfully restructured our cost base  
to become more efficient, which will provide operational 
gearing as the global economy recovers.
What is our strategy?
Invensys Controls has established a world leadership position 
through sustained product engineering investment and a 
commitment to the highest standards of delivery performance 
and quality.
Our focus on excellent customer relationships, innovative 
products and delivery performance will enable us to avoid 
product commoditisation and will further deepen our 
relationships with our customers going forward. 
Support existing customers
Invensys Controls’ principal customers operate in the 
competitive global appliance market. We help these customers 
to maintain competitive advantage in the delivery of market-
leading appliances.
Expand geographically
20% of Invensys Controls’ revenue is generated in Asia Pacific, 
South America, Africa and the Middle East. These regions 
are set to continue to experience above-average GDP growth, 
which is expected to drive increased demand for more 
sophisticated appliances. These fast-growing geographies  
will be a focus for Invensys Controls. To help meet expected 
demand, we have established four manufacturing sites in 
South America and a further three in Asia Pacific.
Broaden addressable market
Invensys Controls plans to expand its addressable market by 
continuing to provide a cutting-edge product range. Working 
closely with our customers, we seek to deliver solutions and 
devices tailored to address specific needs. Our successful 
restructuring and productivity programme has enabled us to 
price competitively by creating scale, increasing our efficiency  
and lowering cost. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07
Our Board of Directors
advising on mergers and acquisitions and other activities. 
He retired as a non-executive director of RPC Group plc in 
June 2009.
Paul Lester CBE (aged 60)
Non-executive director
Member of Remuneration Committee
Appointed a non-executive director on 1 January 2010. 
Mr Lester has been Chief Executive of VT Group plc, the 
support services company, since 2002. He was previously 
Group Managing Director of Balfour Beatty plc and Chief 
Executive of Graseby plc. He is a non-executive director  
of Chloride Group plc and is President of the Society of  
Maritime Industries. He is also a member of HM Treasury’s 
Major Projects Review Group.
Michael Parker CBE MBA BSc (aged 63)
Senior Independent Director
Member of Audit Committee 
Member of Nominating Committee 
Member of Remuneration Committee
Appointed a non-executive director in May 2006 and became 
the Senior Independent Director in December 2006. Mr Parker 
was Group Chief Executive of British Nuclear Fuels Limited 
(BNFL) from 2003 until his retirement in June 2009. He was 
President and Chief Executive Officer of The Dow Chemical 
Company. Mr Parker is a non-executive director of PV Crystalox 
Solar plc. He is also Chairman of Liverpool’s economic 
development regeneration company, Liverpool Vision, and 
trustee of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Dr Martin Read MA D.Phil FIET (aged 60)
Non-executive director
Chairman of Remuneration Committee  
Member of Nominating Committee 
Appointed a non-executive director on 18 July 2009 and 
is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Dr Read was 
formerly Chief Executive of LogicaCMG plc. He is a non-
executive director of Aegis Group plc and Lloyds of London, 
and senior adviser to the Indian company HCL Technologies 
Limited. He led a UK Government Review on back office and 
IT efficiency across the public sector which reported in 2009. 
Dr Read has previously been on the boards of British Airways Plc, 
Siemens Holdings Plc, Boots Group PLC and Asda Group plc. 
 
Pat Zito (aged 61)
Non-executive director
Member of Audit Committee  
Member of Nominating Committee
Appointed a non-executive director in May 2007. Mr Zito held 
senior executive roles within Pilkington plc and subsequently 
Nippon Sheet Glass Company for 33 years. Before retirement  
Mr Zito held the role of President, Worldwide Automotive 
Original Equipment and Aftermarket operations of Pilkington 
and Nippon Sheet Glass Company. He was previously a director 
on the board of Pilkington plc and subsequently Nippon Sheet 
Glass Company. 
Details of the current directors are set out below.
Sir Nigel Rudd DL (aged 63)
Chairman
Chairman of Nominating Committee  
Member of Remuneration Committee
Appointed a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman in 
January 2009 and became Chairman on 17 July 2009. Sir Nigel 
is Chairman of BAA Limited and Pendragon PLC. He is also a 
non-executive director of Sappi Limited and chairs the advisory 
board of Barclays Private Bank. He was formerly Chairman of 
Alliance Boots plc, Pilkington plc, Williams Holdings plc and 
Kidde plc. Sir Nigel retired as Deputy Chairman of Barclays 
Bank PLC in April 2009 and as a non-executive director of  
BAE Systems plc in December 2009. He is a Deputy Lieutenant 
of Derbyshire and a Freeman of the City of London.
Ulf Henriksson MSc BA Econ (aged 47)
Chief Executive
Member of Nominating Committee
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2005. Mr Henriksson joined 
Invensys plc as Chief Operating Officer in May 2004 and was 
appointed to the Board in July 2004. He was appointed a non- 
executive director at Hexagon AB in May 2007. Formerly an 
executive and senior leader for Eaton Corporation, Honeywell 
International Inc/Allied Signal Inc and Volvo Aero Corporation.
Wayne Edmunds MBA (aged 54)
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed a director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 
2009. Mr Edmunds was CFO of Invensys Process Systems, 
having joined the Group from Reuters America, Inc. He 
previously held senior financial roles in the technology  
sector, including 17 years with Lucent Technologies, Inc.
Francesco Caio MBA MSc (aged 52)
Non-executive director
Member of Audit Committee  
Member of Remuneration Committee
Appointed a non-executive director on 18 July 2009. Mr Caio 
was formerly Chief Executive of Merloni Eldo S.p.A. and 
Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless plc. He is Vice Chairman  
of Investment Banking Europe with Nomura and is a member 
of the European Advisory Board of Air Products. He also 
acts as an adviser to the Italian and British governments on 
telecommunication matters.
Bay Green FCA (aged 66)
Non-executive director
Chairman of Audit Committee  
Member of Nominating Committee
Appointed a non-executive director in January 2005 and 
became the Chairman of the Audit Committee in December 
2006. Mr Green is a non-executive director of Axis-Shield plc, 
where he serves as Chairman of the audit committee, and is a 
trustee of Help the Hospices. He is also a specialist adviser to 
the Wholesale and Institutional Markets Business Unit of the 
Financial Services Authority. Mr Green retired as Vice Chairman 
of Dresdner Kleinwort in July 2009, where he specialised in  08 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Our World
North America
 £665 m
£665 million of revenue
1
. 7,703 employees
2
South America
 £1 34 m
£134 million of revenue. 2,177 employees
United Kingdom
 £320 m
£320 million of revenue. 2,963 employees
ADIF
Almor
Amcor PET
Anton Paar
Arçelik
Beam Global Spirits & Wine
BEKUM
BP
BSS Group
BT
Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Canadian National Railways
Candy
Chevron
China Ministry of Railways
City of Bremen
Codelco
ConocoPhillips
CPTM 
CSX Transportation 
Criotec
Daifuku Co.
Davis-Standard
Dynisco
Echelon Corporation
ECM Technologies
EDF Energy
Elbe Tunnel
Eliwell Iberica
ENI
ExxonMobil
Fisher & Paykel
Frigoglass
Gazprom
GIS Calorex
Global Water Management
H&V Controls
Haier
Hawaiian Commercial 
& Sugar Company
Home Retail Group
ISA
Johnstone Supply
KiwiRail
Lancer Getinge
Land Transport Authority
Logica
London Underground
Luminant
Madrid Metro
Meteng Pty
Metrolink
MOKON
MTR Corporation
Nabertherm
Nanjing Rail
National Security Technologies
Nespresso
Network Rail
New Belgium Brewing 
Company
Norfolk Southern Railway 
Company 
NSG Group
Nucor Steel
Ontario Clean Water Agency
Orange
PATH
PDVSA
Pemex
Pepsi Bottling Ventures
Pernod
Petrobras
Portland General Electric
Puerto Rico Water & 
Sewage Authority
Qatar Petroleum
Queensland Rail
R&D Carbon 
Reliance
RENFE
Samsung
Saudi Aramco
Scottish & Southern Energy
Shell
Spokane Water Department
Sub-Zero Wolf
The Body Shop
The Venetian and Palazzo 
Resort Hotels & Casino 
Las Vegas NV
Travis Perkins
Union Pacific Railroad
Vacuum Furnace Engineering
Valero
Watkins Manufacturing
WestNet Rail
Whirlpool
Wolseley
Yamatake
Yellow River Conservancy 
Commission
Some of our customers 
1 
Revenue by destination
2 
Employee numbers are as at year end Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09
Invensys brings advanced technologies to a 
global customer base: Invensys® solutions are 
used in around 180 countries worldwide, with 
offices in more than 50 countries.
Africa/Middle East
 £1 38 m
£138 million of revenue. 654 employees
Asia Pacific
 £356 m
£356 million of revenue. 3,029 employees
Rest of Europe
 £630 m
£630 million of revenue. 3,518 employees
Revenue Employees
Rail transportation 31%
Consumer cyclical 21%
Oil and gas 12%
General industries 12%
Utilities and power 6%
Discrete manufacturing 6%
Petrochemicals 4%
Basic materials 2%
Pharmaceuticals 2%
Other 4%
By sector
UK 14%
Rest of Europe 28%
North America 30%
South America 6%
Asia Paciﬁc 16%
Africa/Middle East 6%
By geography
UK 15%
Rest of Europe 18%
North America 38%
South America 11%
Asia Paciﬁc 15%
Africa/Middle East 3%
By geography 10 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman’s Statement 
Dear shareholder
In my first statement to you since my appointment as Chairman 
on 17 July 2009, I am pleased to report that Invensys has 
continued to make progress during the most difficult economic 
conditions in decades. Despite the recession, we improved 
our operating performance, further strengthened our financial 
position and have continued to invest significantly in research 
and development, restructuring, and sales and marketing so 
that our divisions are well prepared for the recovery. It is a credit 
to Ulf Henriksson and his management team that Invensys has 
managed to bridge the recession and is now in a very strong 
position to benefit as we begin to see economic recovery in 
some regions and industries. 
I have had the opportunity to visit many of our facilities around 
the world and meet many of our people. I have also, along with 
the rest of the Board, reviewed our three-year strategic plan 
for the Group and the divisions and our corporate governance 
procedures. I am pleased to confirm that Invensys has the 
highest standards of governance, backed up by our recently 
revised Code of Conduct, and we have the right plans in place 
to continue along our path of growth.
As the world emerges from recession, considerable emphasis 
is going to be placed upon efficient use of resources, especially 
energy and water, and on safe, environmentally friendly 
transportation of both people and freight. Each of our three 
divisions is able to make a significant contribution in these areas, 
and I am confident that Invensys will be a leader in its markets. 
 “ As the world emerges from 
recession, considerable 
emphasis is going to be 
placed upon efficient use of 
resources, especially energy 
and water, and on safe, 
environmentally friendly 
transportation of both 
people and freight.”
Sir Nigel Rudd
Chairman Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
The Board
There have been several changes to the Board during the 
past year, with the appointment of three non-executive directors 
with significant experience of running major international 
companies, particularly in the technology sector. 
Francesco Caio and Dr Martin Read joined the Board as 
non-executive directors on 18 July 2009. Francesco was 
formerly Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless and Martin 
was formerly Chief Executive of LogicaCMG. Paul Lester, 
Chief Executive of VT Group, was appointed to the Board 
on 1 January 2010. These three new directors, together with 
Bay Green, Michael Parker and Pat Zito, give us the breadth 
of talent to support the executive team in their efforts.
Our new Chief Financial Officer, Wayne Edmunds, joined  
the Board on 1 June 2009. He also comes from a technology 
background, having spent 17 years with Lucent Technologies.
I would like to thank the two directors who retired at last year’s 
Annual General Meeting for their contribution to Invensys over 
several years: my predecessor as Chairman, Martin Jay and 
Jean-Claude Guez, formerly Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Dividend
After the payment last year of a dividend to shareholders for 
the first time since 2003, the Board has decided to continue 
with its progressive dividend policy for the year, reflecting 
the Board’s confidence in the future of the Group. 
Following the payment of an interim dividend of 1.0 pence 
per share, the Board has recommended the payment of a 
final cash dividend for the year of 2.0 pence per share which, 
subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting on 28 July 2010, will be paid on 6 August 2010 to 
shareholders on the register at 25 June 2010. 
This brings the total dividends payable in respect of the 
year ended 31 March 2010 to 3.0 pence per share, twice 
the payment of 1.5 pence per share in respect of last year.
Outlook
Looking forward, we are positive about the outlook based 
upon our large order book and our current view of economic 
conditions. We expect the Group to continue to deliver 
improved performance in the current year, with the phasing 
of profit similar to last year.
At Invensys Operations Management, we expect revenue 
growth due to our large order book in combination with the 
anticipated market improvements later in the year. 
At Invensys Rail, we expect continued revenue growth due to 
our large order book. However, margins are likely to be slightly 
lower due to an increased proportion of revenue coming from 
large contracts in the early stages of execution. 
At Invensys Controls, we expect the market to recover, especially 
in North America, and as volumes increase we expect margins 
to improve. 
Corporate costs will increase by £8 million as we invest for the 
next phase of the Group’s development, particularly in our 
capabilities to execute bolt-on acquisitions and in 
business development.
We anticipate that exceptional restructuring charges in the 
current year will be around 1.5% of Group revenue.
Sir Nigel Rudd
Chairman 12 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Statement
We improved our performance and grew our order book, and  
at the same time increased our investment in the Group in spite 
of the worst economic climate in decades. We have established 
a strong foundation and this makes us confident for the future. 
I am particularly pleased with our ongoing success in winning 
new large contracts in emerging markets, which will underpin 
our future growth. Around 40% of our order book at the year 
end was represented by emerging markets.
Our success was based upon being prepared for an economic 
downturn and being agile in responding to it. 
We disposed of and reduced our exposure to those businesses 
and markets that we felt were likely to be most affected by a 
recession, such as our commercial building systems and the 
low-end appliance market. 
• We invested in research and development to produce 
software, products and solutions that created a clear point  
of differentiation from the competition, with an emphasis  
on helping our customers to improve their performance. 
• We worked with our customers for our mutual benefit to 
manage the potential impact of the volatility and 
unpredictability of commodity prices. 
• We tailored our capital investment and restructuring to 
maximise our productivity gains in preparation for the 
recession. 
Our success is also a consequence of the business model that 
we have had in place for the Group since 2005. This has given 
us a Group that is better able to perform across the economic 
cycle and which maximises value through: 
• Leveraging our global diversity — we deliver products and 
services to around 180 countries. 
• Leveraging our industrial range — we sell to all industries 
except finance and insurance. 
• Unlocking our people’s ability to make it happen. 
Together these actions created the foundation that enabled  
us to bridge the recession.
Strategy
The demand for our products and services is driven by the need 
for productivity as a result of: economic growth, urbanisation 
and population growth; the need to reduce waste and to 
increase efficiency; and the desire to respond quickly to an 
environment that is changing faster than ever.
Our strategy has remained broadly unchanged for five years, 
though we are agile in changing the way that we implement it 
to adapt to market conditions. As a Group, we have based our 
strategy upon five principles:
1. Being a thought leader when we have a seat at the table 
where customers make decisions by giving them a different 
point of view and solutions to enable their success. 
 “ When each of us has an 
open mind, and is personally 
responsible and committed, 
we become a better company 
and each employee becomes 
even more competitive.”
Ulf Henriksson
Chief Executive Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
2. Being a technology leader through the development of 
industry-leading technologies for our customers that enable 
them to improve their businesses and operations with 
excellence in service, engineering and delivery.
3. Being focussed on achieving higher margins by targeting 
faster-growing countries and market segments with a high 
return on operating capital employed. These include countries 
like China, India and Brazil and industries like nuclear power 
generation, rail infrastructure expansion in emerging markets, 
and mid- and high-end appliances.
4. Being global, diverse, open and agile in our approach, 
thinking and abilities so that we unlock the potential of  
our people, our large installed base, our technology, our 
long-term customer relationships and our customers’ need 
for global support.
5. Being a value-driven company by living the Invensys Values.
Each of our divisions applies these principles to its own strategy.
All this is supported by making bolt-on acquisitions that deliver 
new technologies or market access and by leveraging our 
global capabilities of research and development, global supply 
chain, continuous improvement, legal, human resources and 
finance across our divisions.
Performance
Our divisions
At Invensys Operations Management, we have made progress 
in executing our strategy to help our customers to be more 
efficient and empowered. Throughout the world, we are winning 
large and complex oil and gas and power projects. In May 2010, 
we were awarded a contract for the control and safety solutions 
for two further nuclear reactors in China following the contract 
for four reactors in December 2008. Although we continued to 
experience a decline in demand, particularly in North America 
and Europe, the order pipeline of prospects is growing. 
Operating margins returned to double digits in the second half.
At Invensys Rail, we have made progress in executing our 
strategy to help customers increase capacity at the same time 
as lowering their cost of ownership. We continue to improve our 
market position in core regional markets and are expanding into 
new targeted regional markets — for example in the resignalling 
of three metro lines in São Paulo — due to our technology and 
execution capabilities. The pipeline of order prospects is large 
and I am looking forward to continued success as a leading 
technology provider for the rail and transportation industry.
At Invensys Controls, we have executed our strategy well. 
Despite a reduction in revenue, profitability has improved due 
to new product launches, restructuring and investment. We are 
seeing signs that the overall consumer market is beginning to 
recover, especially in the United States, and the operational 
gearing within the business will further help performance as 
volumes recover.
The Group 
We also had another good financial performance with 
operating cash conversion of 107%. Our balance sheet remains 
strong, which is reflected in the investment grade rating from 
Standard & Poor’s.
Looking forward, we are positive about the outlook based 
upon our large order book and our current view of economic 
conditions. We expect the Group to continue to deliver improved 
performance in the current year, with the phasing of profit 
similar to last year.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of economic 
success, environmental stewardship, diversity and social 
responsibility. 
We believe that by acting as a responsible global corporate 
citizen, we will not only minimise business risk but also enhance 
our reputation as a business partner. 
Our CSR report, which starts on page 24, contains detailed 
descriptions of our achievements. We have also published our 
second Sustainability Report, which is available for download 
from our website. 
Our people
I am delighted with the commitment and excited by the 
capabilities of our people. The recession has made us stronger 
and has tested our ability to make things happen with limited 
resources and support. To put it another way, our people do 
what they say they will do.
Many customers speak with me about our people in the 
context of lifelong relationships through good and bad times 
but with a shared commitment to success. 
When each of us has an open mind, and is personally responsible 
and committed, we become a better company and each 
employee becomes even more competitive. I stand for giving 
every employee opportunities to become even more capable, so 
that they have more freedom to choose the life they want to have.
The Invensys Values and our focus on our customers bring us 
together and create a framework for success. I believe that our 
people and our culture are our strengths.
Ulf Henriksson
Chief Executive 14 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Introduction and summary
Invensys has made continued progress on a number of key 
operational and financial priorities set out at the start of  
the year.
In response to market conditions we implemented a number of 
restructuring programmes in Invensys Operations Management 
and Invensys Controls to improve the efficiency of the cost base 
and to reposition resources to respond better to global market 
opportunities. These actions benefitted the profit performance 
of Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Controls in 
the second half of the year. We are confident that this investment 
will continue to benefit us significantly in upcoming years.
We maintained good cash and cost management discipline 
and continued to strengthen our financial position despite 
difficult market conditions. Our achievements in this financial 
year include:
• Cash conversion of 107%, free cash flow of £100 million and 
net cash at 31 March 2010 of £363 million. The Group remains 
debt free.
• We invested in new product development by increasing 
our investment in research and development spend to 
£130 million, representing 6% of Group revenue.
• We also invested in new sales capabilities, particularly in 
emerging markets, to drive future growth.
• We earned an investment grade rating from the Standard  
& Poor’s credit rating agency. 
• We continue to manage our UK Main Pension Scheme 
in a way that minimises the level of volatility within it. The 
conservative investment policy of the Scheme has helped 
it to cope well with significant movements in the financial 
markets, and the updated valuation does not have any impact 
on the expected cash flows under the agreed funding plan.
• Our cash flow and balance sheet strength allowed us to raise 
the total dividends for the year from 1.5 pence per share last 
year to 3.0 pence per share.
• We grew our order book overall and were particularly 
pleased with our success in winning large infrastructure 
projects in emerging markets: 40% of the Group order book 
is now made up of orders from emerging markets.
A detailed look at our financial performance for the year and 
financial position at the year end is set out in the sections  
that follow.
Financial Review
 “ I am pleased to report solid 
results for the year despite 
difficult global economic 
conditions.”
Wayne Edmunds
Chief Financial Officer Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15
Review of performance during the year
Year ended 31 March      % change % total 
All data relates to continuing operations (other than free cash flow)   2010  2009  at CER
1
  change 
Orders (£m)    2,473 2,806 (17%) (12%)
Revenue (£m)    2,243 2,284 (8%) (2%)
Operating profit
2
 (£m)    248 244 (4%) 2%
Operating margin
2
 (%)    11.1% 10.7%  
Operating cash flow (£m)    265 298 (16%) (11%)
Cash conversion (%)    107% 122%  
Earnings per share — underlying
3
 (p)    13.4 14.1  (5%)
Earnings per share — basic (p)    18.5 17.4  6%
Free cash flow (£m)    100 296  (66%)
Return on operating capital
4
 (%)    48.6% 49.0%  
The table above sets out financial key performance indicators 
(KPIs) that the Board and Group management use to track and 
drive performance. A more detailed explanation of these KPIs 
and other financial measures in the context of the Group’s 
trading performance during the year is set out throughout this 
Financial Review.
Orders
A summary of orders and changes at CER by division is set  
out below:
Year ended 31 March  2009 Exchange 2009 Change 2010
  orders movement at CER at CER orders %
  £m £m £m £m £m change
Invensys Operations Management  1,326 93 1,419 (323) 1,096 (23%)
Invensys Rail  968 51 1,019 (202) 817 (20%)
Invensys Controls  512 36 548 12 560 2%
Continuing operations  2,806 180 2,986 (513) 2,473 (17%)
The order book for continuing operations was £2,307 million 
at 31 March 2010 (2009: £2,083 million). This includes 40% of 
orders from emerging markets.
Revenue
A summary of revenue and changes at CER by division is  
set out below:
Year ended 31 March  2009 Exchange 2009 Change 2010
  revenue movement at CER at CER revenue %
  £m £m £m £m £m change
Invensys Operations Management  1,093 73 1,166 (166) 1,000 (14%)
Invensys Rail  636 30 666 34 700 5%
Invensys Controls  555 40 595 (52) 543 (9%)
Continuing operations  2,284 143 2,427 (184) 2,243 (8%)
1
  % change at CER is measured as a percentage of the 2009 adjusted base and is calculated based on underlying amounts in £’000s.
2
  All references to operating profit and operating margin are arrived at before exceptional items, unless otherwise stated.
3
  Calculated by reference to earnings before the exceptional US pension curtailment gain, PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income.
4
  Return on operating capital at CER is calculated as operating profit divided by capital employed excluding goodwill, net pension liabilities, non-operating provisions and net taxation liabilities. 16 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Financial Review continued
Exceptional items
The exceptional charge for the year totalled £25 million (2009: 
£66 million). This included restructuring costs of £43 million, 
£10 million of asset impairments (predominantly property, 
plant and equipment) and a £5 million loss on the sale of 
property, plant and equipment, offset by £33 million of other 
operating exceptionals which comprises £3 million of surplus 
property costs (2009: £nil) and a gain arising from the 
curtailment of the US defined benefit pension plans of 
£36 million (2009: £nil). 
Restructuring costs comprised the integration of our industrial 
automation businesses into Invensys Operations Management, 
the transfer of certain development operations to Cognizant, 
our global development partner, the consolidation of Invensys 
Controls manufacturing sites and other rationalisation projects 
across the Group. 
The comparative period included £48 million of restructuring 
costs and £17 million of asset impairments, predominantly 
property, plant and equipment, and a £1 million loss on asset 
disposals.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs increased to £7 million in the year (2009: 
£4 million). This was due to higher bonding costs and reduced 
income on the Group’s net cash position.
Taxation
The tax charge for continuing operations was £26 million 
(2009: £23 million), which comprises a current year income  
tax charge of £39 million (2009: £39 million), offset by prior 
year credits of £14 million (2009: £7 million) resulting from the 
favourable resolution of historic tax disputes, and a deferred 
tax charge of £1 million (2009: £9 million credit). Invensys is 
subject to several factors which affect the tax charge including 
the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions and 
the availability of tax losses.
Discontinued operations
The loss from discontinued operations of £2 million (2009:  
£9 million) relates to a net £3 million (2009: £11 million) of 
further provisions in respect of prior year disposals, offset  
by a tax credit of £1 million (2009: £2 million).
Net profit
Net profit increased to £151 million (2009: £133 million), largely 
due to the gain of £36 million arising from the curtailment of 
the US defined benefit pension plans.
Operating profit
A summary of operating profit and changes at CER by division 
is set out below:
Year ended 31 March  2009 Exchange 2009 Change 2010
  OPBIT movement at CER at CER OPBIT %
  £m £m £m £m £m change
Invensys Operations Management  119 8 127 (35) 92 (28%)
Invensys Rail  134 6 140 1 141 1%
Invensys Controls  26 1 27 26 53 96%
Corporate  (35) — (35) (3) (38) 10%
Continuing operations  244 15 259 (11) 248 (4%)
Operating cash flow and cash conversion
A summary of operating cash flow and cash conversion by 
division is set out below:
Year ended 31 March    Operating cash flow Cash conversion
    2010  2009 2010  2009
    £m £m % %
Invensys Operations Management    147 138 160% 116%
Invensys Rail    98 128 70% 96%
Invensys Controls    63 67 119% 258%
Corporate    (43) (35) — —
Continuing operations    265 298 107% 122% Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17
Earnings per share
Basic EPS from continuing operations were 18.5 pence per 
share (2009: 17.4 pence per share). Underlying earnings 
excluded the £36 million exceptional curtailment gain on the 
closure of the US defined benefit pension plans and a £5 million 
exceptional tax credit in respect of the PPP settlement, which 
resulted in an underlying earnings per share from continuing 
operations of 13.4 pence per share (2009: 14.1 pence per 
share).
Free cash flow
Free cash flow for the year was £100 million (2009: £296 
million). The reduced free cash flow was driven by lower 
operating cash flow, additional legacy contributions to the UK 
Main Pension Scheme and the one-off inflows in the prior year 
of £95 million in respect of the PPP settlement and £27 million 
proceeds from the sale of a financial investment.
Financial position at year end
Capital structure
The Group’s capital structure is as follows:
As at 31 March  2010 2009
  £m £m
Capital employed
1
   57 354
Cash and cash equivalents   364 296
Borrowings   (1) (10)
Net cash   363 286
Total equity — funds   420 640
Comprising:  
— Equity holders of parent   340 553
— Minority interests   80 87
   420 640
1 
 Includes other current financial assets of £nil (2009: £23 million).
Total equity
Total equity reduced by £220 million, with the net profit of  
£151 million being more than offset by the IAS 19 actuarial loss 
of £389 million. 
Minority interests
The balance of minority interests was £80 million (2009:  
£87 million), the majority of which related to the interests  
of the minority in Baan Company NV (in liquidation) (Baan).  
We continue to expect the Baan interest of €55 million to  
be settled in cash when legal formalities are completed. 
Net cash
Net cash was £363 million (2009: £286 million) with £nil 
(2009: £23 million) held on deposit with a maturity of more 
than three months.
Capital employed
Capital employed decreased by £297 million to £57 million  
in the year, mainly attributable to the increase in the IAS 19 
pension liability in the year of £273 million. Capital employed 
includes operating capital of £366 million (2009: £380 million), 
generating a return of 48.6% (2009: 49.0%).
Pension liabilities
The IAS 19 valuation of pension assets and liabilities has been 
updated as at 31 March 2010, resulting in a net pension liability 
of £581 million (30 September 2009: £603 million; 31 March 
2009: £308 million). The overall increase in the pension liability 
of £273 million was driven by an actuarial loss of £389 million 
as a result of a marked reduction in discount rates used for the 
actuarial valuation of pension liabilities.
The increase in the first half of the year largely reflected the 
impact of the turbulence in financial markets. In the second  
half of the year the UK Main Pension Scheme saw its liability 
reduce by £87 million, offset by £17 million resulting from a 
revision to the US pension plans’ mortality and demographic 
assumptions at the year end.
Overall the investment policies of the schemes have helped 
them to withstand the significant movements in the financial 
markets. The updated valuations do not have any impact on 
the expected cash flows under the agreed funding plans.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.0 pence per 
share (2009: 1.5 pence per share), resulting in total dividends 
for the year of 3.0 pence per share (2009: 1.5 pence per share). 
The total dividends are covered 4.5 times by underlying 
earnings.
Summary and conclusion
In summary, our focus on cost and cash management, and 
continued future investment has enabled us to begin the  
new financial year from a position of financial strength.
We will continue to invest in our global growth strategy 
while remaining diligent on execution, productivity and 
the successful management of our pension liabilities. 
Wayne Edmunds
Chief Financial Officer 18 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Statement of accounting policies
The Group’s Financial Statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) in issue that are endorsed by the European Commission 
and effective at 31 March 2010. The Group’s accounting 
policies under IFRSs are set out in the accounting policies 
section in the Group Financial Statements on pages 55 to 125.
The Parent Company Financial Statements have been 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) and include details of  
the Company’s accounting policies.
Treasury policy
The Group’s treasury policy is approved by the Board and 
seeks to ensure that:
• appropriate financial resources are available for the 
maintenance and development of the Group’s divisions;
• the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty 
credit exposure is understood, measured and managed 
appropriately; and 
• the Treasury Department operates as a cost centre and  
that no speculative transactions are undertaken. 
Funding, liquidity and treasury management
Operating within the strict controls of the Group’s treasury 
policy, the Treasury Department manages this financial risk, 
ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity are available 
to meet the expected needs of the Group together with a 
prudent level of headroom to allow for cash flow variability. 
In addition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts 
a flexible approach to liquidity management using a mixture 
of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits. 
Core funding is provided by a bank facility which matures 
in July 2013.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to set the proportion of fixed- and 
floating-rate debt, taking into account several factors 
including: 
• the financial leverage of the Group;
• the profitability of the Group in relation to the business 
cycle; and 
• absolute levels of interest rates.
To implement this policy the Group uses fixed-rate borrowings, 
interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and currency 
forwards and swaps, to manage its interest rate exposure as 
necessary.
As at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, in line with the Group 
having a net cash position, Invensys had no significant fixed-
rate borrowings.
Currency risk
Transaction exposure
Currency transaction exposure arises when the divisions 
face revenue or costs in a currency other than their own. 
The incidence of this risk varies across the Group and is subject 
to change. However, the majority of revenue and costs will 
usually be in the functional currency of the business undertaking 
the transaction. Where this is not the case and the exposure is 
significant, it is the Group’s policy for the divisions to hedge 
their exposure. The Group predominantly uses forward currency 
contracts to manage transaction exposure. 
The Group is also subject to exchange risk when making bids, 
particularly on major contracts, where movements against the 
specific exchange rate assumed within a bid would lead to a 
change in the anticipated margin on the contract should the 
bid be successful. This tender to contract risk is hedged if 
significant.
Translation exposure
The majority of the Group’s operating capital is employed in 
overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, 
particularly US dollars. As a consequence, changes in 
exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported 
results. This risk is not hedged directly but, to the extent that 
the Group has debt, any debt held in foreign currencies would 
reduce the level of net assets exposed to currency fluctuations. 
The interest expense related to such debt would also reduce 
the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements.
Credit risk
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties  
with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial 
instruments so as to control exposure to any territory or 
institution. As far as it is both feasible and practical to do  
so, cash is held centrally by the Treasury Department. Risk  
is assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
Further information on the risks arising from financial 
instruments is included in Note 22 to the Group Financial 
Statements. 
Financial Policies Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19
Invensys Operations Management is a leading global 
technology, software and consulting business that creates 
and applies advanced technologies to enable the safe and 
efficient operation of industrial and commercial operations 
such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, 
petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites. 
Invensys Operations Management is the product of the 
ongoing integration of several related businesses into  
a single division.
Year ended 31 March   % % 
   change  total
 2010
1
 2009 at CER change
Orders (£m) 1,096 1,326 (23%)
2
 (17%)
Revenue (£m) 1,000 1,093 (14%) (9%)
Operating profit (£m) 92 119 (28%) (23%)
Operating margin (%) 9.2% 10.9%  
Operating cash flow (£m) 147 138 — 7%
Operating cash conversion (%) 160% 116%  
Employees at year end (nos) 8,176 9,054  
1  
From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management 
division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division. 
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
2  
Decrease mainly due to the booking of the US$250 million China Nuclear order in 2009.
Revenue by sector
 O il and gas 27%
 General industries 27%
 Utilities and power 13%
 D iscrete manufacturing 11%
 P etrochemicals 8%
 Other 14%
Revenue by destination
 UK 6%
 R est of Europe 23%
 North America 31%
 South America 6%
 A sia Paciﬁc 21%
 Africa/Middle East 13%
 
Markets
The recession had a significant impact on several of our regional 
markets; the impact was felt particularly by our short-cycle 
measurement and instrumentation and Eurotherm® equipment 
and by our advanced applications in the developed markets 
of North America and Europe. Excess capacity in these regions, 
especially in the oil and gas and petrochemicals industries, 
resulted in customers reducing their spending on upgrades 
and expansion. However, some of these markets have shown 
tentative signs of stabilisation or recovery towards the end 
of the year, with several previously delayed projects now 
starting to move forward. 
In South America, the Middle East and Asia, the market was 
supported by the award of contracts for the construction of 
large greenfield projects in both the oil and gas and power 
sectors, meeting the needs of the significant economic growth 
in those regions. 
Looking forward, we are beginning to see some recovery in 
our short-cycle products and advanced applications markets, 
but this is unlikely to have a significant impact on our revenue 
until the second half of the year. However, our success in 
winning contracts for large, complex projects, which enabled 
us to build order book in the year, should underpin the 
division’s performance for the year as a whole.
Developments
The integration of our industrial automation businesses to  
form Invensys Operations Management is proceeding well 
and, through restructuring and synergies, we have been able 
to significantly reduce operating costs.
We continue to be recognised by customers for our advanced 
applications technologies, our ability to execute the largest 
and most complex projects in our industries and our 
specialisation in the nuclear power industry.
Advanced applications including our  
Enterprise Control System (ECS)
• Royal Dutch Shell’s Downstream Manufacturing Division 
entered into a multi-year partnership with us. Shell will  
use our Wonderware IntelaTrac™ mobile workforce and 
decision-support solution as one tool in the Ensure Safe 
Production initiative at 29 of its global manufacturing 
facilities. Our IntelaTrac system will provide downstream 
operations with configurable software and rugged, 
intrinsically-safe mobile hardware to manage the equipment-
surveillance process and regulatory compliance tasks. 
By implementing the IntelaTrac module, field operators will 
be able to optimise work processes, resulting in improved 
asset reliability and availability and reduced overall 
maintenance costs.
Invensys Operations Management 20 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
• We reached a multi-year agreement with ConocoPhillips 
to provide dynamic simulation for the development of 
ConocoPhillips’ proprietary E-Gas technology. We will 
supply our SimSci-Esscor DYNSIM® modelling and 
simulation software to help improve the design, start-up  
and operation of new coal gasification plants. In addition,  
we will be a preferred supplier of dynamic simulation 
software to licensees of ConocoPhillips’ E-Gas technology. 
• We have partnered with Codelco, the world’s largest copper 
producer, on a corporate-wide development agreement  
to move forward with an ECS approach to improve the 
performance and longevity of Codelco’s processing assets, 
increasing the overall economic value of that company’s 
business through the use of advanced process control, 
advanced regulatory control, real-time business performance 
measurement, simulators and operator training systems. 
Large and complex projects featuring  
control and safety systems
• We were awarded multi-million pound contracts for the 
400,000 barrels of oil per day Jubail Export Refinery Project 
(JERP) in Saudi Arabia, which is due to be completed in 2013. 
We will be providing a broad range of solutions, including 
control and safety systems, asset management software and 
simulation software.
• We signed a deal with Coastal Gujarat Power Limited, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Power Limited, to provide 
end-to-end integrated services and solutions that will fully 
optimise India’s first ultra-mega 4,000MW power plant. It 
will be India’s largest coal-fired power plant when completed  
in 2013. We will provide distributed and critical control 
systems, our Triconex® emergency shutdown systems and 
SimSci-Esscor™ advanced process control, plant 
optimisation and operator training simulator technology. 
Nuclear power
• Bruce Power, Canada’s first private nuclear generating 
company and the source of more than 20% of Ontario’s 
electricity, selected software solutions from our 
Wonderware® brand to manage its equipment condition 
and performance monitoring project. We will provide a full 
suite of software and technology solutions to help Bruce 
Power effectively monitor major assets distributed across 
their eight units.
• In May 2010, we were awarded a major contract by  
China Nuclear Power Engineering (CNPE) to implement 
comprehensive safety and non-safety distributed control 
systems for Changjiang Nuclear Power Plant, with two 
650MW pressurised water reactor (PWR) units under 
construction in Hainan Island of China. This contract follows 
the award of a contract in 2008 for two nuclear power plants, 
each with two 1,000MW PWR units, also under the oversight 
of China National Nuclear Corporation. We will provide an 
integrated technology platform for both safety and non-
safety control systems, using our industry-leading Triconex 
and Foxboro I/A Series. This contract between CNPE and 
Invensys for Changjiang Nuclear Power Plant in Hainan 
represents a further step towards long-term cooperation.
Invensys Operations Management continues to seek bolt-on 
acquisitions to broaden the range of technologies and solutions 
it is able to sell to its global customer base. Since the year end, 
we announced the acquisition of Skelta Software, a privately 
held software company headquartered in Bangalore, India. 
Skelta provides business process management (BPM) and 
advanced workflow software solutions.
Performance 
Order intake was £1,096 million (2009: £1,326 million), down 
23% at CER mainly due to the incidence of the US$250 million 
China Nuclear order last year and the market weakness for 
short-cycle products and advanced applications in Europe 
and North America. The order book at 31 March 2010 was 
£972 million, with around 47% represented by emerging markets. 
Revenue for the year was down 14% at CER at £1,000 million 
(2009: £1,093 million), benefitting from revenue from large 
projects awarded last year. 
Operating profit was £92 million (2009: £119 million), down 
28% at CER, with the effect of the reduced revenue partially 
offset by cost savings. Operating margin was 9.2% (2009: 
10.9%), with a stronger second half which produced an 
operating margin of 11.2%. 
We produced strong operating cash flow of £147 million 
(2009: £138 million), resulting in a further improvement in 
cash conversion for the year to 160% (2009: 116%). 
Invensys Operations Management continued Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21
Invensys Rail is a multinational technology leader, 
providing state-of-the-art software-based signalling, 
communication and control systems that enable the 
operation of trains in mainline and mass transit networks 
across the world. Our aim is to deliver higher capacity 
safely, and in many cases reduced travel times. 
Rail control is an advanced technology, high added  
value market within the global rail market, accounting  
for approximately 8% of annual expenditure on  
rail-related products. 
Year ended 31 March   % % 
   change  total
 2010 2009 at CER change
Orders (£m) 817 968 (20%) (16%)
Revenue (£m) 700 636 5% 10%
Operating profit (£m) 141 134 1% 5%
Operating margin (%) 20.1% 21.1%  
Operating cash flow (£m) 98 128 (26%) (23%)
Operating cash conversion (%) 70% 96%  
Employees at year end (nos) 3,857 3,960  
Revenue by sector
 Mainline engineering 
 and contracting 51%
 Mass transit engineering 
 and contracting  29%
 Products 20%
Revenue by destination
 UK 31%
 R est of Europe 36%
 North America 16%
 A sia Paciﬁc 15%
 South America 2%
Markets
Across the world, the market for rail control systems remained 
strong during the year, with spending driven by the realisation 
by many countries and cities that improvements in mainline 
and suburban rail and mass transit infrastructure are key to 
economic development. At the same time, they recognise the 
importance of rail as an environmentally sustainable and 
efficient means of transport for both passengers and freight. 
Although there was some slowdown in order inflow in the UK 
earlier in the year, the situation improved in the second half 
with a number of large contract awards from Network Rail. We 
have submitted our tender for the major resignalling contract 
for four London Underground lines, namely the Circle, District, 
Hammersmith and City, and Metropolitan lines, and we expect 
the final outcome to be announced in late autumn.
The Iberian market remained satisfactory, as we continue to 
carry out signalling mainly for the new high-speed line network 
in Spain. However, it is expected that the effect of the recession 
upon the Spanish economy could lead to a reduction in  
future orders.
The North American market for onboard equipment was 
affected by reduced levels of freight traffic but the crossings 
market remained robust. We also gained our first major US 
signalling contract for several years. Looking further out, we 
are seeing significant potential from the introduction of 
Positive Train Control (PTC) protection systems and the 
building of new high-speed lines.
Outside our core markets, we are seeing increasing demand  
in many countries, particularly South America and Asia, arising 
from the need to improve transport infrastructure to enable 
economic development. 
Looking forward, we expect the global rail control market to 
remain robust, with satisfactory levels of expenditure in our 
core markets and significant investment by other countries and 
cities around the world on mainline, suburban and mass transit 
rail infrastructure.
Invensys Rail 22 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Developments
Our leading technologies and excellent commissioning record 
are reflected in our success in gaining significant contracts for 
new and replacement signalling in both our core and new 
export markets. These contracts will support good revenue 
growth in the division next year, with revenue from new 
markets rising from 10% in 2010 to around 20% in 2011.
• Invensys Rail, Brazilian engineering company Montagens e 
Projetos Especiais (MPE) and Spanish telecoms specialists 
Infoglobal signed a milestone £255 million contract to 
upgrade the signalling and automatic train control on lines 
8, 10 and 11 of São Paulo’s rapidly developing Metro system. 
Invensys Rail will install its Sirius Communication Based 
Train Control (CBTC) system on all three lines and associated 
rolling stock, along with WESTRACE® interlockings, point 
machines and LED signals, totalling a 60% share 
(approximately £140 million) within the consortium.
• In the United States, we are delivering a project for the 
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to design, 
manufacture and install a new computerised signalling 
system to upgrade and modernise the current PATH rail 
system. Invensys Rail’s share of the contract is expected  
to be £43 million. The Automatic Train Control (ATC)  
system being adopted and installed by the Port Authority 
meets the requirements for PTC set by the Federal  
Railroad Administration.
• Invensys Rail and New Zealand’s rail infrastructure manager 
ONTRACK will install the country’s first European Rail Traffic 
Management System (ERTMS) in a contract worth £34 million 
as part of the Auckland Metropolitan Network Train Control 
and Resignalling Project. The 30-month contract will see 
us install ERTMS Level 1 train control systems as well as 
providing comprehensive training for ONTRACK staff to 
maintain trackside and on-train systems. 
• Invensys Rail will play a key role in a major enhancement 
of Malaysia’s rail network by delivering the new signalling 
system for the Seremban to Gemas route double tracking 
project. This will be another application of our WESTRACE 
electronic interlockings and other advanced signalling and 
control technologies. The signalling contract, which is worth 
approximately £26 million, will also see a train control system 
installed to link with state owned railway KTMB’s existing 
train control centre at Kuala Lumpur Sentral. 
We have also continued our excellent commissioning record 
with the implementation of a new mass transit train control 
system on the Victoria Line in London and the successful 
completion of work on the East London Line.
Performance
We continued to build our order book last year and, although 
order intake during the year was £817 million (2009: £968 
million), down 20% at CER due to the greater incidence of large 
orders last year, the book to bill ratio remained over 100%.  
The order book at 31 March 2010 was £1.3 billion, with around 
44% represented by contracts outside our core markets.
Revenue was up 5% at CER at £700 million (2009: £636 million), 
with good growth in North America and Spain offset by a 9% 
reduction in the UK due to order delays.
Operating profit rose 1% at CER to £141 million (2009: 
£134 million), and operating margin remained strong at 20.1% 
(2009: 21.1%). Margins benefitted from favourable contract 
commissionings in Spain and reduced costs in North America 
following the consolidation of manufacturing facilities, offset 
by increased spending on research and development, sales 
and marketing, and bid tendering costs. This additional 
spending, together with the evolving geographic mix of our 
business, is likely to produce a small decline in future operating 
margins from the 20.1% achieved last year.
Operating cash flow was £98 million (2009: £128 million), 
and cash conversion was 70% (2009: 96%) as a result of some 
delays in large progress payments in the UK and Spain.
Invensys Rail continued Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23
Invensys Controls
Invensys Controls designs, engineers and manufactures 
products, components, systems and services used in 
appliances, heating, air conditioning/cooling and 
refrigeration products across a wide range of industries 
in residential and commercial markets.
Year ended 31 March   % % 
   change  total
 2010
1
 2009 at CER change
Orders (£m) 560 512 2% 9%
Revenue (£m) 543 555 (9%) (2%)
Operating profit (£m) 53 26 96% 104%
Operating margin (%) 9.8% 4.7%  
Operating cash flow (£m) 63 67 (12%) (6%)
Operating cash conversion (%) 119% 258%  
Employees at year end  (nos) 7,782 7,324  
1  
From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management 
division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division. 
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Revenue by sector
 A ppliance 64%
 R esidential property 25%
 C ommercial property 8%
 D iscrete manufacturing 3%
Revenue by destination
 UK 9%
 R est of Europe 27%
 North America 44%
 South America 12%
 A sia Paciﬁc 7%
 Africa/Middle East 1%
Markets
The global appliance market has experienced significant 
declines over the past three years and in particular during 
the recent recession.
However, after a weak first half, we saw a gradual improvement 
in demand in the North American market as the year progressed, 
and have recently seen similar market trends in Europe: these 
two regions accounted for 80% of Invensys Controls revenue.
Our developing markets, particularly South America and  
Asia, have held up well during the past year and we expect  
this to continue. 
Based upon the current economic outlook in our markets  
and the views of some of our major customers, we expect that 
there will be a good improvement in demand in North America 
and continued stabilisation in demand in Europe, together 
with further growth in emerging markets including South 
America and Asia. This overall improvement in the market in 
conjunction with the launch of new products will help the 
division’s performance in the current financial year.
Developments
The focus of the division has been upon completing the major 
restructuring projects begun in the past two years so that it  
has a significantly reduced cost base as markets recover. The 
consolidation of manufacturing facilities in North and South 
America was successfully completed.
We also invested in our global engineering and research and 
development capabilities to increase the level of new product 
introductions in the year, which accounted for 9% of the year’s 
revenue.
Performance
Orders rose to £560 million (2009: £512 million), up 2% at  
CER, driven by new product introductions, particularly in the 
appliance segment. Weakness in virtually all markets during 
the first half of the year was largely offset in the second half  
by a gradual recovery in North America and increased stability 
in Europe. 
Revenue of £543 million (2009: £555 million) was 9% lower 
at CER, with a 7% increase at CER in the second half partially 
offsetting the 22% decline at CER experienced in the first half. 
An improving order inflow towards the end of the second half 
resulted in an increased order book at the year end, some 
£15 million or 28% higher at CER than at the start of the year, 
which should enable the division to make a good start to the 
current year. 
Operating profit recovered significantly to £53 million (2009: 
£26 million), an increase of 96% at CER. Operating margins  
in the second half were 13.6% and for the year as a whole 
improved to 9.8% (2009: 4.7%). Key drivers were significant 
reductions in our cost base due to restructuring benefits  
and productivity improvements, together with lower  
warranty costs. 
We had another excellent cash performance, with an operating 
cash inflow of £63 million compared to £67 million in 2009, 
with increased working capital requirements largely offset by 
improved profitability and lower investment requirements. 24 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Social Responsibility
Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of 
economic success, environmental stewardship, diversity 
and social responsibility. We believe that by acting as 
a responsible global citizen, we will not only minimise 
business risk but also enhance our reputation as a 
business partner. 
The Invensys Code of Conduct and compliance training 
The Invensys Code of Conduct both describes and represents 
our commitment to responsible business and is the foundation 
of our broader Compliance Programme. Under the terms of 
the Code of Conduct, our employees undertake to work with 
integrity as representatives of Invensys and in accordance with 
both local law and our own standards of ethical behaviour: 
where the Code of Conduct is more exacting than local laws 
or standards, the Code of Conduct must be followed.
As we undertook in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts, 
during the year we relaunched the Invensys Code of Conduct, 
refreshing its look and also updating its content to take into 
account changing laws and a growing focus on compliance. 
This increased focus is also reflected in policies on key areas 
approved by our Board. The Board is given regular updates  
on compliance issues by the Chief Legal Officer. The Chief 
Executive and Chief Human Resources Officer receive regular 
briefings from the Chief Legal Officer where any concerns  
can be raised. Legal and ethical compliance is recognised  
as a priority for Invensys.
Our redesigned and rewritten Code of Conduct was translated 
into 12 languages and hard copy versions were distributed to 
all Invensys offices and facilities, along with digital copies both 
sent on storage devices to these offices and made available 
through the Invensys intranet. As stated in last year’s Annual 
Report and Accounts, the Code of Conduct is available on 
the Invensys website and can be read by any customer, 
shareholder or member of the public. 
The Code of Conduct is being supported by training for all 
employees and the Board. This training was launched at the 
end of February 2010. Initially, training was made available 
online but, to reflect the significant population of Invensys 
employees who work in manufacturing environments 
without personal Internet access, kiosk-based training and 
classroom-based training are also being arranged where 
necessary. Our stated aim is 100% training completion by the 
Invensys workforce. In support of this objective, Invensys has 
produced or is producing a range of supporting materials to 
promote the Code of Conduct and Compliance Programme, 
including posters, abridged versions of the Code of Conduct 
and presentation materials.
The Code of Conduct and associated training are the core 
elements in the latest iteration of the Compliance Programme. 
In the course of the current year, we will release further training 
on specific areas of compliance, targeted to relevant audiences, 
and offer refresher courses in critical areas of the Code of 
Conduct.
Our sustainability strategy
We have continued to implement our sustainability strategy 
throughout the year. We have made good progress against  
our sustainability targets. 
We have continued to reduce our environmental footprint, 
minimising waste and increasing efficiency. We are pleased  
to report that we have exceeded our targets for reductions  
in our environmental key performance indicators (KPIs). As our 
suppliers play an important role in our own sustainability efforts, 
we are in the process of updating our supplier assessment 
procedures, and plan to communicate our expectations of 
suppliers to act ethically and to make advances in the areas  
of social and environmental responsibility. 
During the year Invensys renewed its participation in the 
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP). In the UK, Invensys was again listed 
on the FTSE4Good Index Series, which lists companies that 
meet recognised standards of corporate responsibility. 
Invensys has also for the first time been added to the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) in recognition of our 
economic, environmental and social performance. We were 
also awarded certification under the Carbon Trust Standard for 
having reduced our carbon emissions over the last three years 
in our UK operations.
More detail can be found in our Sustainability Report, which 
is available on our website.
Environmental performance
Our manufacturing locations have shown year-on-year 
improvements in the environmental KPIs (energy, CO2, water, 
hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste) at levels exceeding 
our 5% absolute reduction targets. The higher than expected 
reductions are driven in part by successful efficiency projects 
and in part by the rationalisation of some of our manufacturing 
facilities. For the current year, we have set a 3% absolute 
reduction as a target.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25
Our Continuous Improvement function has examined ways to 
reduce energy consumption, carbon emissions, water use and 
waste generation at our major manufacturing facilities. All our 
facilities, large and small, are encouraged to look for ways to 
improve their efficiency — simple measures can often make 
significant savings. For example, replacing warm-air hand 
dryers and paper towels in the bathrooms of the headquarters 
of Invensys Rail with cold-air dryers reduced the site’s carbon 
emissions by 29 tonnes. Energy control equipment and upgraded 
compressor units at our Invensys Controls site in Hanover, US 
contributed to an 8% reduction in energy consumption at the 
site during the year. Reuse of wastewater in our Foxboro site in 
the US lowered total water use by 5% at the facility.
Over the year, we took steps to reduce the CO 2 contributions 
associated with business travel. By replacing larger vehicles 
with smaller, fuel-efficient four cylinder petrol and diesel 
vehicles, our CO2 contributions associated with global fleet 
vehicles have been reduced by 7%. Focussed efforts to 
minimise air travel and maximise the use of videoconferencing 
have resulted in a 5% reduction in CO2 associated with 
business-related airline travel. 
The Board continues to be briefed on the environmental 
performance of the Group and receives regular reports on 
any violations or relevant developments. During the year, 
there were no environmental releases. However, the Invensys 
Rail location in Rancho Cucamonga, US received a notice 
of violation associated with a lack of equipment permits. The 
Invensys Controls location in Trnava, Slovakia received a notice 
of violation and a €3,320 fine for failing to comply with local 
recycling requirements. In both cases, corrective actions were 
instituted and no further notices or fines have been issued.
Health and safety in the workplace
We are pleased to report continued improvements in our 
health and safety performance, as reflected in decreased 
injury/illness incident frequency rates. Over the year, our Total 
Recordable Case Incident Rate (TRCIR) fell 32% from 0.31 to 
0.21 and our Lost Workday Case Incident Rate (LWCIR) fell 47% 
from 0.15 to 0.08. We continue to look for ways to improve our 
safety performance and record.
0.0
0.2
0.6
0.4
1.0
0.8
April 06 April 07 April 08 April 09 April 10
Per 100 employees
Total Recordable Case Incident Rate
Lost Workday Case Incident Rate 
Further details regarding health and safety performance can be found on our website.
During the year we focussed on improving the safety 
programmes for Invensys employees who work at customer 
locations, which may contain risks outside of our control. 
Our efforts included providing learning modules and new 
procedures, as well as conducting safety audits and reviews 
at the project locations. Within our own operating locations, 
we established a behaviour-based safety initiative across 
the Group in order to improve our culture of safety. This 
programme included employee learning, new procedures 
and monthly targets for behaviour-based activities.
Year ended 31 March   Unit 2010 2009 % change % target
Energy use
 manufacturing
1
   MWh 152,135 175,353 (13%) (5%)
 non-manufacturing
2
   MWh 48,741 53,611 (9%) nm
4
CO2 emissions
 manufacturing
1
   tonnes 64,587 71,512 (10%) (5%)
 non-manufacturing
2
   tonnes 24,658 26,786 (8%) nm
 global fleet   tonnes 12,835 13,865 (7%) nm
 business airline travel
3
   tonnes 21,310 22,511 (5%) nm
Water consumed
1
   m
3
 390,372 436,076 (10%) (5%)
Waste generated (non-hazardous)
1
   tonnes 6,874 8,866 (22%) (5%)
Waste generated (hazardous)
1
   tonnes 562 658 (15%) (5%)
1 
 Based on 42 sites in 2009 and 41 sites in 2010.
2 
 Based on 113 sites in 2009 and 107 sites in 2010.
3 
 2009 data restated to reflect current methodology.
4 
 nm = not measured.
Further details regarding environmental performance can be found on our website. 26 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
We continue to use our Safety and Sustainability Awareness 
Metric (SSAM) to drive and measure several leading activities 
at an operational level. The SSAM, which is measured and 
reported monthly, includes on-time closure of corrective 
actions, near misses, completion of safety training, safety 
tours/inspections and environmental KPI improvements.  
In the current year, we will enhance the SSAM to consider 
community investment activities and implementation of our 
Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) 
management system.
Our Chief Executive reviews the health and safety performance 
data, including any major incidents, on a monthly basis and 
presents it to the Board. We are pleased to report that there 
were no major incidents or work-related fatalities during the 
year. During inspections by government officials, we received 
safety or compliance-related citations at seven locations in 
Europe, Asia and the Americas. In all cases, corrective actions 
have been initiated and no fines or further notices have been 
issued. We have increased our compliance and assurance 
efforts across the organisation and look forward to reporting 
on improved progress in this area next year.
Our responsibility to employee health
The well-being of employees and communities continues to  
be part of our sustainability strategy. Our strong safety culture 
and compliance assurance programmes have helped us 
improve our employee safety performance since last year.  
To encourage employees to improve their personal wellness, 
our major locations were asked to establish a minimum of four 
wellness programmes each. Our local operations support 
employee participation in these programmes.
Community and charitable investment
We continue to encourage our divisions and employees  
to engage with good causes to build relationships in the 
community and enhance workplace morale and cohesiveness. 
Our businesses provide a variety of programmes such as 
matching gifts, sponsorship of activities and paid volunteer 
time to allow our employees to participate actively in 
community events. 
Examples of projects our divisions have been involved  
with include:
• Invensys Controls employees in Caxias do Sul, Brazil 
promoted a charity lunch for 700 people to raise 
approximately US$6,000 for DOMUS, a house of refuge  
for children and teenagers with cancer.
• Employees at the Invensys Operations Management facility 
in Mumbai, India organised and participated in a blood 
donation drive in association with DY Patil Blood Bank. 
Employees also gave cash donations to pay for clothes and 
sports equipment for the orphan girls of the Vatsalya Trust’s 
Balikashram.
• Invensys Operations Management provided training 
programmes in conjunction with the Kazakh-British Technical 
University (KBTU) in Almaty, Kazakhstan. During the last two 
years, the division has invested approximately US$100,000 
to equip KBTU’s laboratory and provide students with the 
first-class training they need to succeed at home and abroad.
• Invensys Operations Management in Worthing, UK received 
a £15,000 donation for use of their car park by a local utility 
company. Invensys chose to allocate this money to three 
local schools to support the UK National Healthy Schools 
Programme and Eco-Schools Programme.
• A team of 17 cyclists representing Invensys Rail participated 
in the ‘Around the Bay in a Day’ charity cycling event in 
Melbourne, Australia raising money for The Smith Family 
charity which provides educational and learning support to 
disadvantaged Australian children.
• Invensys Controls employees in Matamoros, Mexico raised 
approximately US$5,000 by collecting 298,000 aluminium 
cans for the Down Syndrome Institute, Multiple Education 
Institute and Multiple Rehabilitation Centre. 
• Invensys Controls in Eliwell, Italy worked with the local 
municipality to provide financial assistance to help build 
a new play park for local children. The Eliwell facility 
contributed €1,000 to this cause.
Invensys Values
We continue to embed the Invensys Values — Innovation, 
Agility, Integrity, Courage and Meritocracy — into our 
organisation. Alignment with the Values is considered integral 
to the performance of our employees, and the Values are built 
into our performance management processes. The key 
messages of the Invensys brand and its values are being 
elucidated and made relevant to current and potential Invensys 
employees through an employer branding initiative launched 
after the introduction of new external Invensys branding. This 
is intended to create an “I want to work here” culture, and 
retain and attract confident, competent and ambitious people 
to Invensys who are drawn to a high performance work culture.
Diversity in the workforce
As a global company with employees across the world, 
Invensys seeks to recruit the best individual for every position 
regardless of gender, ethnic or national origin, religion, sexual 
orientation or any personal characteristic not relevant to their 
work. Invensys fosters an inclusive culture where anyone with 
the skills and abilities to perform is treated fairly. We embrace 
the diversity of our employees, and the greater effectiveness a 
diverse workforce allows us to offer our customers.
Corporate Social Responsibility continued Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
We continue to respect and support the principles of the 
European Convention on Human Rights and the UNGC by 
ensuring we comply with the labour laws of the countries in 
which we operate and by creating an inclusive and respectful 
culture for our diverse workforce. The Group seeks to ensure 
that fair consideration is given to applications for employment 
received from people with disabilities and we offer continued 
employment, training and advancement where possible  
to employees who are or become temporarily or  
permanently disabled.
Dialogue with employee representatives and employees
The Invensys European Employees Forum (IEEF) promotes 
dialogue between elected employee representatives and 
senior management. The annual meeting between IEEF 
representatives and senior management has been running 
for 10 years. 
Members of the Executive Leadership Team communicate 
regularly with employees through global activities and local 
communications networks, including site-level briefings, 
smaller, face-to-face meetings and employee newsletters. 
Invensys is also exploring the use of blogging and social 
networking technologies to facilitate fast and open 
communication between employees and to realise the 
performance advantages of sharing knowledge and best 
practices across our divisions.
Planning for future skills gaps
We continue to focus on growing internal capability and 
enabling internal career moves through our Organisational 
Capability Review process. This process combines the creation 
of robust succession plans, the identification of individuals 
with high career potential and the creation of focussed 
development plans to support leadership career paths. As an 
example of other initiatives, in 2009 we launched a Finance 
Leadership Development Programme. This programme will 
attract high potential finance professionals and develop them 
over a three- to five-year period through a number of 
challenging roles and assignments. It will include international 
global roles outside their countries of origin and end in a 
significant leadership position for the successful participants.
In addition, we have recently introduced a more robust 
workforce planning approach for managing our workforce 
more strategically and effectively. This involves identifying  
gaps in our employees’ capabilities and skills required to 
achieve our strategic plan, and proactively cross-training, 
developing or, if required, hiring the right people based on 
these gaps. 
Aligning individuals with the Group to safeguard  
our future
During the year we used our goal deployment and 
performance management tools and processes to help  
our employees to understand the organisational goals and 
objectives of Invensys and align them with their own. Line 
managers are required to hold annual performance reviews 
with all employees who report to them, where they can discuss 
their performance, set personal objectives for the coming year 
and create personal development plans.
Approximately 10,250 employees are participating in our 
performance management processes with goals for 2010/11 
on our integrated system. This equates to 51% of all employees 
and 100% of managerial and professional employees. Other 
employees such as those in manufacturing are participating  
in local performance management processes.
Investing for the future with training
We continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our 
employees’ learning and development. Our dedicated 
Learning and Development (L&D) centre of expertise has 
simplified and streamlined the way employees access learning 
and assess and develop the knowledge and skills they bring 
to their work at Invensys. During the year the L&D centre 
brought common global learning tools across Invensys in 
seven languages into one online portal to increase access 
for employees.
Employee engagement
Following the Invensys-wide Employee Engagement  
Survey in 2008 our business and functional teams have been 
implementing action plans created in response to survey 
feedback. The next survey in 2010 will allow us to measure the 
impact of the action plans and changes in engagement levels.
We continue to strive to make Invensys a place where high 
performing people choose to be, where they can enhance their 
lives and careers and are motivated to perform at their best. 28 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Risks and Uncertainties
Each division and global function is required to undertake a  
formal review of risks which could impact its area of business. Risk 
registers are produced and reviewed formally on a quarterly basis 
by each division and these are consolidated on a Group basis. 
The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk 
management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board 
through the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the Group.  
It also monitors the mitigating actions put in place by the relevant 
operational managers to address the identified risks. The risk 
management process is outlined below.
Risk management process
Audit Committee
Executive directors
Invensys plc Board
Group crisis management team
Identification Analysis Evaluation Mitigation
Enterprise-wide risk management
Monitoring and control
Divisions Global functions
Risk Committee
Responsibilities and actions
Board
• Ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control  
and reviewing its effectiveness. 
• Conducts annual assessment of internal controls. 
Audit Committee
• Reviews risk framework and processes. 
• Considers key risks.
Risk Committee
• Formulates strategy and policy based on risk appetite and  
risk exposure.
• Receives reports from divisions, reviews risk management 
structures and compiles the Group risk register.
• Prepares reports and recommendations for the Board 
through the Audit Committee. 
Business operations
• Establish priorities to address and manage risk.
• Regularly prepare and update the divisions’ risk registers.
Risk review process
Identification
• Key risks are recorded in the risk registers, their likelihood 
and impact assessed, mitigation strategies established and 
risk owners identified.
• Risks are considered against seven broad categories: 
strategic; people; financial; operational; reputational; 
environmental; and compliance.
Analysis
• Risks are analysed for likelihood and impact to determine 
exposure of the business.
Evaluation
• Risks are reviewed and prioritised against the achievement  
of short-term and long-term business objectives.
Mitigation
• Actions are identified to minimise, manage or respond  
to the risks.
Monitoring and control
• Risk action plans are reviewed by the divisions at least 
quarterly.
• Serious emerging issues are notified immediately to the 
Group crisis management team. 
• Key risks are reviewed at each Risk Committee meeting.
• The Audit Committee and Board review risk on a regular basis.  Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
Invensys operates globally in varied markets and is affected by 
a number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are 
within its control.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are common to other 
companies, for example: changes in economic conditions 
including currency and interest rate fluctuations; changes  
in taxation legislation; the cost of materials; the recruitment  
and retention of skilled personnel; the impact of competition;  
and political stability in the countries where we operate or 
undertake contracts.
The principal risks which are specific to and may impact the Group 
are outlined below. In addition, there may be other risks and 
uncertainties which are unknown to the Group or which could 
become material in the future. These risks may cause the Group’s 
results to vary materially from historic and expected results.
Description of risk
Failure to maintaina competitive and technologically
advanced product range could reduce margins and
revenue growth
Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Group’s 
products and services are characterised by continually evolving 
industry standards and rapidly changing technology, driven by 
the demands of the Group’s customers. 
Impact
Failure to keep pace with technological changes and system  
or application requirements in the industrial sectors may result 
in loss of market share and lower margins. Furthermore, delays 
to development programmes may adversely impact the 
delivery of major projects.
Mitigation
The Group invests in research and development to develop  
new technologies and products to sustain or improve its 
competitive position. However, all new technologies and 
products involve business risk in terms of possible abortive 
expenditure, reputational risk and customer claims. The Group 
reviews its portfolio of technologies as part of the strategic 
planning process.
In addition, the divisions control individual development 
programmes through a regular review process.
The timing and frequency of substantial contract awards
are uneven
The revenue of the Group’s Invensys Rail division depends on 
a small number of large railway operators, both in core markets 
in the UK, North America, Iberia and Australia and in export 
markets. New contract awards are often associated with major 
transport infrastructure upgrades, and as a result are by nature 
large and infrequent. The Invensys Operations Management 
division is associated with the supply of technology, software 
and consulting to the oil and gas, chemical and nuclear 
industries. Capital expenditure requirements from customers 
in these industries are often highly cyclical and linked to the 
international supply, demand and pricing of hydrocarbons. 
Impact
The timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards 
may result in volatility in the results. Major projects may also 
impact the business mix because a substantial element of the 
contract may be supplied by third parties.
Mitigation
The Group monitors sales activity, sales cover in its order book, 
expected margins and the impact of potential delays on the 
expected results to allow appropriate mitigating actions to be 
considered.
Undertaking large, long-termprojects exposes the
Group to risk of loss
A significant amount of the Group’s business involves long-term 
projects that can take many months or even years to complete. 
These projects may be subject to delays and cost overruns due 
to delays in equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work 
stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials 
or skilled labour or other unforeseen problems inherent in the 
nature of such projects. An increasing number of projects have 
been secured in export markets where execution risks may be 
greater.
Impact
The Group’s failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate 
costs accurately or control delivery may reduce the profitability 
of such a contract or result in a loss.
Mitigation
The Group has established a process with clear delegated 
authorities for the approval of major contracts, which includes 
a system for the approval of bids submitted to customers. 
Contracts with a large monetary value or onerous contractual 
terms require Board approval. Contract execution is monitored 
against the approved plans, and progress in major projects is 
reported to the Board. 30 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The Group may be subject to liability asa result of product
liability claims
Errors and defects in the Group’s products, systems or 
applications, which may be used in safety-critical applications, 
could cause injury to persons or damage to property and 
equipment. 
Impact
These occurrences could result in claims, loss of revenue, 
warranty costs, costs and damages associated with product 
recalls, litigation, delays in market acceptance or harm to the 
Group’s reputation for safety and quality. 
Mitigation
Each division has an established quality control function, and if 
an event occurs, there are processes to investigate and manage 
the occurrence.
The Group may be exposed to liability through the
actions of joint venture partners, cosource partners
or its supply chain
The business activities of the Group are often conducted in 
conjunction with joint venture, consortium, codevelopment or 
cosource partners whose day-to-day management actions are 
outside of the control of the Group. A significant element of the 
Group’s risk profile is the delivery performance of its supply 
chain.
Impact
Given the nature of the Group’s business mix, a quality or other 
failure in the supply chain could present a risk to safety and 
delivery which could have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s business, financial performance and/or reputation.
Mitigation
Assessment, mitigation and management of these risks are 
addressed by the divisions in conjunction with the Group’s 
Legal, Supply Chain and Risk functions.
The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities with
respect to its UK and US pension plans
The Group has a high proportion of pensioners relative to its 
active workforce. 
Impact
With respect to both the Group pension plans for its UK and  
US operations, any decline in the equity market, improvements 
in life expectancy, changes in expected morbidity rates, long 
periods of low inflation or deflation or future decreases in 
interest rates could increase the funding deficit and require 
additional funding contributions in excess of those currently 
expected.
Mitigation
The current UK deficit funding plan was agreed on the basis of 
a valuation undertaken at 31 March 2008, and anticipates deficit 
recovery contributions being made on a six-monthly basis until 
March 2017. In addition to regular financial reporting under  
IAS 19, the Group regularly monitors the performance of the 
principal UK and US plans.
The Group is subject to ongoing litigation and
environmental liabilities
As a consequence of the past disposal of a significant number of 
businesses, the Group has retained certain liabilities in relation 
to environmental claims (including the cost associated with the 
remediation of contaminated sites no longer owned by the 
Group), disputed taxes, litigation (including personal injury 
claims arising from alleged exposure to asbestos and silica), 
indemnity claims and other disposal costs relating to the 
disposed businesses. These risks have receded over time as 
warranties and indemnities in relation to past disposals have 
expired, existing disputes have been settled and remediation 
work on contaminated sites has been completed. The Group 
also has environmental liabilities in relation to the remediation 
of vacant sites which it owns. 
Impact
All of the aforementioned liabilities are subject to a number of 
uncertainties, assumptions and contingencies, and there can  
be no assurance that the liabilities will not be substantially 
higher or become payable sooner than anticipated, or that  
the provisions in the Group’s accounts in respect of any such 
liabilities will be sufficient.
Mitigation
The Group continually monitors the remaining liabilities, 
regularly reviews the related provisions and aims in negotiations 
to limit the risk of future liabilities or disputes.
Risks and Uncertainties continued Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate
governance and the Board is pleased to confirm that
during the year the Company has been fully compliant
with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board
Role
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of 
the Company by directing and supervising the Company’s affairs 
to create shareholder value. The Board provides leadership and 
sets the Company’s strategic aims.
Its duties are set out in a formal schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for decision by the Board as summarised below.
Schedule of matters reserved for the Board
• Overall management of the Group and its long-term  
objectives, commercial strategy and operational planning
• Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside of 
delegated limits
• Material changes to the Group’s corporate structure
• Approval of financial results and dividend policy, and 
declaration of interim and final dividends
• Changes to the Group’s capital structure
• Changes to the Board and other senior executive leaders
• Appointment of the Group’s principal advisers
• Any major changes to the Group’s pension plans 
• Approval of the Code of Conduct and other Group policies
Certain decision-making is delegated through structured 
procedures to committees (as described on page 33) and, for 
operational matters, to senior management. 
Directors: composition and independence
The Board is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed 
non-executive director and Deputy Chairman on 1 January  
2009 and replaced Martin Jay as Chairman when he retired on  
17 July 2009. Jean-Claude Guez, non-executive director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also retired on 17 July 
2009. Steve Hare resigned from the Board effective 31 May 2009 
and was succeeded by Wayne Edmunds, who joined the Board  
and became Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 June 2009. 
Francesco Caio and Dr Martin Read were appointed as non-
executive directors on 18 July 2009. Paul Lester joined as an 
additional non-executive director on 1 January 2010. At the end  
of the year, the Board consisted of two executive directors and  
six non-executive directors, in addition to the Chairman.
The Board
 Chairman 1
 Executive directors 2
 N on-executive directors 6
The Board considers that all of the current non-executive directors 
are independent. The non-executive directors are drawn from 
diverse international businesses and bring a range of skills and 
Compliance
This report has been prepared in accordance with section 1 of 
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (the Combined Code). 
The report, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 38  
to 50, describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code 
have been applied. A printed copy of the Combined Code can 
be obtained free of charge from FRC publications by telephone 
(+44 (0)20 8247 1264), email (customer.services@cch.co.uk) and 
online at www.frcpublications.com
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance, and the Board is pleased to report that throughout 
the year under review the Company has been fully compliant 
with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Invensys Code of Conduct (which is part of the broader 
Compliance Programme) aims to ensure the business acts 
with integrity and complies with all laws.
experience to enable them to constructively challenge and 
develop the Group’s strategy and direction. 
Although all the directors have an equal responsibility for the 
operations of Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is 
particularly important in ensuring that the strategy and business 
proposals of the executive management team are fully debated,  
to ensure that they meet the long-term interests of shareholders 
and also take account of issues affecting employees, customers, 
suppliers and the many communities with which Invensys interacts. 
The Senior Independent Director is Michael Parker, who has  
held this role since December 2006. Mr Parker, as the Senior 
Independent Director, is available for shareholders to contact  
and is also responsible for leading the Chairman’s annual 
performance evaluation.
Executive directors are encouraged not to hold more than  
one external non-executive directorship, which is in line with  
the Combined Code requirement. The Chief Executive, Ulf 
Henriksson, joined the board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive 
director on 2 May 2007 following the confirmation that there was 
no conflict between the business of the Group and Hexagon AB. 
Hexagon AB is a Swedish global technology group, listed on  
the Swedish Stock Exchange, specialising in measurement 
technologies, polymers and engineering components. This is  
the only non-executive directorship that Mr Henriksson holds.  
The Chief Financial Officer, Wayne Edmunds, does not hold  
any external non-executive directorships.
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive, which is defined in writing and approved 
by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the 
Board and ensuring its effectiveness. He facilitates the 
contribution of the non-executive directors and effective 
communication with shareholders. He ensures that constructive 
relations exist between the executive and non-executive directors. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for executing the strategy 
approved by the Board and for the leadership of the Group.
Corporate Governance 32 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Meetings
There is an agreed schedule of Board and committee meetings. 
The table above sets out the attendance by directors at Board 
and committee meetings. This analysis includes the committee 
members’ attendance at meetings, but does not include 
attendance of other directors by invitation of the respective 
committee chairman. There were also informal meetings of the 
Chairman and the non-executive directors without the executive 
directors being present. 
Election and re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require that any director 
appointed during the year should stand for election at the first 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) following their appointment. In 
addition, the Articles of Association require that one third of all 
directors shall retire at each AGM and that all directors must seek 
re-election at least once every three years. 
The biographies of all directors, including those whom the Board 
recommends for election or re-election, are set out on page 7.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is Victoria Hull, who is also Chief Legal 
Officer. She was appointed as Company Secretary on 1 January 
2006 and acts as secretary to all of the committees of the Board. 
The Company Secretary is accountable to the Board and advises 
on corporate governance matters. She ensures that the Board 
receives briefings on changes in regulation and law, and that 
procedures are followed. To enable the Board to perform its 
duties, all directors have full and timely access to all relevant 
information and to the services of the Company Secretary. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is decided 
upon by the Board as a whole.
Performance evaluation
The Board has a formal review process that covers an evaluation  
of the performance of the Board and its committees, and an 
appraisal of the performance of individual directors (including  
the Chairman). 
In respect of the individual evaluations, all members of the Board 
are asked to assess themselves and provide feedback on other 
directors. The evaluations are led as indicated below.
Board member 2009/10 evaluation led by
Chairman Senior Independent Director
Senior Independent Director and  Chairman
other non-executive directors
Executive directors   Chairman and non-executive 
directors
For the evaluation of the Board and its committees, directors are 
required to complete a questionnaire and provide comments on 
procedures and effectiveness. The process involves assessment 
by reference to the relevant roles and responsibilities under 
review, the terms of reference of the committees, and best 
practice. Results of the evaluation provide a basis for the 
continuing improvement in the Board’s procedures, action  
plans and objectives for the following year. The Board is  
satisfied that each director is committed to his role and that  
the Board and each of its committees remain effective.
  Audit Remuneration Nominating
 Board Committee Committee Committee
 Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
Current directors
1
Sir Nigel Rudd 9 9 — — 4 4 3 3
Ulf Henriksson
2
 8 8 — — — — 3 3
Wayne Edmunds
3
 7 7 — — — — — —
Francesco Caio
4
  6 6 3 3 4 4 — —
Bay Green 9 9 5 5 7 7 3 3
Paul Lester
5
 3 3 — — 2 2 — —
Michael Parker 9 9 5 5 9 9 3 3
Dr Martin Read
4
 6 6 — — 4 4 2 2
Pat Zito 8 9 5 5 8 9 3 3
Former directors
1
Jean-Claude Guez
6
  2 2 — — 1 1 — —
Steve Hare
7
 1 1 — — — — — —
Martin Jay
6
 2 2 — — — — 1 1
1  
Details of meetings of the Contracts Committee are dealt with separately on page 33. 
2  
Mr Henriksson was not entitled to attend one Board meeting as it related to a remuneration matter in which he had a conflict of interest.
3  
Attendance at meetings from date of appointment on 1 June 2009.
4  
Attendance at meetings from date of appointment on 18 July 2009.
5  
Attendance at meetings from date of appointment on 1 January 2010.
6  
Attendance at meetings to date of retirement on 17 July 2009.
7  
Attendance at meetings to date of resignation effective 31 May 2009. 
Corporate Governance continued Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33
Induction and development
On appointment, new directors receive an induction programme 
tailored to their specific requirements based on their experience. 
The objective is to provide directors with a combination of 
selected written information and the opportunity to visit business 
sites and meet with key leaders of the Group. Accordingly, an 
induction programme was developed for Francesco Caio, Paul 
Lester and Dr Martin Read, who were appointed during the year. 
Dr Read as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also met 
with advisers and major shareholders.
The continuing development of the directors, collectively and 
individually, is effected through a number of channels. Independent 
professional advisers are made available in order for directors to 
discuss matters of significance to the Group, and directors are 
encouraged to attend external briefings. The Board ensures that 
directors have access to independent professional advice on how  
to discharge their responsibilities as directors of the Company.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
In line with the Companies Act 2006, directors are required to 
avoid any situation in which they have or can have a direct or 
indirect interest that conflicts or may possibly conflict with the 
interests of the Company, unless authorised by the Board. The 
Company’s Articles of Association were amended in 2008 to allow 
the Board to authorise such conflicts and to impose such limits or 
conditions as it deems necessary. There is no breach of duty if the 
relevant matter has been authorised in advance. 
The Company has established a procedure whereby actual and 
potential conflicts of interest are reviewed regularly, and in any 
event annually. Appropriate authorisation is required prior to the 
appointment of any new director, and when any new conflict arises 
for a director or there is a change in circumstances that may affect 
an authorisation previously given. Authorisations are granted by 
those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered 
and are recorded by the Company Secretary in the Register of 
Directors’ Conflicts. Where there is a conflict, the Board will 
confirm whether any conditions should be imposed under the 
terms of the authorisation.
During the year the Board considers the procedure was operated 
effectively.
Board committees
The Board delegates specific authorities to its Nominating 
Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and 
Contracts Committee, all of which operate within defined terms of 
reference. Board committees are authorised to engage the services 
of external advisers as circumstances require, at the Company’s 
expense.
Reports of the Board committees are set out from this page to  
page 37. Directors receive copies of all committee minutes and  
the chairman of each committee provides an update on matters of 
significance at the Board meeting following the committee meeting.
Communication with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is at all times given a high 
priority, and a number of means are used to promote greater 
understanding and dialogue with the investment community. The 
Board receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and the 
Group’s Investor Relations team. During the year a report was 
commissioned from an external advisory firm to solicit external 
views on the Company from major shareholders. The Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet  
with major shareholders on request. The Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee also meets with major shareholders  
to discuss matters relating to changes in remuneration policy.
Shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the  
Group during the course of the year through half-yearly and 
preliminary results, interim management statements and other 
announcements of material developments that are released 
through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.  
The results presentations made to the investment community are 
webcast and copies of supporting material made available on the 
Group’s website. The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
maintain regular dialogue with the major institutional shareholders 
and participate in sector conferences. Shareholders can also raise 
questions directly with the Company at any time by contacting the 
Investor Relations team, whose contact details are listed on the 
Group’s website. 
The annual report and accounts are made available to 
shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM. Directors 
are available at the AGM to answer questions, which provides a 
useful interface with private shareholders. Shareholders also have 
an opportunity to meet informally with directors after the meeting. 
Resolutions are proposed separately and voting is conducted by 
polls at general meetings, and voting results are announced 
through the London Stock Exchange. The results and proxy levels 
are also available on the Group’s website and on request from the 
Company Secretary. The Company is permitted under its Articles 
of Association to send or supply communications to shareholders 
electronically, and the Company now supplies information such  
as notices of meetings, forms of proxy and annual reports and 
accounts via the Group’s website. Shareholders are notified by 
email or post when new information is available on the website. 
The Company sends hard copy communications to those 
shareholders who have requested them. Shareholders may at any 
time revoke a previous instruction and elect to receive hard copies 
or electronic copies of shareholder information.
Remuneration Committee report
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, together 
with information on the remuneration and share interests of 
directors, are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38  
to 50. The Remuneration Report should be read in conjunction 
with this Corporate Governance report, of which it forms an 
integral part.
Contracts Committee report
The Contracts Committee was established in September 2008  
to review certain tenders and contracts falling within the Board’s 
terms of reference and due for submission to clients in the period 
when there is no scheduled Board meeting to consider them. 
Meetings of the Contracts Committee must comprise at least one 
but preferably both executive directors, the Chairman (or in his 
place the Senior Independent Director) and any other non-
executive director. The terms of reference for the Contracts 
Committee are available on the Group’s website. The Contracts 
Committee met on five occasions during the year. 34 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance continued
Audit Committee report
Members
Bay Green (Chairman) 
Francesco Caio
Michael Parker 
Pat Zito
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the 
non-executive directors of the Company and has been chaired 
by Bay Green since December 2006. Mr Green is a qualified 
chartered accountant and fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of England and Wales and, with over 30 years in 
financial roles, he is considered to have recent and relevant 
financial experience for the purposes of the Combined Code. 
He has held a number of senior positions in Dresdner Kleinwort 
and is a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional 
Markets Business Unit of the Financial Services Authority.
Francesco Caio became a member of the Audit Committee on  
18 July 2009.
Meetings
Details of the meetings held during the year by the Audit 
Committee and of members’ attendance are detailed on  
page 32.
Role and activities
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are  
available on the Group’s website. Set out below are the  
Audit Committee’s responsibilities and the main activities 
undertaken during the year.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities during the year
Monitoring the integrity of the Group’s Financial
Statements and reviewing significant financial reporting
issues and accounting policies
The Audit Committee reviewed the financial disclosures in the 
Group’s Annual Report and Accounts and half-yearly financial 
report prior to their publication. This included a review of the 
accounting policies and financial reporting judgements. It also 
reviewed the contents of the interim management statements 
issued by the Company.
Reviewing the Group’s systems of internal control and risk
management, and monitoring the effectiveness of the
internal audit function
In accordance with the Turnbull 2005 guidance and on behalf  
of the Board, the Audit Committee undertook an annual 
assessment of the Group’s system of internal control. Included 
in the assessment were:
• consideration of the key risks facing the divisions as part  
of the review of the Group’s strategic planning and annual 
operating planning processes, and the review of reports from 
the Risk Committee;
• review of the enhancements to the overall control environment;
• consideration of the key elements of the Group’s control 
processes, including organisational structure, the application 
of governance rules and systems, information management 
(including monthly reporting routines) and risk management 
activities;
• reports received from both internal and external audit during 
the course of the year;
• review of the operations and effectiveness of internal audit 
and receipt of regular reports on projects undertaken; and
• the findings from the annual self-assessment questionnaire, 
which requires all senior managers, from reporting unit level 
upwards, to certify compliance with the Group’s financial 
and operational procedures and controls, including 
environmental, health and safety matters and the Invensys 
Code of Conduct.
The Audit Committee monitored the Group’s whistle-blowing 
programme as set out on page 36. Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities during the year
Making recommendations to the Board on the
appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement
(including non-audit services) of the external auditor
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the 
reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the 2010 AGM. The  
basis of recommendation to the Board for the reappointment  
is described below.
The external audit plan and fee proposal were approved,  
along with the terms of engagement for the year. 
The Audit Committee also agreed the policy on auditor 
independence and provision of non-audit services.
Review annually its terms of reference The terms of reference were reviewed without change.
Conduct an annual evaluation of the performance of the
Audit Committee
As detailed on page 32 an evaluation was conducted during  
the year.

External auditor
Ernst & Young LLP has been the Company’s auditor since October 
1999, following the merger of Siebe and BTR in February 1999. The 
Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, 
resources and independence of the auditor and the effectiveness 
of the audit process. The assessment as to effectiveness is 
conducted through an external audit questionnaire with senior 
finance management. The Audit Committee remains satisfied  
with these aspects of the audit service. 
Consistent with market practice, Ernst & Young LLP’s audit services 
to the Group are provided annually through terms of engagement 
which are reviewed by the Audit Committee. These terms do not 
include any contractual obligations under which the directors 
would be prevented from appointing a different firm. 
Following consideration of these matters at a meeting of the Audit 
Committee in May 2010, a unanimous recommendation was made 
to the Board for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the 
Company’s external auditor to be proposed to shareholders at the 
2010 AGM. The Audit Committee makes an assessment from time 
to time on whether there would be any benefit from a change in 
auditor or a competitive tendering process.
The Audit Committee has guidelines to ensure that the 
independence of Ernst & Young LLP, as the auditor of the Group’s 
Financial Statements, is not impaired by providing non-audit 
services. These guidelines govern the provision of non-audit 
services by Ernst & Young LLP by identifying certain non-audit 
services that the auditor is prohibited from providing. The 
engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited are 
subject to formal approval based on the level of fees involved,  
with some services being covered by a pre-approval process with 
a quarterly cap. In respect of such non-audit services, the Audit 
Committee takes into account the cost-effectiveness of the firm 
and their knowledge of the Group. Services and fees are reported 
to the Audit Committee on a regular basis. Details of the amounts 
paid to Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor during the year for 
audit and other services are set out in Note 5 to the Group 
Financial Statements.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Group has comprehensive planning and financial reporting 
procedures. Management prepares detailed operational budgets 
for the year ahead and a three-year strategic plan, which are 
reviewed and approved by the Board. Performance is monitored 
through the monthly reporting of financial results and regular 
updating of forecasts for the year. The Group Accounting Policies 
Manual is used by all businesses in the Group to ensure that 
transactions and balances are recognised and measured in 
accordance with the Group’s prescribed accounting policies. All 
businesses submit their results using the Group’s consolidation 
system, which ensures that information is gathered and presented 
in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the 
consolidated financial statements.
Internal control
The directors are responsible for the establishment and 
maintenance of an effective system of internal control. Each of  
the Group’s divisions is accountable to the Chief Executive and  
is managed by executive leadership, which provides day-to-day 
control over the divisions’ operations within the strategic 
guidelines and delegated authorities determined by the Board. 
The internal control system is designed to meet the Group’s 
particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, but it should 
be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control 
is, it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 36 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance continued
The findings of the annual assessment of the Group’s system of 
internal controls undertaken by the Audit Committee, as detailed 
on page 34, were presented to the Board. Areas for improvement 
were identified and actions are in hand to improve the relevant 
control procedures. The Board is satisfied that the information  
that it received throughout the year on internal controls and the 
information from the annual assessment on internal controls were 
sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal controls. 
Risk management
The Board has established a structured approach to identifying, 
evaluating, managing, monitoring, and reporting on key risks 
facing the Group.
The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk 
management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board 
through the Audit Committee. It also monitors the mitigating 
actions put in place by the relevant operational managers to 
address the identified risks. The risk management process is 
outlined in Risks and Uncertainties on page 28.
The Senior Vice President Business Risk chairs the Risk Committee, 
and its meetings are attended by the Chief Executive, the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, 
the Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, 
the Chief of Staff and the Vice President Risk Management and 
Insurance. During the year, its activities have included reviewing 
the Group’s risk framework (which tracks the principal risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Group across its businesses), reviewing 
the development and implementation of the Group’s new 
Compliance Programme, and assessing a report produced by an 
external party which reviewed the Risk Committee function and its 
risk monitoring processes. A summary of the principal risks facing 
the Group is presented on pages 29 to 30.
Internal audit
Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee, and its responsibilities include the examination 
and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control. The audit plan is constructed to cover 
Invensys globally over a four–year cycle, with a degree of tailoring 
to address specific risk concerns. During the year, Internal Audit 
reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its assessment of 
internal control issues arising in the course of its Internal Audit 
reviews of the Group’s operations. As detailed earlier in this report, 
the Audit Committee provides a consolidated review to assist the 
Board in undertaking its own annual review of internal control.
In light of the changing nature of the Group’s business, the 
geographic spread of operations and the need for certain 
specialist audit resources (e.g. IT), the majority of internal audit 
work is outsourced to Deloitte LLP. A small Internal Audit function, 
reporting to the Senior Vice President Business Risk, has been 
retained to manage the outsourcing contract and undertake 
certain ad hoc assignments.
Whistle-blowing
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements under which 
employees can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns about 
potential irregularities, and the arrangements for follow-up 
actions. A helpline is operated by Global Compliance Services  
Inc, an independent company, and is publicised to employees  
through the Invensys Code of Conduct. As part of the new 
Compliance Programme the helpline is being more heavily 
promoted across the Group and made more accessible to 
employees.
Any investigations are undertaken by the Vice President of 
Compliance and any material investigations are brought to the 
immediate attention of the Audit Committee, which determines 
appropriate follow-up actions. Statistics on the volume and 
general nature of calls are reported annually to the Audit 
Committee and the Board. In addition, employees can raise 
concerns through other means such as electronic or postal mail 
sent to the Board or management, which correspondence is 
investigated in the same manner as concerns raised through the 
helpline. The Board receives regular updates on compliance 
issues at Board meetings from the Chief Legal Officer. No material 
issues were reported through these processes during the year. Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37
Nominating Committee report
Members
Sir Nigel Rudd (Chairman)  
Bay Green 
Ulf Henriksson  
Michael Parker 
Dr Martin Read 
Pat Zito
Martin Jay was the former Chairman of the Nominating Committee 
until his retirement on 17 July 2009. The Nominating Committee 
is now chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, the Chairman. Dr Martin Read 
joined the Nominating Committee on 18 July 2009. 
Meetings
Details of the meetings held during the year by the Nominating 
Committee and members’ attendance are detailed on page 32.
Role and activities
The terms of reference for the Nominating Committee are 
available on the Group’s website. Set out below are the 
Nominating Committee’s responsibilities and the main activities 
undertaken during the year. 
Responsibilities of the Nominating Committee Activities during the year
Reviewing the composition and size of the Board and its
committees
As part of its annual strategy meeting, the Nominating 
Committee agreed that in the context of the Group’s strategy 
and its stage of development, the Board had the appropriate 
blend of skills and experience.
Making recommendations to the Board for the
appointment, reappointment and retirement of directors
The Nominating Committee conducted a search for a new 
non-executive director. An external firm assisted with this 
search, which resulted in Paul Lester being nominated and 
appointed to the Board as a non-executive director. 
Consider succession planning Succession planning for all of the senior executive team was 
considered as part of the Nominating Committee’s annual 
strategy meeting.
Review annually its terms of reference The terms of reference were revised without material changes.
Make recommendations to the Board regarding the
election and re-election of directors at the AGM
The provisions regarding election and re-election are set out  
on page 32. Following evaluation and recommendation by the 
Nominating Committee, it was agreed that Francesco Caio, Paul 
Lester and Dr Martin Read would stand for election at the 2010 
AGM, and Ulf Henriksson and Pat Zito would be proposed for 
re-election.
Conduct an annual evaluation of the performance of the
Nominating Committee
As detailed on page 32 an evaluation was conducted during  
the year.
The Corporate Governance report was approved by the Board of 
directors on 23 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by
Victoria Hull
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary 38 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report
The Board has delegated its authority to the Remuneration
Committee (the Committee) for all matters relating to
remuneration policy and for determining specific
arrangements for the Chairman, executive directors
and selected senior management below Board level.
The contents of the Remuneration Report (the Report) are  
as follows:
  Page
1 Remuneration Committee 38
 Members
 Governance
 Responsibilities
 Activities
 2  Remuneration strategy and policy 39
 Strategy
 Policy
 Base salary
 Annual incentive arrangements
 Long-term incentive arrangements
 Performance graph
 Remuneration of executive directors 2010/11
 Dilution limits
 Employee benefit trust
 Share Ownership Guidelines
 External directorships
 Service contracts
 Payment to a former director
 3  Chairman and non-executive directors 47
 Chairman’s appointment, terms and fee
 Non-executive directors’ appointment, terms and fees
4  Directors’ emoluments and interests in shares
and share plans 48
Compliance
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the 
Companies Act), Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. It also 
describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in 2008 (the Combined Code) have been applied in 
relation to remuneration for the current and forthcoming 
financial years. Ernst & Young LLP has audited the contents  
of the Report to the extent required by the Companies Act  
(the tabular information on pages 48 to 50 relating to directors’ 
remuneration and directors’ interests in shares and all share 
incentive plans).
1 Remuneration Committee
Members
Dr Martin Read (Chairman)
Francesco Caio 
Paul Lester 
Michael Parker 
Sir Nigel Rudd 
During the year, Jean-Claude Guez served as Committee 
Chairman until his retirement from the Board on 17 July 2009.  
Dr Martin Read was appointed Committee Chairman on 18 July 
2009 as Mr Guez’s replacement. Francesco Caio also became a 
member of the Committee on 18 July 2009. Bay Green stepped 
down as a member on 1 January 2010, following the appointment 
of Paul Lester as a member of the Committee. Pat Zito also 
stepped down as a member on 30 March 2010. 
Governance
All members are independent non-executive directors, other  
than Sir Nigel Rudd, the Chairman of the Company.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Human 
Resources Officer and the Vice President Executive Reward are 
invited to attend and speak at meetings, other than when their 
own remuneration is being considered. The Chairman does not 
attend when his fee is under review. 
To ensure that the Group’s remuneration practices remain market-
competitive and compliant, advice was received from Deloitte LLP, 
who were the principal source of external advice as independent 
remuneration consultants to the Committee on issues relating to 
the remuneration arrangements for the executive directors. A copy 
of the terms of appointment of Deloitte LLP is available on the 
Group’s website. In addition, Deloitte LLP undertook expatriate tax 
compliance work for certain senior executives, provided advice in 
relation to some corporate tax matters, and provided internal audit 
services. Hewitt New Bridge Street provided the Committee with 
data in relation to total shareholder return (TSR) and ranking 
information for the long-term incentive schemes. The Committee 
was provided with legal advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus 
Deringer LLP, who are also lawyers to the Company.  Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39
Details of individual attendance at Committee meetings held 
during the year are provided in the Corporate Governance report 
on page 32. 
As detailed in the Corporate Governance report on page 32, the 
Committee’s performance is reviewed annually both by the Board 
as a whole and by the Committee itself. The Board remains 
satisfied that the Committee is operating effectively and focussed 
on continued improvement. 
Responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
•  agreeing with the Board the framework or broad policy for the 
remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, Company 
Secretary, the Group Leadership Team (GLT), and certain 
leaders below the GLT whose remuneration is above a certain 
base salary level. The fee arrangements for non-executive 
directors are a matter for the Chairman and the executive 
directors of the Board;
•  reviewing the appropriateness of the remuneration policy;
•  approving the design of, and determining targets for, any 
performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company 
and approving the total annual payments made under  
such schemes;
•  reviewing the design of all share incentive plans and 
determining the performance conditions;
•  ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any 
payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company,  
that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is 
fully recognised;
•  determining, within the terms of the agreed policy, the 
remuneration packages of each executive director, the other 
members of the GLT and the Chairman;
•  overseeing any major changes in employee benefit structures 
throughout the Company;
•  ensuring that all provisions regarding disclosure of 
remuneration (including pensions), as set out in the relevant 
provisions of the Companies Act and the Combined Code,  
are fulfilled;
•  selecting remuneration consultants to advise the Committee; 
and
•  considering any other matters as referred to the Committee  
by the Board.
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the 
Group’s website.
Activities
The principal matters considered during the year by the 
Committee included:
•  review of executive remuneration for 2010/11, including base 
salary and incentive arrangements;
•  approval of the outturn of performance targets for the 2008/09 
Executive Bonus Plan;
•  approval of the acceleration of bonus payments for 2009/10  
and of the vesting of certain share incentives;
•  approval of the performance targets for the 2010/11 Executive 
Bonus Plan;
•  approval of annual awards under the 2007 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (2007 LTIP), the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) and targeted 
cash retention awards;
•  assessment of performance conditions relating to executive 
share awards under the 1998 Senior Executive Long Term 
Incentive Plan (1998 LTIP) vesting during the year;
•  approval of termination packages for leavers within the GLT; 
•  approval of a UK and international launch of the Savings  
Related Share Option Scheme; and
• approval of a mitigation policy.
2 Remuneration strategy and policy
Strategy
The Company’s remuneration strategy is to provide  
packages that:
•  attract, retain and motivate high-calibre people;
•  are competitive in the relevant markets;
•  encourage a high performance culture;
•  reinforce the Invensys Value of Meritocracy by  
rewarding successful results;
•  appropriately balance risk and reward; and 
•  are aligned to shareholder interests.
Policy
The Committee’s policy is to provide competitive  
remuneration for the delivery of target performance, while 
rewarding exceptional personal and Company performance 
with UK market upper quartile levels of remuneration. The 
Committee believes that the total reward package provides  
a good balance between the achievement of annual and 
long-term targets.
In setting the remuneration policy, the Committee is  
cognisant of the need to balance risk with reward, and during 
2009/10 conducted an internal review of the risk considerations 
in reward practices. On considering the results of this review, 
the Committee is satisfied that the balance between risk and 
executive reward in Invensys is appropriate. The Committee  
will consider risk each year and has discretion to adjust any 
financial outturns for incentive purposes if it considers that 
disproportionate risk has been taken to deliver against targets. 40 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
The key elements of the Company’s remuneration policy are 
described in detail below. A high proportion of executive director 
total reward is performance-related variable remuneration as 
indicated in the charts below.
Expected value of Chief Executive package 2010/11
 Base salary 29%
 A nnual bonus  29%
 2 007 LTIP 32%
 Pension allowance 10%
 Other beneﬁts
1
 <1%
Expected value of Chief Financial Ofﬁcer package 2010/11
 B ase salary 29%
 A nnual bonus  29%
 2 007 LTIP 32%
 Pension allowance 9%
 Other beneﬁts
1
 1%
Note
1  
Benefits are private healthcare and car allowance.
Base salary
The Committee determines the level of base salary for each 
executive director annually. For 2009/10 and 2010/11, base salaries 
were set within a market-competitive range based on analysis of 
salaries paid in FTSE 350 companies and taking into account the 
relative complexity, international scope and size of comparator 
companies. The Committee additionally considers salaries in 
relevant key competitor companies, specific factors relating to the 
individual (including personal performance), internal relativities, 
wage inflation elsewhere in the Group, and overall affordability. 
In establishing individual salary levels, the Committee is conscious 
that it should pay no more than is necessary to retain and motivate 
the executive, while ensuring business objectives are fulfilled. 
There is no automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
The Committee took into account the factors above in 
determining the executive directors’ salaries. With effect from  
1 April 2010 the Chief Executive’s base salary was increased to 
£845,000 (2009: £820,000), reflecting the average level of salary 
increases elsewhere in the Group. With effect from 1 April 2010, 
the base salary of the Chief Financial Officer was increased to 
£425,000 (2009: £375,000). This increase reflects the Chief 
Financial Officer’s performance during the year and the 
Committee’s decision to bring his salary in line with the market 
median, having initially set his salary on appointment at a below 
market level. The Committee considers these base salary levels 
necessary and appropriate to meet its objective of retaining the 
executive directors and maintaining competitive pay levels, having 
taken full account of the performance of the executive directors 
and the business-critical nature of their contribution.
The next review date for executive directors’ base salaries will be 
1 April 2011.
Annual incentive arrangements
Performance-related bonuses may be paid under the Executive 
Bonus Plan, which provides annual incentives for the executive 
directors in order to encourage the achievement of predefined 
annual financial objectives and to focus on the most critical 
measures of business success, while rewarding them for outstanding 
performance. In this way, the Executive Bonus Plan seeks to align 
the interests of shareholders and those participating in it.
For 2009/10 and 2010/11, the Committee approved the following 
performance calibration for the Executive Bonus Plan:
Threshold
10% of  
target payout
Target
100% of  
target payout
Stretch
150% of  
target payout
Super-stretch
200% of  
target payout
The executive directors’ bonus payment for target performance  
is 100% of base salary, resulting in a maximum bonus opportunity 
for the achievement of super-stretch performance of 200% of base 
salary for 2009/10 and 2010/11.
Executive Bonus Plan 2009/10
The targets for executive directors were underlying EPS and free 
cash flow, weighted 50%/50%. 
The bonuses paid to the executive directors in relation to the year 
under review are set out on page 48. In line with the Executive Bonus 
Plan rules, the salary used for bonus calculation purposes is the 
salary effective from 1 April 2009. In respect of 2009/10 actual 
performance, the bonus payments reflect the fact that the 
underlying EPS fell between the threshold and the target levels of 
performance and free cash flow performance was at the maximum 
(super-stretch) level. Taking account of the impact of certain 
exceptional items, the Committee determined that the aggregate 
outturn was a bonus payment of 149.9% of the target.
After detailed consideration, the Committee provided the 
executive directors (and other UK employees) affected by the 
increase in the income tax rate for the 2010/11 tax year with the 
opportunity to pay tax on part of their cash bonuses in the year 
in which the awards were earned (2009/10). This was achieved by 
advancing a proportion of the forecast bonus for the financial year 
to 31 March 2010 into the 2009/10 UK tax year. Measures are in 
place to ensure the recovery of the cash bonus paid should an 
executive director (or other affected UK employees) leave the 
Company before the normal payment date (June 2009) in a 
situation where the bonus would be forfeited (in total or pro rata). Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41
Bonus in excess of 100% of target (i.e. 100% of salary for executive 
directors) for members of the GLT is paid in deferred shares (in 
accordance with the Deferred Share Plan), which are transferred to 
the individual after three years (executive directors) or two years 
(other relevant executives). The deferred shares awarded to executive 
directors for 2009/10 were equivalent to 49.9% of target as 
performance exceeded the target level. In order for certain senior 
executives (including the executive directors) affected by the 50% UK  
tax regime to receive the Deferred Share Award in the year in which 
the bonus was earned (2009/10), the Committee provided an 
opportunity to accelerate a proportion of bonus and any Deferred 
Share Award into the 2009/10 UK tax year. The deferred shares are 
restricted and participants are required to retain the post-tax number 
of shares until the original award date. Measures are in place  
to ensure the recovery of funds paid in deferred shares should an 
employee leave Invensys before the normal award date (June 2009) 
in a situation where Deferred Share Awards would be forfeited (in 
total or pro rata).
Having rigorously reviewed the results achieved against the 
performance targets set for 2009/10, the Committee is satisfied  
that the targets set were challenging and that the bonuses awarded 
reflected the level of financial performance in an extremely difficult 
global economic environment. In particular, the Company’s free 
cash flow performance was exceptional when considered in the 
global economic context.
Executive Bonus Plan 2010/11
The Committee has carefully reviewed the financial targets to  
be applied for the Executive Bonus Plan for 2010/11, and is of the 
opinion that they are set at an appropriately stretching level.
The financial bonus targets for executive directors will again be 
underlying EPS and free cash flow, weighted 50%/50%. Bonus 
payments may also be influenced through the exercise of 
discretion by the Committee.
As in the prior year, any bonus earned in excess of target by  
the GLT will be paid in deferred shares as set out above.
Deferred shares are only forfeitable in the event of dismissal  
for cause.
Long-term incentive arrangements
The 2007 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGM 
and since then the Company has made annual awards under this 
plan. A separate award was implemented for the Chief Executive 
in 2007 as outlined on page 42.
The maximum annual award level for executive directors and  
other participants is normally 200% of base salary (although the 
Committee has discretion to make awards in excess of this level in 
exceptional circumstances). Vesting of awards is based on meeting 
stretching performance targets over a three-year performance 
period and, subject to meeting all relevant conditions, shares  
will normally be released to participants as soon as possible 
following the third anniversary of the award. The satisfaction  
of all performance targets is subject to external verification.
For 50% of an award, the performance measure is relative TSR 
performance measured on a local currency basis against that  
of the constituents of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital 
Goods Index. This measure was chosen to provide a focus on 
delivering high levels of return to shareholders. The Standard  
& Poor’s Global 1200 Capital Goods Index was selected as the 
comparator group because its constituents represent a wide 
grouping of over 100 companies that have businesses that are,  
in whole or in part, similar to or in competition with some or all of 
those operated by Invensys, and cover a wide geographic range 
including the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
25% of the TSR part of an award will vest for performance equal  
to the unweighted mean of the Index constituents, excluding a 
small number of outliers. The calculation will not be weighted by 
reference to market capitalisation of Index constituents, to avoid 
any single large company unduly influencing the results. An equal 
number of outliers at the top and bottom of the TSR range will be 
excluded from the mean calculation to alleviate any potential 
skewing of the outcome.
100% of the TSR part of an award will vest for outperformance of 
the mean of Index constituents (excluding outliers) equivalent to 
upper quartile performance. For awards in 2009/10 and 2010/11 
the level of outperformance equivalent to upper quartile 
performance was calculated by the Committee’s remuneration 
advisers to be a factor of 1.25 (i.e. 125%) of the unweighted mean. 
For awards made in 2009/10, the TSR performance period for the 
Company and each constituent of the Index was based on the 
three-month average to 31 March 2012 compared with the three-
month average to 31 March 2009. For awards to be made in 
2010/11, the TSR performance period for the Company and each 
constituent of the Index will be based on the three-month average 
to 31 March 2013 compared with the three-month average to  
31 March 2010. 
With regard to the other 50% of an award, the performance target 
will be the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) in underlying 
EPS. This measure was chosen to provide a focus on delivering 
stretching internal financial targets.
For the 2009/10 award the Committee reviewed the EPS targets  
in light of the global economic environment as well as factors 
specific to the Company, and determined that 25% of the EPS part 
of the award will vest for EPS CAGR of 5%. 100% of the EPS part of 
the award will vest for EPS CAGR of 13%. Growth is measured from 
a base of 14.1 pence, this being the 2008/09 underlying EPS.
For the 2010/11 award the Committee again considered all 
relevant factors and determined that 25% of the EPS part of the 
award will vest for EPS CAGR of 5%. 100% of the EPS part of the 
award will vest for EPS CAGR of 15%. Growth will be measured 
from a base of 13.4 pence, this being the 2009/10 underlying EPS.  
In the opinion of the Committee these targets are appropriately 
stretching.  42 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
2007 CEO Special Award
In 2007, the Committee determined that the Chief Executive 
would participate in a one-off long-term incentive award, known 
as the 2007 CEO Special Award (Special Award), in addition to his 
normal annual award under the 2007 LTIP. Subject to meeting very 
demanding performance conditions, the Special Award entitled 
Mr Henriksson to 1,608,554 shares, being 700% of his 2007/08 
base salary (£750,000).
The performance test for the Special Award measured 
performance over the three-year period to 31 March 2010, and  
the measures reflected those applying to the 2007 LTIP, with some 
elements being more demanding as set out below. 
The Special Award was split into two layers, each of which would 
vest on a different basis. For the first layer, equal to 200% of base 
salary, 20% would vest for threshold performance and 100% for 
maximum performance. For the second layer, equal to 500% of 
base salary, there was no vesting for threshold performance, but 
100% vesting for maximum performance. Vesting in each layer 
would be on a straight-line basis between these points. 
For each layer of the Special Award, 50% would vest based on  
TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP. However, 
for the TSR part of the Special Award (50%), maximum vesting 
required more stretching performance, equivalent to upper 
quintile. With regard to the TSR test, the Company has considered 
the Company’s comparative TSR performance analysis (provided 
by an independent third party) and determined that 93.0% of the 
first layer of shares and 91.3% of the second layer of shares will be 
available to vest, 50% being released as soon as practicable 
following the announcement of the 2009/10 audited financial 
results and the balance after a 12-month period. With regard to 
the EPS part of the award (50%), after considering the 2009/10 
audited financial results, the Committee has determined that the 
threshold level of EPS CAGR required for vesting was not achieved 
and the shares subject to the EPS performance condition will 
lapse. In aggregate, 738,142 of the 1,608,554 shares awarded 
under the Special Award will vest and the remaining shares  
will lapse.
2006 Award under the 1998 LTIP
The vesting of the awards granted in June 2006 (2006 Award) was 
conditional on the Company’s TSR relative to a basket of 12 global 
comparators over a three-year performance period, and on 
meeting specific underpin targets. 25% of an award would vest  
for median performance, with full vesting requiring upper decile 
performance. 50% of vested shares were to be released at the end 
of the performance period and the remainder normally after one 
year, subject to continued employment. The 2006 Award level for 
executive directors was 200% of base salary.
The Committee has discretion to exclude from the calculation 
one-off items of a non-recurring nature, to ensure that the focus  
is on underlying growth in EPS.
The Committee will in all cases retain discretion to ensure that,  
as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall 
performance of the Company has been satisfactory. For the TSR 
part of the award, factors that will be taken into account will 
include EPS growth and the Group’s cash position. Vested awards 
will include an additional number of shares representing the value 
of any dividends that would have been paid on those vested 
shares had they been held throughout the vesting period.
The performance conditions do not apply to 30% of an award for 
executive participants below executive director level. This is to 
address specific recruitment and retention issues facing the Group.
If a participant resigns or is dismissed for cause before shares are 
released, they will be forfeited. If a participant’s employment ceases 
due to ill health, disability or any other reason determined at the 
discretion of the Committee, other than dismissal for cause, 
performance will be measured at the normal vesting date and the 
award will then be pro rated based on the period of service, save 
that the Committee may moderate the application of the pro rata 
reduction if it considers that the participant’s contribution to the 
business would not be properly recognised if the award was scaled 
down. The Committee has discretion to accelerate vesting in 
compassionate circumstances.
In the event of a change of control during the performance period, 
performance will be measured at the latest possible date before 
the change of control takes place to determine the proportion 
vesting based on performance. The proportion of the award that 
may be released will then be time pro rated.
The Committee has discretion to disapply the impact of time pro 
rating and to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a change of 
control if, due to exceptional business circumstances (to be 
assessed by the Committee), returns to shareholders are 
considered to be at a superior level.
2007 Award under the 2007 LTIP
For awards granted in August 2007 (2007 Award) the performance 
condition was measured over the three-year period to 31 March 
2010. While the 2007 Award will not vest until August 2010 (on the 
third anniversary of grant), the Committee has considered the 
extent to which the criteria have been achieved. For executive 
directors, with regard to the TSR part of the 2007 Award (50%),  
the Committee has considered the Company’s comparative TSR 
performance analysis (provided by an independent third party) 
and determined that all of the shares will be available to vest in 
August 2010. With regard to the EPS part of the 2007 Award  
(50%), after considering the 2009/10 audited financial results, the 
Committee has determined that the threshold level of EPS CAGR 
required for vesting was not achieved. Such shares subject to the 
EPS performance condition will lapse. Therefore, in aggregate, 
50% of the 2007 Award to executive directors will vest, with  
Mr Henriksson being the only beneficiary. Steve Hare (the former 
Chief Financial Officer) resigned from the Company and his 2007 
Award lapsed on resignation.  Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
The Committee’s belief was that the actual outcome of the 
performance test for the 2006 Award did not fully reflect the 
substantial achievements of the senior management team  
or the strong financial performance of Invensys during the 
performance period, as this outcome was significantly distorted  
by movements in exchange rates in the last few months of the 
performance period. 
The performance test for the 2006 Award required that all figures 
be converted into sterling using the then current exchange rates. 
Given the exceptional decline in sterling versus both the US dollar 
and the euro in the final quarter of the 2008 calendar year, the 
vesting level of the 2006 Award was distorted and reduced to 
only 55%. The effect of this was particularly acute for Invensys 
because only one other company in the comparator group had 
a share price quoted in sterling. In contrast, on a “local currency” 
calculation basis, TSR performance over the period to June 2009 
would have produced 100% vesting.
There were also two underpins to the TSR test, namely that free 
cash flow per share must have been satisfactory and there must 
have been efficient management of legacy items (such as 
environmental and pension) over the performance period. In 
relation to these underpins, the Committee was satisfied that 
these were achieved. 
Having taken all relevant matters into account, and following 
consultation with major shareholders in June 2009, the Committee 
decided to exercise discretion and make an additional award of 
further shares equal to 22.5% of the shares granted under the 
original award (Additional Shares). The aggregate equivalent 
vesting of the 2006 Award was 77.5%, taking into account actual 
vesting and the Additional Shares. This was announced to the 
market on 30 June 2009. Other than for the Chief Executive, 
the Additional Shares were granted under the RSP. The Chief 
Executive’s award was granted under a separate arrangement 
(as the RSP precludes grants to executive directors), but with the 
same provisions as if granted under the RSP.
The 2006 Award (including the Additional Shares) was originally 
scheduled to vest 50% at the end of the three-year performance 
period and 50% after a one-year deferral period in June 2010. 
The Committee provided an opportunity for certain senior 
executives (including the Chief Executive) to accelerate vesting 
of the second tranche of the 2006 Award into the 2009/10 UK tax 
year. These shares are restricted and participants are required to 
retain the post-tax number of shares until the original vesting date. 
Measures are in place to ensure the recovery of the 2006 Award 
should participants leave Invensys before the normal vesting date 
in a situation where the 2006 Award would be forfeited.
No further awards can be granted under the 1998 LTIP and 
long-term incentive awards are now made under the 2007 LTIP.  
As detailed on page 41, awards under the 2007 LTIP are calculated 
on a local currency basis and are not impacted by currency 
fluctuations.
Details of the awards granted and released to the executive 
directors are detailed in Directors’ Interests on page 49.
Performance graph
The graph below illustrates the Company’s TSR performance  
(i.e. share price assuming reinvestment of any dividends) over the 
last five years relative to the FTSE 100 Index. This Index has been 
selected because it is a broad equity index of which the Company 
is a constituent. 
50
100
150
250
200
31 Mar 05 31 Mar 06 31 Mar 07 31 Mar 08 31 Mar 09 31 Mar 10
Value (£)
Invensys plc
FTSE 100 Index
Source: Datastream (a Thomson Reuters product)
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2010, of £100 invested in Invensys plc on 31 March 
2005 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other points 
plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. 44 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration of executive directors 2010/11
The table below summarises the key elements of the executive directors’ remuneration as they will apply for 2010/11. 
Element of
remuneration package

Purpose

Policy

Summary of operation
Base salary • Recognise the market 
value of the role and 
an individual’s skills, 
experience and 
performance.
• Set pay in a competitive 
range by reference to 
relevant comparators.
• Reflect the individual’s 
skills and performance.
• Paid monthly in cash.
• Reviewed annually and fixed for the 12 months 
commencing 1 April.
• The Chief Executive’s base salary increased to 
£845,000 from 1 April 2010.
• The Chief Financial Officer’s base salary increased 
to £425,000 from 1 April 2010.
Annual bonus • Drive performance.
• Incentivise  
executives to achieve 
specific, stretching 
predetermined goals 
over a short-term 
period.
• Reward ongoing 
contribution to core 
Invensys Values.
• Focus executives on 
targets relevant to  
the Group’s current 
strategic goals.
• Bonus determined by 
reference to financial 
targets.
• Stretch bonus potential 
set by reference to UK 
and international market 
comparators (currently 
150% of base salary).
• For the achievement of 
truly exceptional 
super-stretch financial 
performance, a 
maximum annual bonus 
payment of 200% of 
salary is available for 
2010/11. 
• The Committee sets a threshold performance level 
(where 10% of salary is paid) and a target level 
(where 100% of salary is paid), increasing on a 
straight-line basis to a stretch level (where 150%  
of salary is paid). For levels of performance above 
stretch, the targets are harder to achieve to a level  
of super-stretch performance. The maximum  
annual bonus payment is 200% of salary.
• Bonus payments are determined by the  
Committee after year end, based on targets set at 
the start of the year. The bonus amount up to target 
performance level is paid in cash. Any bonus earned 
in excess of the target performance level will be 
paid in deferred shares, which will be released after 
three years (subject to the executive director not 
being dismissed for cause).
2007 Long Term
Incentive Plan
(2007 LTIP)
• Drive and reward the 
delivery of sustained 
EPS and TSR 
performance.
• Align interests  
of executives and 
shareholders  
through building a 
shareholding.
• Retain key executives 
over three-year 
performance period.
• Maximum usual annual 
grant of 200% of base 
salary; actual award 
levels determined by 
individual performance.
• Expected award level to 
executive directors in 
2010/11 is 200% of  
base salary.
• Awards of shares made annually, conditional on 
performance measured over the three subsequent 
years (ending 31 March 2013 for awards in 2010/11).
• For 50% of the award the performance condition will 
relate to the Company’s TSR performance relative  
to the constituents of the Standard & Poor’s Global 
1200 Capital Goods Index. 25% will vest for 
performance equal to the mean of the Index 
constituents, and 100% will vest for outperformance 
representing upper quartile (excluding outliers in 
each case).
• For 50% of the award the performance condition will 
relate to the CAGR of the Company’s EPS. 25% will 
vest for 5% CAGR and 100% will vest for 15% CAGR.
• Shares will only vest to participants if the Committee 
is satisfied that the underlying performance of the 
Company has been sufficient. 
Pension
allowance
• Reward ongoing 
contribution during 
Invensys career.
• Facilitate the 
accumulation of an 
appropriate level of 
post-retirement benefits.
• The Chief Executive is entitled to a pension 
allowance equal to 35% of base salary in lieu of 
pension entitlement, which is paid as a contribution 
to a personal pension scheme.
• The Chief Financial Officer is entitled to a pension 
allowance equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of 
pension entitlement, which is paid as a contribution 
to a personal pension scheme. Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45
Element of
remuneration package

Purpose

Policy

Summary of operation
Share Ownership
Guidelines
• Align the interests of 
executive directors 
and other senior 
executives with those 
of shareholders.
• Executive directors are 
required to build and 
maintain a shareholding 
of 200% of base salary.
• A more stringent 
shareholding 
requirement applies to 
the Chief Executive until 
May 2010.
• Executive directors are expected to retain shares 
(net of taxes) acquired through the vesting of shares 
under the Group’s share incentive plans until the 
target holding is achieved. Existing shareholdings 
and shares acquired in the market are also taken 
into account.
• Exceptionally, in conjunction with the 2007 CEO 
Special Award, an increased shareholding 
requirement of 300% of base salary applies to  
the Chief Executive until May 2010.
Service contracts • Provide an appropriate 
level of protection to 
both the executives 
and Invensys.
• Notice periods not  
to exceed 12 months 
(except, where 
necessary, for a 
transitional period  
on joining).
• Provide for mitigation 
and/or phasing of any 
payment.
• The Chief Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s 
contracts provide for 12 months’ notice. Both 
contracts permit any termination payment to be 
made on a phased basis, reducing if the director 
obtains alternative employment.
Other benefits
Other benefits provided for executive directors include the 
provision of a cash allowance in place of a company car, typical life 
assurance/permanent health insurance benefits, private medical 
insurance and annual health checks. In addition, the Company 
pays, on a grossed-up basis, certain third-party fees incurred for 
UK and US tax filings and relevant immigration matters.
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan (TBOP)
On a transitional basis, the Committee operated the TBOP in 
2005/06 and in 2006/07. The TBOP was subject to the same 
performance targets as the Executive Bonus Plan, but only 
commenced payment where an above target level of performance 
was achieved. At target, no payment was due, with the potential 
bonus increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% of salary if the 
maximum bonus was earned.
To align the interests of executive directors and shareholders, any 
bonuses earned under the TBOP were paid in shares, with 50% of 
the shares awarded being released following the first anniversary 
of grant and the other 50% being released following the second 
anniversary. The final tranche of shares outstanding under the 
TBOP was transferred on 1 June 2009.
Details of the awards released to the executive directors are 
detailed in Directors’ Interests on page 49.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The Company also operates an RSP which grants executive 
leaders (other than executive directors) restricted share awards, 
nominal/nil price options or cash awards over Invensys shares. 
Release of shares is generally subject to continued employment at 
the relevant date, although shares may be released early in 
defined good leaver cases or for any other reason at the discretion 
of the Committee. 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
The Company operates its Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
in the UK and certain other countries. Participants are granted an 
option to purchase Invensys shares at a favourable price, using  
the proceeds of a savings account to which they make monthly 
contributions (of up to £250) for a three-year period. Executive 
directors are eligible to participate in the scheme, which operates 
in the UK within specific tax legislation. The scheme is not subject to 
performance conditions. A grant was made under the scheme in 
2009/10.
Dilution limits
The Company has at all times complied with the dilution limits 
contained within its share plans (principally a limit of 10% in 10 
years). In the 10-year period to 31 March 2010, awards made under 
the Company’s share schemes represented 3.8% (2009: 3.1%) of 
the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. Shares to satisfy the 
TBOP, the deferred share element of the Executive Bonus Plan and 
the RSP are purchased in the market. 46 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
Employee benefit trust
The Company has an employee benefit trust which is administered 
by an independent trustee and which holds ordinary shares in the 
Company to meet the various obligations under its executive 
share schemes, as appropriate. The trust held 230,380 ordinary 
shares at 31 March 2010 (2009: 414,534). 
Share Ownership Guidelines
Executives are required to build up and maintain a shareholding 
over time under the Share Ownership Guidelines. Under the 
guidelines, executives should retain at least 50% of the shares 
(100% of shares for executive directors) vesting under any of the 
executive share incentive plans or the payment of annual 
incentives in shares (other than to meet any tax obligations) until 
such time as the following minimum level of qualifying interest  
is reached:
• Executive directors — 200% of net base salary
• Group Leadership Team — 50% of net base salary
• Other participants — 25% of net base salary
In conjunction with the introduction of the Special Award, the 
Chief Executive is required to build up to an increased level of 
shareholding of 300% of base salary until May 2010. Thereafter, 
the normal 200% of base salary under the Share Ownership 
Guidelines will apply.
External directorships
The executive directors are encouraged to hold not more than  
one external non-executive directorship in order to broaden their 
experience for the benefit of the Company. Such appointments 
are subject to approval by the Board, and the director may retain 
any fees paid in respect of such a directorship. Mr Henriksson 
joined the board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive director in 
2007, from which he retains the fees payable of SEK 350,000 
(approximately £29,000) per annum.
Service contracts
Policy
The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional 
investors recommend that notice periods of no more than one 
year be set as an objective for executive directors and that any 
payments to a departing executive director should be determined 
having full regard to the duty of mitigation. It is the Company’s 
policy to achieve these objectives wherever possible.
Specific contracts 
Set out below is a summary of the main provisions of the service 
contracts of those executive directors who served during the year: 
  Date of Notice
Director Notes contract period
Wayne Edmunds 1,2,4,5  5 April 2009 12 months
Ulf Henriksson 1,3,4 28 April 2004 12 months
Notes
1
  In the event of early termination of the director’s service contract (other than where summary 
dismissal is appropriate) the Company has the right to pay, in lieu of notice, the salary and 
contractual benefits which he would have received during the relevant notice period. 
2
  The Company may elect to pay the amount due in lieu of notice in equal monthly instalments 
during the relevant notice period. The amount will be reduced by 50% if he obtains 
alternative employment. 
3
  The Company may elect to pay the amount due in lieu of notice as a single lump sum, 
or pay the first six months’ worth on departure and then on a phased basis at six monthly 
intervals with appropriate reduction in the event that the executive director finds 
alternative employment.
4
  The Committee approved in 2007/08 changes to Mr Henriksson’s contract entitling him, 
in the event of a material adverse change to his title, responsibilities or status following 
a change of control of the Company, to terminate his employment and receive a payment 
equal to the termination payment set out above. Mr Edmunds’ service contract includes 
similar provisions.
5  
Under the terms of his appointment Mr Edmunds is entitled to certain benefits relating to 
his relocation from the US including: a property rental allowance for the first 12 months 
following appointment; reimbursement of costs reasonably incurred in shipping personal 
effects to the UK; a resettlement allowance equal to one month’s base salary; and the 
services of a housing relocation agent.
Mr Hare left the Company on 31 May 2009 following his 
resignation. No termination payment was made to him. The 
Committee determined that his deferred share award (which he 
would otherwise have received on 24 July 2011) would vest on  
31 May 2009. The 2006/07 TBOP award vested in accordance with 
its terms on 1 June 2009. He received his 2008/09 annual bonus 
payment notwithstanding that he left before the payment date, 
and the Committee determined that he would be eligible for an 
annual bonus in respect of his two months’ service in 2009/10 as 
detailed on page 48.
As a result of the Company recharging a proportion of 
Mr Henriksson’s employment costs to the US businesses, 
Mr Henriksson incurred both US and UK tax liabilities in  
respect of his employment duties undertaken in the US in 2008.  
Deloitte LLP advised Invensys that the UK tax liabilities paid by 
Mr Henriksson in respect of such duties should be refunded to him 
by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). However, such refund was 
delayed pending a determination by the US and UK tax authorities 
of the relevant treaty provisions. In view of the material prejudice 
suffered by Mr Henriksson as a result of this temporary double 
taxation, Invensys Systems Inc advanced £546,000 to Mr Henriksson 
in 2008/09, being an amount equal to refunds due from HMRC. 
This 2008/09 loan is repayable to Invensys Systems Inc on HMRC 
refunding the amount to Mr Henriksson. The funds have not yet 
been released by HMRC, although the Company understands that 
the payment is imminent.  Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47
A similar situation has arisen in 2009/10, as Mr Henriksson incurred 
both US and UK tax liabilities in respect of his employment duties 
undertaken for the Company in the US in 2009. The amount of 
temporary double taxation suffered by Mr Henriksson and paid  
by him is £312,691 in relation to 2009/10, and Invensys Systems Inc 
may provide a further advance of this amount. Any 2009/10 loan 
would be repayable to the Company on HMRC refunding the 
amount to Mr Henriksson.
Payment toa former director
Kathleen O’Donovan left Invensys as Chief Financial Officer on 
31 December 2002. Part of her pension entitlement for service  
at Invensys was provided through an Unfunded Unapproved 
Retirement Benefit Scheme (UURBS). As permitted by her 
termination arrangements, Ms O’Donovan requested a 
commutation of her UURBS during the year. The Committee 
agreed to pay the commutation of £2,100,000 on a fair value  
basis, resulting in a reduction in the accrued IAS 19 pension 
liability. The cash settlement was made in March 2010.  
In addition, the Company bore national insurance costs  
of £268,800. Ms O’Donovan has been chair of the trustee  
of the Invensys Pension Scheme since February 2003.
3 Chairman and non-executive directors
Chairman’s appointment, terms and fee
As previously announced, Martin Jay retired as Chairman at  
the conclusion of the 2009 AGM. No compensation was paid  
to Mr Jay on his retirement from the Board.
Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed a non-executive director  
and Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2009, succeeded Mr Jay  
as Chairman on 17 July 2009. The terms of Sir Nigel Rudd’s 
appointment are set out in a contract dated 3 December 2008 
which requires, except in the case of dismissal for cause, 12 
months’ notice by either party. On early termination, at the request 
of the Company, any compensation will be subject to mitigation.
Sir Nigel Rudd spends, on average, two days per week in his role 
as Chairman. From the commencement of the Chairmanship, the 
Company agreed to fund the cost of a car and driver based on  
two fifths of the annualised cost of the provision of such services.
On appointment as Chairman, Sir Nigel Rudd’s fee increased from 
£150,000 per annum to £270,000 per annum. He also elected to 
participate in the same arrangement as the other non-executive 
directors, whereby £8,000 of his fee per annum is paid in shares.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Chairman’s fee. 
The Chairman is not involved in any decision on his own 
remuneration. The fees currently paid to the Chairman and the 
other non-executive directors are subject to the limits set in the 
Company’s Articles of Association. The Chairman’s fee was 
reviewed during the year and the Committee agreed it should 
remain at £270,000 per annum.
Non-executive directors’ appointment, terms and fees
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the 
Company and serve the Company under letters of appointment 
that do not contain any notice period. All non-executive directors 
(including the Chairman) are appointed under the Company’s 
Articles of Association, which require that one third of all directors 
(including executive directors) shall retire at each AGM but that all 
directors must seek re-election at least once every three years. 
They do not participate in any bonus or performance-related plans 
or any of the Group’s share incentive, option or pension schemes. 
Appointments of non-executive directors are terminable without 
payment or compensation by either the Company or director 
giving written notice. 
Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman  
are determined by a committee of the Board comprising the 
Chairman and the executive directors. They are subject to the 
limits set out in the Articles of Association and are determined 
taking account of time commitments and responsibilities,  
together with comparative market rates and benchmarking data. 
During the year the fee structure for the non-executive directors 
was a basic fee of £50,000 per annum, inclusive of £8,000 paid in 
shares to ensure that the interests of the non-executive directors 
were aligned with those of shareholders. Each non-executive 
director commits to retain their shares for the period of their 
directorship. The remuneration table on page 48 includes that 
part of the fee used to purchase shares, and the shares are 
included in Directors’ Interests, also on page 48.
Additional payments of £10,000 and £8,000 were paid to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee respectively. 
A review of the non-executive directors’ fees has been conducted 
resulting in some changes to the fee structure. With effect from  
1 April 2010, the basic fee is to increase to £52,000 per annum, 
with £8,000 paid in shares as before. The additional fees paid  
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Remuneration 
Committee are now £14,000 and £10,000 respectively. Finally, an 
additional fee of £10,000 is to be paid to the Senior Independent 
Director to recognise the additional responsibilities that he 
undertakes. 
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of directors 
on 23 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by
Dr Martin Read
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 48 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
4 Directors’ emoluments and interests in shares and share plans
Remuneration
The remuneration of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2010 was as follows:
      2010
8
 2009
  Salary/fees
5
 Pension Benefits
6
 Bonuses
7
 Total Total
 Notes £ £ £ £ £ £
Chairman       
Sir Nigel Rudd 1 235,846 — — — 235,846 37,500 
Executive directors      
Wayne Edmunds 2 312,500 93,750 201,735 468,438 1,076,423 —
Ulf Henriksson 3 820,000 287,000 128,185 1,229,180 2,464,365 1,990,007 
Non-executive directors
4
      
Francesco Caio 9 36,897 — — — 36,897 —
Bay Green  60,000 — — — 60,000 60,000 
Paul Lester 10 12,500 — — — 12,500 —
Michael Parker  50,000 — — — 50,000 50,000
Dr Martin Read 9 42,538 — — — 42,538 —
Pat Zito  50,000 — — — 50,000 50,000 
Former directors      
Jean-Claude Guez 11 17,400 — — — 17,400 58,000 
Steve Hare 12 91,090 24,500 2,214 81,667 199,471 1,141,927   
Martin Jay 11 75,000 — — — 75,000 250,000
  1,803,771 405,250 332,134 1,779,285 4,320,440 3,637,434
Notes
1   
Sir Nigel Rudd was appointed on 1 January 2009 as Deputy Chairman and became Chairman on 17 July 2009. His emoluments for 2009/10 combine the relevant pro rata payments at the 
Deputy Chairman fee level and Chairman fee level.
2   
Wayne Edmunds was appointed on 1 June 2009 and his director’s emoluments for 2009/10 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2010.
3  
 The emoluments of the highest-paid director, Ulf Henriksson, excluding pension rights were £2,464,365 (2009: £1,990,007).
4  
 The Company also meets the non-executive directors’ cost of travelling to Board meetings and related overnight hotel costs. For 2009/10 these totalled £28,830 (of which £25,412 related 
to Pat Zito, an Australian national) together with tax thereon.
5   
The fee structure for the non-executive directors (including the Chairman) includes £8,000 per annum (or, in the case of Pat Zito, all of his fee until December 2008) which, after tax, is used 
to buy ordinary shares in the Company for each non-executive director as described on page 47. The shares purchased on their behalf are included in the Directors’ Interests set out 
below.
6   
Taxable and other benefits comprise items such as cash allowances in lieu of a company car, life assurance/permanent health insurance, private medical insurance and annual health 
checks. All executive directors are entitled to such benefits. In relation to Mr Henriksson, the Company pays, on a grossed-up basis, certain third-party fees incurred for UK and US tax 
filings, relevant immigration matters and a notional interest charge on the advance made in relation to the US and UK temporary double taxation. In respect of Mr Edmunds, the benefits 
also include certain amounts relating to his relocation. 
7  
 Any payment due in excess of 100% of salary is paid in ordinary shares in the Company, the vesting of which is deferred (for executive directors) for a period of three years. Payment 
of a proportion of bonus for 2009/10 was made in advance of the year end and, in respect of the above target portion of such bonus (£352,764 for Mr Henriksson and £161,325 for  
Mr Edmunds), was granted as deferred shares as detailed on page 50. A further amount of £56,416 and £25,800 will be awarded as deferred shares to Mr Henriksson and Mr Edmunds 
respectively. With regard to Mr Edmunds, the amounts disclosed with respect to the deferred shares relate to the full year and not to the 10 months served as an executive director.
8   
No directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009: nil).
9  
 Francesco Caio and Dr Martin Read were appointed on 18 July 2009 and their emoluments for 2009/10 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2010.
10 
 Paul Lester was appointed on 1 January 2010 and his emoluments for 2009/10 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2010.
11 
 Jean-Claude Guez and Martin Jay retired on 17 July 2009 and their emoluments for 2009/10 relate to the period from 1 April 2009 to this date.
12 
 Steve Hare resigned from the Board effective 31 May 2009 and his emoluments for 2009/10 relate to the period from 1 April 2009 to this date.
Directors’ Interests
Ordinary shares
The beneficial interests of the directors and their families in the shares of the Company are set out below:
    As at 1 April 2009
   As at 31 March 2010 (or on date of appointment if later)
  Notes ordinary shares of 10p each
1,3
 ordinary shares of 10p each
Francesco Caio  2 1,106 —
Wayne Edmunds   18,294 —
Bay Green  2 15,067 13,392
Ulf Henriksson   1,300,965 1,152,606
Paul Lester  2 298 —
Michael Parker  2 6,660 5,147
Dr Martin Read  2 992 —
Sir Nigel Rudd  2 2,329 682
Pat Zito  2 18,285 16,771
Notes
1  
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2010 was 341p. Between 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2010, the highest mid-market price was 349p and the lowest mid-market price 
was 163p.
2  
As described on page 47, as part of the non-executive directors’ fee arrangements a proportion (or all, in the case of Mr Zito until December 2008) of their fee (including the Chairman) is 
used to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
3  
There have been no further changes in the interests of directors in ordinary shares between 1 April 2009 and 23 May 2010. Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49
Long-term incentive awards
Details of the ordinary shares in the Company which have been conditionally awarded to executive directors under various executive 
plans and arrangements are set out below. The relevant performance conditions relating to these conditional awards are set out on 
pages 41 to 43 and page 45 of this Report and in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
       Mid-market
     Awards  adjusted Mid-market
   Awards Awards lapsed/  share price at share price at
  As at granted vested forfeited As at date awards date awards
  1 April during during during 31 March granted vested Performance Normal
 Notes
1
 2009 the year the year the year 2010 per share (p)
2
 per share (p) period release date
Wayne Edmunds
2007 LTIP
2008  91,861 — — — 91,861 138 — 1 Apr 2008- 12 Nov 2011
         31 Mar 2011
2009  — 343,155 — — 343,155 223 — 1 Apr 2009- 24 Jun 2012
         31 Mar 2012
Restricted Share Plan
2008 3 50,000 — 25,000 — 25,000 157 287 — 50% 27 Nov 2009
          50% 27 Nov 2010
Ulf Henriksson 
1998 LTIP
2004 5 125,372 — 125,372 — — 170 224 24 Jun 2004-  24 Jun 2009
4
         23 Jun 2007  
2005 6 776,734 — 776,734 — — 126 249 22 Jul 2005-  50% 22 Jul 2009
4
         21 Jul 2008  
2006 7,8 641,100 — 176,302 288,495 — 218 224 1 Jun 2006- 50% 1 Jun 2009
4
    176,303 — — 218 337  31 May 2009 50% 1 Jun 2010
    352,605
      
Additional Shares
2009 7,8 — 144,247 72,123 — — — 223 — 50% 29 Jun 2009 
    72,124 — — — 336  50% 29 Jun 2010
    144,247
2007 LTIP
2007  459,587 — — — 459,587 331 — 1 Apr 2007-  9 Aug 2010
4
 
         31 Mar 2010  
2008  503,933 — — — 503,933 312 — 1 Apr 2008-  23 May 2011
4
 
         31 Mar 2011  
2009  — 750,366 — — 750,366 223 — 1 Apr 2009- 24 Jun 2012
4
         31 Mar 2012  
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan
2007 9 83,989 — 83,989 — — 385 283 — 50% 1 Jun 2009
2007 CEO Special Award
2007 10 1,608,554 — — — 1,608,554 331 — 1 Apr 2007-  50% 31 Mar 2010
         31 Mar 2010 50% 31 Mar 2011
Notes
1   
The conditional awards shown in the table are the maximum number of ordinary shares that can vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
2   
Mid-market ordinary share prices adjusted for variations in share capital since the date of grant.
3   
The 2008 RSP Award was granted to Wayne Edmunds while he was employed as CFO of Invensys Process Systems and prior to his appointment as an executive director. In addition to the 
50% shares vesting, a further 142 shares were issued as dividend shares.
4    
Award granted as nominal price option and which can be exercised during a three-month period following the release date.
5    
On 24 June 2007, 37% of the conditional award granted in 2004 was converted into a deferred right to acquire the relevant number of ordinary shares. These shares were released on 
24 June 2009 following a two-year retention period.
6   
The TSR performance condition relating to this award was met to 94.52%, and consequently 50% of the shares vesting were released on 28 July 2008 with the balance subject to a one-year 
retention period. These shares were released on 22 July 2009.
7   
The TSR performance condition relating to the 2006 Award was met to 55%, with an additional award of further shares equal to 22.5% of the shares under the original award being granted 
under a separate arrangement (as the RSP precludes grants to executive directors) but with the same provisions as if granted under the RSP. 50% of the 2006 Award (including the  
Additional Shares) vested in June 2009. The remaining shares under the 2006 Award (including the Additional Shares) were due to be released at the end of a one-year retention period in 
June 2010. However, vesting of these awards was accelerated to March 2010 in light of the changes to the top UK income tax rate. Legal ownership of the remaining shares, originally due  
for release in June 2010, was transferred on 15 March 2010. These are restricted shares and the post-tax number of shares are required to be retained by Ulf Henriksson until the service 
condition is satisfied on the original vesting date. If the service condition is not satisfied on this date, legal ownership of the shares will revert to Invensys plc. Further information is detailed 
on pages 42 and 43. 
8   
In respect of the vesting of the 2006 Award and Additional Shares, a further 1,621 shares and 663 shares respectively were issued, representing accrued dividends.
9   
On 1 June 2008 50% of the original award vested, with the remaining 50% vesting on 1 June 2009. 
10  
Following determination of the performance criteria, 738,142 shares under the Special Award will vest and the balance will lapse. 50% of these shares will be released as soon as 
practicable following the announcement of the 2009/10 audited financial results. The remaining 50% will be released after a 12-month period. 50 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
Share options
The following option over ordinary shares in the Company was granted to the named director under an individual arrangement 
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority:
     As at As at Option Date from
     1 April 31 March price per  which first Expiry
    Notes 2009 2010 share (p)  exercisable date
Ulf Henriksson    1 535,290 535,290 155 50% 21 Nov 2005 31 May 2014
        50% 21 May 2007
Notes
1  
The option is not subject to performance conditions. The exercise of the option is contingent on continued employment or, at the discretion of the Committee, leaving in certain 
compassionate circumstances. No options were granted, lapsed or exercised during the year.
Deferred share awards
Details of ordinary shares in the Company which have been awarded to executive directors under the Deferred Share Plan are set out 
below:
 
        Mid-market 
    Awards Awards lapsed/  share price at 
   As at granted vested forfeited As at date awards 
   1 April during during during 31 March granted Deferral 
  Notes
1
 2009 the year the year the year 2010 per share (p)  period Release date
Wayne Edmunds
2010  2 — 47,697 — — 47,697 338 15 Mar 2010-  17 Jun 2013
         16 Jun 2013 
Ulf Henriksson
2008   95,644 — — — 95,644 286 24 Jul 2008-  24 Jul 2011
         23 Jul 2011
2010  2 — 104,298 — — 104,298 338 15 Mar 2010- 17 Jun 2013
         16 Jun 2013
Notes
1  
Awards under the Deferred Share Plan represent any bonus payment due in excess of 100% of salary. Details relating to the terms of the deferred share awards are set out in 
Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
2  
Payment of a proportion of bonus for 2009/10 was made in advance of the year end as detailed on page 48. These deferred shares were granted on 15 March 2010, but will vest three years 
from the usual grant date (normally June). In addition, a further amount of £56,416 and £25,800 will be awarded as deferred shares to Mr Henriksson and Mr Edmunds respectively, as 
detailed in Note 7 to the Remuneration table on page 48.
Former directors
        Mid-market 
      Awards  share price Mid-market
    Awards Awards lapsed/  at date share price at
   As at granted vested forfeited As at awards date awards
   1 April during during during 31 March granted vested
  Notes 2009 the year the year the year 2010 per share (p)  per share (p)  Release date
Steve Hare   1
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan         
2007  2 34,883 — 34,883 — — 385 283 50% 1 Jun 2009
Deferred Share Plan         
2008  3 54,836 — 54,836 — — 286 237 31 May 2009
Notes
1  
Steve Hare left the Company on 31 May 2009 following his resignation.
2  
On 1 June 2008 50% of the original award vested, with the remaining 50% vesting in accordance with its terms on 1 June 2009.
3  
The Committee determined that Mr Hare’s deferred share award (which he would have otherwise received on 24 July 2011) would vest on 31 May 2009. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51
Directors’ Report
The directors submit their report and the audited accounts for the 
year ended 31 March 2010 as set out on pages 56 to 142 and  
page 146. 
Principal activities
The principal activities for the year are contained in the  
Business Review on pages 14 to 30. The principal subsidiaries 
which contributed to the Group’s profit or net assets in the year 
are listed on page 146.
Business Review
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out  
in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the 
financial year ended 31 March 2010 and the position of the Group 
at the end of the year. This review is contained in the Business 
Review section of the Annual Report and Accounts (pages 14 to 
30), with further commentary on the Group’s strategy, performance 
and development in the Chairman’s Statement (pages 10 and 11) 
and the Chief Executive’s Statement (pages 12 and 13). The  
Business Review includes a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group (pages 28 to 30), a discussion of key 
financial performance measures (pages 14 to 17), information on 
our use of financial instruments and a description of our financial 
risk management objectives and policies (page 18). The Business 
Review contains the information required for a management report 
as set out in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs).
Dividend
The Board has recommended the payment of a final cash dividend 
for the year of 2.0 pence per share which, subject to approval by 
shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2010, will be paid on 6 August 
2010 to shareholders on the register at 25 June 2010. With an 
interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share paid during the year, the 
total dividends payable in respect of the year ended 31 March 
2010 are 3.0 pence per share (2009: 1.5 pence per share).
Board of directors 
The current directors of the Company and their biographical 
details are given on page 7. A statement of their remuneration and 
interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 50. As previously announced, 
Paul Lester joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 
January 2010. The rules governing the appointment and retirement 
of directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. 
At the 2010 AGM, Ulf Henriksson and Pat Zito will retire by rotation 
and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election. Francesco 
Caio, Paul Lester and Dr Martin Read, who were appointed during 
the year, will retire and offer themselves for election.
The Chairman’s Explanatory Letter and Notice of AGM explains the 
Board’s reasons for and recommendations regarding the re-election 
of Mr Henriksson and Mr Zito, and the election of Mr Caio, Mr Lester  
and Dr Read. The powers of the directors are determined by UK 
legislation and the Articles of Association of the Company, together 
with any specific authorities that may be given to the directors by 
shareholders from time to time, such as the power to allot shares  
and the power to make market purchases of the Company’s shares. 
Further information regarding matters reserved for the Board is set 
out in the Corporate Governance report on page 31.
Directors’ indemnity and insurance
In accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company has 
provided to all the directors an indemnity (to the extent permitted 
by the Companies Act 2006) in respect of liabilities incurred as a 
result of their office, and the Company has taken out an insurance 
policy in respect of those liabilities. Neither the indemnity nor 
insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to 
have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Acquisitions and disposals
No acquisitions or disposals of operations took place during  
the year. 
Capital structure
Under the Companies Act 2006, the requirement for a company  
to have authorised share capital was abolished with effect from  
1 October 2009. Therefore at the 2009 AGM the Company 
amended its Articles of Association so that, amongst other things, 
its authorised share capital would be removed with effect from  
1 October 2009. As such, references to authorised share capital 
are no longer required.
Details of the issued share capital, together with details of 
movements in the issued share capital of the Company during the 
year, are shown in Note 27 on page 108. The Company has one 
class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. Each 
share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
Company. There are no specific restrictions on the size of a 
holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed 
by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and 
prevailing legislation.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust to hold  
shares until employees become entitled to them under the 
Company’s share incentive plans. The trust has an independent 
trustee which waives its rights to vote on the shareholding. Details 
of employee share schemes and shares held by the Invensys No. 2 
Employee Benefit Trust are set out in Notes 27 and 29 on pages 
108 and 111 respectively. Shares acquired through the Company’s 
employee share plans rank pari passu with other shares in issue 
and have no special rights, save that certain share awards involve 
retention periods after vesting. Further, non-executive directors 
use a proportion of their fees to purchase shares in the Company 
which may not normally be transferred during a director’s period 
of office.  52 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report continued
At the 2009 AGM the directors were authorised to issue relevant 
securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of £26.9 million 
(approximately one third of the issued ordinary share capital as at 
19 May 2009). In addition, the directors were authorised to allot an 
extra third of the issued share capital in respect of a fully pre-
emptive rights issue. Renewal was also sought for the directors  
to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash  
(up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £4.0 million) on a 
pre-emptive basis. The directors did not use this authority during 
the year under review, other than to issue shares to satisfy awards 
under the Company’s share incentive plans. The directors will seek 
to renew allotment authorities at the 2010 AGM in line with revised 
guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
Substantial shareholders
At the date of this Report, the Company has been notified, in 
accordance with the DTRs, of the following interests in the 
ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name  % interest in issued share capital
Ameriprise  4.565% (indirect interest)
 0.16% (direct interest)
 0.01% (nominal interest)
BlackRock  7.87% (indirect interest)
 0.49% (nominal interest)
Legal & General  5.03% (direct interest)
Prudential  9.978% (direct interest)
  0.082% (indirect interest)
Schroders  4.985% (indirect interest)
Standard Life Investments  4.984% (direct interest)
 3.098% (indirect interest)
The percentage interests stated are as disclosed at the date on 
which the interests were notified in accordance with DTR 5. 
Supplier payment policy
It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies should 
develop long-term relationships with suppliers and establish 
terms of trade consistent with established practice in their country 
of operation, and to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of 
payment and that such terms are followed. The Company is a 
holding company and has no trade creditors. 
Employee policy and development
Consistent with the Invensys Value of Meritocracy, Invensys has 
active policies of equal opportunity ranging from selection and 
recruitment to training and development which meet the needs  
of its operations around the world. If necessary, reasonable 
adjustments will be made for the benefit of disabled employees. 
Disabled people are given full and fair consideration for 
employment and subsequent training (including, if needed, 
retraining for alternative work where employees have become 
temporarily or permanently disabled), career development and 
promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group recognises the need to consult and systematically 
provide information on matters of concern to employees. To 
satisfy that need, the Group provides employees with published 
financial and economic information through its consultative 
procedures. Invensys encourages employees’ involvement in the 
Company’s performance through the Invensys Savings Related 
Share Option Scheme. Invensys also encourages the involvement 
of professional and managerial level employees in the Group’s 
performance through the Invensys Performance Management 
System, which reinforces the links between the Group’s business 
goals, the employee’s contribution and his/her remuneration. 
Elaboration on these topics and further information concerning 
employees is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report, 
which begins on page 24.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year Group donations to charities and community 
causes worldwide were £0.2 million (2009: £0.2 million), with UK 
charities receiving £nil (2009: £nil). The Board is of the view that it 
is not appropriate for the Company to make charitable donations 
given that the Company only resumed the payment of dividends 
last year. However, many of the Group’s subsidiaries are influential 
companies and important employers in their own countries or 
localities, and it is therefore believed to be in the best interests of 
the Group for those companies’ community involvement to be 
maintained at reasonable levels. No donations were made to 
political parties or organisations or independent election 
candidates (2009: £nil). Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53
Research and development
The Group carries out research and development in support of 
its activities. During the year, expenditure on the research and 
development of new products and processes amounted to 
£130 million (2009: £114 million).
Significant agreements
The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other 
arrangements which it considers are essential to its business. 
Invensys’ critical relationships are with its major customers and 
its suppliers of services, components and raw materials, as 
discussed in the Business Review on pages 14 to 30. Whilst the 
loss of or disruption to certain of these arrangements could 
temporarily affect the operations of the Group, none is  
considered to be essential.
The Company is also required to disclose any significant 
agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of 
control of the Company. Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies 
Act 2006, the directors disclose that in the event of a change of 
control in the Company: (i) the banking facility described in Note  
21, totalling £400 million at 31 March 2010, could cease to be 
available to the Group; (ii) a Master Service Agreement dated  
15 May 2007, made with Genpact International, Inc for the 
provision of outsourced business services in relation to certain 
finance and related functions, would become terminable at the 
option of the Company; and a Master Service Agreement dated  
3 July 2009, made with Cognizant Technology Solutions U.S. 
Corporation for the provision of certain development functions to 
the Invensys Operations Management division, would become 
terminable at the option of the Company.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of the various employee 
share plans operated by the Company set out the consequences 
of a change of control of the Company. The Remuneration 
Committee approved changes to Ulf Henriksson’s service contract  
in the event of a change of control and Wayne Edmund’s service 
contract includes similar provisions. In the event of a material 
adverse change to their title, responsibilities or status following a 
change of control of the Company, they are entitled to terminate 
their employment and receive a payment equal to the termination 
payment set out in the Remuneration Report on page 46. 
Auditor
In accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, 
each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms 
that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditor is unaware, and that the director has 
taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in 
order to make himself aware of, and to establish that the auditor  
is aware of, any relevant audit information. Ernst & Young LLP has 
expressed willingness to continue in office as auditor and, in 
accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
resolutions proposing its reappointment and to authorise the 
directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the 
2010 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held on Wednesday, 28 July 
2010 at 11.00am at the Park Plaza Victoria London, 239 Vauxhall 
Bridge Road, London SW1V 1EQ. The Chairman’s Explanatory 
Letter and Notice of AGM gives full details of the meeting and the 
resolutions to be proposed.
Post balance sheet event
On 21 April 2010, Invensys acquired 100% of the share capital  
of Skelta Software, a privately held software company 
headquartered in Bangalore, India, for a cash consideration  
of £6.4 million. The gross assets acquired were approximately  
£2 million.
By order of the Board
Victoria Hull
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary
23 May 2010 54 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in  
Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting 
Standards adopted by the European Union or, in the case of the 
Company’s Financial Statements, UK GAAP.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Company and 
Group Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that law 
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and Group and of their profit or loss for 
that period. In preparing the Company and Group Financial 
Statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a  
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in applicable accounting standards is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and 
• state that the Company and the Group have complied with 
applicable accounting standards, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions  
of the Company and of the Group and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and  
of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial 
Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely  
to affect its future development, performance and position are  
set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to 30. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on  
pages 14 to 17. Note 22 to the Financial Statements includes:  
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to 
credit risk and liquidity risk. The principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group, along with mitigating actions, are set out on 
pages 28 to 30.
The Group is generally in a sound financial position with net  
cash, a £400 million banking facility in place until 2013, and 
well-established relationships with key customers and suppliers.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual  
Financial Statements.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
a) the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010, 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted for use in the European Union, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation as a whole; and
b) the Business Review includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation  
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
 
U C I Henriksson  W Edmunds
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
23 May 2010
The directors of Invensys plc are listed on page 7. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55
Contents of the Group Financial Statements
 56  Independent auditor’s report to the  
shareholders of Invensys plc
57 Consolidated income statement
58 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
59 Consolidated balance sheet
60 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
62 Consolidated cash flow statement
63 Accounting policies
71 Notes to the Financial Statements
71 1  General information
71 2  Operating segment information
75 3  Operating profit and analysis of revenue
76 4  Group operating profit
76 5  Fees for audit and other services
76 6  Staff numbers and employee benefits expense
77 7  Foreign exchange on financial items
77 8  Total finance costs and finance income
78 9  Taxation
79 10 Discontinued operations
80 11 Earnings/(loss) per share
81 12 Property, plant and equipment
82 13 Intangible assets — goodwill
84 14 Intangible assets — other
84 15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities
85 16 Other financial assets
86 17 Inventories
86 18 Amounts due from/(to) contract customers
87 19 Trade and other receivables
88 20 Cash and cash equivalents
89 21 Borrowings
90 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments
96 23 Assets held for sale
97 24 Provisions
98 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits
108 26 Trade and other payables
108 27 Issued share capital
110 28 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves
111 29 Share-based payment plans
120 30 Commitments and contingencies
122 31 Reconciliation of cash flows
122 32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals
124 33 Directors’ loan and pension commutation
124 34 Related party disclosures
125 35 Dividends paid and proposed
125 36 Events after the balance sheet date
125 37 Exchange rates 56 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Invensys plc
We have audited the Group Financial Statements
1
 of Invensys plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement 
of changes in equity, consolidated cash flow statement and the 
related Notes 1 to 37. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 54, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit the Group Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland).  Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Group Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the Group Financial Statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and the overall presentation of the Group 
Financial Statements.
Opinion on Group Financial Statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as 
at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent 
with the Group Financial Statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement 
set out on pages 31 to 37 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures is consistent with 
the Group Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by 
the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going 
concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance report on pages 31 to 37 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial 
Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 and 
on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.  
Richard Addison (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
23 May 2010
Note
1  
The maintenance and integrity of the Invensys plc website is the responsibility of the directors; 
the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred 
to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website. Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57
      2010 2009
For the year ended 31 March     Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue     2,3 2,243 2,284 
Operating expenses before exceptional items      (1,995) (2,040)
Operating profit before exceptional items     2,3 248 244 
Exceptional items     3 (25) (66)
Operating profit      223 178 
Foreign exchange on financial items     7 — — 
Exceptional finance costs     8 — (1)
Finance costs     8 (10) (12)
Total finance costs      (10) (13)
Exceptional finance income     8 — 27 
Finance income     8 3 8 
Total finance income     8 3 35 
Other finance charges — IAS 19     25 (37) (35)
Profit before taxation      179 165 
Taxation — UK     9 3 6 
Taxation — overseas     9 (29) (29)
Profit after taxation — continuing operations      153 142 
Loss after taxation — discontinued operations    10 (2) (9)
Profit for the year      151 133 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent      147 130 
Minority interests      4 3 
      151 133 
Earnings/(loss) per share
Continuing operations
Earnings per share (basic)     11 18.5p 17.4p
Earnings per share (diluted)     11 18.4p 17.2p
Discontinued operations
Loss per share (basic)     11 (0.2)p (1.1)p
Loss per share (diluted)     11 (0.2)p (1.1)p
Total Group
Earnings per share (basic)     11 18.3p 16.3p
Earnings per share (diluted)     11 18.1p 16.1p
Consolidated income statement 58 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
      2010 2009
For the year ended 31 March     Notes £m £m
Profit for the year      151 133 
Other comprehensive income
Net gains on valuation of available-for-sale investments:
— Gains taken to equity      — 25 
— Transferred to income statement for the year      — (25)
Cash flow hedges:
— Gains/(losses) taken to equity      1 (8)
— Transferred to income statement for the year — cost of sales    22 (3) 4 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations     (7) 133 
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised on defined benefit pension schemes   25 (389) 10 
Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus   25 56 (20)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax    (342) 119 
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year     (191) 252 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent      (195) 233 
Minority interests      4 19 
      (191) 252  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59
Consolidated balance sheet
 
      2010 2009
At 31 March     Notes £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment     12 274 305 
Intangible assets — goodwill     13 301 306 
Intangible assets — other     14 133 123 
Deferred income tax assets     15 27 32 
Other receivables     19 26 21 
Other financial assets     16 1 1 
      762 788 
Current assets
Inventories     17 157 164 
Amounts due from contract customers     18 180 236 
Trade and other receivables     19 510 524 
Cash and cash equivalents     20 364 296 
Income tax receivable      8 4 
Other financial assets     16 — 23 
Derivative financial instruments     22 3 2 
      1,222 1,249 
Assets held for sale     23 6 1 
TOTAL ASSETS      1,990 2,038 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings     21 (1) (1)
Provisions     24 (100) (111)
Income tax payable      (33) (32)
Deferred income tax liabilities     15 (12) (15)
Amounts due to contract customers     18 (40) (42)
Other payables     26 (10) (12)
Pension liabilities     25 (581) (308)
      (777) (521)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables     26 (529) (510)
Amounts due to contract customers     18 (158) (219)
Borrowings     21 — (9)
Derivative financial instruments     22 (9) (4)
Income tax payable      (18) (35)
Provisions     24 (79) (100)
      (793) (877)
TOTAL LIABILITIES      (1,570) (1,398)
NET ASSETS      420 640 
Capital and reserves
Equity share capital     27 81 80 
Treasury shares     27 (2) (1)
Other reserves     28 2,546 2,555 
Retained earnings      (2,285) (2,081)
Equity holders of parent      340 553 
Minority interests      80 87 
TOTAL EQUITY      420 640 
These accounts were approved by the directors on 23 May 2010 and are signed on their behalf by:
Sir Nigel Rudd U C I Henriksson W Edmunds
Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 60 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
      Other reserves
 
    Share Capital   Cash flow Foreign    
  Issued Treasury premium redemption Capital Special hedge exchange Total  Attributable to   
  capital shares account reserve reserve reserve  reserve reserve other Retained equity holders Minority  Total
   (Note 27)  (Note 27)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  reserves earnings of the Parent interests
1
 equity
 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2010
Balance at 1 April 2009  80 (1) 348 — 1,582  495  (4) 134  2,555  (2,081)  553  87  640 
Profit for the year  — — — — — — — — — 147  147   4   151 
Other comprehensive loss for the year  — — — — — — (2) (7) (9) (333) (342) — (342)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  — — — — — — (2) (7) (9) (186) (195)  4  (191)
Share-based payment 29  — — — — — — — — — 9 9 — 9
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27  — (8) — — — — — — — — (8) — (8)
Distribution of own shares under share-based  
 payment arrangements 27  — 7 — — — — — — — (7) — — —
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35  — — — — — — — — — (20) (20) — (20)
Dividends paid to minority interests  — — — — — — — — — — — (2) (2)
Purchase of minority interests
2
   — — — — — — — — — — — (9) (9)
Issue of share capital 27 1 — — — — — — — — — 1 — 1
Balance at 31 March 2010  81 (2)  348  —  1,582   495  (6)  127  2,546 (2,285) 340  80  420
2009  
Balance at 1 April 2008  80 (7) 740 923 2,509 — — 17  4,189  (3,951)  311  69  380 
Profit for the year  — — — — — — — — —  130   130   3   133 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  — — — — — — (4)  117   113  (10)  103   16   119 
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  — — — — — — (4)  117   113   120   233   19   252 
Share-based payment 29  — — — — — — — — —  11   11  —  11 
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27  — (2) — — — — — — — — (2) — (2)
Distribution of own shares under share-based  
 payment arrangements 27  —  8  — — — — — — — (8) — — —
Dividends paid to minority interests  — — — — — — — — — — — (1) (1)
  
Capital reduction:
Bonus issue of B shares 27,28  927 — — — (927) — — — (927) — — — —
Cancellation of capital redemption reserve 28  — — — (923) — — — — (923)  923  — — —
Cancellation of B shares 28  (927) — — — — — — — —  927  — — —
Cancellation of share premium account 28  — — (392) — — — — — (392)  392  — — —
Transfer to special reserve 28  — — — — —  495  — —  495  (495) — — —
Balance at 31 March 2009  80 (1)  348  —  1,582   495  (4)  134  2,555 (2,081) 553  87  640
1  
The majority of the minority interests balance relates to the interests of the minority in Baan Company NV in liquidation (Baan).
2  
Relates to the purchase of 3.67 million shares from minority shareholders of Baan.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61
      Other reserves
 
    Share Capital   Cash flow Foreign    
  Issued Treasury premium redemption Capital Special hedge exchange Total  Attributable to   
  capital shares account reserve reserve reserve  reserve reserve other Retained equity holders Minority  Total
   (Note 27)  (Note 27)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  (Note 28)  reserves earnings of the Parent interests
1
 equity
 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2010
Balance at 1 April 2009  80 (1) 348 — 1,582  495  (4) 134  2,555  (2,081)  553  87  640 
Profit for the year  — — — — — — — — — 147  147   4   151 
Other comprehensive loss for the year  — — — — — — (2) (7) (9) (333) (342) — (342)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  — — — — — — (2) (7) (9) (186) (195)  4  (191)
Share-based payment 29  — — — — — — — — — 9 9 — 9
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27  — (8) — — — — — — — — (8) — (8)
Distribution of own shares under share-based  
 payment arrangements 27  — 7 — — — — — — — (7) — — —
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35  — — — — — — — — — (20) (20) — (20)
Dividends paid to minority interests  — — — — — — — — — — — (2) (2)
Purchase of minority interests
2
   — — — — — — — — — — — (9) (9)
Issue of share capital 27 1 — — — — — — — — — 1 — 1
Balance at 31 March 2010  81 (2)  348  —  1,582   495  (6)  127  2,546 (2,285) 340  80  420
2009  
Balance at 1 April 2008  80 (7) 740 923 2,509 — — 17  4,189  (3,951)  311  69  380 
Profit for the year  — — — — — — — — —  130   130   3   133 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  — — — — — — (4)  117   113  (10)  103   16   119 
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year  — — — — — — (4)  117   113   120   233   19   252 
Share-based payment 29  — — — — — — — — —  11   11  —  11 
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27  — (2) — — — — — — — — (2) — (2)
Distribution of own shares under share-based  
 payment arrangements 27  —  8  — — — — — — — (8) — — —
Dividends paid to minority interests  — — — — — — — — — — — (1) (1)
  
Capital reduction:
Bonus issue of B shares 27,28  927 — — — (927) — — — (927) — — — —
Cancellation of capital redemption reserve 28  — — — (923) — — — — (923)  923  — — —
Cancellation of B shares 28  (927) — — — — — — — —  927  — — —
Cancellation of share premium account 28  — — (392) — — — — — (392)  392  — — —
Transfer to special reserve 28  — — — — —  495  — —  495  (495) — — —
Balance at 31 March 2009  80 (1)  348  —  1,582   495  (4)  134  2,555 (2,081) 553  87  640
1  
The majority of the minority interests balance relates to the interests of the minority in Baan Company NV in liquidation (Baan).
2  
Relates to the purchase of 3.67 million shares from minority shareholders of Baan. 62 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
      2010 2009
For the year ended 31 March     Notes £m £m
Operating activities
Operating profit:
— Continuing operations     2,3 223 178 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment     12 43 46 
Amortisation of intangible assets — other     14 22 22 
Provision for impairment charged to operating profit    3 10 17 
Loss on sale of assets and operations     2 5 1 
PPP settlement proceeds      — 95 
Sale of property, plant and equipment      1 3 
Non-cash charge for share-based payment     29 9 11 
Decrease in inventories      5 15 
Decrease in receivables      6 111 
Decrease in net amounts due to contract customers     (9) (69)
Increase/(decrease) in payables and provisions      1 (33)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in operating profit   (100) (56)
Cash generated from operations      216 341 
Income taxes paid      (41) (34)
Interest paid      (9) (8)
Exceptional finance costs      — (1)
Net cash flows from operating activities      166 298 
Investing activities
Interest received      4 10 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment      (34) (32)
Expenditure on intangible assets — other      (36) (24)
Purchase of minority interests      (9) —
Purchase of subsidiaries     32 — (50)
Sale of financial assets     16 — 32 
Cost of sale of subsidiaries     32 (12) (20)
Transfers of financial assets to/(from) cash equivalents     13 (13)
Net cash acquired on purchase of subsidiaries     32 — 3 
Cash flows from investing activities      (74) (94)
Financing activities
Purchase of Invensys plc shares       (8) (3) 
Facility fees paid      — (6)
Transfers of treasury bonds to/(from) cash equivalents     8 (7)
Repayment of short-term borrowings      (8) — 
Repayment of long-term borrowings      — (156)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent      (19) — 
Dividends paid to minority interests      (2) (1)
Cash flows from financing activities      (29) (173)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents      63 31 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year     296 235 
Net foreign exchange difference      5 30 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year     20 364 296 
1  
Further information on the consolidated cash flow statement is set out in Note 31.
Consolidated cash flow statement
1 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63
Accounting policies 
Statement of compliance 
The Group’s consolidated Financial Statements have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.  
 
Basis of preparation 
The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and 
measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010. The 
consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling and  
all amounts are rounded to the nearest million (£m) unless 
otherwise indicated. 
 
The Group’s date of transition to IFRSs was 1 April 2004. 
 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated Financial Statements comprise Invensys plc  
and its subsidiaries for the financial year to 31 March each year. 
The Group does not currently have any material associates.  
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the  
same reporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent 
accounting policies. 
 
All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.  
 
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are 
consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes. 
 
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase 
method. The cost of the business combination is measured as  
the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and 
liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the 
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority  
interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value  
of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. 
 
In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time 
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied 
by the Group on transition to IFRS, business combinations prior to 
IFRS transition have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3, 
Business Combinations. 
 
Changes in accounting policies 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the 
previous financial year except as follows: 
 
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs 
and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) interpretations during the year. All have been endorsed for 
use in the EU. 
 
IAS 1  Revised Presentation of  
 Financial Statements
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
Amendments to IAS 23  Borrowing Costs
Amendments to IFRS 7  Improving Disclosures  
 about Financial Instruments
Amendments to IAS 32  Puttable Financial Instruments and 
and IAS 1 Obligations Arising on Liquidation 
Amendments to IFRS 2  Share-based Payment —  
 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations
Amendments to IFRS 1 Cost of an investment in  
and IAS 27 a subsidiary, jointly controlled  
 entity or associate 
Amendments to IFRS 1  First-time Adoption of IFRS  
 (Restructured November 2008)
Improvements to IFRS  Annual improvements May 2008
Amendments to IFRIC 9  Embedded Derivatives 
and IAS 39
IFRIC 13  Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 15  Agreements for the  
 Construction of Real Estate
IFRIC 16  Hedges of a Net Investment  
 of a Foreign Operation
 
 
The principal effects of these changes are as follows: 
 
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements 
IAS 1 Revised makes various changes to the presentation of the 
primary Financial Statements and the terminology used by IFRS. 
The standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income, 
which requires all items of recognised income and expense to be 
presented either in one single statement or in two linked 
statements. The Group has elected to present two statements, so 
continues to present a separate income statement as in previous 
years, and a second statement beginning with the profit for the 
period and displaying the components of other comprehensive 
income. IAS 1 Revised also requires all entities to present a 
statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, including 
details of transactions with equity shareholders, with profit or loss 
and other comprehensive income each shown as a single line with 
details presented in separate statements.  
 
Previously the Group has shown changes in equity arising from 
transactions with equity shareholders in a note to the accounts. As 
permitted, the Group has not adopted all of the proposed revised 
IFRS terminology introduced by IAS 1 Revised.  For example, the 
Group continues to refer to the balance sheet, rather than a 
‘statement of financial position’. 
  64 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Accounting policies continued
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost 
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at 
the date of the initial transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair 
value was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation 
are included in the income statement for the period, except 
for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and 
liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly  
in equity. 
 
Financial statements of foreign operations 
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into 
sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the year. 
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill, 
are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at 
the balance sheet date. All resulting exchange differences are 
recognised directly in a separate component of equity. On disposal 
of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held 
in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement, 
as part of the profit or loss on sale. 
 
Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to 
IFRS were deemed to be zero at that date. As a result, if a foreign 
operation is sold, there is no exchange difference recognised in 
the income statement relating to the period prior to that date. 
 
Revenue 
Composition of revenue 
Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services 
supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions and 
sales taxes. Revenue relating to construction contracts, including 
long-term service provision contracts, represents the value of 
work performed during the year determined by reference to the 
stage of completion of the contract. Discounts given to customers 
against list prices, such as trade or volume discounts, are deducted 
in arriving at the value of revenue. Settlement discounts are 
reported as an expense in the income statement. 
 
Recognition of revenue and profits 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be 
reliably measured. The specific methods used to recognise the 
different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below. 
Sale of goods 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to 
the buyer and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured. 
For sales of software solutions, revenue is recognised when a 
signed contract exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, 
no significant vendor obligations remain and collection of the 
sales proceeds is considered probable. A contract to deliver 
goods, including software solutions, that requires significant 
production, modification, customisation or integration of the 
goods, is accounted for in its entirety as a construction contract. 
 
Profit is recognised at the time of sale. 
 
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 
IFRS 8 requires disclosure of information about the Group’s 
operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine 
primary (business) and secondary (geographical) reporting 
segments. The Group has determined that the operating segments 
are the same as the business segments previously identified 
under IAS 14, Segment Reporting. Additional disclosures about 
each of these segments is shown in Note 2, including revised 
comparative information. 
 
Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures 
about Financial Instruments 
The amendments to IFRS 7 require additional disclosures about 
fair value measurement and liquidity risk. Fair value measurements 
related to items recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by 
source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, by class, 
for all financial instruments recognised at fair value. Further 
disclosures are required for level 3 fair value measurements and 
significant transfers between levels. The amendments also clarify 
the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to 
derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management. 
The Group does not currently have significant financial instruments 
measured at fair value. The fair value measurement and liquidity 
risk disclosures are presented in Note 22. The Group has chosen 
not to present comparative information for these new disclosures 
in the first year of application, as permitted under the transitional 
arrangements for these amendments. 
Other than the changes noted above, adoption of these 
standards and interpretations has not had any material effect 
on the Financial Statements of the Group. 
 
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are material items of income and expense 
that should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding 
of the Group’s financial performance and in making projections 
of future results. Such items may be operating or non-operating 
in nature. Exceptional items are presented separately on the 
face of the income statement and analysed in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
 
Foreign currencies 
The presentational currency of the Group and functional currency 
of Invensys plc is sterling. 
 
The Financial Statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries are 
prepared using their functional currency. The functional currency 
is generally the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which an entity operates.  
 
Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. 
 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income 
statement unless: 
a) the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the 
hedging instrument in a cash flow hedging relationship that 
qualifies for hedge accounting; or 
b) the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part 
of a net investment in a foreign operation; 
in which case they are recognised directly in equity.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65
The value of any defined benefit asset recognised is restricted to 
the present value of any economic benefits available in the form 
of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions 
to the plan. When the Group is committed to making minimum 
funding payments to a defined benefit plan, and the present value 
of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of 
the plan as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any 
part of the resulting surplus that would not be recoverable.  
 
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the 
income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions 
payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable 
in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as 
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. 
 
Goodwill 
On a business combination, the net fair value of the identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is assessed and 
adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of 
businesses acquired into alignment with those of the Group. 
The excess of the price paid over the Group’s interest in the fair 
value of identifiable net assets acquired is included in intangible 
assets as goodwill. Any costs of integrating the acquired business 
are taken to the income statement. 
 
Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has 
been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being 
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves 
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, 
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently 
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. The Group’s 
policy on testing assets for impairment is set out under 
‘Impairment of non-financial assets’ on page 66. 
 
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the 
carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold. 
 
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset. 
 
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost 
of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the 
fair value at acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the 
purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing 
the asset for use. Amortisation begins when an asset is available 
for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the 
cost less residual value of assets over their estimated useful lives 
using the following annual rates or useful lives: 
 
Development costs   10 to 25%
Computer software costs   10 to 25%
Patents, trademarks and licenses   Shorter of period of the  
  agreement or 15 years
 
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments 
where applicable are made on a prospective basis. No intangible 
assets other than goodwill are considered to have indefinite  
useful lives. 
 
Construction contracts and rendering of services 
Revenue from construction contracts and long-term service 
provision contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of 
completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is 
normally determined by the proportion that contract costs incurred 
to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where 
this would not be representative of the stage of completion. If the 
nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred do not 
accurately reflect the progress of contract activity, an alternative 
approach is used such as the achievement of pre-determined 
contract milestones. 
 
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are 
included in revenue from construction contracts when certain 
criteria are met. Variations are included when the customer has 
agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation 
in principle. Claims are included when negotiations with the 
customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer 
is certain to accept the claim. Incentive payments are included 
when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the 
performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved. 
 
Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final 
outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed. On all 
contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in 
which they are first foreseen. 
 
Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis  
is recognised when the service is complete. 
 
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision 
of a significant service, revenue from the provision of the service 
is recognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods 
by reference to the stage of completion of the service unless the 
service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, 
in which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction 
contract. Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply  
of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the 
supply of goods. 
 
Research and development 
All research expenditure is expensed as incurred. Development 
expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria  
for recognition as an intangible asset (see policy on Other 
intangible assets). 
 
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits 
For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement 
benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating 
profit or loss in the year. The cost of providing benefits under the 
defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using 
the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. The full cost 
of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service 
that vests immediately is also charged to operating profit or loss in 
the year. The expected return on the assets of the schemes during 
the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of 
the financial year is included within Other finance charges — IAS 19. 
This also includes a charge representing the expected increase in 
liabilities of the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities 
of the scheme being one year closer to payment. Differences 
between actual and expected returns on assets during the year 
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the 
year, together with differences from changes in assumptions.  
The net surplus or deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is 
reported on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.  66 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Accounting policies continued
Impairment of non-financial assets 
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that any non-financial asset (excluding goodwill) may be 
impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or 
not there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill was also tested 
for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS. If there is an 
indication of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the 
asset’s recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to 
its recoverable amount and an impairment loss is recognised in 
the income statement. 
 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less 
costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset 
belongs is determined. 
 
The calculation of an asset’s value in use uses a discount rate that 
reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money. 
 
Leased assets 
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in 
property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present 
value of the minimum lease payments. Capitalised leased assets are 
subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the 
asset’s useful life. Obligations related to finance leases, net of 
finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as 
appropriate within liabilities. Lease payments are apportioned 
between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so 
as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of 
the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. 
 
Other leases are classified as operating leases. Lease payments, 
including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under 
operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term 
on a straight-line basis. 
 
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a 
lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at its 
inception date and an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the 
arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets 
or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. 
 
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of 
the following applies: 
a) there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or 
extension of the arrangement; 
b) a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the 
term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the 
lease term; 
c) there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is 
dependent on a specified asset; or 
d) there is a substantial change to the asset. 
 
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or 
ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise 
to the reassessment for scenarios a), c) or d) and at the date of 
renewal or extension period for scenario b). 
 
Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as an 
intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 
38, Intangible Assets. These require it to be probable that the 
expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be 
measured reliably. To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able 
to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of 
completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use 
or sale. 
 
Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project 
are considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the 
income statement as incurred. These costs are incurred to 
determine the product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the 
alternatives and related risks, assess the technical feasibility of 
concepts, make the final selection from the possible alternatives 
and prepare the high level design and project planning. The costs 
incurred in the following development stage for substantially new 
or improved products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and 
considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those 
criteria. These costs are generally incurred in developing the 
detailed product design, software configuration and software 
interfaces; the coding of software, building of prototypes and 
integration of the software with hardware; and testing and 
releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.  
 
Development expenditure directed towards incremental 
improvements in existing products does not qualify for 
recognition as an intangible asset. 
 
In general the costs of developing software products that are sold 
in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are 
not recognised as intangible assets. The uncertainties associated 
with the functionality of these products mean that technical 
feasibility is achieved only immediately prior to or after field trial 
tests at customer sites. As a result minimal or no costs are 
considered to meet the IAS 38 criteria for recognition. 
 
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is 
recognised separately from the goodwill arising on the business 
combination if the asset’s fair value can be measured reliably, 
regardless of whether the asset had been recognised previously 
by the acquiree. 
 
Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase 
price and directly attributable costs. 
 
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their 
residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
lives at the following rates applied to original cost: 
 
Freehold land     nil
Freehold buildings  2 to 2.5%
Leasehold properties  Over the period of the lease
Plant and equipment  7 to 35%
 
Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis 
and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a  
prospective basis. 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67
Deferred income tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legally 
enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
 
Financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts to 
manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 
These instruments are accounted for as hedges when they are 
designated as hedges at the inception of the contract. The Group 
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial 
trading purposes. 
 
All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in 
the balance sheet. The fair values of forward foreign exchange 
contracts are calculated by reference to forward exchange rates 
for contracts with similar maturity profiles. 
 
The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is 
carried out according to the Group’s risk management policies. 
Hedges fall into three categories: 
a) Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the 
fair value of a recognised asset or liability; 
b) Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated 
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment; 
and 
c) Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in 
the value of the Group’s net investment in foreign operations 
due to changes in exchange rates. 
 
The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below: 
 
Fair value hedges 
When a hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any 
resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Any 
gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged 
risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item 
and similarly recognised in the income statement. 
 
Cash flow and net investment hedges 
The portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument that is 
determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity. Any 
ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement. When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged item 
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the 
associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are 
included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all 
other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in 
equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period 
in which the hedged item affects the income statement. In the 
case of a net investment hedge, this takes place on disposal. 
 
Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net 
realisable value. Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving 
items. Cost comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a 
first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of 
labour and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating 
capacity, to reflect the costs incurred in bringing the product to its 
present location and condition. 
 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits 
and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less. 
 
Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset 
against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off 
exist and there is an intention to settle on a net basis. 
 
Taxation 
Income tax on profit or loss 
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and 
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in 
equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
 
Current tax 
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year and 
any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Taxable 
profit differs from profit reported in the income statement as it 
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible, or which are 
taxable or deductible in other years. The Group’s current tax assets 
and liabilities are calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
 
Deferred tax 
Deferred income tax is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method, providing for temporary differences between  
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding amounts used for taxation 
purposes. Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available 
against which the asset can be utilised.  
 
No deferred income tax asset or liability is recognised in respect 
of temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of 
reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Such assets and liabilities are also not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor 
the accounting profit. 
 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to 
allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. 
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each 
balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all 
or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. 
  68 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Accounting policies continued
Derecognition of financial instruments 
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the 
contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. 
 
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the 
same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income 
statement. 
 
Impairment of financial assets 
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial 
asset or group of financial assets is impaired. 
 
Assets carried at amortised cost 
Assets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, 
are impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss 
has been incurred. The loss is measured as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit 
losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial 
asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate 
computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset 
is reduced through use of an allowance account and the amount of 
the loss is recognised in the income statement. 
 
The assessment considers whether objective evidence of 
impairment exists individually for financial assets that are 
individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial 
assets that are not individually significant. If it is determined that 
no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually 
assessed financial asset, the asset is included in a group of 
financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that 
group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment. 
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which 
an impairment loss is recognised are not included in a collective 
assessment of impairment. 
 
If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a 
subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively  
to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the 
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. The reversal  
is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the 
carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at 
the reversal date. 
 
For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when 
there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency 
or significant financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will 
not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original 
terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is 
reduced through use of an allowance account. Impaired debts are 
derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible. 
 
Where borrowings are used to hedge the Group’s net investment 
in foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the 
borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge, in 
accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement, is recognised in equity. Any gains or losses arising 
from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify as hedges are recognised in the income statement. 
Derivative instruments held by the Group’s pension and post-
retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes 
themselves and are reflected in the Group Financial Statements 
within the amounts reported for those schemes. 
 
Other financial assets 
The Group’s other financial assets are classified as either available-
for-sale, at fair value through profit or loss, or held-to-maturity. 
These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured as follows: (a) at fair value for available-for-
sale financial assets. Gains and losses are recognised in equity 
except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from 
these assets which are recognised in the income statement; (b) at 
fair value for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.  
Net gains or losses are based on changes in fair value; and (c) at 
amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, for 
held-to-maturity financial assets. Changes to the carrying amount 
of held-to-maturity assets are recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less 
any provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables are 
discounted when the time value of money is considered material. 
Any change in their value is recognised in the income statement. 
 
Debt instruments 
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of  
the consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.  
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. This cost is computed as the amount initially 
recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the 
cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially 
recognised amount and the maturity amount. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount 
or premium on settlement.  
 
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement through 
the amortisation process and when the liabilities are derecognised.
 
Financial guarantee contracts 
A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group 
that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse 
the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified 
debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the 
original or modified terms of a debt instrument. In a very limited 
number of cases, the Group has issued such contracts to 
guarantee certain borrowings by third parties. 
 
Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at fair value 
and subsequently measured at the higher of (a) the estimated 
outflow of resources required to meet any present obligation 
under the contract (in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets), and (b) the  
amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative 
amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18, Revenue. 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69
In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time 
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied 
by the Group on transition to IFRSs, the requirements of IFRS 2, 
Share-based Payment, have not been applied to equity instruments 
granted on or before 7 November 2002 and those vesting before 
1 January 2005. 
 
Treasury shares 
Own equity instruments which are re-acquired (treasury shares) 
are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit 
or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s 
own equity instruments. Treasury shares are purchased and held 
by the Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares 
to employees under the Group’s various share option and share 
award schemes.  
 
New standards and interpretations not applied 
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and 
interpretations with an effective date after the date of these 
Financial Statements: 
 
International Accounting Standards  Effective date — financial periods 
(IAS/IFRSs)   beginning on or after
IFRS 3  Business Combinations (revised)  1 July 2009
IAS 27  Consolidated and Separate  
 Financial Statements (amended) 1 July 2009
IAS 39  Amendment to IAS 39 Financial  
 Instruments: Recognition and  
 Measurement — Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009
Various  Improvements to IFRSs  
 (April 2009 and May 2010)  Various
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 — Additional  
 Exemptions for First-Time Adopters 1 January 2010
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 — Limited 
 Exemption from Comparative 
 IFRS 7 Disclosures 1 July 2010
IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 — Group  
 Cash-settled Share-based  
 Payment Transactions 1 January 2010
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments:  
 classification and measurement 1 January 2013
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (revised) 1 January 2011
IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 — Classification  
 of Rights Issues 1 February 2010
 
 
International Financial Reporting  Effective date — financial periods 
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)  beginning on or after
IFRIC 17  Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners  1 July 2009
IFRIC 18  Transfers of Assets from Customers  1 July 2009
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with  
 Equity Instruments 1 July 2010
IFRIC 14 Amendments to IFRIC 14 — Prepayments  
 of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011
 
 
The Group expects to adopt these standards and interpretations 
in accordance with their effective dates. The directors do not 
anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations 
will have a material impact on the Group Financial Statements in 
the period of initial application. 
Available-for-sale financial investments 
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising 
the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and 
amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss 
previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred 
from equity to the income statement. Reversals in respect of equity 
instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in 
the income statement. Reversals of impairment losses on debt 
instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the 
increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related 
to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised 
in the income statement. 
 
Share-based payment 
The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled  
share schemes. 
 
For equity-settled share options, the services received from 
employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share 
options. The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation 
model and recognised in the consolidated income statement, 
together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an 
estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest. 
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken 
into account when estimating the fair value. Market conditions are 
those conditions that are linked to the share price of the Company.
For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is 
calculated based on the share price at the grant date and, where 
applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over 
the vesting period based on the number of shares expected 
to vest. No expense is recognised for awards that do not 
ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional 
upon a market or non-vesting condition; which are treated as 
vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting 
condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance or 
service conditions are satisfied.
 
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as 
if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the 
award are met. An additional expense is recognised for any 
modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based 
payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee 
as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if 
it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet 
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. This includes 
any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of 
either the entity or the employee are not met. However, if a new 
award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a 
replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and 
new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original 
award, as described in the previous paragraph. All cancellations 
of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
For cash-settled share awards, the services received from 
employees are measured at fair value and recognised in the 
consolidated income statement as an expense over the vesting 
period with recognition of a corresponding liability. The fair 
value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and 
at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised 
in the consolidated income statement. 70 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Accounting policies continued
Provisions and contingent liabilities 
The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of 
liabilities including environmental claims and onerous lease 
rentals. The amounts recognised for provisions represent the 
best estimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits that will be required to settle these liabilities. 
No provisions are recognised for contingent liabilities. Contingent 
liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be 
confirmed only by uncertain future events, or current obligations 
that are not recognised because it is not probable that they will 
result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits 
or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured 
with sufficient reliability. 
 
The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed  
as a contingent liability or recognised as a provision requires 
judgements to be made on the existence of a present obligation 
and the probability of future events. When a provision is required, 
the amount recognised is determined using judgements and 
assumptions, based on current knowledge, to estimate the amount 
and timing of future cash outflows arising from the liabilities.  
At 31 March 2010, the estimated amount of liabilities requiring 
provisions was £179 million (2009: £211 million). Further details are 
given in Note 24. Details of the Group’s contingent liabilities are 
set out in Note 30.
 
Construction and long-term service provision contracts 
Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail undertake 
projects that frequently span more than one accounting period 
and are accounted for as construction or long-term service 
provision contracts. The Group’s accounting policies for these 
projects require revenues and costs to be allocated to individual 
accounting periods and the consequent recognition at period 
end of contract assets or liabilities for projects still in progress. 
The application of these policies requires management to apply 
judgement in estimating the total revenue and total costs  
expected on each project. Such estimates are revised as a project 
progresses to reflect the current status of the project and the 
latest information available to management. Project management 
teams perform regular reviews to ensure the latest estimates  
are appropriate. 
 
The amount of revenue relating to projects accounted for as 
construction or long-term service provision contracts recognised 
in the year ended 31 March 2010 was £1,048 million (2009: £1,110 
million). The net amount due to contract customers on projects 
in progress at 31 March 2010 was £18 million (2009: £25 million 
due to contract customers). Further details of amounts due from 
and to contract customers are included in Note 18. 
Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
In applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is 
required to make judgements and assumptions concerning the 
future in a number of areas. Actual results may be different 
from those estimated using these judgements and assumptions.  
The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting 
judgements that have a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are discussed below. 
 
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on  
an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the ‘value in use’  
of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. 
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to 
make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the 
cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate 
in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The 
carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2010 was £301 million 
(2009: £306 million). Details of the key assumptions used in testing 
for impairment and the sensitivity of the calculations to any 
reasonably possible change in those assumptions are given in 
Note 13.  
 
Pension and post-retirement benefits 
The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post 
employment medical benefits is determined using actuarial 
valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions 
about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future 
salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. 
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are 
subject to significant uncertainty. The net pension liability at 
31 March 2010 is £581 million (2009: £308 million). Further 
details, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the UK Main 
Pension Scheme to changes in the principal assumptions, are 
given in Note 25.  
 
Development costs 
Costs incurred in developing new products are capitalised in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for other intangible 
assets. These costs arise mainly in the Invensys Operations 
Management and Invensys Rail businesses. Determining the 
amounts to be capitalised requires management to make 
assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash 
generation of new products and the expected period of benefits. 
At 31 March 2010, the carrying amount of capitalised development 
costs was £123 million (2009: £109 million).  Further details 
including an explanation of impairment losses recognised are 
given in Note 14. 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71
1 General information
The Group Financial Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the directors on 23 May 2010 and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by Sir Nigel Rudd, Ulf Henriksson 
and Wayne Edmunds. Invensys plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales whose shares are  
publicly traded.
Invensys Group comprises continuing operations and discontinued operations. No new operations have been discontinued in 
the current year. Additional costs have been incurred relating to prior year disposals.
Continuing operations consist of the following divisions: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.  
The principal activities of each of the continuing operations divisions are as follows:
•  Invensys Operations Management — is a technology, software and consulting business that creates and applies technologies to 
facilitate the safe and efficient operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power 
plants, petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites.
•  Invensys Rail — provides signalling, communication and control systems that facilitate the safe and efficient operation of trains in 
mainline and mass transit networks across the world.
•  Invensys Controls — designs, engineers and manufactures products, components, systems and services used in appliances, heating, 
air conditioning/cooling and refrigeration products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets.
Further details on the activities of each of the above continuing operations are given in the Business Review. This is the basis on which 
the Group is managed. Operations presented as discontinued are explained in Note 10.
2 Operating segment information 
The Group has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments, which requires operating segments to be identified based on the way that the 
Group’s divisions are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to each division and assess its 
performance. Although this approach is different from that of the predecessor standard (IAS 14, Segment Reporting), which required 
the identification of primary (business) and secondary (geographical) segments, the Group has determined that its operating segments 
are the same as the business segments previously reported. However, reorganisation of the industrial automation businesses, which 
were previously reported as separate components of Invensys Operations Management, has resulted in these businesses being 
combined and reported as a single operating segment.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into divisions based on their products and services and has three reportable 
operating segments as explained in the Business Review; Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls. 
Descriptions of the products and services provided by these divisions are set out in Note 1. Operations presented as discontinued 
are explained in Note 10.
Management monitors the operating results of each of these divisions separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource 
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated primarily on operating profit or loss before exceptional 
items as identified in the consolidated income statement. Restructuring costs and impairment losses on operating assets, which are 
reported in the consolidated income statement as exceptional items, are also monitored at the segment level. Other exceptional items 
together with foreign exchange gains or losses, finance costs, finance income, finance charges relating to pension arrangements under 
IAS 19, Employee Benefits and income tax are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment assets and liabilities are determined based on the operating assets and liabilities monitored by the chief operating decision 
maker on a segment basis. These are consistent with the prior year with the exception of goodwill which is excluded from segment 
assets on adoption of IFRS 8. The comparative information has been reclassified accordingly.
 
Notes to the Financial Statements 72 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
2 Operating segment information continued 
 
  Total  Inter-company  External  Total  Inter-company  External
  revenue  revenue
1
 revenue  revenue  revenue
1
  revenue 
  2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
Segment revenues  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Division 
Invensys Operations Management
2
   1,009   9   1,000   1,102   9   1,093 
Invensys Rail   700   —   700   636   —   636 
Invensys Controls
2
   544   1   543   556   1   555 
Eliminations   (10)  (10)  —   (10)  (10)  — 
Total Group   2,243   —   2,243   2,284   —   2,284 
 
    Operating  Operating  Operating  Operating 
    profit/(loss)
3
  profit/(loss)
3
 profit/(loss)  profit/(loss) 
    2010  2009  2010  2009 
Segment profit    £m  £m  £m  £m 
Division 
Invensys Operations Management
2
     92   119   63   88 
Invensys Rail     141   134   136   133 
Invensys Controls
2
     53   26   40   — 
Total segment     286   279   239   221 
Corporate     (38)  (35)  (16)  (43)
 
Continuing operations     248  244 223 178
 
Reconciliation to profit before taxation: 
Exceptional finance costs       —   (1)
Finance costs       (10)  (12)
Exceptional finance income       —   27 
Finance income       3   8 
Other finance charges — IAS 19       (37)  (35)
 
Profit before taxation — continuing operations       179   165 
 
    Depreciation  Depreciation  Amortisation  Amortisation 
    2010  2009  2010  2009 
Components of segment profit: depreciation and amortisation   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Division 
Invensys Operations Management
2
     15   15   11   10 
Invensys Rail     5   5   11   12 
Invensys Controls
2
     22   25   —   — 
Corporate     1   1   —   — 
Continuing operations     43   46   22   22 
 
1 
Inter-company revenue is invoiced at prevailing market prices. 
2  
From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division. Comparatives 
have been reclassified accordingly. 
3  
Before exceptional items. 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73
   
     Loss on  Loss on  
   Impairment:  Impairment:  sale of  sale of  Other  Other 
   PPE/  PPE/  assets and  assets and  exceptional  exceptional
Components of Restructuring  Restructuring  intangibles  intangibles  operations  operations  items
1
  items
segment profit: 2010  2009  2010  2009  2010  2009  2010  2009 
other material items £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Division 
Invensys Operations 
 Management
2
 (26)  (19)  (2)  (11)  (1)  (1)  —   — 
Invensys Rail  (5)  —   —   (1)  —   —   —   — 
Invensys Controls
2
  (5)  (23)  (8)  (3)  —   —   —   — 
Corporate  (7)  (6)  —   (2)  (4)  —   33  — 
Continuing  
 operations  (43)  (48)  (10)  (17)  (5)  (1)  33  — 
 
    Total  Total  Total  Total 
    assets  assets  liabilities  liabilities 
    2010  2009  2010  2009 
Segment assets and liabilities     £m  £m  £m  £m 
Division 
Invensys Operations Management
2
    567  669  (364)  (401)
Invensys Rail    349  312  (281) (289)
Invensys Controls
2
    340  350  (125) (131)
Total segment assets/(liabilities)     1,256   1,331   (770) (821)
 
Corporate     34  69  (154) (177)
Total Group     1,290   1,400   (924) (998)
 
Reconciliation to total assets and total liabilities: 
Intangible assets — goodwill     301   306   —   — 
Cash and cash equivalents     364   296   —   — 
Pension liabilities     —   —   (581) (308)
Other including current and deferred income tax assets/(liabilities)   35   36   (65)  (92)
Total assets/(liabilities)     1,990   2,038   (1,570) (1,398)
      Capex:  Capex:
    Capex:  Capex:  intangibles  intangibles 
    PPE  PPE  — other  — other 
    2010  2009  2010  2009 
Components of segment assets: capital expenditure (capex)   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Division 
Invensys Operations Management
2
     14   12   13   9 
Invensys Rail     8   5   23   15 
Invensys Controls
2
     12   14   —   — 
Corporate    —  1   —   — 
Continuing operations     34   32   36   24 
 
1  
Other exceptional items includes the US pension curtailment gain of £36 million arising from the closure of the defined benefit portion of the Invensys US pension plans.  
2  
From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division. 
Comparatives have been reclassified accordingly. 
  74 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
2 Operating segment information continued 
Geographical analysis 
      External  External 
      revenue  revenue 
      2010  2009 
Revenue from external customers      £m  £m 
Geographical analysis by origin
1 
 
United Kingdom       367   396
 
Other countries: 
— Rest of Europe       645   658 
— United States       676   692 
— North America — other       59   66 
— South America       114   103 
— Asia Pacific       311   310 
— Africa and Middle East       71   59
 
        1,876   1,888
 
        2,243   2,284
 
 
1 
Revenue is presented based on the location of the Invensys business making the supply. 
 
      Non- Non-
      current current
      assets
1
  assets
1
 
      2010  2009 
Non-current assets
1
       £m  £m 
Geographical analysis by origin
2
 
United Kingdom       235   254 
Other countries: 
— Rest of Europe       127   126 
— United States       267   289 
— North America — other       34   23 
— South America       27   25 
— Asia Pacific       40   34 
— Africa and Middle East       4   4 
        499   501
 
        734   755
 
 
1  
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets — goodwill, intangible assets — other and other receivables. 
2 
Information is presented based on the location of the assets. 
 
Information about major customers 
The Group had no single external customer that accounted for 10% or more of the Group’s total external revenues in the years ended 
31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75
3 Operating profit and analysis of revenue   
 
      2010  2009 
     Notes  £m  £m 
Revenue       2,243  2,284
Cost of sales
1
       (1,459) (1,496)
Gross profit       784   788 
Distribution costs       (13)  (14)
Administrative costs       (427) (437)
Research and development costs
1
       (96)  (93)
Operating profit before exceptional items       248   244 
   
Restructuring costs      2   (43)  (48)
Other operating exceptional items:
— US pension curtailment gain
2
      25   36  —   
— Other operating exceptional items       (3)  —      
    
Total other operating exceptional items       33   —
Impairment: property, plant and equipment      12   (8)  (16)
Impairment: intangible assets — other      14   (2)  (1)
Loss on sale of assets and operations      2   (5)  (1)
Exceptional items        (25)  (66)
Operating profit       223   178 
   
1  
Research and development costs have been reported as a separate overhead cost as the directors consider this provides more meaningful analysis of gross profit and overhead costs. 
The 2009 comparatives have been reclassified accordingly, resulting in an increase in gross profit of £93 million. Operating profit before exceptional items remains unchanged.
2 
The US pension curtailment gain arises from the closure of the defined benefit portion of the Invensys US pension plans.    
  
   
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Analysis of revenue    
Sale of goods — products        1,096   1,054 
Sale of goods — solutions        908   945 
Rendering of services        239   285 
   
Revenue       2,243   2,284 
Exceptional finance income       —     27 
Finance income       3   8 
Total revenue        2,246   2,319 
The disclosures related to discontinued operations are set out in Note 10.    76 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
4 Group operating profit   
Total Group
1
 operating profit has been arrived at after charging the following:   
   
      2010  2009 
     Notes £m  £m 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment     12  43  46
Amortisation of intangible assets — other
2
      14  22   22 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment      12  8   16 
Impairment of intangible assets      14  2   1 
Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense       75   85 
   
Operating lease payments      30  43   37 
   
Fees for audit and other services      5  7    7 
   
Employee benefits expense      6  780   791 
   
Net foreign exchange gain/(loss)
3
      3  (3)
1 
Continuing and discontinued operations.   
2  
Of which £2 million (2009: £2 million) is recorded within cost of sales and £20 million (2009: £20 million) is included within overhead costs; £16 million (2009: £17 million) in research and 
development costs, and £4 million (2009: £3 million) in administrative costs.   
3 
Of which £3 million gain (2009: £4 million loss) relates to transactional hedges. See Note 22.   
5 Fees for audit and other services 
The Group has recognised the following amounts payable to its Group auditors in respect of the fees for audit and other services 
provided to the Group. 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m
 
Audit of the financial statements      1.1  0.8 
Local statutory audits for subsidiaries      2.6  2.6
 
Fee for audit       3.7   3.4 
 
Fees for other services: 
— taxation advisory services      2.0  1.8 
— corporate finance transaction advisory services     0.2  0.7 
— audit of the Group pension schemes      0.1  0.1 
— other services      0.9  0.8
 
Fees for other services       3.2   3.4
 
Fees for audit and other services       6.9   6.8 
 
6 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense 
The average number of people employed by the Group (including directors) during the year was as follows: 
      2010  2009 
Production       15,030   16,252 
Marketing and distribution       2,192   2,388 
Finance and administration       1,552   1,588 
Research and development       1,583   1,911 
        20,357   22,139 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77
The aggregate payroll costs of these people were as follows: 
      2010  2009 
     Notes  £m  £m 
Wages and salaries       633   639 
Social security costs       76   78 
Pension and post-retirement costs      25   30   35 
Share-based payment expense      29   11   12 
Other payroll costs       30   27 
        780   791 
 
Details of Directors’ remuneration are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 50. 
7 Foreign exchange on financial items 
Foreign exchange on financial items are £nil (2009: £nil). This includes £1 million (2009: £8 million) of foreign exchange losses relating to 
derivatives used in the management of the Group’s cash, offset by £1 million (2009: £8 million) of foreign exchange gains  
on corresponding cash balances and intra-group loans which do not form part of the lenders’ net investment in foreign operations.  
8 Total finance costs and finance income 
 
      2010  2009 
     Notes £m  £m 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts        — (1)
Interest payable on other loans       (1)  (1)
Total interest expense for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss   (1)  (2)
Bonding costs       (5)  (4)
Amortisation of refinancing costs       (1)  (1)
Unwind of discount of provisions      24 (2)  (3)
Fair value loss on financial assets held for trading     16 —  (2)
Other        (1)  — 
Finance costs        (10)  (12)
 
Bank interest receivable        3   8
 
Total interest income for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss    3   8 
Finance income        3   8 
 
Net finance costs        (7)  (4)
In addition to the above, the Group has recognised exceptional finance income and expenses of £nil (2009: exceptional finance income 
of £27 million relating to a gain on the sale of available-for-sale investments and exceptional finance costs of £1 million relating to 
transaction fees associated with the Group’s capital reduction). 
  78 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
9 Taxation 
(i) Analysis of income tax expense in the consolidated income statement 
Income tax expense recognised within the consolidated income statement may be analysed as follows: 
 
      2010  2009 
     Note  £m  £m 
 
UK corporation tax 
— Current income tax charge       1 6
— Double taxation relief       — (4)
— Adjustments in respect of prior years       (4) (8)
       (3) (6)
Overseas tax 
— Current income tax charge       38 37
— Adjustments in respect of prior years       (10) 1
       28 38
 
Total current income tax — continuing operations      25 32
 
Deferred income tax 
— Current deferred income tax charge/(credit)       2 (10)
— Adjustments in respect of prior years       (1) 1
Total deferred income tax — continuing operations      1 (9)
 
Taxation — continuing operations       26 23
 
Taxation — discontinued operations      10  (1) (2)
Total income tax expense       25 21
 
A reversal of the exceptional tax charge that arose from the recognition of the PPP settlement credit in the year ended 31 March 2008 
and the restructuring costs incurred in the year gave rise to an exceptional tax credit of £6 million (2009: £7 million primarily as a result 
of restructuring costs).  
 
Total income tax expense may be analysed as follows: 
 
  Continuing  Discontinued  Total  Continuing  Discontinued  Total 
  2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Analysed as: 
— Taxation — UK   (3) — (3) (6) — (6)
— Taxation — overseas   29 (1) 28 29 (2) 27
   26 (1) 25 23 (2) 21 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79
(ii) Total tax reconciliation 
The total tax charge for the year of £25 million (2009: £21 million) is lower (2009: lower) than the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 
28% (2009: 28%). The key factors are explained below: 
 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Profit before tax: 
— Continuing operations       179 165
— Discontinued operations       (3) (11)
       176 154
Tax at the UK corporate income tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%)      49 43
Adjustments in respect of prior years       (16) (8)
Non-taxable loss on sale of business       — 3
Current year losses and other temporary differences not recognised     8 (7)
Tax effect of expenses that (are)/are not deductible     (17) 5
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised     (6) (18)
Recognition of carried forward losses in current year     (1) (4)
Differences in effective overseas tax rates      8 7
Total income tax expense       25 21
 
(iii) Factors that may affect future tax charges 
Invensys is subject to several factors which affect the tax charge including the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions and 
the availability of tax losses.  
 
(iv) Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order 
In December 2006 Invensys filed a claim in the High Court for compensation arising from the payment of advance corporation tax and 
from satisfying liabilities to corporation tax arising from the receipt of dividends from non UK resident subsidiaries. Invensys contends 
that these tax liabilities were incurred in breach of its EU community law rights. Invensys joined a Group Litigation Order with 27 other 
corporates from whom two test cases were selected to proceed to trial on a representative basis. 
 
In December 2006 the European Court of Justice issued its guidance to the UK High Court on the compatability of certain UK tax 
provisions within EU community law. The test cases returned to the UK High Court for the full hearing in July 2008, with the UK High 
Court issuing its judgement on 27 November 2008. 
 
The UK High Court judgement in November 2008 found in favour of the claimants on certain key aspects of the claim. The judgement 
concluded, inter alia, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should be, and should have been, effectively exempt from UK 
taxation. It also concluded that certain dividends received from EU subsidiaries before 5 April 1999 and, in some limited circumstances, 
after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income with the consequence that advance 
corporation tax need not have been paid.  
 
The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgement was handed down on 23 February 2010. The Court of 
Appeal has determined that various questions should be referred back to the European Court of Justice for further clarification. In addition, 
the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years. It is expected that this process may take several years to complete.
 
Given the complexity and uncertainty over the issues raised it is not possible to predict the amounts and final outcome with any 
reasonable certainty. Therefore no contingent asset has been recognised in the Group Financial Statements.
10 Discontinued operations 
No operations have been discontinued in the year to 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. In the year ended 31 March 2010, net £3 million 
(2009: £11 million) of additional costs were incurred in respect of prior year disposals against which there was a £1 million tax credit 
(2009: £2 million). 
   80 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
11 Earnings/(loss) per share 
 
      2010  2009 
 
Earnings/(loss) per share (pence)
 
Continuing operations 
Basic       18.5p  17.4p
Diluted       18.4p  17.2p
 
Before exceptional US pension curtailment gain, PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income 
Basic       13.4p  14.1p
Diluted       13.3p  14.0p
 
Discontinued operations 
Basic       (0.2)p  (1.1)p
Diluted       (0.2)p  (1.1)p
 
Total Group 
Basic       18.3p  16.3p
Diluted       18.1p  16.1p
 
Weighted average number of shares (million) 
Basic        805   799 
Effect of dilution — share options        6   7
Diluted        811   806 
 
Earnings (£m) 
 
Continuing operations 
Basic        149   139 
 
Before exceptional US pension curtailment gain, PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income 
— Operating profit        223   178 
— Exceptional curtailment gain       (36)  — 
— Finance costs        (10)  (12)
— Finance income        3   8 
— Other finance charges — IAS 19        (37)  (35)
— Operating profit less net finance costs        143   139 
— Taxation on operating profit less net finance costs
1
      (31)  (23)
— Minority interests        (4)  (3)
        108   113 
 
 
Discontinued operations 
Basic       (2)  (9)
Total Group 
Basic        147   130
 
1 
Includes £5 million (2009: £nil) for the reversal of the exceptional tax charge that arose from the recognition of the PPP settlement credit.
 
The basic earnings/(loss) per share for the year has been calculated using 805 million shares (2009: 799 million), being the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as Treasury shares which are treated as cancelled, and the 
profit after taxation and minority interests for continuing operations, discontinued operations and total Group as shown above. 
 
An additional earnings per share calculation for continuing operations has been included since the directors consider that this gives 
useful additional indications of underlying performance. This is based on earnings before the exceptional US pension curtailment gain, 
PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income. 
 
The diluted earnings/(loss) per share has been calculated in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share without reference to 
adjustments in respect of certain share options which are considered to be anti-dilutive. 
 
There have been no significant transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the 
date of completion of these Financial Statements.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 81
12 Property, plant and equipment 
 
     Land and  Plant and  
     buildings  equipment  Total 
    Note  £m  £m  £m 
Cost 
At 1 April 2008       196   620   816 
Additions       6   26   32 
Additions — acquired through business combinations    32   1   —   1 
Disposals       (11)  (45)  (56)
Exchange adjustments       39   143   182 
Classified as held for sale       1   —   1 
 
At 31 March 2009       232   744   976 
  
Additions       4   30   34 
Disposals       (2)  (62)  (64)
Exchange adjustments       (1)  (9)  (10)
Classified as held for sale      (13)  —   (13)
 
At 31 March 2010       220   703   923 
 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 
At 1 April 2008       70   464   534 
Charge for the year       5   41   46 
Provision for impairment
1
       14   2   16 
Disposals       (7)  (43)  (50)
Exchange adjustments       15   110   125 
 
At 31 March 2009       97   574   671 
 
Charge for the year       5   38   43 
Provision for impairment
1
       6   2   8 
Disposals       (2)  (56)  (58)
Exchange adjustments       (2)  (7)  (9)
Classified as held for sale      (6)  —   (6)
 
At 31 March 2010       98   551   649 
 
Net book value  
 
At 31 March 2009       135   170   305
 
At 31 March 2010       122   152   274 
 
Amounts included in respect of assets held under finance leases are: 
 
      Land and   Plant and  
      buildings   equipment   Total 
      £m   £m   £m
Net book value 
 
At 31 March 2009       —   1   1 
 
At 31 March 2010       —   1   1 
1 
Includes £1 million of a property impairment reversal. 
 
There was £nil (2009: £nil) depreciation charged in the year in respect of assets held under finance leases. 
 
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease. The title to plant and machinery with a carrying amount of £2 million 
(2009: £1 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities.  82 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
12 Property, plant and equipment continued
Included in plant and equipment at 31 March 2010 was an amount of £11 million (2009: £6 million) relating to expenditure for plant and 
equipment in the course of construction. 
Impairment losses of £8 million comprise £5 million for the write down of buildings and equipment associated with a restructuring 
project undertaken in Invensys Controls and £3 million for the write down of fixed assets; £2 million in Invensys Operations 
Management and £1 million in Invensys Controls. (2009: £16 million comprising £11 million in Invensys Operations Management and  
£2 million within Corporate due to property and freehold land impairments as a result of current market conditions and £3 million for 
the write down of assets in relation to the closure of manufacturing plants within Invensys Controls). The recoverable amounts of these 
assets were estimated based on their fair value less costs to sell. Fair values were determined based on an assessment of the current 
market values of the assets and past experience of sales of similar assets.
 
13 Intangible assets — goodwill 
 
        £m 
Cost 
At 1 April 2008         353 
Additions         36 
Exchange adjustments         80 
 
At 31 March 2009         469 
 
Exchange adjustments         (8)
 
At 31 March 2010         461 
 
Accumulated impairment losses 
At 1 April 2008         138 
Exchange adjustments         25 
 
At 31 March 2009         163 
 
Exchange adjustments         (3)
 
At 31 March 2010         160 
 
Net book value 
 
At 31 March 2009         306
 
At 31 March 2010         301 
Goodwill acquired in business combinations has been allocated to four cash generating units (CGUs) or groups of cash generating 
units. An analysis of the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is set out below: 
 
      2010  2009 
       £m   £m 
Invensys Operations Management
1
      284 289
Invensys Rail       16 16
Invensys Controls
1
      1 1
Continuing operations       301 306
 
1  
From 1 April 2009, IMServ is managed through the Invensys Operations Management division, whereas previously it was managed through the Invensys Controls division. Comparatives 
have been reclassified accordingly. 
Invensys Operations Management comprises four cash generating units (Invensys Process Systems (IPS), Wonderware, Eurotherm and 
IMServ), which are managed as a single division. As disclosed in the Business Review, IPS, Wonderware and Eurotherm have been 
integrated  into a combined division. As a consequence of the integration, the goodwill relating to each of these three cash generating 
units now benefits all of these Invensys Operations Management businesses. To reflect this, the cash generating units are aggregated 
to capture the benefits arising across these Invensys Operations Management businesses in assessing the carrying value of goodwill. 
Although IMServ is part of Invensys Operations Management, management continues to monitor IMServ’s goodwill separately. As a 
result, IMServ together with Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls are treated as separate cash generating units for goodwill impairment 
monitoring purposes. These three cash generating units and one group of cash generating units represent the lowest level within the 
Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Previously, the goodwill balances allocated to IPS, 
Wonderware and Eurotherm were each tested for impairment separately.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83
Goodwill allocated to IPS, Wonderware and Eurotherm amounts to £251 million (2009: £256 million). Goodwill allocated to IMServ 
amounts to £33 million (2009: £33 million).
Annual impairment test
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill 
is tested separately for each cash generating unit or group of cash generating units that represent the lowest level within the Group at 
which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from ‘value 
in use’ calculations using cash flow projections over a five-year period.
The key assumptions for the ‘value in use’ calculations are:
•  revenue volumes;
•  revenue prices;
•  operating costs;
•  growth rate assumptions for years four and five of the cash flow projections;
•  growth in perpetuity applied to calculate the terminal value; and
•  discount rate.
Expected revenue volumes, revenue prices and operating costs are those included in the most recent financial annual operating plans 
approved by management. They reflect management’s current expectations for the CGUs taking account of expected future 
developments in markets and operations.
Cash flows for years four and five are projected at a growth rate appropriate for the relevant CGUs. These growth rates take into 
consideration forecast GDP growth rates for the countries of operation, expected market growth rates for those regions and the levels 
of growth achieved historically by the CGUs and forecast in the periods covered by the annual operating plan. Lower growth rates are 
applied in perpetuity to calculate the terminal values of the CGUs. These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the 
relevant markets. A discount rate is derived for the CGUs by adjusting the Group’s weighted average cost of capital to reflect the 
relative level of risk associated with the cash flow projections. The discount rate is a pre-tax rate. These discount rates and growth rates 
are as follows:
    Discount  Growth  Discount  Growth 
    rate  rate
1 
 rate  rate
1
 
    2010  2010  2009  2009 
     %  %  %  % 
    
Invensys Operations Management     
— IPS, Wonderware and Eurotherm    12.83 3.0 12.23 2.9
— IMServ    11.75 2.0 10.60 1.9
    
Invensys Rail     10.98 2.6 10.39 3.0
    
Invensys Controls     12.75 2.7 11.72 1.5
         
    
1
 In perpetuity.
    
In all cases the recoverable amounts of these CGUs were in excess of their carrying values and no impairment arose in the year  
(2009: £nil).
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With respect to the assessment of ‘value in use’ of all CGUs, management believes that no reasonable possible change in any of the 
above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount.  84 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
14 Intangible assets — other 
 
     Computer  Patents,  
    Development  software  trademarks  
    costs  costs  and licences  Total 
   Note £m  £m  £m  £m
 
Cost 
At 1 April 2008      131   30   —   161 
Additions      21   3   —   24 
Additions — acquired through business combinations   32  12   —   —   12 
Exchange adjustments      23   9   —   32 
At 31 March 2009      187   42   —   229 
 
Additions      34   1   1   36 
Disposals      —   (1)  —   (1)
Elimination of fully amortised assets     (4)  —   —   (4)
Exchange adjustments      (2)  (1) —  (3)
At 31 March 2010      215   41   1   257
 
 
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 April 2008      50   19   —   69 
Charge for the year      18   4   —   22 
Impairment losses for the year
1
      1   —   —   1 
Exchange adjustments      9   5   —   14 
At 31 March 2009      78   28   —   106 
 
Charge for the year      18   4   —   22 
Impairment losses for the year
1
      2   —   —   2 
Elimination of fully amortised assets     (4)  —   —   (4)
Exchange adjustments      (2)  —   —   (2)
At 31 March 2010      92   32   —   124
 
 
Net book value 
At 31 March 2009      109   14   —   123 
 
At 31 March 2010      123   9   1   133 
1  
Impairment losses of £2 million in the year ended 31 March 2010 relate to write down of a specific development asset in Invensys Controls. The asset is no longer expected to generate 
future revenues and as a result its carrying value has been written down to £nil. (2009: £1 million related to the write down of a specific development asset in Invensys Rail. The future 
revenues expected to be derived from the asset had been significantly delayed and were no longer sufficiently certain to support continued recognition of the asset. The carrying amount 
of the asset was written down to £nil). 
15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
The following are the major deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current 
and prior year: 
 
    PPE/ Tax  
    intangibles  losses  Other  Total 
    £m  £m  £m  £m 
 
At 1 April 2008      (23)  33   (4)  6 
(Charge)/credit to income statement
1
      (3)  12   —   9 
Acquisition of subsidiary      (3)  —   —   (3)
Exchange differences      (6)  12   (1)  5 
At 31 March 2009      (35)  57   (5)  17 
 
(Charge)/credit to income statement
1
      (9) (4) 12   (1)
Exchange differences     1  (1)   (1)  (1)
At 31 March 2010      (43)  52  6  15 
1  
Included in Other is a credit of £9 million relating to inventories (2009: £2 million charge). Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 85
Certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred income tax balances 
(after offset) for financial reporting purposes: 
       2010   2009 
       £m   £m 
Deferred income tax assets       27   32 
Deferred income tax liabilities       (12)  (15)
        15   17 
 
As a result of changes to tax legislation, dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 will be largely exempt from UK tax but may be 
subject to dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. The gross temporary 
differences of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes is £40 million (2009: £533 million as calculated under the 
previous rules prior to the change in legislation). No deferred income tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the 
Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
 
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets 
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.  
 
The Group has unrecognised income tax losses of £1,229 million with a tax value of £396 million (2009: £1,191 million with a tax value of 
£372 million) available for offset against future profits. Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of £48 million (2009: £54 million) 
that will expire within four years. 
 
The Group has unrecognised capital losses of £1,341 million (2009: £782 million) that are only available for offset against future capital 
gains. Included in capital losses are losses of £170 million (2009: £206 million) that will expire within four years. Other capital losses may 
be carried forward indefinitely. 
 
A deferred income tax asset has not been recognised on temporary differences of £823 million with a tax value of £272 million  
(2009: £533 million with a tax value of £167 million) in respect of pension and other retirement benefit obligations and other deductible 
temporary differences. 
16 Other financial assets 
 
      2010  2009 
       £m   £m 
 
Other financial assets — non-current: 
Available-for-sale investments        1   1
 
        1   1 
 
Other financial assets — current: 
Held-to-maturity financial investments       —   23 
        —   23 
 
Available-for-sale investments 
Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in listed ordinary shares and therefore have no fixed maturity date or coupon 
rate. These investments were not acquired with the intention of selling them in the near term. Available-for-sale investments are 
measured at fair value derived from quoted market prices in active markets. 
 
Held-to-maturity investments 
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the 
Group’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. They are included in non-current assets unless the 
investment is due to mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date. At 31 March 2010 held-to-maturity investments were £nil  
(2009: held-to-maturity investments comprised £9 million of US Treasury Notes held to defease the covenants in the Group’s remaining 
144A Bonds and £14 million of deposits held to secure certain bonding facilities). Held-to-maturity investments are measured at 
amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.  
  86 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
16 Other financial assets continued
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
In the year ended 31 March 2009, Nikkei-linked securities with final maturity dates between 2010 and 2020 were sold for £5 million. 
Market values were determined by external security dealers using pricing models, based on various financial factors including bond 
prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and the Nikkei Index prices. These assets were classified as held for trading and 
measured at fair value through profit or loss. The total amount of the change in fair value estimated using a valuation technique that 
was recognised in the income statement during the year was £nil (2009: £2 million loss). 
 
17 Inventories 
 
      2010  2009 
       £m   £m 
Raw materials and consumables        87   86 
Work in progress        30   32 
Finished goods        40   46 
        157   164 
 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 
 
      2010  2009 
       £m   £m 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense        833   835 
Including: 
— Write down of inventories to net realisable value       4   5 
— Reversals of impairments in inventories        1   1 
 
18 Amounts due from/(to) contract customers 
 
      2010  2009 
       £m   £m 
Amounts due from contract customers: 
Amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months       180   236 
        180   236
 
Amounts due to contract customers: 
Amounts expected to be settled within 12 months       (158) (219)
Amounts expected to be settled after more than 12 months       (40)  (42)
        (198) (261)
 
Net amounts due to contract customers        (18)  (25)
 
Analysed as: 
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date     3,696   2,347 
Less: progress billings        (3,714) (2,372)
Contracts in progress at balance sheet date        (18)  (25)
 
Revenue from construction contracts        1,048   1,110 
 
At 31 March 2010, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £35 million (2009: £27 million) and advances received 
from customers for contract work amounted to £11 million (2009: £21 million). 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts due from/(to) contract customers is a reasonable approximation of their 
fair value. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 87
19 Trade and other receivables 
 
      2010  2009 
     Note   £m   £m 
Non-current 
Other receivables        26   21 
        26   21
 
Current 
Trade receivables        421   426 
Prepayments and accrued income        27   33 
Other receivables        62   65 
        510   524 
 
Total trade and other receivables        536   545
 
 
Classification to financial assets 
Financial assets: loans and receivables      22i  475   482 
Non-financial assets        61   63 
        536   545 
 
Trade receivables are recorded net of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods. The average credit 
period taken on sales of goods is 53 days. 
 
The allowance that has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods is £13 million (2009: £14 million). This 
allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience. The net impairment loss recognised in the year as a result of 
irrecoverable receivables balances is £nil (2009: £7 million loss). 
 
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing. Other receivables include amounts owed by associated 
undertakings, interest receivable, refundable deposits, refunds due in respect of VAT, sales and payroll taxes, commissions earned  
and insurance recoveries. 
 
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: 
      2010  2009 
       £m   £m 
At 1 April        14   9 
Increase in provisions       4  8 
Decrease in provisions       (4)  (1)
Utilisation of provisions       (1)  (5)
Exchange adjustments       —  3 
At 31 March       13   14
 
  88 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
19 Trade and other receivables continued 
As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: 
      2010  2009 
       £m   £m 
Neither past due nor impaired       341  340 
Past due but not impaired — past due by:  
— 1 to 30 days       39  45 
— 31 to 60 days       21  18 
— 61 to 90 days       7  11 
— 91 to 120 days       7  7 
— 121 days and over       6  5
 
        421   426 
 
Generally the Group does not hold any collateral as security against trade receivables that are impaired or past due but not impaired. 
The Group performs credit verification procedures on all customers. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis. 
 
Further information on the Group’s approach to credit risk in relation to trade and other receivables is given in Note 22. 
 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. 
20 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Cash at banks and in hand       170 134 
Short-term deposits       194  162 
Cash and cash equivalents      364  296 
 
Cash and cash equivalents attract interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents. Short-term deposits have an average maturity 
of 11 days (2009: 12 days). The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from their book value. For information 
on the exposure of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents balances to credit risk refer to Note 22. 
 
Restricted cash and short-term deposits 
As an international Group, Invensys has operations in a number of territories including China, Brazil and India which place restrictions 
on the ability of subsidiaries to lend money to other Group entities outside those territories. However, distributions to the Group are 
permitted from audited reserves. At 31 March 2010 restricted cash and cash equivalents held in such territories totalled £68 million 
(2009: £73 million). 
  
Cash and cash equivalents include £37 million (2009: £22 million) of cash collateral held in the ordinary course of business to provide 
security for local bonding facilities. In addition, the Group has bonds and guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities which are 
outlined in Note 21.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 89
21 Borrowings 
(i) Bank and other loans falling due within and after more than one year 
 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
 
On demand or within one year       — 9
Repayable over one but not more than two years      1 1 
 
Total bank and other loans       1  10 
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months (current liabilities)     — (9)
 
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months (non-current liabilities)     1  1 
 
 
(ii) Loan repayment dates, interest rates and principal terms 
 
    Committed  
    facilities  
    2010  Interest  2010  2009 
  Notes  Maturity  £m  rate  £m  £m 
 
Bank loans 
      LIBOR + 
Multicurrency credit facility   1 Jul 2013  400 1.50%  — —
     400   — —
Other loans and borrowings 
US$ Bonds 2010   2 Jan 2010  — 6.50%  — 9
Finance leases   3 Various  1 Various  1 1
     1   1 10 
     401   1 10 
 
1  
Interest was charged at LIBOR plus 2.0% for the first 12 months, expiring on 15 July 2009. Subsequently, the rate has been LIBOR plus 1.50% based on balance sheet leverage. This facility 
contains covenants in relation to financial ratios; acquisitions are permitted up to £100 million per annum in aggregate, in addition the proceeds from certain disposals may also be used 
for acquisitions; dividends are allowed, provided they are paid out of the previous year’s free cash flow (this restriction does not apply if the Company has an investment grade rating).
2  
Senior Notes issued in the United States under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. The Company had no right to call these Notes prior to maturity but the Notes had been covenant 
defeased. 
3  
Finance leases are secured by charges over the assets to which they relate. At 31 March 2010 £1 million of such loans were classified as non-current liabilities (2009: £1 million). 
 
As at 31 March 2010, the committed syndicated loan facility available to the Group was a £400 million multicurrency credit facility with 
a term of five years from July 2008. The facility is available for drawdown as loans, letters of credit or guarantees. The available facility 
at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 was £400 million of which £240 million was drawn at 31 March 2010 for the provision of bonds and 
guarantees (2009: £217 million).
In addition, at 31 March 2010, the Group has bonds and guarantees totalling £245 million issued under uncommitted facilities.  
Of these, £37 million (2009: £22 million) are supported by cash collateral and a further £20 million (2009: £20 million) are supported  
by guarantees issued under the Group’s committed syndicated loan facility.
(iii) Undrawn committed facilities 
 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Expiring in more than two years       160 183 
       160 183  90 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank and other loans, cash and cash equivalents, other financial assets, trade and 
other receivables and trade and other payables. The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily forward currency 
contracts. This note explains the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments; how those risks arise; the objectives, 
policies and processes used by the Group for managing the risks; and the methods used to measure the risks.
Overview of treasury policy
The Group manages its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments by the application of its treasury policy.
The Group’s treasury policy is approved by the Board and seeks to ensure that:
• appropriate financial resources are available for the maintenance and development of the Group’s businesses;
• the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty credit exposure is understood, measured and managed appropriately; 
and
• treasury operates as a cost centre and that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
Following the redemption of virtually all of the Group’s foreign currency borrowings in the year ended 31 March 2009 (in advance of the 
significant weakening of sterling), there have been no significant changes in the Group’s exposures to risk, and its approach to 
managing those exposures, in the year ended 31 March 2010 compared to the year ended 31 March 2009.
Policy in respect of the major areas of treasury management is set out below.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
Operating within the strict controls of the Group’s treasury policy, the Treasury Department manages this risk, ensuring that sufficient 
funding and liquidity is available to meet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cash 
flow variations. In addition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts a flexible approach to liquidity management using a 
mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits. Core funding is provided by a bank facility which matures in July 
2013, as described in Note 21(ii). The undrawn level of this facility as set out in Note 21(iii) together with the Group’s cash balances  
as set out in Note 20, are the key measures of the Group’s liquidity.
Bank guarantees issued by the Group as set out in Note 21(ii) represent a potential liquidity requirement. This risk is mitigated by 
issuing guarantees under the committed syndicated loan facility and holding sufficient liquidity to cover the forecast cash requirements 
of guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities.
Liquidity management is centralised through cash pooling arrangements and inter-company funding structures, under the control of 
the Treasury Department.  In countries where cash pooling arrangements cannot be implemented, cash balances are monitored to 
ensure that surplus amounts are repatriated and deficits adequately funded. The Treasury Department maintains sufficient back-up 
liquidity in the form of available cash balances and committed facilities.
Standard business practices include the strict application of credit control procedures to ensure the collection of cash from customers 
in accordance with agreed credit periods and terms that result in positive cash flows over the life of a construction or long-term service 
provision contract whenever possible. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 91
The following table summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 based 
on contractual undiscounted payments:
 Up to 1 year  1 to 2 years  2 to 3 years  3 to 4 years  4 to 5 years  >5 years  Total 
31 March 2010  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
— Finance leases  — 1 — — — — 1 
— Provisions  6 5 4 3 2 8 28 
— Trade and other payables  487  6  —  —  —  2  495 
Unrecognised liabilities:
— Operating lease commitments 50 41 32 28 21 95 267 
  543  53  36  31  23  105  791 
Derivative financial liabilities: 
—  Foreign exchange swaps  
and forwards  9 — — — — — 9 
Total financial liabilities 552 53  36  31  23  105  800 
 Up to 1 year  1 to 2 years  2 to 3 years  3 to 4 years  4 to 5 years  >5 years  Total 
31 March 2009  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
— Long-term bank and other loans  9  —  —  —  —  —  9 
— Finance leases  —  1  —  —  —  —  1 
— Provisions  10  7  6  3  2  10  38 
— Trade and other payables  459  7  1  —  —  1  468 
Unrecognised liabilities:
— Operating lease commitments 50 38 30 23 19 66 226 
  528  53  37  26  21  77  742 
Derivative financial liabilities: 
—  Foreign exchange swaps  
and forwards  4  —  —  —  —  —  4 
Total financial liabilities 532  53  37  26  21  77  746 
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to risk arising from the effect of changes in floating interest rates on the level of interest it pays on its borrowings 
and receives on its cash deposits.
The Group’s policy is to set the proportion of fixed- and floating-rate debt taking into account several factors including:
• the financial leverage of the Group;
• the profitability of the Group in relation to the business cycle; and
• absolute levels of interest rates.
To implement this policy the Group considers the use of fixed-rate borrowings, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and 
currency forwards and swaps as necessary to manage its interest rate exposure.
As at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, in line with the Group having a net cash position, Invensys had no significant fixed-rate 
borrowings. 
The interest rate profiles of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents and short- and long-term borrowings are set out in Notes 20 and 21 
respectively. All other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are non-interest bearing and a statement has been made to that effect 
in the relevant balance sheet notes. 92 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of  
the Group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating-rate cash and borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity.  
The same assumptions have been used for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009.
 
      Effect on profit Effect on profit
      before tax:  before tax: 
      increase/  increase/ 
      (decrease)  (decrease) 
     Increase/ 2010  2009 
     decrease £m £m
GBP     1% 1.2 1.0
Euro      1% 0.4 0 
US dollar      1% 0.5 0.5 
GBP     —1% (1.2) (1.0)
Euro      —1% (0.4) 0 
US dollar      —1% (0.5) (0.5)
Currency risk
Transaction exposure
Currency transaction exposure arises when the divisions face revenues or costs in a currency other than their own. The incidence of this 
risk varies across the Group and is subject to change. Usually however, the majority of revenues and costs will be in the functional 
currency of the business undertaking the transaction. Where this is not the case and the exposure is significant, it is the Group’s policy 
for businesses to hedge their exposures. The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts to manage transaction exposure.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk when making bids, particularly on major contracts, where movements against the specific 
exchange rate assumed within a bid would lead to a change in the anticipated margin on the contract should the bid be successful.  
This tender to contract risk is hedged if significant.
Translation exposure
The majority of the Group’s operating capital is employed in overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, particularly 
US dollars. As a consequence, changes in exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported results. This risk is not hedged 
directly, but to the extent that the Group has debt, any that is held in foreign currency would reduce the level of net assets exposed to 
currency fluctuations. The interest expense related to such debt would also reduce the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate 
movements.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows:
    Other   Other 
  US dollar  Euro  (excl GBP)  US dollar  Euro  (excl GBP) 
  2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
As at 31 March   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net assets of non-GBP functional currency entities  122 86 203 322  106  170 
Net unhedged monetary assets not held  
 in entities’ functional currencies   26 (25) (65) 93  (4) 13 
Gross exposure  148  61  138  415  102  183 
The significant exchange rates that applied during the year are set out in Note 37.
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and euro exchange rate, with all other 
variables held constant, of:
• the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the sterling value of monetary assets and liabilities not held in entities’ functional 
currencies (assuming year end levels of such items are held constant); and
• the Group’s equity due to changes in the sterling value of year end net assets held by non-GBP functional currency entities. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 93
    Effect on profit Effect on  Effect on profit  Effect on 
    before tax:  equity:  before tax:  equity: 
   Strengthening/  increase/  increase/  increase/  increase/ 
   weakening  (decrease)  (decrease)  (decrease)  (decrease) 
   US dollar and  2010  2010  2009  2009 
   euro rate  £m £m £m £m
Euro    +5%  (1) 5 —  5 
US dollar    +5%  1 6 5  16 
Euro    —5%  1 (4) —  (5)
US dollar    —5%  (1) (6) (5) (16)
The effect on profit is derived by applying the assumed strengthening/weakening percentage to the net amount of unhedged 
monetary assets held in a currency that is not the functional currency of the Group entity holding those assets. The effect on equity is 
derived by applying the assumed strengthening/weakening percentage to the net assets of Group entities whose functional currency is 
other than sterling.
Price risk
The Group’s exposure to changing market prices on the value of financial instruments has an impact on the carrying value of financial 
assets that are classified as available-for-sale and on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group monitors changes in the carrying amounts of these assets and any resulting change in exposure to price risk in order to 
ensure that its investment in these assets remains appropriate.
On 31 March 2010, the total carrying value of these financial assets was £1 million (2009: £1 million).
Credit risk 
The Group is exposed to risk if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. Such a risk arises 
principally in relation to receivables due from customers and cash deposited with banks or other financial institutions.
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as to 
control exposure to any territory or institution. As far as it is both feasible and practical to do so, cash is held centrally by treasury.  
Risk is assessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their respective carrying values as at the balance sheet 
date (see (i) on page 94). Credit risks arising from acting as guarantor are disclosed in Note 30. 
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. 
Details of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements in respect of receivables are given in Note 19.
Based on past experience, the directors believe that there is no significant credit risk associated with receivables that are neither past 
due nor impaired. The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and performs credit verification procedures on all 
customers. Receivable balances, including uninvoiced receivables reported as amounts due from contract customers, are monitored 
on an ongoing basis.
The Group has not renegotiated the terms of any significant financial assets such that those assets would have been past due or 
impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
Derivatives
Derivatives are used to manage the interest rate and currency risks described above and further detail is provided below.
Capital management
The credit facility in place at 31 March 2010 provides liquidity for the Group until July 2013 and supports the current strategy of the 
Group. This facility is described further in Note 21(ii). Investigations are continually undertaken to review alternative financing 
arrangements. In making those considerations the Board takes into account the cost of any refinancing compared to the benefits,  
which include terms and conditions, the cost of funding and repayment schedules.
There were no significant changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 
31 March 2009. 94 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
The Group’s capital structure is as follows:
      2010  2009 
As at 31 March      £m  £m 
Capital employed
1
       57  354 
Cash and cash equivalents       364  296 
Borrowings       (1) (10)
Net cash      363  286 
Total equity — funds      420  640 
Comprising:
— Equity holders of parent       340  553 
— Minority interests       80  87 
       420  640 
1  
Includes other current financial assets of £nil (2009: £23 million).
On 21 January 2009, Invensys completed a restructuring of its reserves which facilitated the payment of dividends from earnings 
realised after that date.
Net cash was £363 million (2009: £286 million) with £nil (2009: £23 million) held on deposit with a maturity of more than three months.
(i) Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
The following table sets out the classification, carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. The fair value 
is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between informed and willing 
parties. Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates 
translated at year end exchange rates. Provisions have been included where there is a contractual obligation to settle in cash.
 
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March was: 
 
    Book  Fair  Book  Fair 
    value  value  value  value 
    2010  2010  2009  2009 
   Notes  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Financial assets 
Available-for-sale investments    16  1  1 1  1 
Held-to-maturity financial assets    16  — — 23  23 
Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables  19  475  475  482  482
Cash and cash equivalents   20  364  364  296  296 
Derivative financial instruments: 
— Foreign exchange swaps and forwards    22ii  3 3 2  2 
     843  843  804  804 
 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:  
— Short-term bank and other loans    21  — — (9) (9)
— Finance leases    30  (1) (1) (1) (1)
— Provisions   24  (27) (27) (37) (37)
— Trade and other payables   26  (495) (495) (468) (468)
Derivative financial instruments: 
— Foreign exchange swaps and forwards    22ii  (9) (9) (4) (4)
     (532) (532) (519) (519) Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 95
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current 
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to 
estimate the fair values: 
 
• Available-for-sale investments: fair values are derived from quoted market prices in active markets. 
• Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held for trading: fair values are market values determined by external security 
dealers using pricing models, based on various financial factors including bond prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and 
Index prices.  
• Held-to-maturity financial assets: fair values of quoted notes are based on price quotations at the reporting date. 
• Loans and receivables: trade and other receivables; cash and cash equivalents; provisions and trade and other payables: the 
directors consider that the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates to their fair value. 
• Short- and long-term bank and other loans; finance leases: fair values are evaluated based on interest rates. 
• Derivative financial instruments: foreign exchange swaps and forwards: fair values are derived using forward pricing and swap models. 
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties and foreign exchange spot and forward rates.
The Group has, in the ordinary course of business, provided indemnities to banks in respect of performance guarantees issued to 
customers. The fair value of such indemnities is not material as the likelihood of any liability arising from them is considered remote.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group had guaranteed certain borrowings by third parties. By 31 March 2010, these 
arrangements had come to an end and no longer gave rise to a contingent liability to the Group (2009: £2 million being the total 
amount of such borrowings outstanding at that date). 
Fair value hierarchy 
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
 
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly 
or indirectly
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
 
    Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
    2010  2010  2010  2010
    £m  £m  £m  £m
Financial assets at fair value    
Available-for-sale investments     1 — — 1
Derivative financial instruments: 
— Foreign exchange swaps and forwards     — 3 — 3
     1 3 — 4
 
Financial liabilities at fair value 
Derivative financial instruments: 
— Foreign exchange swaps and forwards     — (9) — (9)
     — (9) — (9)
During the year ended 31 March 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into 
or out of Level 3 fair value measurements. 
(ii) Derivative financial instruments 
A summary of derivative financial instruments is as follows: 
 
      Fair  Fair 
      value  value 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Derivative assets       3  2 
Derivative liabilities       (9) (4)
       (6) (2)
The Group uses derivatives to hedge currency transaction exposure and currency translation exposure. The figures in the above table 
are analysed by category as set out on page 96. 96 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge transaction exposure 
The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to hedge currency exposure arising from sales and purchases made by the 
Group’s businesses in currencies other than their own functional currency. The turnover (i.e. notional principal) of such derivatives 
(which typically have a term of less than one year), excluding swaps, in the year to 31 March 2010 was £614 million (2009: £273 million) 
and their fair value at 31 March was: 
 
      Fair  Fair 
      value  value 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Derivative assets       3 2 
Derivative liabilities       (9) (4)
       (6) (2)
All of these instruments are designated and effective as cash flow hedges. £6 million relating to hedged cash flows that have not yet 
impacted the income statement have been deferred and recognised in equity at 31 March 2010 (2009: £2 million). £3 million gain 
(2009: £4 million loss) has been transferred to the income statement during the year to 31 March 2010 in respect of contracts which 
matured. This amount is included within cost of sales in the income statement.
Foreign exchange swaps and forwards used to hedge translation exposure 
The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to match the currency profile of its net debt to that of its net assets, revenue and 
earnings and ensure that it has sufficient cash available to meet its payment obligations by currency as they fall due. The fair value of 
such derivatives (which typically have a term of less than one year) is £nil (2009: £nil). The currency assets and liabilities created by these 
derivatives at 31 March were:
 
    Net assets/    Net assets/ 
  Assets  Liabilities  (liabilities)  Assets  Liabilities  (liabilities) 
  2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Sterling   — (10) (10) — (35) (35)
Euro   — — — — (19) (19)
US dollar   — — — 24  — 24 
Japanese yen   10 — 10 8  — 8 
Other   — — — 26  (4) 22 
   10 (10) — 58  (58) —
 
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives of £1 million in the year to 31 March 2010 (2009: £8 million) are taken directly to foreign 
exchange losses in the income statement, see Note 7.
(iii) Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement 
No amounts were recognised in the income statement relating to the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges (2009: £nil).
23 Assets held for sale 
Assets held for sale relate to surplus freehold properties that are vacant, no longer used for operational purposes and are being 
actively marketed for sale. These properties are expected to be sold within a year of the date of their classification as held for sale and 
are included in Corporate in the operating segment analysis in Note 2.
 
The major classes of assets classified as held for sale as at 31 March are: 
 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
 
Current assets 
Surplus property portfolio       6 1
       6 1
 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 97
24 Provisions  
 
     Onerous  
  Warranties  Restructuring  Environmental  contracts  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 April 2009   28  24  55  37  67  211 
Charged in year   8  45  5  4  12  74 
Released in year   (3) (2) — (4) (4) (13)
Utilised in year   (13) (48) (7) (6) (15) (89)
Transferred   — — — (3) 3  —
Unwind of discount of provisions   — — 1  1  — 2 
Exchange adjustments   (2) — (2) (2) — (6)
At 31 March 2010  18  19  52  27  63  179 
 
 
      2010  2009 
     Note  £m  £m 
Analysed as: 
Current liabilities       79  100 
Non-current liabilities       100  111 
       179  211 
 
Classification to financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost      22i 27  37 
Non-financial liabilities       152  174 
       179  211 
 
 
Warranties are provided for in the normal course of business based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past claims. 
Such costs are generally incurred over the product life cycle. The actual amount of costs that will be incurred will depend upon the level 
and nature of future claims. 
 
Restructuring provisions cover committed costs, the majority of which are expected to be incurred within one year of the balance 
sheet date. 
 
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount can be determined reliably. 
This generally coincides with a commitment to a formal plan or, if earlier, on divestment or closure of inactive sites. These costs are 
expected to be incurred over the next 30 years. 
 
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to lease rentals in respect of vacant property and the costs of other onerous contracts.  
An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic 
benefits expected to be received under it. The provisions represent the best estimate of the unavoidable costs remaining under the 
current contractual terms of the contracts. These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next 15 years. 
 
Other provisions principally relate to legal claims, claims under workers’ compensation or similar employee disability benefit schemes 
and other miscellaneous obligations. These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next five years. The costs are 
estimated based on the expected outcome of the legal claim or obligation. The amount of the final liability and timing of payment,  
if any, is dependent upon the final outcome of any litigation or other negotiation involved. 
 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of provisions equates to their fair value.  98 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits 
(i) Defined contribution schemes 
The Group operates many defined contribution schemes. Pension costs in respect of defined contribution schemes represented 
contributions payable in the year and amounted to £12 million (2009: £12 million). At 31 March 2010, there were £1 million 
(2009: £1 million) of outstanding contributions included in payables. 
 
(ii) Defined benefit schemes — general 
The Group operates many funded and unfunded defined benefit pension and post-retirement schemes. Contributions to the defined 
benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of the independent actuary of the relevant scheme. There are two 
main funded defined benefit schemes in the UK and US, together with other smaller schemes in the rest of the world. The main UK 
scheme is final salary in nature. The main US scheme is no longer final salary following the closure to future accrual and the freezing of 
benefits for existing members with effect from 1 November 2009. 
 
The principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK employees is the Invensys Pension Scheme. The Invensys Pension Scheme is a 
funded defined benefit scheme. The assets of this scheme are held separately from those of the Group. These assets are managed by 
trustees, who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes’ beneficiaries. The Trustee Board is made up of nine directors, four 
nominated by the Company and five by the members. The Company is responsible for appointing the Chairman from the Board. The 
last full actuarial valuation of the Scheme for funding purposes was carried out with a valuation date of 31 March 2008 by independent 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method for valuing the liabilities. The assumptions that had the most effect on the results of 
this valuation for funding purposes are those relating to the discount rate and inflation on scheme liabilities and mortality assumptions.
 
There are numerous schemes operated by overseas subsidiaries. Of these the largest US scheme is assessed annually by an actuary, 
and the other overseas defined benefit schemes are normally assessed periodically by independent actuaries in accordance with local 
practice. 
 
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, the majority of which relate to the provision of 
medical benefits to retired former employees of the Group’s subsidiaries in the US. These schemes are generally unfunded. 
 
The last full valuations of all schemes on an IAS 19 basis have been updated to 31 March 2010 to reflect market conditions and material 
events in the plans. 
 
(iii) Defined benefit schemes — major assumptions 
The major assumptions made when valuing the liabilities of funded and unfunded schemes under IAS 19 are as follows: 
 
As at 31 March 2010 the major financial assumptions were: 
    Funded schemes   Unfunded schemes
 
   Invensys  Invensys  
   Pension  Pension   US  
   Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare
1
  Other 
   %  %  %  %  % 
Major assumptions 
Rates of increase in salaries    4.95  N/A  4.24  — 3.02 
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
2
    3.80  — 3.18  — 2.59 
Discount rate for scheme liabilities    5.50  5.95  5.39  5.95  5.23 
Inflation rate    3.70  2.50  3.13  — 2.56 
 
As at 31 March 2009 the major financial assumptions were: 
    Funded schemes   Unfunded schemes
 
   Invensys  Invensys  
   Pension  Pension   US  
   Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare
1
  Other 
   %  %  %  %  % 
Major assumptions 
Rates of increase in salaries    4.35  4.00  3.93  — 2.88 
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
2
   3.60  — 2.86  — 2.44 
Discount rate for scheme liabilities    6.30  7.75  6.39  7.75  6.39 
Inflation rate    3.10  2.50  2.83  — 2.35 
 
1  
The assumptions used for medical trend rates for beneficiaries of the US healthcare scheme were 8.3% per annum, declining to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2010 (2009: 8.5% declining to 
4.5%; 2008: 9.5% declining to 5.0%). 
2  
The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) is in line with RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%. 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 99
As at 31 March 2008 the major financial assumptions were: 
    Funded schemes   Unfunded schemes
 
   Invensys  Invensys  
   Pension  Pension   US  
   Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare
1
  Other 
   %  %  %  %  % 
Major assumptions 
Rates of increase in salaries    4.95  4.00  3.81  — 1.48 
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
2
    3.80  — 2.78  — 1.11 
Discount rate for scheme liabilities    6.10  6.55  6.07  6.55  5.93 
Inflation rate    3.70  2.50  3.10  — 2.17 
 
1  
The assumptions used for medical trend rates for beneficiaries of the US healthcare scheme were 8.3% per annum, declining to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2010 (2009: 8.5% declining to 
4.5%; 2008: 9.5% declining to 5.0%). 
2  
The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) is for increases in line with RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%. 
The demographic assumptions which were consistently applied for the main schemes are as follows: 
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) 
Standard actuarial mortality tables PA92 were adopted using year of birth and medium cohort projections. Probability of death at each 
age was multiplied by 122% for males and 135% for females. Future improvements in life expectancy have been allowed for in line with 
medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.00% for males and 1.25% for females. 
 
By way of illustration the impact of the application of these mortality tables on the expected longevity of pensioners is shown below:
       Years
Retiring today at age 65:      Male   21.0
      Female   23.4
Retiring in 20 years at age 65:      Male   22.7
      Female   25.8
 
Invensys Pension Plan (US) 
The mortality table adopted was the RP 2000 Table for combined employee/annuitants, projected to 2015 using projection scale AA.  
Sensitivities 
Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) 
The Invensys Pension Scheme (UK) is the largest scheme within the Group, representing 74% of gross liabilities of all defined benefit 
schemes. The principal sensitivities, with all other variables held constant, are illustrated below:
 
     Defined  
     benefit   Net
     obligation  Assets
1
  effect
     £m  £m  £m 
 
A 0.1% increase in the assumed inflation rate would have the following effect
2
: 
(Increase in defined benefit obligation)/increase in scheme assets   (50) 30  (20)
 
A 0.1% decrease in the assumed interest rate would have the following effect
3
: 
(Increase in defined benefit obligation)/increase in scheme assets   (60) 45  (15)
 
A 1 year increase to the pensioners lives would have the following effect: 
Increase in defined benefit obligation     (145) — (145)
 
Applying an additional 0.25% underpin to the improvement in mortality would  
 have the following effect: 
Increase in defined benefit obligation     (30) — (30)
  
 
1  
The movement of assets in this table shows the estimated impact on asset values arising from a change of market conditions consistent with the change in discount rate and inflation 
assumptions shown.
2  
This sensitivity assumes that a 0.1% increase in future inflation expectations result in a 0.1% increase in all inflation related pension increase assumptions. As a result of the upper and lower 
limits on the majority of inflation related pension increases, a given change in the inflation assumption may result in a smaller change in pension increase assumptions and hence smaller 
change in the liabilities (particularly where such a change in inflation is large).
3  
This illustrates the sensitivity of assets and liabilities to a 0.1% change in bond yields. The discount rate used to determine the liabilities is based on AA corporate bond yields.  100 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued 
US healthcare scheme
 
      Increase  Decrease 
A 1% movement in the assumed rate of increase in US healthcare costs would have the following effects:   £m  £m 
    
US healthcare scheme defined benefit obligation: (increase)/decrease     (1.5) 1.3
 
(iv) Defined benefit schemes — income and expenses 
The amounts that have been recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 March 2010 are set out below: 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys  Invensys  
  Pension  Pension   US  
  Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Analysis of amounts (charged)/credited  
 to the consolidated income statement: 
Current service cost — continuing operations   (7) (3) (5) — (3) (18)
Settlements   — — — — 1  1 
Curtailments   — 34  — — 2  36 
Total (charge)/credit to operating profit   (7) 31  (5) — — 19 
 
Expected return on plan assets   204  48  11  — — 263 
Interest on plan liabilities   (221) (57) (14) (2) (6) (300)
Other finance charges — IAS 19   (17) (9) (3) (2) (6) (37)
 
Analysis of amounts recognised  
 in the consolidated statement  
 of comprehensive income: 
Actual return less expected return  
 on scheme assets   263  2  23  — — 288 
Experience gains/(losses) arising on  
 the scheme liabilities   72  (6) — 5  (1) 70 
Changes in assumptions underlying  
 the present value of the plan liabilities   (504) (177) (49) (3) (15) (748)
Decrease in restriction of asset recognised   —   —  1  —   —  1
Actuarial (loss)/gain  (169) (181) (25) 2  (16) (389)
 
Movement in irrecoverable element  
 of potential future pension surplus 
 (Note 25 (vii))  56  — — — — 56 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 101
The amounts that were recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 
year ended 31 March 2009 are set out below: 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys  Invensys  
  Pension  Pension   US  
  Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Analysis of amounts (charged)/credited  
 to the consolidated income statement: 
Current service cost — continuing operations   (9) (7) (5) — (2) (23)
Settlements   — — — — 2  2 
Total charge to operating profit  (9) (7) (5) — — (21)
 
Expected return on plan assets   206  50  12  — — 268 
Interest on plan liabilities   (230) (51) (13) (3) (6) (303)
Other finance charges — IAS 19   (24) (1) (1) (3) (6) (35)
 
Analysis of amounts recognised  
 in the consolidated statement  
 of comprehensive income: 
Actual return less expected return  
 on scheme assets   (301) (65) (42) — — (408)
Experience gains/(losses) arising  
 on the scheme liabilities   96  5  10  1  (1) 111 
Changes in assumptions underlying  
 the present value of the plan liabilities   191  92  16  1  7  307 
Actuarial (loss)/gain  (14) 32  (16) 2  6  10 
 
Movement in irrecoverable element  
 of potential future pension surplus  (20) — — — — (20)
 
 
The amounts (charged)/credited to operating profit were (charged)/credited to the following lines in the consolidated income statement:
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Cost of sales       (10) (9)
Administrative costs       (8) (12)
Other exceptional items       37  —
Total net credit/(charge) to operating profit       19  (21)
  102 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued 
(v) Defined benefit schemes — changes in present value of defined benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows: 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys  Invensys  
  Pension  Pension   US  
  Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Opening present value of defined  
 benefit obligation   (3,618) (859) (210) (34) (127) (4,848)
Current service cost   (7) (3) (5) — (3) (18)
Contributions by employees   (1) — — — — (1)
Benefit payments   223  57  12  3  8  303 
Interest on plan liabilities   (221) (57) (14) (2) (6) (300)
Actuarial (losses)/gains   (432) (183) (49) 2  (16) (678)
Transfers
1
  — — (13) — 13  —
Settlements
2
   — — — — 4  4 
Curtailments   — 34  — — 2  36 
Exchange adjustments   — 29  (4) 2  5  32 
Closing present value of defined  
 benefit obligation   (4,056) (982) (283) (29) (120) (5,470)
 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows: 
   Funded schemes
    Invensys  Invensys  
    Pension  Pension  
    Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  Total 
    £m  £m  £m  £m 
Opening fair value of plan assets     3,610  855  162  4,627 
Expected return on plan assets     204  48  11  263 
Contributions by employer     47  13  8  68 
Contributions by employees     1  — — 1 
Benefit payments     (223) (57) (12) (292)
Actuarial gains    263  2  23  288 
Transfers (from)/to other schemes    — (2) 2  —
Exchange adjustments     — (39) 3  (36)
Closing fair value of plan assets     3,902  820  197  4,919 
Actual return on plan assets    467  50  34  551 
1  
During the year, the German unfunded plan has been amalgamated with the German funded plan.
2  
The gain of £4 million relating to the defined benefit obligation is offset by a loss of £3 million relating to payments as a result of an agreement reached to settle the liabilities, resulting in a 
net gain on settlements of £1 million recognised in the income statement. Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 103
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2009 were as follows: 
 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys  Invensys  
  Pension  Pension   US  
  Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Opening present value of defined  
 benefit obligation   (3,888) (695) (211) (26) (119) (4,939)
Current service cost   (9) (7) (5) — (2) (23)
Contributions by employees   (1) — (1) — — (2)
Benefit payments   223  50  9  2  13  297 
Interest on plan liabilities   (230) (51) (13) (3) (6) (303)
Actuarial gains   287  97  26  2  6  418 
Transfers  — — (1) — — (1)
Settlements   — — 4  — 2  6 
Exchange adjustments   — (253) (18) (9) (21) (301)
Closing present value of defined  
 benefit obligation   (3,618) (859) (210) (34) (127) (4,848)
 
 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2009 were as follows: 
 
   Funded schemes
    Invensys  Invensys  
    Pension  Pension  
    Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  Total 
    £m  £m  £m  £m 
Opening fair value of plan assets     3,878  663  181  4,722 
Expected return on plan assets     206  50  12  268 
Contributions by employer     49  9  6  64 
Contributions by employees     1  — 1  2 
Benefit payments     (223) (50) (9) (282)
Actuarial losses    (301) (65) (42) (408)
Settlements     — — (4) (4)
Exchange adjustments     — 248  17  265 
Closing fair value of plan assets     3,610  855  162  4,627 
Actual return on plan assets     (95) (15) (30) (140)
  104 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued 
(vi) Defined benefit schemes — reconciliation of balance sheet amounts 
Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2010: 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys  Invensys  
  Pension  Pension   US  
  Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (4,056) (982) (283) (29) (120) (5,470)
Fair value of plan assets   3,902  820  197  — — 4,919 
Deficit in the plan   (154) (162) (86) (29) (120) (551)
Irrecoverable element of potential future  
 pension surplus (Note 25 (vii))   (30) — — — — (30)
Net liability   (184) (162) (86) (29) (120) (581)
 
The net liability is presented on the  
 balance sheet as follows: 
Non-current pension liability   (184) (162) (86) (29) (120) (581)
 
Net liability  (184) (162) (86) (29) (120) (581)
Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2009: 
 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys Invensys    
  Pension Pension  US    
  Scheme (UK)   Plan (US)   Other  healthcare Other Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (3,618) (859) (210) (34) (127) (4,848)
Fair value of plan assets   3,610  855  162  — — 4,627 
Deficit in the plan   (8) (4) (48) (34) (127) (221)
Restrictions of asset recognised   — — (1) — — (1)
Irrecoverable element of potential future  
 pension surplus (Note 25 (vii))   (86) — — — — (86)
Net liability  (94) (4) (49) (34) (127) (308)
The net liability is presented on the  
 balance sheet as follows: 
Non-current pension liability  (94) (4) (49) (34) (127) (308)
Net liability  (94) (4) (49) (34) (127) (308)
(vii) Impact of IFRIC 14
The Group is committed to make payments to the UK Main Pension Scheme under a deficit funding plan agreed with the Trustees. 
Where the present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the Scheme as measured under IFRS, and 
would therefore, when paid, give rise to a surplus as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any part of that surplus that 
would not be recoverable. Any surplus on the UK Main Pension Scheme ultimately repaid by the Trustees would currently be subject to 
a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid, so a liability for this tax is recognised at the relevant balance sheet date. At 31 March 2010 the 
present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability of the scheme under IFRS and consequently the irrecoverable 
element of the pension surplus is £30 million (2009: £86 million). 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 105
      2010  2009 
As at 31 March      £m  £m 
IAS 19 net defined benefit obligation      (154) (8)
Future minimum funding requirements      239  254 
Potential future pension surplus      85  246 
Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus     (30) (86)
Recoverable element of potential future pension surplus     55  160 
 
Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus    56  (20)
 
As required by IAS 19 liabilities for each scheme are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. This is an 
accrued benefits valuation method that discounts the best estimate of future cash flows and makes allowance for projected earnings.
If the UK Main Pension Scheme were to be wound up, the relevant employers would be responsible, under section 75 of the Pensions 
Act 1995 to fund the UK Main Pension Scheme up to the levels of the cost of buying out the benefits for all scheme members with an 
insurer. This cost would be considerably more than the value placed on the ongoing liabilities for accounting purposes. The deficit in 
the UK Main Pension Scheme calculated on a winding up basis was approximately £1.4 billion as at 31 March 2008, the date of the last 
actuarial valuation. This will be reviewed and updated at the next valuation. 
(viii) Defined benefit schemes — expected rate of return and analysis of scheme assets 
The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2010 are: 
 Invensys Pension Scheme (UK)  Invensys Pension Plan (US)  Other  Total 
      
 Expected  Expected   Expected  
 long-term  Market  long-term  Market  long-term  Market  Market 
 rate of return  value  rate of return  value  rate of return  value  value 
 %  £m  %  £m  %  £m  £m 
Equities  8.0% 331  7.8% 144  8.0% 97  572 
Bonds  5.0% 2,630  6.3% 242  5.1% 68  2,940 
Other  6.8% 941  6.5% 434  6.2% 32  1,407 
Fair value of plan assets   3,902   820   197  4,919 
 
The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2009 were: 
 Invensys Pension Scheme (UK)  Invensys Pension Plan (US)  Other  Total 
      
 Expected  Expected   Expected  
 long-term  Market  long-term  Market  long-term  Market  Market 
 rate of return  value  rate of return  value  rate of return  value  value 
 %  £m  %  £m  %  £m  £m 
Equities  8.2% 268  7.7% 101  8.4% 68  437 
Bonds  5.4% 2,352  6.6% 240  5.0% 61  2,653 
Other  5.8% 990  6.4% 514  6.2% 33  1,537 
Fair value of plan assets   3,610   855   162  4,627 
 
The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2008 were: 
 Invensys Pension Scheme (UK)  Invensys Pension Plan (US)  Other  Total 
      
 Expected  Expected   Expected  
 long-term  Market  long-term  Market  long-term  Market  Market 
 rate of return  value  rate of return  value  rate of return  value  value 
 %  £m  %  £m  %  £m  £m 
Equities  8.3% 428  8.2% 116  7.7% 60  604 
Bonds  4.6% 2,677  6.1% 334  5.0% 66  3,077 
Other  6.9% 773  7.0% 213  5.9% 55  1,041 
Fair value of plan assets   3,878   663   181  4,722 
  106 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued 
The expected return on each asset class has been determined on the basis of market expectations for the rate of return on each asset 
class over the life of the related obligation, at the balance sheet date. In respect of the UK Main Pension Scheme, Government and 
Corporate Bond indices have been used to set the expected rate of return on bonds, and a risk premium has been applied to 
determine the expected long-term rate of return on equity investments. Similar processes are applied to other schemes. 
 
The investment strategy determined by the Trustees of the Invensys Pension Scheme continues to reflect the mature nature of the 
Scheme with assets predominantly invested in bonds or bond like investments. 
(ix) Defined benefit schemes — history of experience adjustments 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys  Invensys  
  Pension  Pension   US  
  Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Year ended 31 March 2010 
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (4,056) (982) (283) (29) (120) (5,470)
Fair value of plan assets   3,902  820  197  — — 4,919 
Deficit in the plan   (154) (162) (86) (29) (120) (551)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities   72  (6) — 5  (1) 70 
Experience adjustments on plan assets   263  2  23  — — 288 
 
Year ended 31 March 2009 
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (3,618) (859) (210) (34) (127) (4,848)
Fair value of plan assets   3,610  855  162  — — 4,627 
Deficit in the plan   (8) (4) (48) (34) (127) (221)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities   96  5  10  1  (1) 111 
Experience adjustments on plan assets   (301) (65) (42) — — (408)
 
Year ended 31 March 2008 
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (3,888) (695) (211) (26) (119) (4,939)
Fair value of plan assets   3,878  663  181  — — 4,722 
Deficit in the plan   (10) (32) (30) (26) (119) (217)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities   (11) (7) 1  3  1  (13)
Experience adjustments on plan assets   (34) 16  (12) — — (30)
 
Year ended 31 March 2007 
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (4,099) (738) (214) (32) (119) (5,202)
Fair value of plan assets   3,856  637  188  — — 4,681 
Deficit in the plan   (243) (101) (26) (32) (119) (521)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities   (11) (10) (4) — (2) (27)
Experience adjustments on plan assets   (156) 8  5  — — (143)
 
Year ended 31 March 2006 
Present value of defined benefit obligation   (4,235) (806) (222) (37) (125) (5,425)
Fair value of plan assets   4,007  700  229  — — 4,936 
(Deficit)/surplus in the plan   (228) (106) 7  (37) (125) (489)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities   53  (10) (2) 14  — 55 
Experience adjustments on plan assets   293  (4) 13  — — 302 
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses 
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income is a loss of £385 million (2009: £52 million). Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 107
(x) Pensions and post-retirement benefits — other 
Total pension service costs charged to the income statement in respect of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes 
amounted to £30 million (2009: £35 million). 
 
The estimated levels of contributions expected to be paid to defined benefit schemes in the year to 31 March 2011 are as follows: 
   Funded schemes  Unfunded schemes
 
  Invensys  Invensys  
  Pension  Pension   US  
  Scheme (UK)  Plan (US)  Other  healthcare  Other  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
    49   13   8   3   11   84
Regarding rates of contributions for future years, contributions to the UK Main Pension Scheme will be made at the rate of 19.8% of 
pensionable salaries up to the date of the next triennial valuation. In addition, the Company will continue to make annual supplemental 
contributions to the scheme. These amount to £38 million in the year ending 31 March 2011 and £39 million in the year ending 31 March 
2012 increasing by £1 million per annum until 31 March 2014 and then £2 million per annum thereafter until 2017. Where the proceeds 
from the sale of a business exceed £1 million, at least 8% of the proceeds net of tax and costs will be paid as additional contributions to 
the UK Main Pension Scheme. The funding plan is subject to revision after the next triennial valuation which will have a reference date 
of 31 March 2011. Under the US plan, the Company’s agreement with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation provided for additional 
contributions of 4% of net proceeds from future disposals. 
 
The following graph shows a projection of the benefit payments from the UK Main Pension Scheme based on the assumptions 
underlying the IAS 19 assessment of obligations at 31 March 2010: 
 
0
100
50
200
150
300
250
2010 2040 2034
Year
2028 2022 2016 2046 2052 2058
Beneﬁt payments (£m) 108 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
26 Trade and other payables 
 
      2010  2009 
     Note £m  £m 
Non-current 
Other payables       10  12 
       10  12 
Current 
Trade payables       271  247 
Accruals and deferred income       167  156 
Interest payable       1  4 
Other payables       90  103 
       529  510 
Total trade and other payables       539  522 
 
Classification to financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost      22i  495  468 
Non-financial liabilities       44  54 
       539  522 
 
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows:
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are on average normally settled on 56-day terms. Interest payable on the Group’s 
borrowing facility is settled quarterly. Other payables include sales taxes, social security and payroll taxes, payroll creditors, customer 
advances (not related to construction contracts), payments received from customers in advance of work performed on construction 
contracts and commissions payable. They are non-interest bearing. The majority of non-current other payables will mature in more than 
one year but in less than two years; there is a small proportion that will mature in over five years. The maturity profile of trade and other 
payables classified as financial liabilities is given in Note 22. 
 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of both current and non-current trade and other payables approximates to their 
fair value. 
27 Issued capital
Issued share capital
 
    Number   Number  
    of shares   of shares  
    million  £m  million  £m 
Issued and fully paid:     2010  2010  2009  2009 
Ordinary shares of 10p each     807 81 801 80
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 109
A reconciliation of the issued, allotted and fully paid share capital is as follows: 
 
       Number Share 
       of shares capital 
       million £m 
At 1 April 2008        797 80 
Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each       4 — 
At 31 March 2009       801 80
Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each       6 1 
At 31 March 2010       807 81
 
Under the Companies Act 2006, the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital was abolished with effect from 
1 October 2009. Therefore at the 2009 AGM the Company amended its Articles of Association (‘Articles’) such that, amongst other 
things, its authorised share capital would be removed with effect from 1 October 2009. As such, references to authorised share capital 
are no longer required.
B shares 
As part of the capital reduction undertaken by the Company on 22 January 2009, the Company allotted, issued and subsequently 
cancelled 801,285,978 B shares of £1.1574129021 each (£927 million). The B shares were issued on 20 January 2009 by way of a bonus 
issue to ordinary shareholders on the basis of one B share for every one ordinary share held. The new B shares were paid up in full by 
applying the full amount of the Company’s merger reserve. The B shares had limited rights, in particular they carried no rights to 
participate in the profits of the Company, no rights to participate in the Company’s assets, save on a winding up, and no right to attend 
or vote at any general meeting of the Company. The B shares were not admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange or any other 
market and no share certificates were issued in respect of them. All the B shares were cancelled as part of the capital reduction 
approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales at a final hearing on 21 January 2009. Further details of the capital 
reduction are included in Note 28. 
 
Shares reserved for issue under share options and awards 
During the year the Company issued 6,051,095 ordinary shares of 10 pence each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SRSOS), Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (1998 LTIP) and 2007 Senior 
Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (2007 LTIP) (2009: 4,347,302 under the SRSOS, 1998 LTIP, Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan (TBOP) 
and 2007 LTIP). 
 
On 24 June 2009, 14 September 2009 and 7 December 2009 conditional awards over a total of 6,956,484 shares were granted under 
the 2007 LTIP (2009: 5,153,308 under the 2007 LTIP).  
 
There were 13,765,202 conditional awards outstanding under the 1998 LTIP and 2007 LTIP at 31 March 2010 (2009: 16,553,645).  
These conditional awards will be released at various dates between 2010 and 2012, subject to the satisfaction of the performance 
requirements and any appropriate holding period. As at 31 March 2010, outstanding shares awarded under the CEO Special Award 
were 1,608,554 (2009: 1,608,554). These will be released, subject to the satisfaction of the performance requirements and appropriate 
holding period, at various dates between 2010 and 2011. 
 
As at 31 March 2010, outstanding executive share options exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition, 
at various dates between 2010 and 2014 and at various prices between 154.59 pence and 2,311.33 pence per ordinary share, and at a 
weighted average price of 937.18 pence per ordinary share, were 1,134,026 (2009: 1,461,805). 
 
Outstanding options under the Company’s various savings related share option schemes at 31 March 2010, exercisable at various  
dates between 2010 and 2013 and at various prices between 175.00 pence and 387.03 pence per ordinary share, and at a weighted 
average price of 387.03 pence per ordinary share, were 18,487 (2009: 20,700), and at a weighted average price of 175.00 pence per 
ordinary share, were 2,928,317 (2009: £nil).
  110 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27 Issued capital continued
Treasury shares
Treasury shares comprise shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust and restricted shares.
The movement in treasury shares is set out below:
 
      Number  
      of shares  £m 
At 1 April 2008       1,766,545  7 
Purchase of shares       920,815  2 
Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes     (2,272,826) (8)
At 31 March 2009       414,534 1
Purchase of shares       2,723,442  8 
Transfer of legal title of restricted shares      570,076 1
Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes     (2,907,596) (8)
At 31 March 2010       800,456 2
 
Shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust
The Invensys No. 2 Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) was established on 24 April 2007. At 31 March 2010, the Trust held 230,380  
10 pence ordinary shares in Invensys plc with a market value of £1 million (2009: 414,534 10 pence ordinary shares with a market value 
of £1 million). The Trust purchases shares in the market in order to satisfy obligations under the various share option and share award 
schemes operated by the Company. All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this purpose and are distributed to employees in 
accordance with the terms of the Company’s schemes. Shares held by the Trust are accounted for as treasury shares and deducted  
from equity. 
Restricted shares
570,076 restricted shares with a market value of £1 million (2009: £nil) were issued on 15 March 2010 as a replacement award for the 
remaining shares still to be issued under the 2006 LTIP Award, RSP and DSP awards. Participants receiving the restricted shares are 
required to retain them until the service condition is satisfied on the vesting date of the original award in June 2010. If the service 
conditions are not satisfied on this date, legal ownership of the share reverts to Invensys plc. These shares are accounted for as treasury 
shares as at 31 March 2010.
28 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves  
The analysis of the balance and movement on other equity reserves is shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.  
The nature and purpose of these reserves are as follows:
Share premium account 
This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value. 
 
Capital redemption reserve 
This reserve arose when the Company repurchased its own shares for cancellation as part of a return of capital programme and is 
non-distributable. Subsequently, in the year ended 31 March 2005, 3,499,780,822 deferred shares of 24 pence each were cancelled, in 
accordance with their terms of issue. The total balance on the reserve was cancelled as part of the Court approved capital reduction  
on 22 January 2009 (see page 111). 
 
Capital reserve 
Previously the Group merger reserve, this reserve was created on the merger of BTR plc and Siebe plc in February 1999 and is non-
distributable. £927 million of the balance on the reserve, representing the balance on the Parent company’s merger reserve, was 
applied to pay up in full the B shares issued as part of the capital reduction on 22 January 2009 (see page 111). 
 
Special reserve 
This reserve represents the balance remaining after the elimination of the deficit in the reserves of the Parent company following the 
capital reduction on 22 January 2009 (see page 111). The reserve will remain pending the protection or consent of creditors (or 
contingent creditors) of the Parent company in existence at the date of the capital reduction. The reserve is non-distributable. 
 
Cash flow hedge reserve 
This reserve records, for each hedged item in an effective cash flow hedge, the cumulative change in fair value of the expected future 
cash flow on the hedged item from the inception of the hedge relationship. 
 
Foreign exchange reserve 
The foreign exchange reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign 
subsidiaries. It is also used to record the foreign exchange on net investments in these subsidiaries.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 111
Capital reduction and cancellation of certain reserves in the year ended 31 March 2009 
On 26 November 2008 the shareholders of Invensys plc approved proposals for a capital reduction and the cancellation of certain 
reserves in order to create distributable reserves and allow the payment of dividends. The capital reduction subsequently received 
approval from the High Court of Justice in England and Wales at a final hearing on 21 January 2009 and became effective the following 
day. The capital reduction and cancellation of reserves were achieved as follows: 
 
a) the amount standing to the credit of the merger reserve of the Parent company (£927 million) was capitalised by way of a bonus issue 
of newly created B shares (see page 60 to 61); 
b) the newly created B shares were cancelled (see page 60 to 61); 
c) the amount standing to the credit of the capital redemption reserve (£923 million) was cancelled; 
d) £392 million of the balance standing to the credit of the share premium account was cancelled; and 
e) the balance remaining in the reserves of the Parent company after the elimination of its deficit was transferred to a special reserve 
which will remain pending the protection or consent of creditors (or contingent creditors) of the Parent company in existence at the 
date of the capital reduction. 
29 Share-based payment plans 
The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding as 
detailed below: 
 
Plans for senior employees 
Executive share options 
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 
Grant details 
An executive share option scheme under which options have been granted to directors and senior executives at no cost. Options are 
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date at a price equal to the average middle market quoted price of the 
Company’s shares over the five dealing days which precede the date of grant. Options are satisfied by the issue of new shares or in the 
case of awards granted as share appreciation rights, in cash. 
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: (a) for grants made prior to 25 July 2001, earnings per share (EPS) performance of RPI + 12% over a three-year 
period to be applied each year until the earlier of when the condition is met or the measurement period the last financial year of which 
is the year preceding that in which the option will lapse; and (b) for grants made on 17 June 2002 and after, total shareholder return 
(TSR) performance against a peer group of the FTSE 100 over a performance period of three, four or five years commencing on the date 
of grant. 40% would be exercisable if the median position is achieved, rising to 100% if upper quartile position is achieved. Between 
these two points the option would vest on a straight-line basis. If the performance condition is not met in full at the first measurement 
then it would be retested against the fixed base in years four and five. If the median position is not achieved by the end of the fifth year 
the option would lapse. No performance conditions are attached to the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement 
on 1 June 2004.
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for a certain 
period of time in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee. 
 
Scheme use 
No options were granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. The Company can no longer make grants under this 
scheme as the scheme expired in July 2008. 
 
Details of executive share options outstanding under this scheme including the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate 
arrangement on 1 June 2004, are as follows: 
. 
    2010  2009
     Weighted   Weighted
     average   average
    Number of  exercise  Number of  exercise
    share options  price (p)  share options  price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year     1,461,805  1,253.02  2,745,406  1,160.14 
Granted during the year     — — — —
Forfeited during the year     (34,104)  1,607.43  (24,587)  1,855.82 
Exercised during the year     — — — —
Lapsed during the year     (293,675)  2,431.44  (1,259,014)  1,038.73 
Outstanding at the end of the year     1,134,026  937.18  1,461,805  1,253.02 
Exercisable at the end of the year     1,134,026  937.18  1,461,805  1,253.02  112 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29 Share-based payment plans continued
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year 
       Weighted
      Weighted  average
      average  remaining
     Number of  exercise  contractual 
     share options  price (p)  life (years)
2010 
154.59p      535,290  154.59  4.2
1,213.72p to 2,311.33p      598,736  1,636.85  0.9
      1,134,026  937.18  2.5
 
2009 
154.59p      535,290  154.59  5.2
1,213.72p to 2,601.17p      926,515  1,887.63  1.6
      1,461,805  1,253.02  2.9
 
Long-term incentives 
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Grant details 
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost. 
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: (a) 
a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment (unless the Company determines otherwise); 
(b) a conditional share award; or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a notional number of shares). Awards are normally subject to a 
three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period. For awards granted prior to 22 July 
2005 the retention period was two years; for awards made on or after 22 July 2005, 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the 
performance requirements will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being deferred for one year. 
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: 
TSR test 
TSR ranked against a peer group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee (with no retesting opportunities). TSR must 
rank at the median position (when the peer group is ranked in descending order of TSR) in order for 25% of the shares subject to the 
award to be available (subject to the retention period), rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved. Between 
these positions, the number of shares will be calculated on a straight-line basis. If at least median position is not achieved the whole 
award will lapse. The peer groups selected for the relevant awards are as follows:  
• awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant; and 
• awards granted on or after 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, 
Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokogawa. 
 
Overall performance test 
The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that: (a) for awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 there has been a sustained delivery 
over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group 
indebtedness; (b) for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins have been met: (1) achievement of stretching internal 
free cash flow targets; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items; and (c) for awards granted on or after 1 June 2006 that two 
underpin tests have been met: (1) relating to the successful completion of the 2006 Refinancing and in addition that there has been a 
sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items.
 
Service requirements:
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released subject to the 
satisfaction of the performance conditions in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
 
Scheme use 
No awards were granted under this scheme during the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. Given that no further awards 
could be granted under the LTIP after July 2008, a new share-based long-term incentive plan, the Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive 
Plan was established and approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting. Details of this scheme are given on page 113. 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 113
Details of relevant LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
  
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year       8,590,076  15,628,653 
Granted during the year       — —
Dividends during the year       8,859  —
Forfeited during the year       (118,749)  (1,255,718) 
Exercised during the year       (6,305,102)  (5,082,617) 
Lapsed during the year       (1,247,876)  (700,242) 
Outstanding at the end of the year       927,208  8,590,076 
 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 251 pence (2009: 260 pence). 
 
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.3 years (2009: 0.6 years). 
2007 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (2007 LTIP) 
Grant details 
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost. 
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms:  
(a) a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment (unless the Company determines 
otherwise); (b) a conditional share award; or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a nominal number of shares). Awards are normally 
subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award. There is no retention period. 
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: 
Awards would be subject to two independent performance conditions. For executive directors (a) 50% of an award would be based on 
growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital Goods Index; and (b) 
50% of an award would be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s Earnings Per Share. For all other participants (a) 
35% of an award would be based on growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poor’s 
Global 1200 Capital Goods Index; and (b) 35% of an award would be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s 
Earnings Per Share. There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award. In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee retains discretion to ensure that, as a condition for vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group must 
be satisfactory. 
 
Service requirements:
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released, subject to 
satisfaction of the performance conditions, in defined good leaver cases. 
 
Scheme use 
The 2007 LTIP is used as the Group’s main share-based long-term incentive plan under which share awards are granted. The first grants 
under this plan were made in the year ended 31 March 2008. 
 
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below: 
 
      LTIP awards  LTIP awards
      granted in the  granted in the
      year ended  year ended
      31 March 2010  31 March 2009 
Total number of awards granted       7,255,510  5,347,163 
Weighted average fair value       171.18p  221.54p 
Exercise price       n/a  n/a 
Expected volatility       n/a  n/a 
Weighted average expected award life       3.0 years  3.0 years 
Expected dividend yield       0% 0%
Risk free interest rate       n/a  n/a  114 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29 Share-based payment plans continued
Details of relevant 2007 LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year       7,988,320  3,942,411 
Granted during the year       7,255,510  5,347,163 
Dividends during the year      2,725 —
Forfeited during the year       (1,338,709)  (1,246,504) 
Exercised during the year       (42,146)  (14,022) 
Lapsed during the year       (310,993)  (40,728) 
Outstanding at the end of the year       13,554,707  7,988,320 
 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 233 pence (2009: 146 pence). 
 
The 2007 LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years (2009: 1.9 years).
 
2007 CEO Special Award (Special Award) 
Grant details 
Approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Special Award is a one-off conditional share award granted to the 
Chief Executive equal to 700% of his 2007/08 base salary. The Special Award is subject to a three-year performance period. 50% of 
vested shares will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being released after a 12 month holding period.
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements:
The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflect those applying to the 2007 LTIP with some elements being more 
demanding. The Special Award is split into two layers, each of which vests on a different basis. For the first layer equal to 200% of base 
salary, 20% will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance. For the second layer equal to 500% of base salary, 
there will be no vesting for threshold performance, but 100% will vest for maximum performance. Vesting in each layer will be on a 
straight-line basis between these points. 
 
For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP. However, for the 
TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile. This has been 
calculated by the advisers to the Remuneration Committee as outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 
Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 (i.e. 40%). 
 
Service requirements:
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released in defined good 
leaver cases. 
 
Scheme use 
The Special Award is a one-off grant at no cost. 
 
No grants were made in the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. The one-off grant made during the year ended 31 March 2008 
is detailed below:
       Special Award
       granted in the
       year ended
       31 March 2008
Total number of awards granted         1,608,554 
Weighted average fair value        204.22p
Exercise price        n/a
Expected volatility        n/a
Weighted average expected award life        3.5 years
Expected dividend yield        0%
Risk free interest rate        n/a Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 115
Details of the Special Award outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year      1,608,554  1,608,554 
Granted during the year       — —
Forfeited during the year       — —
Exercised during the year       — —
Lapsed during the year       — —
Outstanding at the end of the year       1,608,554  1,608,554 
 
The Special Award outstanding at the end of the year has a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.9 years (2009: 1.9 years). 
Invensys Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
Grant details 
A restricted share plan whereby awards, to be satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior 
employees at no cost. The vesting period for awards is determined separately for each award. Vesting periods normally fall between 
one and five years. 
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: 
Awards are not subject to a specific performance condition apart from continued employment throughout the vesting period and 
satisfactory personal performance. 
 
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released in defined good 
leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee. 
 
Scheme use 
The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations. 
 
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below: 
 
      RSP awards  RSP awards
      granted in the  granted in the
      year ended  year ended
      31 March 2010  31 March 2009 
Total number of awards granted       1,188,039  1,919,571 
Weighted average fair value       219.97p  207.56p 
Weighted average exercise price       n/a  n/a 
Expected volatility       n/a  n/a 
Weighted average expected award life       2.1 years  1.5 years 
Expected dividend yield       0% 0%
Risk free interest rate       n/a  n/a 
 
Details of relevant RSP awards (including a separate restricted share award granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement 
on 1 June 2004) outstanding during the year are as follows: 
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year       3,371,225  2,812,563 
Granted during the year       1,188,039  1,919,571 
Dividends during the year      10,202 —
Forfeited during the year       (153,082)  (90,279) 
Exercised during the year       (2,143,495)  (1,270,630) 
Lapsed during the year       (46,251)  —
Outstanding at the end of the year       2,226,638  3,371,225 
     
 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 267 pence (2009: 184 pence). 
 
The RSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.6 years (2009: 0.9 years).
  116 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29 Share-based payment plans continued
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan (TBOP) 
Grant details 
The Company introduced the TBOP in 2005/06 under which executives had the opportunity to receive a supplemental bonus of up to 
100% of their base salary in respect of the relevant financial year to be paid in shares upon reaching specified target levels of performance. 
The TBOP operated in addition to the existing Executive Bonus Plan (EBP). Any bonuses earned under the TBOP (the Overlay Bonus) 
are payable in shares with 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of those shares being awarded and 
the other 50% being released following the second anniversary. 
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: 
The amount of the Overlay Bonus (which in turn determines the level of the award) is set by reference to the performance targets 
specified for the executive in the EBP. 
 
Service requirements: 
Release of the shares is generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date although shares may be released early in 
defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee. 
Scheme use 
The first grant under the TBOP was made on 1 June 2006. It was originally anticipated that the TBOP would be operated up to and 
including the financial year 2007/08. However, as a result of the changes made to the annual incentive arrangements for 2007/08 
onwards (as detailed in the Remuneration Report), the TBOP ceased to be operated one year early. The final awards under the TBOP 
were granted in the year ended 31 March 2008 in respect of the financial year 2006/07. 
 
No grants were made in the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. 
 
Details of relevant TBOP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year       496,628  1,812,833 
Granted during the year       — —
Forfeited during the year       — (46,906) 
Exercised during the year       (496,628)  (1,269,299) 
Lapsed during the year       — —
Outstanding at the end of the year       — 496,628 
 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 237 pence (2009: 320 pence). 
 
No TBOP awards remained outstanding at 31 March 2010. 
 
Deferred Share Plan (DSP) 
Grant details 
The DSP was introduced in 2007/08 to replace the TBOP. Any bonus earned under the EBP for 2007/08 in excess of target performance 
was paid in deferred shares, with any bonus earned up to the target performance being paid in cash. The shares are released to the 
individual after three years in the case of executive directors and two years for all other participants. All awards are satisfied by shares 
purchased in the market. 
 
For 2008/09 onwards the DSP is only used for executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team; in all other respects the 
same terms apply as outlined in the previous paragraph. 
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: 
The amount of shares granted is set by reference to the performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP. 
 
Service requirements: 
Save where a participant is dismissed for cause before the relevant release date, shares under award will be released to participants on 
the release date, unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion should decide on a different release date. 
 
Scheme use 
The first grant under the DSP was made on 24 July 2008 and was used for all participants in the EBP who earned bonuses in excess of 
target. In the future, where applicable, bonus in excess of target performance will only be paid in deferred shares to executive directors 
and members of the Group Leadership Team. Bonus payments for all other members of the EBP will be paid entirely in cash. 
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 117
Grants made during the year ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below: 
 
      DSP awards DSP awards
      granted in the granted in the
      year ended year ended
      31 March 2010 31 March 2009
Total number of awards granted       307,038  497,953 
Exercise price       n/a  n/a 
Expected volatility       n/a  n/a 
Weighted average expected award life       2.5 years  2.3 years 
Expected dividend yield       n/a  n/a 
Risk free interest rate       n/a  n/a 
 
Details of relevant DSP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year       489,729  —
Granted during the year       307,038  497,953 
Dividends during the year      1,871 —
Forfeited during the year       (12,997)  (3,403) 
Exercised during the year       (144,460)  (4,821) 
Lapsed during the year       — —
Outstanding at the end of the year       641,181  489,729 
 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 292 pence (2009: 156 pence). 
 
The DSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.3 years (2009: 1.5 years).
 
All employee schemes 
Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
Grant details 
The scheme which operates in the UK, is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees. Options may 
be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of invitation. The 
vesting period for the operations is three years.  
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: 
The Scheme operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore not subject to performance conditions other than that a 
participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options. 
 
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for a certain 
period of time in defined good leaver cases. 
 
Scheme use 
The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis. An invitation was offered under this Scheme in the 
year ended 31 March 2010.  
 
The options granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 are detailed below: 
 
       Options
       granted in the
       year ended
       31 March 2010
Total number of awards granted        1,275,082 
Weighted average fair value        68.70p
Exercise price        175.00p
Expected volatility        31%
Expected option life        3 years
Expected dividend yield        1.0%
Risk free interest rate        2.3% 118 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29 Share-based payment plans continued
Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 
    2010  2009
     Weighted   Weighted
     average   average
    Number of  exercise  Number of  exercise
    share options  price (p)  share options  price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year     20,700  430.39  111,067  431.93 
Granted during the year     1,275,082  175.00  — —
Forfeited during the year     (12,574)  176.53  — —
Exercised during the year     (536)  175.00  (5,763)  130.77 
Lapsed during the year     (23,114)  233.30  (84,604)  453.00 
Outstanding at the end of the year     1,259,558  178.11  20,700  430.39 
Exercisable at the end of the year     — — — —
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 175 pence (2009: 251 pence).
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year 
       Weighted
      Weighted  average
      average  remaining
     Number of  exercise  contractual 
     share options  price (p)  life (years)
 
2010 
175.00p     1,241,071  175.00  2.3 
387.03p      18,487  387.03  0.5 
      1,259,558  178.11  2.3
 
2009 
387.03p      18,578  387.03  1.5 
810.05p     2,122  810.05  0.5 
      20,700  430.39  1.4 
 
Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
Grant details 
The Scheme operates in a number of overseas countries where it has proved advantageous and practicable based on the numbers of 
eligible employees and local legal and tax requirements. It is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time 
employees. Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the 
date of invitation. The vesting period for the options is three years. 
 
Vesting requirements 
Performance requirements: 
There are no performance conditions, other than that a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise 
their options. 
 
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for a certain 
period of time in defined good leaver cases. 
 
Scheme use 
The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis. An invitation was offered under this Scheme in the 
year ended 31 March 2010.
  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 119
The options granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 are detailed below: 
 
       Options
       granted in the
       year ended
       31 March 2010
Total number of awards granted        1,727,599 
Weighted average fair value        68.70p
Exercise price        175.00p
Expected volatility        31%
Expected option life        3 years
Expected dividend yield        1.0%
Risk free interest rate        2.3%
 
Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 
    2010  2009
     Weighted   Weighted
     average   average
    Number of  exercise  Number of  exercise
    share options  price (p)  share options  price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year     — — 22,168  387.03 
Granted during the year     1,727,599  175.00  — n/a 
Forfeited during the year     — n/a  — n/a 
Exercised during the year     (112)  175.00  — n/a 
Lapsed during the year     (40,241)  175.00  (22,168)  387.03 
Outstanding at the end of the year     1,687,246  175.00  — —
Exercisable at the end of the year     — n/a  — n/a 
 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 175 pence (2009: n/a). 
 
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year 
       Weighted
      Weighted  average
      average  remaining
     Number of  exercise  contractual 
     share options  price (p)  life (years)
 
2010 
175.00p      1,687,246  175.00  2.3 
      1,687,246  175.00  2.3 
 
2009 
387.03p      22,168  387.03  0.5 
      22,168 387.03 0.5 
  120 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29 Share-based payment plans continued
Measurement of fair value
Share awards
An ‘adjusted market value’ method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions has 
been used to calculate the fair value of all share awards granted during the year.
Share options
The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to calculate the fair value of all share options granted during the year. These 
options were granted under savings related share option schemes for which vesting is not dependent on market conditions.
Expected volatility was based on both historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous ten years and on the implied 
volatility of traded options of the Group’s shares. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Share-based payment expense
The Group recognised total expenses of £11 million (2009: £12 million) related to share-based payment transactions during the year, of 
which £9 million (2009: £11 million) related to equity-settled and £2 million (2009: £1 million) related to cash-settled transactions. The 
carrying amount of the liability relating to the cash-settled awards at 31 March 2010 is £2 million (2009: £2million).
30 Commitments and contingencies
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment contracted at the balance sheet date but for which no provision has been made 
in the accounts amounted to £3 million (2009: £1 million).
Operating leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, motor vehicles and items of plant and equipment. Land 
and buildings leases are generally subject to periodic rent reviews. Some leases have renewal options. These are at the option of the 
Group, sometimes subject to a minimum notice period. In some cases rent escalations are set out in the lease contract. There are no 
material contingent rents payable. No significant restrictions are placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Operating lease payments
      2010  2009
      £m  £m
Minimum lease payments        43   39 
Contingent rents       — —
Sublease payments       —  (2)
Operating lease payments        43   37 
Operating lease commitments
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
  Land and    Land and   
  buildings  Other  Total  buildings  Other  Total 
  2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Not later than one year    42   8   50   43   7   50 
After one year but not more than five years    113   9   122   101   9   110 
Later than five years    95  —  95   66  —  66 
    250   17   267   210   16   226 
The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 March 2010 is 
£20 million (2009: £18 million). Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 121
Obligations under finance leases
At 31 March 2010 future minimum payments due under finance leases and similar hire purchase arrangements together with the 
present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
     Present   Present
    Minimum  value of  Minimum  value of
    lease  minimum  lease  minimum
    payments  payments  payments  payments
    2010  2010  2009  2009 
    £m  £m  £m  £m
Payable after one year but not more than five years    1 1  1   1 
Total gross payments     1 1  1   1 
Less: finance charges allocated to future periods    —  — 
Present value of finance lease obligations     1   1  
Amount due for settlement within 12 months      —  —
Amount due for settlement after 12 months      1   1 
There were no sublease arrangements in place for these assets at 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. 
The Group leases a small proportion of its plant and equipment under finance leases, but does not currently have any significant 
finance lease arrangements. The average effective borrowing rate for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 7% (2009: 5%). The fair value 
of the Group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Group’s finance lease liabilities are secured against the assets to which they relate.
Contingent liabilities
Group companies have given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries (and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal) in the 
normal course of business. Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of 
former subsidiaries. At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to a liability to the 
Group under these performance guarantees.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group had guaranteed certain borrowings by third parties. By 31 March 2010, these 
arrangements had come to an end and no longer gave rise to a contingent liability to the Group. (2009: £2 million, being the total 
amount of such borrowings outstanding at that date).
No member of the Group is engaged in nor (so far as the directors are aware) has pending, or is threatened by, or has against it any 
legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group. 122 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
31 Reconciliation of cash flows
 
      2010  2009
      £m  £m
Net cash flows from operating activities        166   298 
Capital expenditure included within investing activities       (70)  (56)
Interest paid        9   8 
Exceptional finance costs       —  1 
Pension contributions on disposal of operations      —  12 
Taxation paid (operating)        41   34 
Restructuring       46   41 
PPP settlement proceeds      —  (95)
Legacy items:   
— Pension contributions        60   42 
— Other legacy payments        13   13 
       
        73   55 
Operating cash flow        265   298 
Restructuring       (46)  (41)
Net finance costs (paid)/received       (5)  2 
Exceptional finance costs       —  (1)
PPP settlement proceeds      —  95 
Sale of financial assets       —  32 
Taxation paid (operating)        (41)  (34)
Legacy items        (73)  (55)
Free cash flow        100   296 
  
Operating cash flow attributable to:
Continuing operations        265   298 
        265   298 
  
The directors consider that the best measure of the Group’s cash performance is free cash flow as calculated above.
32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals 
(i) Business combinations 
Year ended 31 March 2010 
There were no acquisitions in the year.
Year ended 31 March 2009 
On 21 August 2008, Invensys plc acquired 100% of the share capital of SAT Corporation, a Houston-based mobile solutions company, 
for a cash consideration of £30 million. On 17 September 2008, Invensys plc acquired 100% of the share capital of Quantum 
Engineering Inc., a signalling and train controls company specialising in onboard equipment, from its management, for a cash 
consideration of £20 million. The acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The Group Financial 
Statements include the results of SAT Corporation and Quantum Engineering Inc., for the period from their date of acquisition to 31 
March 2009. As these business combinations are individually immaterial, the following information is presented in aggregate for the 
acquired businesses.  Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 123
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses at the dates of acquisition was: 
 
      Previous  Fair value
      carrying  recognised
      value  on acquisition
      £m  £m
Property, plant and equipment       0.8  0.8 
Intangible assets — other
1
       —  11.9 
Trade and other receivables       2.6  2.6 
Inventories       1.9  1.9 
Cash and cash equivalents       2.5  2.5 
Trade and other payables       (1.9) (4.5)
Net assets       5.9  15.2 
Goodwill arising on acquisition        35.5 
Total acquisition cost        50.7 
 
The total acquisition cost comprised: 
— cash paid        50.3 
— costs directly attributable to the acquisition        0.4  
        50.7
Cash outflow on acquisition: 
— cash paid        (50.7)
— net cash acquired with acquisition        2.5 
Net cash outflow        (48.2)
1 
The intangible assets are classified as development costs.
The acquired businesses contributed an operating profit of £0.6 million to the Group for the period from acquisition to 31 March 2009.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations would have increased 
to £2,303 million and the operating profit before exceptional items for the Group would have increased to £245 million.
The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of 
SAT Corporation and Quantum Engineering Inc. with those of the Group. These benefits do not meet the criteria for recognition as 
intangible assets separately from goodwill.
(ii) Business disposals
No operations have been discontinued in the year to 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. Additional costs have been incurred in both 
years, in relation to prior year disposals.
 
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Net cash flow arising on disposal: 
— cash costs of disposal       (12) (20)
       (12) (20) 124 Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
33 Directors’ loan and pension commutation 
Director’s loan
Mr Henriksson incurs both US and UK tax liabilities in respect of his employment duties undertaken in the US. Deloitte LLP has advised 
that the UK tax liabilities paid by Mr Henriksson in respect of such duties should be refunded to him by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). 
However, such refund has been delayed pending a determination by the US and UK tax authorities of the relevant treaty provisions. 
In view of the double taxation suffered, Invensys Systems Inc. advanced £546,000 on 14 April 2009 to Mr Henriksson, being an amount 
equal to the expected refunds due from HMRC. This loan is free of any interest and will be repayable within five business days from the 
date of HMRC making the refund to Mr Henriksson.
Director’s pension commutation
Kathleen O’Donovan left Invensys as Chief Financial Officer on 31 December 2002. Part of her pension entitlement for service at Invensys 
was provided through an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme (UURBS). As permitted by her termination agreement, 
Ms O’Donovan requested a commutation of her UURBS during the year. The Remuneration Committee agreed to pay £2.1 million 
commutation on a fair value basis, resulting in a reduction in the accrued IAS 19 pension liability. The cash settlement was made in 
March 2010, in addition, the Company bore national insurance costs of £268,800.
34 Related party disclosures
These Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of the Group and its subsidiaries. Details of the Group’s principal 
subsidiaries are included in the listing of Principal Subsidiaries on page 146. 
Details of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are as follows:
(i) Remuneration of key management personnel 
Key management comprises the executive directors. Remuneration is as follows: 
 
      2010  2009
      £m  £m
Short-term employee benefits       4 3 
Post-employment benefits       — —
Other long-term benefits       — —
Termination benefits       — —
Share-based payment       2 2 
       6 5 
Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. Post-employment 
benefits comprise the cost of pensions and post-retirement benefits. 
Full details of individual directors’ remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report. 
(ii) Other related party transactions
There are no other related parties transactions that have a material effect on the financial position or performance of the Group in the 
year (2009: none other than the director’s loan disclosed in Note 33). Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 125
35 Dividends paid and proposed
 
      2010  2009
      £m  £m
Paid during the year 
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
— Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010: 1.0p (2009: nil)    8  —
— Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009: 1.5p (2009: nil)    12  —
       20  —
 
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM  
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
— Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010: 2.0p (2009: 1.5p)    16 12 
       16 12 
The interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 was declared by the Board on 4 November 2009 and paid on 11 December 2009. 
 
The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 was approved by shareholders on 17 July 2009 and paid on 7 August 2009. 
 
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2010, the proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be paid 
on 6 August 2010 to shareholders on the register at 25 June 2010, and will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained earnings in 
the year ended 31 March 2011. 
 
The Invensys Employee Share Trust has waived its right to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 payable on the 230,380 
shares that it owns (2009: 414,534 shares). The Trust also waived its right to the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 
payable on the 458,839 shares that it owned.  
36 Events after the balance sheet date
Business Combination
On 21 April 2010, Invensys acquired 100% of the share capital of Skelta Software, a privately held software company headquartered in 
Bangalore, India, for a cash consideration of £6.4 million. The gross assets acquired were approximately £2 million. The acquisition will 
be accounted for in the year ending 31 March 2011 using the purchase method of accounting. 
The disclosure of further information in these Financial Statements is impracticable because of the short time between the acquisition 
date and the date in which the Financial Statements were authorised for issue.
37 Exchange rates
 
    Year ended  Year ended  As at  As at
    31 March  31 March  31 March  31 March
    2010  2009  2010  2009
    average  average  closing  closing
US$ to £1     1.59  1.72  1.50  1.43 
Euro to £1     1.13  1.20  1.11  1.08 126 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
127 Independentauditor’sreporttothe
shareholdersofInvensysplc
128Balancesheet
129Accountingpolicies
130NotestotheFinancialStatements
130 1  Profit attributable to the Parent Company
130 2  Fees for audit and other services 
130 3  Investments in subsidiary undertakings
130 4  Debtors
130 5  Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
131 6  Borrowings
131 7  Financial instruments
131 8  Pensions and post-retirement benefits
132 9  Called up share capital and treasury shares
134 10 Reserves
134 11 Commitments and contingencies
134 12 Share-based payment plans
142 13 Deferred income tax assets
Contents of the Parent Company Financial Statements Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 127
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Invensys plc
We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements
1
 of 
Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise  
the Parent Company balance sheet and the related Notes 1 to 13.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respectiveresponsibilitiesofdirectorsandauditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 54, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial Statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
ScopeoftheauditoftheParentCompany
FinancialStatements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the Parent Company Financial Statements sufficient 
to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company Financial 
Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the Parent 
Company Financial Statements.
OpiniononParentCompanyFinancialStatements
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as 
at 31 March 2010;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opiniononothermattersprescribedby
theCompaniesAct2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Mattersonwhichwearerequiredtoreportbyexception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Othermatter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements 
of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2010. 
RichardAddison (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
23 May 2010
Notes
1  
The maintenance and integrity of the Invensys plc website is the responsibility of the 
directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination  
of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 128 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
ParentCompanybalancesheet
      2010 2009
At 31 March     Notes  £m  £m
Fixedassets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings      3   3,017   3,017 
        3,017   3,017 
Currentassets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year      4   47   20 
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year     4   3   5 
Other financial assets       —  9 
        50   34 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
— Short-term borrowings      5,6 —  (9)
— Other creditors      5   (708) (704)
        (708) (713)
Netcurrentliabilities        (658) (679)
Totalassetslesscurrentliabilities        2,359  2,338 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
Pension liability      8  (26) (24)
       2,333  2,314
 
Capitalandreserves
Called up share capital      9  81  80 
Treasury shares      9,10  (2) (1)
Share premium account      10  348  348 
Other non-distributable reserves      10  1,373  1,373 
Special reserve      10  495  495 
Profit and loss account      10  38  19 
Shareholders’funds— equity        2,333  2,314
These accounts were approved by the directors on 23 May 2010 and are signed on their behalf by:
SirNigelRudd UCI Henriksson WEdmunds
Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
Parent Company Financial Statements Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 129
Parent Company accounting policies
Basisofaccounting
These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention 
and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. The 
policies are consistent with the previous year except for the 
adoption of the following amended standards and new Urgent 
Issues Task Force (UITF) abstract:
• Amendment to FRS 20 (IFRS 2), Share-based Payment — Vesting 
Conditions and Cancellations
• Amendment to FRS 8, Related party disclosures — Legal changes 
2008
• Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards (December 
2008)
• Amendments to FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures 
— Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments 
• Amendments to FRS 2, Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings, 
FRS 6, Acquisitions and Mergers and FRS 28, Corresponding 
Amounts — Legal changes
• UITF 46 (IFRIC 16) Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign 
Operation
Adoption of these amended standards and the new UITF abstract 
has not had any material effect on the Financial Statements of the 
Company.
Foreigncurrencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are included in the profit and loss 
account for the year.
Pensioncostsandotherpost-retirementbenefits
For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement 
benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating 
profit or loss in the year. The cost of providing benefits under the 
defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each 
scheme using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. 
The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of 
past service that vests immediately is also charged to operating 
profit or loss in the year. The net surplus or deficit on defined 
benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance sheet within 
the pension asset or liability.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the 
profit and loss account in respect of pension costs is the 
contributions payable in the year. Differences between 
contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid 
are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Investmentsinsubsidiaryundertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less 
provisions for impairment where a permanent diminution in value 
has been identified.
Borrowingcosts
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred. 
Debtinstruments
Borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction of 
issue costs. The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised over 
the life of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Taxation
Deferred income tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences 
that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will 
result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in  
the future. Timing differences arise from the inclusion of income  
and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different to 
those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that 
it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable 
taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can 
be deducted.
Deferred income tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing 
differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 130 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 130 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Share-basedpayment
The Company operates various equity-settled and cash-settled 
share schemes. 
For equity-settled share options, the services received from 
employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share 
options. The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation 
model and recognised in the profit and loss account, together 
with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of 
the number of options that will eventually vest. Vesting conditions, 
other than market conditions, are not taken into account when 
estimating the fair value. Market conditions are those conditions 
that are linked to the share price of the Company.
For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is 
calculated based on the share price at the grant date and, where 
applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over 
the vesting period based on the number of shares expected to 
vest. No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 
vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a 
market or non-vesting condition; which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition 
is satisfied, provided that all other performance or service 
conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if 
the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award 
are met. An additional expense is recognised for any modification 
that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment 
transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as 
measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if 
it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet 
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. This includes 
any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of 
either the entity or the employee are not met. However, if a new 
award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as 
a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled 
and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of 
the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. 
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are 
treated equally.
For cash-settled share awards, the services received from 
employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and 
recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period. The fair value of the liability is remeasured 
at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes 
in fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
In accordance with the transitional arrangements in FRS 20 (IFRS 
2), Share-based Payment, the requirements of FRS 20 have not 
been applied to equity instruments granted on or before  
7 November 2002 and those vesting before 1 January 2005.
Treasuryshares
Own equity instruments which are re-acquired (treasury shares) 
are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or 
loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own 
equity instruments. Treasury shares are purchased and held by the 
Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares to 
employees under the Group’s various share option and share 
award schemes.
Dividendincome
Revenue is recognised when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established.
Parent Company accounting policies continued
130 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 131
1ProfitattributabletotheParentCompany
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Parent Company, Invensys plc, is £45 million (2009: £428 million loss). In accordance with the 
exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate profit and loss account for the Company has not been 
presented.
2Feesforauditandotherservices
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Financial Statements were £0.1 million (2009: £0.1 million).
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the Company Financial 
Statements of Invensys plc because the Group Financial Statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
3Investmentsinsubsidiaryundertakings
       £m
Cost 
At 1 April 2009         3,020 
At31March2010         3,020 
Amountsprovided
At 1 April 2009         (3)
At31March2010         (3)
Netbookvalue
At 1 April 2009         3,017 
At31March2010         3,017 
Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2010 are disclosed on page 146.
The investment in subsidiary undertaking has been subjected to an impairment review in the context of the Company’s equity worth by 
reference to the Group’s market value. No impairment has arisen in the year.
4Debtors
      2010  2009
       £m  £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
— Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings        46  19 
— Prepayments      1 1 
        47  20 
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
— Prepayments       3  5 
        3  5
5Creditors:amountsfallingduewithinoneyear
      2010  2009
       £m  £m
Bank and other loans       —  9 
Short-term borrowings       —  9
Other creditors — amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings      707  704 
Sundry creditors      1  — 
Other creditors       708  704 
        708  713 
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 132 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
6Borrowings
(i)Bankandotherloansfallingduewithinoneyear
      2010  2009
       £m  £m
On demand or within one year       —  9 
Total bank and other loans       —  9 
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months (short-term borrowings)     —  (9)
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months (long-term borrowings)     — —
(ii)Loanrepaymentdates,interestratesandprincipalterms
    Committed 
    facility  Interest 
    2010  rate  2010  2009
  Notes Maturity £m  %  £m  £m
Otherloans
US$ Bonds 2010   1  Jan 2010   —  6.50% — 9 
       — — — 9 
Notes
1  
Senior Notes issued in the United States under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. The Company had no right to call these Notes prior to maturity but the Notes had been 
covenant defeased.
7Financialinstruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosure, for the Parent Company Financial 
Statements.
8Pensionsandpost-retirementbenefits
(i)Pensionsandpost-retirementbenefits
The Company operates one unfunded defined benefit pension scheme. The last full valuation of the scheme on a FRS 17 (IAS 19) basis 
has been updated to 31 March 2010, to reflect market conditions and material events in the plan.
The Company also participates in the UK Main Pension Scheme, which is the principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK 
employees. The UK Main Pension Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme. However, the Company is unable to separately identify 
on a consistent and reasonable basis its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit scheme to which it 
participates, mainly because of the difficulty in obtaining accurate information for disposed companies and the subjective nature of any 
allocation basis. Therefore the Company accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme, in accordance with the provisions 
of FRS 17. The scheme is currently in deficit on an IAS 19 basis using the projected credit actuarial valuation method to determine the 
scheme’s liabilities. Details of the scheme and its deficit are included in Note 25 to the Group Financial Statements in accordance with 
the accounting and disclosure requirements of IAS 19, which are generally equivalent to those of FRS 17. 
Pension costs in respect of the UK Main Pension Scheme represented contributions payable in the year and amounted to  
£nil (2009: £1 million). At 31 March 2010, the outstanding contributions included in creditors were £nil (2009: £nil).
(ii)Unfundeddefinedbenefitscheme
The major assumptions relating to the unfunded scheme are:
      2010  2009
      %  %
Majorassumptions
Rates of increase in salaries        4.95   4.35 
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
1
        3.80   3.60 
Discount rate for scheme liabilities        5.50   6.30 
Inflation rate        3.70   3.10 
1  
The rate of increase for UK deferred pensions was 3.70% (2009: 3.10%). Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 133
8Pensionsandpost-retirementbenefitscontinued
Standard actuarial mortality tables PA92 were adopted using year of birth and medium cohort projections. The probability of death at 
each age was multiplied by 122% for males and 135% for females. Future improvements in life expectancy have been allowed for in line 
with medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.00% for males and 1.25% for females.
The present value of the unfunded scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date is:
      2010  2009
       £m  £m
Present value of liabilities        26   24 
Pensionliability       26   24 
The changes in the present value of the unfunded scheme liabilities are analysed below:
      2010  2009
       £m  £m
Present value of scheme liabilities at beginning of year      24  24
Current service cost
1
       — 1
Contributions       (3) (1)
Other finance charges
2
       2  1
Settlements and curtailments       (1) —
Actuarial loss/(gain)       4  (1)
Presentvalueofschemeliabilitiesatendofyear       26   24
1  
Charged to operating profit.
2  
Charged to profit before tax.
Historyofexperienceadjustments
   2010  2009  2008  2007  2006 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Present value of scheme liabilities    26  24  24  25  24 
Deficit in scheme    26  24  24  25  24 
Experience losses on scheme liabilities   — 1  —  1  —
Cumulativeactuarialgainsandlosses
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2002 in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 
is a loss of £3 million (2009: £1 million gain). 
Contributions— ratesforfutureyears
Regarding rates of contributions for future years, in respect of the UK Main Pension Scheme, contributions to the Scheme will be made at 
the rate of 19.8% of pensionable salaries up to the date of the next triennial valuation. Details of the annual supplemental contributions to 
be made to the Scheme are set out in Note 25 (x) to the Group Financial Statements. 
9Calledupsharecapitalandtreasuryshares
Issuedsharecapital
The issued, allotted and fully paid share capital was as follows:
    2010   2009
    Number of   Number of 
    shares   shares 
    million  £m  million  £m
Ordinary shares of 10p each      807   81   801   80 
      807   81   801   80  134 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
A reconciliation of the issued, allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company is as follows:
      Number of  Share
      shares  capital
      million  £m
At1 April2009        801    80 
Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each        6   1 
At31March2010        807   81 
Under the Companies Act 2006, the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital was abolished with effect from  
1 October 2009. Therefore at the 2009 AGM the Company amended its Articles of Association (‘Articles’) such that, amongst other 
things, its authorised share capital would be removed with effect from 1 October 2009. As such, references to authorised share capital 
are no longer required.
Sharesreservedforissueundershareoptionsandawards
During the year the Company issued 6,051,095 ordinary shares of 10 pence each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SRSOS), Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (1998 LTIP) and 2007 Senior 
Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (2007 LTIP) (2009: 4,347,302 under the SRSOS, 1998 LTIP and 2007 LTIP).
On 24 June 2009, 14 September 2009 and 7 December 2009 conditional awards over a total of 6,956,484 shares were granted under 
the 2007 LTIP (2009: 5,153,308 under the 2007 LTIP).
There were 13,765,202 conditional awards outstanding under the 1998 LTIP and 2007 LTIP at 31 March 2010 (2009: 16,553,645). These 
conditional awards will be released at various dates between 2010 and 2012, subject to the satisfaction of the performance 
requirements and any appropriate holding period. As at 31 March 2010, outstanding shares awarded under the CEO Special Award 
were 1,608,554 (2009: 1,608,554). These will be released, subject to the satisfaction of the performance requirements and appropriate 
holding period, at various dates between 2010 and 2011.
As at 31 March 2010, outstanding executive share options exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition, 
at various dates between 2010 and 2014 and at various prices between 154.59 pence and 2,311.33 pence per ordinary share, and at a 
weighted average price of 937.18 pence per ordinary share, were 1,134,026 (2009: 1,461,805).
Outstanding options under the Company’s various savings related share option schemes at 31 March 2010, exercisable at various dates 
between 2010 and 2013 and at various prices between 175.00 pence and 387.03 pence per ordinary share, and at a weighted average 
price of 387.03 pence per ordinary share, were 18,487 (2009: 20,700), and at a weighted average price 175.00 pence per ordinary share, 
were 2,928,317 (2009: £nil).
Treasuryshares
Treasury shares comprise shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust and restricted shares.
The movement in treasury shares is set out below:
      Number 
      of shares  £m
At1 April2009      414,534  1 
Purchase of shares       2,723,442  8 
Transfer of legal title of restricted shares       570,076  1 
Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes     (2,907,596) (8)
At31March2010      800,456  2 
SharesheldbytheInvensysEmployeeShareTrust
The Invensys No. 2 Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) was established on 24 April 2007. At 31 March 2010, the Trust held 230,380  
10 pence ordinary shares in Invensys plc with a market value of £1 million (2009: 414,534 10 pence ordinary shares with a market value 
of £1 million). The Trust purchases shares in the market in order to satisfy obligations under the various share option and share award 
schemes operated by the Company. All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this purpose and are distributed to employees in 
accordance with the terms of the Company’s schemes. Shares held by the Trust are accounted for as treasury shares and deducted  
from equity.  Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 135
Restrictedshares
570,076 restricted shares with a market value of £1 million (2009: £nil) were issued on 15 March 2010 as a replacement award for the 
remaining shares still to be issued under the 2006 LTIP Award, RSP and DSP awards. Participants receiving the restricted shares are 
required to retain them until the service condition is satisfied on the vesting date of the original award in June 2010. If the service 
conditions are not satisfied on this date, legal ownership of the share reverts to Invensys plc. These shares are accounted for as 
treasury shares as at 31 March 2010. 
10Reserves
   Share   Other non-   Profit
   premium  Treasury  distributable  Special  and loss
   account  shares  reserves  reserve  account
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
At1 April2009    348   (1)  1,373   495   19 
Actuarial loss on pension liability    — — — —  (4)
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust   —  (8) — — —
Distribution of own shares under  
 share-based payment arrangements    —  7  — —  (2)
Profit for the financial year    — — — —  45
Dividends declared and paid   — — — —  (20)
At31March2010    348   (2)  1,373   495   38
The amount of profit and loss account reserves available for distribution is £36 million. The remaining balance is non distributable as it 
arose prior to the capital reduction and cancellation of reserves that became effective on 22 January 2009.
11Commitmentsandcontingencies
Operatingleases
The Company has no operating lease obligations.
Contingentliabilities
The Company has given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries (and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal) in the normal 
course of business. Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of former subsidiaries.
These performance guarantees include guarantees in respect of lease obligations. As at 31 March 2010, provisions in the Group 
accounts included £10 million (2009: £9 million) in respect of leases guaranteed by the Company.
At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to a liability to the Company under 
performance guarantees.
The Company is not engaged in nor (so far as the directors are aware) has pending, or is threatened by, or has against it any legal or 
arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on its financial position.
12Share-basedpaymentplans
The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding as detailed below:
Plansforsenioremployees
Executiveshareoptions
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme
Grant details
An executive share option scheme under which options have been granted to directors and senior executives at no cost. Options are 
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date at a price equal to the average middle market quoted price of the 
Company’s shares over the five dealing days which precede the date of grant. Options are satisfied by the issue of new shares or in the 
case of awards granted as share appreciation rights, in cash.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: (a) for grants made prior to 25 July 2001, earnings per share (EPS) performance of RPI + 12% over a three-
year period to be applied each year until the earlier of when the condition is met or the measurement period the last financial year of 
which is the year preceding that in which the option will lapse; and (b) for grants made on 17 June 2002 and after, total shareholder 
return (TSR) performance against a peer group of the FTSE 100 over a performance period of three, four or five years commencing on 
the date of grant. 40% would be exercisable if the median position is achieved, rising to 100% if upper quartile position is achieved. 
Between these two points the option would vest on a straight-line basis. If the performance condition is not met in full at the first 
measurement then it would be retested against the fixed base in years four and five. If the median position is not achieved by the end of 
the fifth year the option would lapse. No performance conditions are attached to the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate 
arrangement on 1 June 2004. 136 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
12Share-basedpaymentplanscontinued
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for a certain 
period of time in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
No options were granted during the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. The Company can no longer make grants under this 
scheme as the scheme expired in July 2008.
Details of executive share options outstanding under this scheme including the option granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate 
arrangement on 1 June 2004, are as follows:
    2010   2009
     Weighted   Weighted
     average   average
    Number of  exercise  Number of  exercise
    share options  price (p)  share options  price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year      593,805   261.05   679,145   313.53 
Transferred in during the year    —   n/a   5,184   1,319.92 
Granted during the year     —  n/a  —  n/a 
Forfeited during the year     —  n/a  —  n/a 
Exercised during the year     —  n/a  —  n/a 
Lapsed during the year      (1,188)   2,117.61   (90,524)   884.37 
Outstanding at the end of the year      592,617   257.33   593,805   261.05 
Exercisable at the end of the year      592,617   257.33   593,805   261.05 
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year
       Weighted
      Weighted  average
      average  remaining
     Number of  exercise  contractual 
     share options  price (p)  life (years)
2010
154.59p       535,290   154.59  4.2
1,213.72p to 2,311.33p       57,327   1,216.62  1.3
       592,617   257.33  3.9
2009
154.59p       535,290   154.59  5.2
1,213.72p to 2,601.17p       58,515   1,234.91  2.2
       593,805   261.05  4.9
Long-termincentives
Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Grant details
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost. 
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: (a) 
a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment (unless the Company determines otherwise); 
(b) a conditional share award; or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a notional number of shares). Awards are normally subject to a 
three year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period. For awards granted prior to 22 July 
2005 the retention period was two years; for awards made on or after 22 July 2005, 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the 
performance requirements will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being deferred for one year.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 137
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements:
TSR test
TSR ranked against a peer group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee (with no retesting opportunities). TSR must 
rank at the median position (when the peer group is ranked in descending order of TSR) in order for 25% of the shares subject to the 
award to be available (subject to the retention period), rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved. Between 
these positions, the number of shares will be calculated on a straight-line basis. If at least median position is not achieved the whole 
award will lapse. The peer groups selected for the relevant awards are as follows:
• awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant; and 
• awards granted on or after 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, 
Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokogawa.
Overall performance test
The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that: (a) for awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 there has been a sustained delivery 
over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group 
indebtedness; (b) for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins have been met: (1) achievement of stretching internal 
free cash flow targets; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items; and (c) for awards granted on or after 1 June 2006 that two 
underpin tests have been met: (1) relating to the successful completion of the 2006 Refinancing and in addition that there has been a 
sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group; and (2) efficient management of legacy liability items.
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released subject to the 
satisfaction of the performance conditions in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
No awards were granted under this scheme during the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009. Given that no further awards 
could be granted under the LTIP after July 2008, a new share-based long-term incentive plan, the Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive 
Plan was established and approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting. Details of this scheme are given below.
Details of relevant LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year        3,451,424   5,805,888 
Dividends during the year        4,507  — 
Transferred (out)/in (to)/from Group companies      (138,899)   409,312 
Forfeited during the year       —  (614,346)
Vested during the year        (2,461,977)  (1,859,767)
Lapsed during the year        (573,005)  (289,663) 
Outstanding at the end of the year        282,050   3,451,424 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 253 pence (2009: 275 pence).
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.3 years (2009: 0.5 years). 138 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 138 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
12Share-basedpaymentplanscontinued
Invensys 2007 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan (2007 LTIP)
Grant details
A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no (or nominal) cost. 
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: for 
awards granted up to and including 7 March 2008 (a) a nominal price option award which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal 
payment (unless the Company determines otherwise); (b) a conditional share award; or (c) a cash award (granted in respect of a nominal 
number of shares); and for awards granted from 8 March 2008 to date (a) a nominal price option award which is a right to acquire shares 
for a nominal payment (unless the Company determines otherwise); or (b) a conditional share award. Awards are normally subject to a 
three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award. There is no retention period.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: 
Awards would be subject to two independent performance conditions. For executive directors (a) 50% of an award would be based on 
growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Capital Goods Index; and (b) 
50% of an award would be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s Earnings Per Share. For all other participants (a) 
35% of an award would be based on growth in the Company’s TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poor’s 
Global 1200 Capital Goods Index; and (b) 35% of an award would be based on the compound annual growth rate in the Group’s 
Earnings Per Share. There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award. In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee retains discretion to ensure that, as a condition for vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group must 
be satisfactory.
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released, subject to 
satisfaction of the performance conditions, in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use
The 2007 LTIP is used as the Group’s main share-based long-term incentive plan under which share awards are granted. The first grants 
under this plan were made in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below:
      LTIP awards  LTIP awards
      granted in the  granted in the
      year ended  year ended
      31 March 2010  31 March 2009 
Total number of awards granted        2,919,942   2,358,063 
Weighted average fair value       174.17p  232.74p 
Exercise price       n/a  n/a 
Expected volatility       n/a  n/a 
Weighted average expected award life       3.0 years  3.0 years 
Expected dividend yield       0% 0%
Risk free interest rate       n/a  n/a 
Details of relevant 2007 LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year        3,115,441   1,635,818 
Granted during the year        2,919,942   2,358,063 
Dividends during the year      350 —
Transferred (out)/in (to)/from Group companies      (136,634)   71,352 
Forfeited during the year        (138,081)  (949,792) 
Vested during the year       —  — 
Lapsed during the year        (95,201)  —
Outstanding at the end of the year        5,665,817   3,115,441 
The 2007 LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years  
(2009: 1.9 years).
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 139
2007 CEO Special Award (Special Award)
Grant details
Approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Special Award is a one-off conditional share award granted to the 
Chief Executive equal to 700% of his 2007/08 base salary. The Special Award is subject to a three-year performance period. 50% of 
vested shares will be released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being released after a 12 month holding 
period.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: 
The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflect those applying to the 2007 LTIP with some elements being more 
demanding. The Special Award is split into two layers, each of which vests on a different basis. For the first layer equal to 200% of base 
salary, 20% will vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance. For the second layer equal to 500% of base salary, 
there will be no vesting for threshold performance, but 100% will vest for maximum performance. Vesting in each layer will be on a 
straight-line basis between these points.
For each layer of the Special Award 50% will vest based on TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP. However, for the 
TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting will require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile. This has been 
calculated by the advisers to the Remuneration Committee as outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 
Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 (i.e. 40%).
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released in defined good 
leaver cases.
Scheme use
The Special Award is a one-off grant at no cost.
No grants were made in the years ended 31 March 2010. The one-off grant made during the year ended 31 March 2008 is detailed 
below:
       Special Award
       granted in the
       year ended
       31 March 2008
Total number of awards granted         1,608,554 
Weighted average fair value        204.22p
Exercise price        n/a
Expected volatility        n/a
Weighted average expected award life        3.5 years
Expected dividend yield        0%
Risk free interest rate        n/a
Details of the Special Award outstanding during the year are as follows:
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year        1,608,554   1,608,554 
Granted during the year       —  — 
Forfeited during the year       —  — 
Vested during the year       —  — 
Lapsed during the year       —  — 
Outstanding at the end of the year        1,608,554   1,608,554 
The Special Award outstanding at the end of the year has a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.9 years (2009: 1.9 years).
Invensys Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Grant details
A restricted share plan whereby awards, to be satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior 
employees at no cost. The vesting period for awards is determined separately for each award. Vesting periods normally fall between 
one and five years. 140 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
12Share-basedpaymentplanscontinued
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: 
Awards are not subject to a specific performance condition apart from continued employment throughout the vesting period and 
satisfactory personal performance.
Service requirements: 
The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released in defined good 
leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use
The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below:
      RSP awards  RSP awards
      granted in the  granted in the
      year ended  year ended
      31 March 2010  31 March 2009 
Total number of awards granted        709,919   225,000 
Weighted average fair value       219.60p 153.96p 
Weighted average exercise price       n/a  n/a 
Expected volatility       n/a  n/a 
Weighted average expected award life       1.4 years  1.6 years 
Expected dividend yield       0% 0%
Risk free interest rate       n/a  n/a 
Details of relevant RSP awards (including a separate restricted share award granted to Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on 
1 June 2004) outstanding during the year are as follows:
      Number  Number
      of awards  of awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year        921,957   958,525 
Granted during the year        709,919   225,000 
Dividends during the year      2,148 —
Transferred (out)/in (to)/from Group companies      (133,822)   65,097 
Forfeited during the year        (44,443)  — 
Vested during the year        (831,955)  (326,665) 
Lapsed during the year       — — 
Outstanding at the end of the year        623,804   921,957 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 261 pence (2009: 138 pence).
The RSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years (2009: 0.5 years).
Turnaround Bonus Overlay Plan (TBOP)
Grant details
The Company introduced the TBOP in 2005/06 under which executives had the opportunity to receive a supplemental bonus of up to 
100% of their base salary in respect of the relevant financial year to be paid in shares upon reaching specified target levels of 
performance. The TBOP operated in addition to the existing Executive Bonus Plan (EBP). Any bonuses earned under the TBOP (the 
Overlay Bonus) are payable in shares with 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of those shares 
being awarded and the other 50% being released following the second anniversary.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: 
The amount of the Overlay Bonus (which in turn determines the level of the award) is set by reference to the performance targets 
specified for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: 
Release of the shares is generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date although shares may be released early in 
defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee. Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 141
Scheme use
The first grant under the TBOP was made on 1 June 2006. It was originally anticipated that the TBOP would be operated up to and 
including the financial year 2007/08. However, as a result of the changes made to the annual incentive arrangements for 2007/08 
onwards (as detailed in the Remuneration Report), the TBOP ceased to be operated one year early. The final awards under the TBOP 
were granted in the year ended 31 March 2008 in respect of the financial year 2006/07.
No grants were made in the years ended 31 March 2010 or 31 March 2009.
Details of relevant TBOP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
      Number of  Number of
      awards  awards
      2010  2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year        221,603   868,895 
Granted during the year       — —
Transferred in from Group companies      — — 
Forfeited during the year       — (34,883) 
Vested during the year        (221,603)  (612,409) 
Lapsed during the year       — —
Outstanding at the end of the year       —  221,603 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 237 pence (2009: 320 pence).
No TBOP awards outstanding at 31 March 2010.
Deferred Share Plan (DSP)
Grant details
The DSP was introduced in 2007/08 to replace the TBOP. Any bonus earned under the EBP for 2007/08 in excess of target performance 
was paid in deferred shares, with any bonus earned up to the target performance being paid in cash. The shares are released to the 
individual after three years in the case of executive directors and two years for all other participants. All awards are satisfied by shares 
purchased in the market.
For 2008/09 onwards the DSP is only used for executive directors and members of the Office of the CEO; in all other respects the same 
terms apply as outlined in the previous paragraph.
Vesting requirements
Performance requirements: 
The amount of shares granted is set by reference to the performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: 
Save where a participant is dismissed for cause before the relevant release date, shares under award will be released to participants on 
the release date, unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion should decide on a different release date.
Scheme use
The first grant under the DSP was made on 24 July 2008 and was used for all participants in the EBP who earned bonuses in excess of 
target. In the future, where applicable, bonus in excess of target performance will only be paid in deferred shares to executive directors 
and members of the Office of the CEO. Bonus payments for all other members of the EBP will be paid entirely in cash.
Grants made during the year ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are detailed below:
      DSP awards DSP awards
      granted in the granted in the
      year ended year ended
      31 March 2010 31 March 2009
Total number of awards granted        233,806   281,501 
Exercise price       n/a  n/a 
Expected volatility       n/a  n/a 
Weighted average expected award life       2.7 years  2.5 years 
Expected dividend yield       n/a  n/a 
Risk free interest rate       n/a  n/a  142 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
12Share-basedpaymentplanscontinued
Details of relevant DSP awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
      Number of Number of
      awards awards
      2010 2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year        281,501  —
Granted during the year        233,806   281,501 
Dividends during the year      802 —
Forfeited during the year       —  —
Vested during the year        (86,722)  —
Lapsed during the year        (11,604)  —
Outstanding at the end of the year        417,783   281,501 
The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 273 pence (2009: 190 pence).
The DSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.0 years (2009: 1.9 years).
Measurementoffairvalue
Share awards
An ‘adjusted market value’ method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions has 
been used to calculate the fair value of all share awards granted during the year.
Share-basedpaymentexpense
The Company recognised total expenses of £nil (2009: £2 million) related to equity settled share-based payment transactions during 
the year.
13Deferredincometaxassets
A deferred income tax asset has not been recognised on temporary differences of £26 million with a tax value of £7 million (2009:  
£24 million with a tax value of £7 million) in respect of pension obligations.
The Company has unrecognised income tax losses of £51 million with a tax value of £14 million (2009: £51 million with a tax value of  
£14 million) available for offset against future profits.
The Company has unrecognised capital losses of £50 million (2009: £50 million) that are only available for offset against future capital 
gains. These capital losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 143
Financial Summary
Summaryconsolidatedincomestatement
   2010  2009  2008  2007  2006 
For the year ended 31 March    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Revenue     2,243   2,284   2,108   1,999   1,919 
Operating expenses before exceptional items     (1,995)  (2,040)  (1,854)  (1,783) (1,746)
Operatingprofitbeforeexceptionalitems    248   244   254   216   173 
Exceptional items    (25)  (66)  62   (27)  (41)
Operatingprofit    223   178   316   189   132 
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains   — —  (21)  35   (33)
Exceptional finance costs   —  (1)  (36)  (67) —
Finance costs    (10)  (12)  (63)  (82) (150)
Exceptional finance income   —  27   –  — —
Finance income    3   8   18   16   31 
Other finance charges — IAS 19    (37)  (35)  (15)  (10)  (5)
Profit/(loss)beforetaxation    179   165   199   81   (25)
Taxation charge    (26)  (23)  (30)  (20)  (10)
Profit/(loss)aftertaxation— continuingoperations   153   142   169   61   (35)
(Loss)/profitaftertaxation— discontinuedoperations   (2)  (9)  167   148   57 
Profitfortheyear    151   133   336   209   22 
Attributableto:     
Equity holders of the parent    147   130   334   207   19 
Minority interests    4   3   2   2   3 
     151   133   336   209   22 
     
Summaryconsolidatedbalancesheet
   2010  2009  2008  2007  2006 
As at 31 March    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Property, plant and equipment    274   305   282   314   348 
Intangible assets — goodwill    301   306   215   206   222 
Intangible assets — other    133   123   92   90   81 
     708   734   589   610   651 
Net trading liabilities
1
    (91)  (90)  (6)  (66)  (23)
Net cash/(debt)    363   286   73   (166) (752)
Deferred taxation    15   17   6   1   (9)
Net pension liability    (581)  (308)  (284)  (522) (489)
     414   639   378   (143) (622)
Net assets held for sale    6   1   2   3   29 
     420   640   380   (140) (593)
     
Equity holders of parent    340   553   311   (200) (659)
Minority interests    80   87   69   60   66 
     420   640   380   (140) (593)
1  
Includes fixed asset investments. 144 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Summaryconsolidatedcashflowstatement
   2010  2009  2008  2007  2006 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Operating profit before exceptional items — continuing   248   244   254   216   173 
Operating profit before exceptional items — discontinued  — —  14   29   38 
Operating profit before exceptional items — total Group   248   244   268   245   211 
Depreciation    43   46   47   52   57 
Amortisation    22   22   19   14   14 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (34)  (32)  (37)  (46)  (44)
Expenditure on intangible assets — other    (36)  (24)  (21)  (26)  (22)
Sale of property, plant and equipment   1  3   1   4   2 
Other    39 46 46 50 37
Pension contributions    (34)  (37)  (38)  (40)  (44)
Working capital movement    16   30   (38)  37   50 
Operating cash flow — continuing    265   298   258   251   232 
Operating cash flow — discontinued   — —  (11)  39   29    
    
Operating cash flow — total Group    265   298   247   290   261 
Restructuring    (46)  (41)  (31)  (21)  (33)
Net finance (costs)/income    (5)  2   (39)  (74) (110)
Net exceptional finance costs/(income)   —  26   (18)  (38) —
Facility fees capitalised within prepayments   — — —  (15) —
Sale of associates   — — —   3  —
Sale of trade investments   —  5  —  10  —
PPP settlement proceeds   —  95  — — —
Operating taxation paid    (41)  (34)  (33)  (20)  (18)
Legacy payments    (73)  (55)  (62)  (24) (159)
Free cash flow
1
     100   296   64   111   (59)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders    (19) — — — —
Dividends paid to minority interests    (2)  (1)  (1)  (3)  (4)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from acquisitions, disposals, 
 fundamental reorganisation costs and closure costs   (21)  (67)  264   154   183 
Pension contributions from disposal proceeds   —  (12)  (55)  (18)  (16)
Share (purchases)/issues    (8)  (3)  (13)  323  —
Reclassification of financial assets as cash equivalents   13  — — — —
Transfer of treasury bonds defeasing 144A Covenants   8   (7) — — —
Transfer out of balances not qualifying as cash   —   (13) — — —
Transfer of facility costs to prepayments   —  (6) — — — 
Amortisation of facility fees within debt   — —  (11)  (25)  (7)
Currency movement    6   26   (9)  49   (52)
Movement in net cash    77   213   239   591   45 
Opening net cash/(debt)    286   73   (166)  (757) (802)
Closingnetcash/(debt)    363   286   73   (166) (757)
Financial Summary continued Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 145
Otherkeydata
   2010  2009  2008  2007  2006 
Orders — continuing operations
2
 (£m)     2,473   2,806   2,036   2,101   2,069 
Operating margin
3
 — continuing operations (%)   11.1% 10.7% 12.0% 10.8% 9.0%
Operating margin
3
 — total Group (%)    11.1% 10.7% 10.6% 9.5% 7.8%
Net finance cost cover
4
 (times)     35.4   61.0   5.6   3.3   1.5 
Underlying earnings/(loss) per share (basic)
5 
 
— continuing operations (p)    13.4  14.1   17.0   12.6   (0.3)
Earnings/(loss) per share (basic) — continuing operations (p)   18.5  17.4   21.1   8.2   (5.7)
Return on operating capital
6
    48.6% 49.0% 53.3% 41.9% nc
7
 
Number of employees at year end — total Group    20,044   20,529   22,928   27,313   28,434 
Share price — high (p)    349  344   428   305   222 
Share price — low (p)    163  122   186   167   93 
Share price — at year end (p)    341  166   225   291   215 
Number of ordinary shares in issue at year end (million)    807   801   797   796   609 
1  
Free cash flow excludes pension contributions made from the proceeds on business disposals. Prior year comparatives have been changed accordingly.
2  
Orders have not been restated to be consistent with the income statement.
3  
Before exceptional items.
4  
Net finance cost cover is measured as the number of times operating profit before exceptional items covers net finance cost (finance income less finance costs).
5  
Before the exceptional US pension curtailment gain, PPP settlement credit and exceptional finance costs and income.
6  
Return on operating capital is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items divided by capital employed excluding goodwill, net pensions deficit, non-operating provisions and 
net taxation liabilities.
7  
nc equals not calculated. 146 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Principal subsidiary undertakings and their country of 
incorporation are shown below. A complete list of all subsidiary 
undertakings will be filed with the Company’s annual return.
Holding companies
Invensys Australia Corporate Pty Ltd Australia
Invensys Deutschland GmbH Germany
Invensys Group Holdings Limited England & Wales
Invensys Group Limited England & Wales
Invensys Holdings Limited England & Wales
Invensys Holdings France SAS France
Invensys Iberica SAU Spain
Invensys Inc USA
Invensys International Holdings Limited England & Wales
Invensys USA Finance Inc USA
Invensys Operations Management
Eckardt SAS  France
Eurotherm Automation SAS  France
Eurotherm Espana SA  Spain
Eurotherm Inc  USA
Eurotherm Limited England & Wales
Eurotherm Srl  Italy
Foxboro Eckardt GmbH Germany
Foxboro Scada SpA  Italy
Invensys Eurotherm Sp.z o.o Poland
Invensys India Private Limited*  India
Invensys Korea Limited Korea
Invensys Middle East FZE  UAE
Invensys Process Systems Colombia Ltda Colombia
Invensys Process Systems Japan Inc Japan
Invensys Process Systems (Australia) Pty Limited Australia
Invensys Process Systems (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Malaysia
Invensys Process Systems (S) Pte Limited Singapore
Invensys Process Systems Taiwan Corp Taiwan
Invensys Systems Brasil Ltda  Brazil
Invensys Systems Canada Inc Canada
Invensys Systems Chile Ltda Chile
Invensys Systems France SAS France
Invensys Systems Inc USA
Invensys Systems Italia SpA  Italy
Invensys Systems Mexico SA Mexico
Invensys Systems NV Netherlands
Invensys Systems (UK) Limited England & Wales
PT Invensys Indonesia Indonesia
Shanghai Foxboro Co Limited (70% owned)  China
Principal Subsidiaries as at 31 March 2010
Invensys Rail
Dimetronic SA Spain
Invensys Rail Pty Limited Australia
(formerly Westinghouse Rail Systems
Australia Pty Limited)
Invensys Rail Limited  England & Wales
(formerly Westinghouse Rail Systems Limited)
Invensys Rail Corporation USA
(formerly Safetran Systems Corporation)
Westinghouse Brake and Signal England & Wales
Holdings Limited
Invensys Controls
Eberle Controls GmbH Germany
Elektronika Slovensko a.s. Slovak Republic
Eliwell Controls Srl Italy
IMServ Europe Limited England & Wales
Invensys (Qingdao) Controls Company Limited China
Invensys Appliance Controls Ltda  Brazil
Invensys Appliance Controls SAS France
Invensys Appliance Controls Sro Czech Republic
Invensys Controls Australia Pty Limited Australia
Invensys Controls UK Limited England & Wales
Invensys Controls Italy Srl  Italy
Invensys SAM  Monaco
Ranco Japan Limited (71% owned) Japan
Ranco North America LP Inc USA
Robertshaw Controls Company USA
Siebe Appliance Controls GmbH Germany
All subsidiaries are 100% owned unless stated otherwise.
Invensys, the Invensys logo, Avantis, DYNSIM, Foxboro, SimSci-
Esscor, Triconex, InFusion, IntelaTrac, Wonderware, InTouch, 
Eurotherm, Westinghouse, Dimetronic, Safetran, SystematICS, and 
WESTRACE are trademarks of Invensys plc, its subsidiaries or 
affiliates. All other brands and product names may be trademarks 
of their respective owners.
*Company also contains Invensys Controls business. Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 147
Shareholder Information
Ordinary shares
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Registrars
For all enquiries about the registration of your shares and changes 
of name and address, please contact the Company’s registrars:
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing,  
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel: 0871 384 2036 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7040 outside the UK
Calls are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. Other  
telephony provider costs may vary.
Electronic communications
Shareholders can also view up-to-date information  
about their shareholding and register to receive future  
electronic communications from the Company by visiting  
www.shareview.co.uk (shareholder reference number, shown 
on share certificates and tax vouchers, will be required).
Invensys nominee service
The Company has a nominee service under which shareholders 
can hold their shares electronically rather than in certificate form. 
Through the service, shareholders can also take advantage of 
streamlined dealing arrangements. Details of the service are 
contained in the Invensys Corporate Nominee Service brochure, 
which is available from Equiniti.
Shareview dealing service
Shareholders may buy or sell shares by Internet or telephone 
through Shareview, a share dealing service provided by  
Equiniti. For Internet purchases and sales log on to  
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing and for telephone purchases 
and sales call 08456 037 037 (inside the UK only) between 
8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which 
the Deutsche Bank Trust Company acts as Depositary. The Company 
is quoted on the premium tier of the US Over-The-Counter (OTC) 
market, OTCQX International Premier; more information can be 
obtained from www.otcqx.com. Each ADR represents one 
ordinary share of the Company. The ADRs trade under the ticker 
symbol IVNYY. For enquiries, beneficial ADR holders may  
contact the dedicated Invensys plc ADR shareholder services  
line on +1 888 778 1318 (toll free for US residents only).  
Further information is also available at www.adr.db.com
Financial calendar
Financial year end 2009/10 31 March 2010
Preliminary results 2009/10 announced 24 May 2010
Ex dividend date 23 June 2010
Record date for 2009/10 final dividend 25 June 2010
Annual General Meeting 28 July 2010
Payment date for 2009/10 final dividend 6 August 2010
Half-yearly results 2010/11 announced 4 November 2010
Results announcements
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange 
and are released through its news services. Shortly thereafter they 
are made available at www.invensys.com
Financial reports
This Annual Report and Accounts, together with other  
published summary documents and copies of previous  
financial reports, is available at www.invensys.com
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM is the Company’s principal forum for communication 
with private shareholders. Investors holding shares in the 
Company through a nominee service should arrange to be 
appointed as a corporate representative or proxy in respect of 
their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.  
The 2010 AGM will be held on Wednesday, 28 July 2010 at 
11.00am at the Park Plaza Victoria London, 239 Vauxhall Bridge 
Road, London SW1V 1EQ.
ShareGift
Shareholders with small holdings of shares who do not wish to sell 
such shares because the sales commission applied would be 
disproportionate to the sale price may consider donating them to 
charity. The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share 
donation scheme, ShareGift. ShareGift can be contacted at  
17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH or by telephone on 
+44 (0)20 7930 3737 or online at www.sharegift.org 
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval, the directors recommend a 
2009/10 final dividend of 2.0 pence per share. The total dividends 
for the year ended 31 March 2010 are 3.0 pence per share  
(2009: 1.5 pence per share).
As dividends are currently only paid in sterling, for overseas 
shareholders with small shareholdings it may not be economically 
viable for them to convert sterling payments into their local 
currency. Shareholders can, should they so wish, arrange for their 
dividends to be paid to a charity in the UK. ShareGift is a UK 
registered charity which takes unwanted shares and donations 
and uses the proceeds to make donations to a wide range of other 
UK registered charities.
In order to donate outstanding dividend payments to charity, 
shareholders need to send a signed letter of authority to Equiniti 
asking them to make all outstanding payments payable to 
ShareGift or another charity. If not ShareGift, the charity’s full 
name and address needs to be included.
For future dividends, if shareholders wish for these to be paid 
direct to ShareGift, this needs to be clearly stated in their letter of 
authority. For all other charities, shareholders will need to include 
the charity’s bank account details to enable the payments to be 
made by Equiniti via BACS. 
Equiniti’s address is Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.  148 Invensysplc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Identity theft
Criminals may steal your personal information, putting your 
shareholding at risk. Tips on protecting your shareholding:
• Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your 
shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
• Keep all correspondence from the registrars which shows your 
shareholder reference number in a safe place, or destroy 
correspondence by shredding.
• If you change address inform the registrars. If you receive a 
letter from the registrars regarding a change of address and 
have not recently moved, please contact them immediately.  
You may be the victim of identity theft.
• If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 
registered in your country of residence or the UK.
Forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements, within the 
meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995, 
which are based on market projections, forecasts and 
expectations. Forward-looking statements are by their nature 
subject to uncertainties and external factors that may affect the 
actual outcomes compared with those anticipated.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is legally obliged to make its share register 
available to the general public. Consequently some shareholders 
may receive unsolicited mail, including correspondence from 
unauthorised investment firms. If you wish to limit the amount 
of unsolicited mail you receive please contact:  
The Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, 
London W1W 8SS. Tel: +44 (0)845 703 4599
Registered office
Invensys plc, Portland House, Bressenden Place, London SW1E 5BF
Tel: +44 (0)20 7834 3848
Fax: +44 (0)20 7834 3879
Registered in England & Wales number 166023
New registered office from 28 June 2010
Invensys plc, 40 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7AW
For the latest investor information and news, visit our website
at www.invensys.com
Shareholder Information continued
Warning to shareholders
In recent years, many companies have become aware that their 
shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or 
correspondence concerning investment matters which imply a 
connection to the company concerned. These are typically from 
overseas-based “brokers” who target UK shareholders, offering to 
sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in 
US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 
survey by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has reported that 
the average amount lost by investors is around £20,000. It is not 
just the novice investor who has been duped in this way: many of 
the victims had been successfully investing for several years. 
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports 
about the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
organisation and make a record of any other information they 
give you, e.g. telephone number, address etc.
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before 
getting involved. You can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register/
home.do
• The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised 
overseas firms who are targeting or have targeted UK investors, 
and any approach from such organisations should be reported 
to the FSA, so that this list can be kept up to date and any other 
appropriate action can be considered. If you deal with an 
unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment 
under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA 
can be contacted on 0845 606 1234.
• Inform the Company’s registrars on 0871 384 2036. They are not 
able to investigate such incidents themselves but will record the 
details and pass them on to the Company and liaise with the FSA.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found 
on the FSA website at www.moneymadeclear.org.uk 02 Highlights of our Year 
04 Our Divisions 
07 Our Board of Directors
08 Our World
10 Chairman’s Statement
12 Chief Executive’s Statement
Business Review
14 Financial Review
18 Financial Policies
19 Invensys Operations Management
21 Invensys Rail
23 Invensys Controls
24 Corporate Social Responsibility
28 Risks and Uncertainties
31 Corporate Governance
38 Remuneration Report
51 Directors’ Report
54  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in 
Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts
55 Group Financial Statements
126 Parent Company Financial Statements
Other Information 
143 Financial Summary
146 Principal Subsidiaries as at 31 March 2010
147 Shareholder Information
© 2010 Invensys plc. All rights reserved. 
Designed by Further 
furthercreative.co.uk
The cover and text pages 1-56 of this  
report have been printed on Revive 50:50 
Silk which is made from 25% pre consumer 
waste, 25% post consumer waste and 50% 
virgin wood fibre. Text pages 57-148 
have been printed on Revive Pure White 
Uncoated which is made from 100% 
de-inked post consumer waste.
These papers have been independently 
certified according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC). All pulps used 
are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and the 
manufacturing mill is accredited with the 
ISO14001 standard for environmental 
management.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, 
ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral®. New technologies 
New markets 
New opportunities
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Invensys plc
Portland House 
Bressenden Place 
London SW1E 5BF
www.invensys.com
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
