 AMEC plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Regional Services
AMEC’s Regional Services business
operates through a network of locations 
in two main regions: Continental Europe,
where it trades as AMEC SPIE, and North
America, where it trades as AMEC Earth
and Environmental.
In Europe, AMEC SPIE designs, installs
and maintains technical systems such
as lighting, heating, climate control 
and telecommunications in buildings
and across infrastructure in cities and
communities. It has a network of
offices in over 300 locations in Benelux,
France, Germany, Portugal and 
Spain. Unlike the rest of AMEC, where
customers see AMEC as a national or
international project manager, AMEC
SPIE offers a local service, mainly to
the smaller customer. With over 50,000
clients in many different sectors, the
business has historically provided a
predictable and stable earnings stream. 
In North America, the Earth and
Environmental business provides
environmental consulting and engineering
services from audits to clean-up activities. 
It has a network of more than 90 offices
across North America and beyond.
AMEC serves over 50,000 customers 
across a wide variety of end markets
www.amec.com/regionalservices 
Oil and Gas
With unrivalled expertise working in
hostile deepwater environments, AMEC 
is a leading international provider of total
life of asset services to clients in the oil
and gas industry.
In upstream, AMEC has market-leading
positions in engineering and project
management, integration of complex
topsides and operations and maintenance
services. In downstream, the company 
is recognised for its expertise in gas
processing and operations and
maintenance, whilst in pipelines 
and distribution, the group is one 
of the world’s leading large-diameter
pipeline contractors.
In recent years AMEC has successfully
pursued a strategy of international growth,
working closely with long-term clients
who are developing new sources of supply
around the world, often in hostile
operating environments.
Major clients include
BP
Canadian Natural Resources
ExxonMobil
National Grid Transco
Shell
Sinopec
Syncrude
Total
www.amec.com/oilandgas 
AMEC Market Sectors
Total turnover* 2003
Regional 
Services
30% £1.3bn
Oil and Gas 
27% £1.2bn
Transport
18% £0.8bn
Infrastructure
14% £0.6bn
Industrial
11% £0.5bn
* Excluding non-core activities in UK rail
maintenance, Spie Batignolles and US
Construction Management activities Transport
AMEC offers a full range of services
covering every phase of planning, delivery,
maintenance and renovation of railways,
highways and airports.
AMEC SPIE Rail is one of Europe’s top
three railway services companies, and 
an international business with clients 
in the Americas, Africa and the Far East.
Expertise covers all aspects of railway
infrastructure, from high speed and heavy
goods to metro, light and urban rail. 
In highways, AMEC has long been a leading
player in the UK, whilst in France, AMEC
SPIE has developed specialised expertise
in lighting, signalling, safety, toll and traffic
flow systems. In the Americas, AMEC
offers consulting, design and other
construction services specialising in
highways and bridges.
In airports, AMEC has specialist expertise
in runway and taxiway renovation and
maintenance, baggage screening and the
general provision of terminal facilities.
Major clients include
Aéroports de Paris (ADP)
BAA
Continental Airlines
Highways agencies in the UK,
US and Canada
UK and French railways
www.amec.com/transport 
Infrastructure
AMEC offers services ranging from design
services to property and infrastructure
development, project delivery, systems
integration and facilities management. 
AMEC’s PPP business is focused on 
the design, build, finance, ownership,
operation and transfer of major capital
projects for the government and other
public bodies. The company also has a
leading position in urban renewal and has
developed strong relationships with local
authorities throughout the UK to
understand and tackle regeneration
issues inside and outside cities. 
In the defence sector in both the UK and
France, AMEC is a long-term supplier of
infrastructure services while in the US,
AMEC is well established with key clients
such as the Pentagon, various branches
of the Armed Forces and other US
government agencies.
Major clients include
Arlington
Auchan
BNP Paribas
Credit Lyonnais
Government and UK regional 
development agencies
Marks & Spencer
Schneider Electric
UBS
UK, French and US defence sectors
Welsh Water
www.amec.com/infrastructure 
Industrial
AMEC provides complete life of asset
support, from consultancy to design,
project delivery, commissioning and
ongoing operational support to a wide
range of industries on a global basis.
In the forest industry, AMEC is a global
market leader in pulp and paper facilities;
in mining and metals the company's multi-
disciplinary expertise is internationally
recognised with leading clients; the
company provides services to 15 of the
leading 20 organisations in the global
pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries. AMEC is also involved in the
design and delivery of process facilities 
for many of the world's largest food and
general manufacturing companies. 
In telecommunications, AMEC is a market
leader in the design, integration and
maintenance of communications networks
across Europe. The company also provides
a diverse range of services to the power
generation and transmission industry –
from the design, delivery and operation 
of wind farms through to the provision 
of specialist engineering services to the
UK and French nuclear industries. 
Major clients include
Air Liquide
AstraZeneca
Aventis
BNFL 
Bowater
BT
Cegetel
European Aeronautic Defence and 
Space Company (EADS)
Electricité de France (EDF)
France Télécom
General Mills
GlaxoSmithKline
Procter & Gamble
PSA Peugeot Citroën
Teck Cominco
Weyerhaeuser
www.amec.com/industrial  We design, deliver and support infrastructure – from local 
technical services to international landmark projects, leading 
the field in project management and services 
Across the world 
Responsibly
For the long term
Unless otherwise stated, amounts and percentage movements throughout the annual report and accounts relating to the profit and
loss account are stated before goodwill and amortisation and exceptional items. Amounts and percentage movements relating to total
operating profit and margin of the Client Support Services, Capital Projects and Investments activities are stated before corporate 
costs of £26.5 million, goodwill amortisation of £17.0 million and an exceptional credit of £0.2 million.
Any forward-looking statements made in this document represent management's best judgement as to what may occur in the future.
However, the company’s actual results for the current and future fiscal periods and corporate developments will depend on a number 
of economic, competitive and other factors including some of which will be outside the control of the company. Such factors could cause 
the company’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in 
this document.
Contents
Financial Highlights 01 1
Why AMEC? 02 2
World Skills on your Doorstep 04 4
Safe Delivery 06 6
Growth 08 8
Continental Europe 12
Americas 14
United Kingdom 16
Investments 18
Sustainable Development 20
Our Board of Directors 22
Chairman’s Statement 26
Chief Executive’s Review 28
Operating and Financial Review 32
Segmental Review 38
Report of the Directors 42
Directors’ Remuneration Report 47
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 53
Consolidated Balance Sheet 54
Company Balance Sheet 55
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 56
Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Gains and Losses 57
Note of Consolidated Historical 
Cost Profits and Losses 57
Reconciliation of Movements in
Consolidated Shareholders’ Funds 57
Notes to the Accounts 58
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities 77
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of AMEC plc 78
Five Year Record 79
Principal Group Companies 80
Shareholder Information 81
Investor Relations Report 82
AMEC in 2003 84 Financial Highlights
2003 2002
£m £m
Total turnover 4,712.7 4,331.6 +9%
Total operating profit 141.7 126.2 +12%
Pre-tax profit 112.5 105.2 +7%
Average weekly net debt* 360.0 195.0 +85%
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 25.3p 24.3p +4%
Dividends per ordinary share 10.5p 10.0p +5%
Pre-tax profit £1 12.5 million – up 7%
Regional Services becomes AMEC’s largest single market sector
Two-thirds of operating profit from Services and Investments
Dividends increased by 5% to 10.5 pence per share 
Total operating profit 2003
Client Support
Services 
56% £94.8m
Capital Projects
33% £55.6m
Investments
11% £17.8m
* Pro forma weekly average for the year ended 31 December 2003 assuming SPIE S.A. was acquired 
and Spie Batignolles was disposed of on 1 January 2003
†
Pro forma basis assuming preference shares were converted to ordinary shares on 1 January 2001
Dividends per ordinary share p p
03 10.5
02 10.0
01 9.5
00 8.5
99 7.5
Pre-tax profit £m
03 112.5
02 105.2
01 116.7
00 96.9
99 82.2
Total turnover £m
03 4,712.7
02 4,331.6
01 4,467.5
00 3,980.0
99 3,100.8
Diluted earnings per ordinary share p p
03 25.3
02 24.3
01 26.5
†
00 23.5
99 19.0
1 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  5:02 PM  Page 1 No ordinary company
AMEC’s client list demonstrates that 
it is no ordinary company. We enjoy the
confidence of government departments,
cities and communities across the
globe.The world’s most demanding
companies – oil and gas majors,
international pharmaceutical companies
and other high-performance organisations
– trust us to perform and deliver to the
highest standard.
Our work ranges from landmark projects
such as the Chad-Cameroon pipeline to
customised, local projects such as a video
surveillance system that meets the needs
of a French town.
Globally, we work for national and local
government and major corporations 
on demanding, complex projects, from
rebuilding the Pentagon to illuminating
the Eiffel Tower . 
Locally, we resolve challenging technical
problems for clients who need an
understanding partner . We design and
install customised systems, within local
regulatory and environmental constraints,
making towns and buildings safer .
We have been chosen to work with local
cities or communities – from providing
Bordeaux in France with a new light-rail
system to helping the city of Lethbridge,
Alberta, combat landslide risk. We find
creative solutions that also cause 
minimal disruption to a company or
community’s life.
Large or small, our clients choose us 
for our promise of reliable delivery to
exceptionally high standards.
During 2003 we acquired the balance 
of SPIE S.A. (SPIE), our France-based
European business. Now, we are truly
international. We have also transformed
our business, so that today around two-
thirds of our profit is generated from
services and investments, as opposed
to traditional construction activities.
Our corporate goals
Our overall goal is the delivery of
sustainable earnings growth and the
creation of value for all stakeholders. 
By working more selectively, we can
continue reducing the uncertainty
associated with poor-quality, sharply
cyclical work or unforeseen events.
Focus on services
Specifically, we want to grow the proportion
of our earnings generated from services.
These earnings are typically more reliable,
and play to our competitive strengths,
unlike traditional contracting earnings,
which carry more risk and have
commodity characteristics.
More work for key clients
We also want to win more business from our
existing clients, where there is clear headroom
for growth. Many of our clients only work
with part of our company and there is real
scope for us to do more for them.
Top three in our chosen markets
At the same time, we want to be rigorous
about exiting businesses that fail to perform
or do not fit our strategy, while investing in
those that have the potential to be market
leaders. This will help us move towards
our goal of being one of the top three
companies in each of our chosen markets. 
A reputation as an exceptional company
It is also important to build recognition 
of the value in our company. We work for
some of the world’s top companies and
fulfil major challenges across the world,
from the reconstruction of infrastructure
in Iraq, through the development of 
Bonga – one of the world’s largest floating
oil and gas facilities – and the delivery 
of the first section of the Channel Tunnel
high-speed rail link, to having led the
consortium to build Hong Kong’s
prestigious international airport.
Now that we have established an
international presence, we need to widen
and deepen our reach and reputation 
and extend our franchise to become the
natural choice in all our markets. No UK
company and few worldwide can rival 
our breadth of experience in designing,
delivering and supporting infrastructure.
Acquisitions and disposals in 2003
We made some important moves to fulfil
these goals during 2003. The acquisition
of Ipedex, the French specialist oil and
gas services company, allows us to offer
more value-added services in this sector,
whilst bringing us important new client
relationships, including that with Total.
Buying the US assets of Kamtech means
we can offer a more integrated service to
clients in the North American industrial
market, where we previously focused on
design activity. The disposal of a majority
stake in Spie Batignolles together with
downsizing of the US Construction
Management business confirmed our
strategy to reduce at-risk and low-margin
construction activities.
Why AMEC?
Our diversity is our strength
2 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  30/3/04  10:12 pm  Page 2 3 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
“Trusted to deliver,
globally or locally”
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief Executive 
Amec Front_Wace  30/3/04  10:12 pm  Page 3 World Skills 
on your Doorstep
AMEC spans the world;
few companies in our sector
have our reach
4 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  2:19 PM  Page 4 Algeria 1
Angola 1
Australia 19
Azerbaijan 1
Belgium 12
Brunei 1
Canada 80
Chile 2
China 5
Colombia 1
Congo 2
Egypt 1
France 315
Gabon 2
Germany 12
Indonesia 4
Iran 1
Italy 2
Japan 1
Kazakhstan 1
Kuwait 1
Luxembourg 1
Malaysia 2
Morocco 3
Netherlands 11
New Zealand 2
Nigeria 4
Oman 1
Peru 2
Portugal 13
Qatar 1
Reunion 1
Romania 1
Russia 2
Saudi Arabia 3
Singapore 2
South Korea 1
Spain 5
Sudan 1
Switzerland 1
Taiwan 1
Thailand 3
UAE 1
UK 111
US 77
Venezuela 4
Y emen 1
Zambia 1
We operate in over 700 locations
the world over from the Australian
outback to the Arctic wastes 
700
Extreme environments
Working from the Australian outback to
the Arctic wastes, AMEC spans the world.
Our geographical reach has given us
experience of diverse and extreme
environments. Clients choose us for
challenging projects – from oil and gas
operations on remote Sakhalin Island 
off the east coast of Russia, to diamond
mines in an inhospitable and hard-to-
access part of the Northwest Territories 
in Canada.
Tropics to tundra
We work in regions that are swept by
extreme climate changes, from sub-zero
temperatures in winter to almost
unbearable heat in the summer, drilling
through permafrost or laying pipeline 
in fragile environments from swamp 
to savannah.
Our experience of many different
environments worldwide – and our ability
to pool the skills of the AMEC teams
across many markets – provide a real
advantage to our clients, who will find 
that, whatever the challenge, we have 
the experience to help them succeed.
5 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  30/3/04  10:12 pm  Page 5 Safe Delivery
Managing risk and reputation
with confidence
6 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
7 7
We have an established
seven-step Total Risk
Management process
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  3:56 PM  Page 6 identify and address risks across AMEC in
a structured way. As part of this, we have
risk sponsors in all our businesses and
also have a corporate risk register which
documents risks and determines how they
are addressed.
Our risk management forum, made 
up of risk sponsors from across AMEC,
meets at least twice yearly and reports 
to the board on significant or new risks. 
The forum also reviews the embedding 
of risk management within the businesses,
dissemination of best practice in processes
and communication of lessons learned.
Our main businesses also carry out an
annual control risk self-assessment
exercise, which is reviewed by the board.
Because risk management is embedded 
in our culture in this way, clients can trust
us to think and act carefully and in their
best interests.
Safe delivery is an essential part of the
AMEC service. Our clients rely on us for
our experience and expertise to manage
their risk and reputation. 
Technical and commercial expertise 
AMEC’s workforce includes thousands 
of specialists who are committed to
solving client problems.
Among our 45,000 people worldwide 
are wildlife and aquatic biologists,
meteorologists, geologists, chemists,
geo-technical, process, mechanical,
electrical and environmental engineers.
Alongside them, we employ commercial
and project managers with a wide range
of experience.
The combination of technical expertise
with project management skills and
efficient execution means we can deliver
with confidence and this is an important
differentiator for AMEC.
Taking care of a range of risks
Managing risk and reputation is critical 
to any business, but nowhere more so
than in a company like AMEC, with its
history in challenging environments like
the North Sea. 
We take care of a range of risks that 
could affect our clients’ business, from
financial and commercial risk to broader
reputation risk. 
Rigorous health and safety standards
We have rigorous health and safety standards
and training programmes throughout the
organisation and continually strive towards
our goal of zero safety incidents. This is
critical for us and for our clients.
An embedded risk management culture
We have an established, seven-step Total
Risk Management process, which is
incorporated into our Management and
Policy Framework. This allows us to
7 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  3:56 PM  Page 7 Project management is a core AMEC 
skill. Today, many of our people have 
long track records as successful 
project managers. Additionally, we 
train AMEC people in our proprietary
project management system, Convero,
and also at the University of Manchester
Institute of Science and Technology
where we helped develop its MSc in
project management.
A partner with our clients
Partnerships and alliances draw on AMEC’s
growing skill and reputation as a consultant.
Increasingly, we are forming long-term
relationships with key clients.
We offer industrial training services 
from classroom to online and from 
health and safety and environmental
awareness to operator and equipment
training. We have provided these services
– which include providing tailored
manuals and demonstration materials –
to over 200 clients, from oil and gas
clients like ExxonMobil and BP to
industrial clients such as Bowater or
Procter & Gamble. Demand is growing 
as other industries adopt the high
standards established in the oil and gas
industry. We will pursue this strategy
actively in 2004 and beyond.
Acquiring businesses that complete 
the value chain
We are investing in businesses that help
us provide a more integrated service in
our chosen markets. During 2003, we
acquired the US assets of Kamtech, which
enables us to provide our clients 
in the forest industry and power sectors
with a more integrated project delivery
service, whilst improving our position 
in the area of maintenance and repair 
for those same clients. 
In recent years, we have reshaped our
business, exiting low-margin businesses or
those that did not fit with our strategy,
whilst investing in areas that help us
provide a more intergrated service in our
chosen markets. Now, we are focusing on
improving the value of the services we offer,
while continuing to fine-tune our portfolio
to ensure all our businesses contribute
fully to the company.
Drawing board to decommissioning:
moving up the value chain
We design, deliver and support our
clients’ infrastructure assets, from
conception and funding to maintenance,
shut-down and any clean-up activity.
Whether it is a local hospital, or the 
world’s largest oil platform, we can
provide a “life of asset” service. 
An important way of creating growth today
is to do more work along this “life of asset”
value chain, while also increasing the
proportion of high value-added work.
A consultant and project manager
In the past, like many companies in our sector,
we generally worked as a construction-only
contractor, providing a stand-alone service
to a client. Today, our industry is different.
Increasingly, clients want to work with a
partner who will deliver value over the long
term rather than just the easiest or cheapest
solution; who will manage a project in its
totality and provide specialist consultancy.
Our high levels of expertise allow us to
benefit from this trend.
Specialist consultancy is already embedded
in many of our businesses – from Ipedex,
the oil and gas business, to our Earth and
Environmental operations. More broadly,
consulting is an essential part of the
overall service we provide.
Growth…
We will keep moving up the value
chain and will exit any business
that does not add value
8 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
We also acquired Waste and Water
Engineering, a Denver-based specialist
water resources engineering company
which will help extend our environmental
consultancy capability in the region.
We will continue to pursue this acquisition
strategy and, in particular, aim to identify
and buy value-adding businesses where
barriers to entry are high.
Driving the business harder
Every business in our portfolio must 
make sense strategically and financially.
All our businesses must drive us forward,
offering growth opportunity and
competitive advantage.
We will invest in those businesses that are
clearly leaders – by expanding organically and
by acquisition, consolidating relationships
with clients and business partners to
achieve a stronger market position. 
We will exit low-value or non-core
businesses, where there is a poor risk-
reward balance, or limited fit with our
design, delivery and support value chain. 
We will set tougher management and
financial targets for our businesses. 
We will tighten commercial discipline across
the company, to further reduce at-risk or
low margin contracts and projects.
Amec Front_Wace  30/3/04  10:13 pm  Page 8 9 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
“Investing 
in quality”
Stuart Siddall
Finance Director
Amec Front_Wace  30/3/04  10:33 pm  Page 9 Identifying our potential 
Many of our businesses are already leaders in
their field, giving them a platform for expansion:
Our global oil and gas business is among
the top three in its field in the UK North
Sea and is expanding internationally.
Our Regional Services business is one of
the top five or six companies in its sector
in Continental Europe, and in the top three
in France.
We are a leading player in the UK wind
energy business.
Our rail business is in the top three 
across Europe.
Our forest industry business in North
America is a leading player in its sector .
…Growth 
Increasingly, we are forming
long-term relationships with
key clients
10 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Six Regional Services
businesses were
acquired in Continental
Europe in 2003
6 6
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  3:59 PM  Page 10 Our UK building and facilities services
business, which focuses on designing and
installing mechanical and electrical services
in buildings, is a leading player in its field.
Our construction services business 
is one of the largest in the UK.
We also have a number of businesses that
have a good platform for growth as their
markets consolidate:
Our Earth and Environmental business is
establishing an important franchise across
the Americas and is moving to Europe.
Our international pharmaceuticals business
has established a good client base and is
expanding from its traditional UK base 
into North America. It also has the
potential to expand in Continental Europe.
We have a growing position in the UK nuclear
and defence sectors and in European
telecommunications. 
Client opportunities
The spread of our business presents us
with a real opportunity. We have many
clients who are only aware of part of what
we do. The potential within our client base 
is truly significant. 
We have specific programmes aimed 
at tapping this potential, such as our
Strategic Relationship Management 
and asset care programmes and are
already seeing this investment turn into
successful cross-selling and contractual
wins. In particular, we are seeing the
benefits of the full acquisition of SPIE as
business is transferred both ways across
the Channel.
During 2004, we will also invest more time
and resources in systems that allow us to
share knowledge and experience and in
specific business development initiatives
aimed at extending our relationships with
existing clients.
Building our reputation
We are taking up an increasingly important
position on the world stage. In 2004, for
example, we will be working alongside
our partner, Fluor, to help reconstruct Iraq’s
war-torn infrastructure. 
Whilst we have always done this sort 
of important work, we have not always
communicated it actively . In 2004 and beyond,
will be putting more intensive effort 
into building our brand, to communicate
the value within AMEC in a clear and
compelling way.
11 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:00 PM  Page 11 12 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
“Low-risk, steady
growth across the
continent”
Jean Monville
Chairman and CEO, AMEC Continental Europe
For tens of thousands of clients across
Europe, AMEC SPIE provides high-
quality multi-technical services –
electrical engineering, mechanical,
heating, ventilation and air conditioning,
environmental, and telecommunications
services – to their doorstep. 
Whether big or small, our European client
is essentially local. We have over 300
offices across Europe, which assess an
individual client’s need and deliver a
tailor-made solution. Local people are
then on hand to deliver it and to provide
back-up, be it to a nuclear plant or an
office facility.
An expanding network
This low-risk, steady growth business 
is extending its network across Continental
Europe. By acquiring businesses that extend
its specialist skill set and by opening new
offices, we expect to fulfil growth targets 
well in excess of GDP .
During 2003, we moved into Spain,
acquiring IMISA, a Spanish company
comprising four businesses, and setting
Continental Europe
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:01 PM  Page 12 up a Spanish holding company, AMEC
SPIE Iberica, to manage these and future
Spanish businesses. We bought Ipedex,
the specialist oil and gas services
company, which complements our previous
acquisition of Foraid. We can now offer oil
and gas companies a more complete
solution internationally, with strong bases
in West Africa, the Middle and Far East.
For 2004 and beyond, we will continue plans
for expansion into neighbouring markets,
such as Switzerland, Italy and Germany –
where we already have a small presence,
following the same model of small add-on,
easily-incorporated acquisitions. 
Rail: high-speed in France, 
continuing opportunity in UK
We also see growth opportunities from our
France-based rail business, where we saw
a good level of activity in 2003 and are well
positioned for growth, as one of Europe’s
top three rail engineering companies.
During the year, we won two major contracts
for work on the new TGV East high-speed
line in France, and continue to work on
the related substations. In the UK, we
completed the first section of the Channel
Tunnel Rail Link and put this into service. 
While Network Rail in the UK took the
decision to take all maintenance work in-
house, we remain confident of our central
role in the UK rail market. During the year,
we were awarded preferred bidder status
for a high-output track renewals contract
and our move, early in 2004, to establish
regional offices across the UK better
positions us to support Network Rail in
future. In particular, AMEC is one of the 
few companies able to provide a full range 
of design, build and equipment-leasing
services to Network Rail, as well as working
on infrastructure renewals and upgrades.
Light rail: an important growth area
An important growth area for us is light
rail systems, including Metros, both in
Continental Europe and further afield. In
France, we won the mandate to deliver a
customised light rail system for the city of
Bordeaux and put the first line into service
in December . The system, developed with
Alstom, uses an innovative ground-level
13 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
power supply system and so avoids
overhead wires. Other lines are well under
way and we have subsequently won the
contract to work on the Mulhouse tramway
near Strasbourg. This follows our delivery
earlier in 2003 of a tramway system in the
French town of Caen. In the UK earlier this
year, AMEC with its partners won an
important long-term contract to extend
the Docklands Light Railway to London
City airport. We expect opportunities in
Germany, Italy and Romania in the near
future. Further afield, we have two
important ongoing light rail contracts: the
extension of the Metros in Cairo, Egypt
and Caracas, Venezuela. Our outstanding
expertise and experience in this field
positions us well for the future.
Finally, our market share in the
telecommunications sector is growing. 
We have built strategic relationships 
with key companies such as Cisco and
Siemens as well as our existing global
alliance with Nortel that should give 
us increased product distribution and
maintenance opportunities. 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:01 PM  Page 13 14 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Americas
“We have reshaped 
our business and are
poised to benefit from
the US recovery”
Carlos Riva
Chief Executive AMEC Group Limited,
Chairman AMEC Americas
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:01 PM  Page 14 Industrial markets poised to recover
Growth in our US business will benefit
from recovery in US industrial markets,
which have experienced a slump over 
the last two years.
We are in good shape to benefit from 
this. We have reduced the amount of 
at-risk work we undertake and have 
also implemented a reorganisation and
cost cutting programme which is now
largely complete.
Entering the project earlier
We are also generating better quality
earnings. Increasingly, our Earth and
Environmental consultancy business is
opening doors for our other businesses
and enabling us to enter the client’s
decision-making process earlier . 
We expect to benefit from our increasing
focus on new business initiatives that draw
on our experience of alliances and our
special project skills, for example our
work on the 2010 Olympic Winter Games
in Vancouver, Canada. We entered this
project at an early stage, providing
support for the bid and now have the
opportunity to pursue a range of
infrastructure projects.
Oil sands leadership
We continue to lead the industry in 
the development of oil sands projects 
in Northern Alberta. Having worked 
on almost every significant oil sands
development in Canada, we have played 
a major role in the execution of large
upstream oil sands projects, via both
project alliance and conventional
contracting strategies. Projects have
ranged in capital value from CDN$750
million to CDN$2 billion for clients such
as Syncrude Canada and Albian Sands.
AMEC's relationship with Syncrude has
spanned over seven years of continuous
oil sands work.
Alliances and new client services
In a similar way, during 2003, we
extended our alliance with De Beers,
established in 2002 to develop their
Canadian diamond-mining interests, 
by taking on environmental assessment
work for the company and providing
training and development services. 
Increasingly, we are providing new
services to help clients plan capital
projects, as well as training and
development. These are yielding attractive
returns and helping to differentiate us.
More scale and capability
We expect to grow scale as well as quality
in the Americas, building the AMEC brand
and pursuing our goal of achieving a top
three market position in all our markets.
In particular, we plan to grow our delivery
capabilities in industrial markets. This
was the thinking behind the acquisition
during 2003 of the US assets of Kamtech,
which gave us strong delivery capability in
the industrial sector . We expect to make
more of this kind of strategic acquisition.
15 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:02 PM  Page 15 United Kingdom
An AMEC joint venture will
provide property services 
to around 400 Ministry of
Defence facilities in Scotland
400
We have excellent growth
prospects in defence, nuclear
and oil and gas
16 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
AMEC’s UK business has a strong
position in strategically important sectors
where barriers to entry are high. Our
UK-led oil and gas business is expanding
internationally from a mature base in the
North Sea. We also see growth prospects
in the UK defence and nuclear markets. 
Nuclear clean-up prospects
Following the government Energy 
White Paper published in February 
2003, the UK will be focusing on nuclear
clean-up, an area where AMEC is a
leading player . With £50 billion of 
spend allocated to this over the next 
few decades and with restructuring
expected to encourage new entrants 
to compete alongside the nuclear
companies, we see a significant
opportunity for AMEC, which already 
has a five-year partnering relationship
with BNFL.
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:02 PM  Page 16 At the same time, we expect to 
see our proprietary nuclear waste
management process, Geomelt, 
find commercial application in the 
UK, following the first contracts in 
the US in 2003 and the licensing of 
the technology in Japan. 
Defence offers opportunities
Since 9/11, defence spending has become
a priority for Western governments. We
expect more opportunities across the
defence sector and have also strengthened
our own position in the UK market.
During 2003, we won in joint venture 
a major long-term contract to manage
the whole of the UK Ministry of Defence’s
(MoD) Scottish estate and a contract
to provide a submarine berthing facility
in Scotland. We also acted as an adviser 
to the MoD on how to structure an
alliance for delivery of its new aircraft
carriers. We are well placed to benefit
from the real growth potential in this
sector in the coming year and beyond.
Pharmaceuticals expansion
We continue to concentrate on growing 
our business in the relatively recession-
proof pharmaceuticals sector where we
provide wide-ranging services to global
companies such as AstraZenca,
GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer . We have 
good prospects in both North America
and Continental Europe as well as in 
the UK and are increasingly being
selected as a global service provider 
by companies in the sector .
Oil and gas changes
Recent changes to our oil and gas
business are designed to help us 
achieve more growth. 
We have integrated our upstream 
and downstream business, a move 
that not only provides a one-stop shop 
for customers in markets like China 
and Russia, where the two sectors 
are linked, but also reduces our 
cost base.
Our continuing role as a partner to 
Shell in its offshore project in Sakhalin,
Russia, will provide an important income
stream. Sakhalin is a groundbreaking
project in terms of its complexity and size
and AMEC, which has forged excellent
relationships in Russia, is well placed to
be involved in some of the half dozen or
so further projects expected in Sakhalin.
At the same time, we continue to “localise”
our oil and gas business by sourcing and
training on the ground, a strategy that 
will improve our efficiency and further
differentiate us.
17 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:03 PM  Page 17 18 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Investments
A growing contribution 
from regeneration and
renewable energy
AMEC’s investments business, mainly
operating in the UK, allows us to
strengthen our partnering experience 
and enter projects early. Through it, 
we do not just deliver infrastructure 
but provide consultancy and finance. 
Development and regeneration
Our investment in development and
regeneration projects will give us access
to a range of interesting opportunities 
in coming years. We have two multi-site
major partnerships in this area, with
British Waterways to develop canal and
riverside land, and with the English Cities
Fund to regenerate urban areas – both of
which will give us access to a stream of
development opportunities with limited
risk and attractive returns.
Public Private Partnerships (PPP)
We also operate in the PPP sector, where
we have financially closed 10 projects 
to date. These include major UK road,
hospital and rail projects as well as the
Cross Israel Highway. We expect a steady
flow of projects in the UK in future as 
this remains an important route for
procuring infrastructure. 
In 2004, a higher level of overseas activity
is expected. We are preferred bidder on the
Incheon Bridge project in South Korea and
are one of three consortia bidding for an
extension to the Vancouver Rapid Transport
Project in Canada. Overall, we see
opportunities in Europe and the Americas,
as we export our UK experience.
Renewable wind energy
Our wind energy business has established
itself as one of the leading companies in
the UK market, with a strong track record
onshore and offshore and a good pipeline 
of projects. During 2003, it made its first
important contribution to our profits.
Our business covers all aspects of design,
delivery, finance and operations and our
portfolio of 17 developments should deliver
more than 1,000MW of wind power by the
end of the decade. 
We were delighted to win two licences in
the recent government round of offshore
awards and we will develop these with
Centrica, to whom we recently sold our 
Lynn offshore licence.
We have seen growing momentum in this
sector since the introduction, in April 2002,
of the Renewable Obligation. With the UK
government considering taking the current
target for renewable energy from 10 per
cent of total UK power by the end of the
decade to 15 per cent by 2015 and 20 per
cent by 2020, we can look forward to an
increasing level of activity.
We have 10 PPP
projects to date
10
Amec Front_Wace  30/3/04  11:08 pm  Page 18 19 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
“We do more than
deliver: we make
ithappen”
John Early
Development and Investments Director
Amec Front_Wace  30/3/04  11:08 pm  Page 19 People, planet and prosperity
Sustainability is not just about protecting
the environment and using natural
resources in a prudent way, it is about
ensuring stable social and economic
growth for all. For this reason, sustainability
is often defined as having three pillars:
people, planet and prosperity.
In the corporate world, this translates 
into triple bottom line reporting:
considering not just our obligation to
create financial value for shareholders 
but our obligation to create or protect 
value in a wider sense for all our
stakeholders.
As a responsible company, we believe 
a sustainable approach to be right 
and of value in itself. It also provides us 
with a more secure franchise for future
operation. Good employment policies 
lead to more successful recruitment 
Sustainable
Development
We look to the long term, 
with clients, employees 
and all our stakeholders
20 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
AMEC launched its
sustainability programme 
three years ago
3 3
Amec Front_Wace  4/1/04  7:38 AM  Page 20 21 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
and retention of staff. Better community
relations lead to more successful and
appropriate development. Overall, a
sustainable approach is one that fosters
good risk management. This in turn
underpins the sustainability of our earnings
– to the benefit of all stakeholders. 
Sustainability programme moving forward
Our main vehicle for improving performance
in this area is our sustainability programme,
set up three years ago, which produces 
a separate report. 
This programme covers our policies 
in all the main sustainability areas: 
ethics, employment, community 
relations, environment and corporate
governance. We still have far to go, but
have made some important changes and,
more importantly, we are measuring our
progress against agreed metrics and
benchmarking it externally. 
More generally, we aim to work in a
professional way, using systems and
processes that minimise environmental
and community impact. Where possible, 
we benchmark and seek third party
endorsement of our approach. We take care
to work with clients we view as responsible. 
We have also made some specific
investments in the sustainability area,
notably our renewable energy business.
We want to see renewable energy taken
seriously and to play our part in achieving
this in the UK.
We took some important steps forward
during 2003:
Appointing ethics officers in the US and 
in Europe and enhancing our ethics policy .
Establishing Chief Executive’s awards 
for safety and sustainability.
Introducing a formal sustainability planning
process in our businesses, using an
Agenda 21 template for the first time.
Agenda 21 is a United Nations (UN)
blueprint for sustainability – providing
guidelines for tracking pollution,
overpopulation, energy consumption 
and efficiency and bio-diversity. AMEC’s
Agenda 21 is modelled on the UN
programme to make sure our sustainability
principles are taken forward by our
businesses and turned into action.
Achieving improved performance 
against our sustainability metrics.
Moving sharply up the Business in the
Community Corporate Responsibility 
Index – improving our score on a range 
of sustainability measures from 70 to 
85 per cent.
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  4:03 PM  Page 21 Our Board 
of Directors…
Stuart Siddall Carlos Riva 
Jean Monville
John Early
Martha Hesse
James Dallas
Our directors have 
wide-ranging industrial 
and commercial experience
22 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  31/3/04  8:51 pm  Page 22 Liz Airey 
Jean-Paul Jacamon 
Jock Green-Armytage 
Sir Peter Mason KBE
23 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  31/3/04  8:52 pm  Page 23 …Our Board of Directors
Jock Green-Armytage
Chairman 3 
Age 58, was appointed a non-executive
director in June 1996 and became non-
executive chairman on 21 January 2004.
He is the chairman of the nominations
committee. He is chairman of both 
JZ International Limited and JZ Equity
Partners plc and is also a director of
several other companies.
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief Executive 3
Age 57, was appointed chief executive 
in March 1996. He was previously 
an executive director of BICC plc and
chairman and chief executive of Balfour
Beatty Limited. He was appointed a non-
executive director of BAE SYSTEMS plc 
on 22 January 2003.
Stuart Siddall
Finance Director
Age 50, was appointed finance director 
in June 2000. He was previously finance
director of Alpha Airports Group PLC 
and of MANWEB plc. 
James Dallas 123
Age 48, was appointed a non-executive
director in October 1999. He is the
chairman of the remuneration committee
and is the chairman of law firm Denton
Wilde Sapte. 
24 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Jean Monville
Age 59, was appointed an executive
director in February 1997. He is the
director responsible for the Continental
European operations.
John Early 
Age 58, was appointed an executive
director in March 1986. He is the 
director responsible for the 
Investments operations. 
Key to principal
committee membership
1 Audit
2 Remuneration
3 Nominations
Amec Front_Wace  4/1/04  9:06 AM  Page 24 Carlos Riva
Age 50, was appointed an executive director
on 1 August 2003. He is responsible for
United Kingdom and Americas operations.
He was previously CEO of Intergen, 
a United States-based power generation
company jointly owned by Shell 
and Bechtel.
Martha Hesse 12 3
Age 61, was appointed a non-executive
director in June 2000. She was president
of Hesse Gas Company until the end of
2003 and is the former chairman of the 
US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
and assistant secretary for management
and administration of the US Department
of Energy. She chairs the Americas Advisory
board and the compliance and ethics
committee and is also a director of several
other companies.
Liz Airey 12 3 
Age 45, was appointed a non-executive
director in May 1999. She is the senior
independent director and chairs the
boards of the AMEC Staff and AMEC
Executive Pension Scheme companies.
She was previously the finance director 
of Monument Oil and Gas plc. She 
is currently a director of Harrison
Lovegrove & Co Limited and is also 
a non-executive director of several 
other companies.
Jean-Paul Jacamon 12 3 
Age 56, was appointed a non-executive
director on 27 November 2002. He is
chairman of the audit committee. He was
previously vice-chairman and chief
operating officer of Schneider Electric 
and is now an independent consultant. 
He is also a non-executive director of
several other companies.
25 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
AMEC has long been conscious of the
need for a well-balanced board and has
addressed this in recent appointments. 
As an international company, we aim for 
a balance of nationalities in our directors
and currently have two American, one
Canadian and two French nationals in
addition to our UK directors. We believe 
it is important, within the constraints 
of finding a quality candidate, to aim 
for diversity.
Relevant industry experience
Our directors have wide-ranging industrial
and commercial experience and we have
aimed in particular to appoint some
directors with a track record in key
industrial sectors, notably oil and gas and
power . We will keep the need for relevant
industry experience in mind as we make
future appointments.
Recent appointment of chairman
Recently, one of our non-executive directors,
Jock Green-Armytage, was appointed our
chairman. Mr Green-Armytage, for many
years a director and then non-executive
director of NM Rothschild & Sons Limited,
has a long track record in the investment
banking and private equity sectors and
also held positions at the highest level in
business and industry including chief
executive of Guthrie Corporation PLC, joint
chairman and chief executive of the oil and
gas exploration company Kelt Energy plc,
and chief executive and non-executive
director of William Baird plc. He was also
a non-executive director of the UK
electricity company Norweb.
Having made this appointment, we will be
seeking a new non-executive director to
ensure a continuing balance to the board.
Balancing the board 
Amec Front_Wace  4/1/04  6:27 AM  Page 25 Chairman’ s
Statement
An international group
focused on project
management and services
“There is still huge
unrealised value 
in AMEC”
Jock Green-Armytage
Chairman
26 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  6:29 AM  Page 26 27 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
As I write this review, I have been in 
the post of AMEC chairman for a mere
two months, though I have been on the
AMEC board since 1996. I must therefore
start by thanking my predecessor, Sydney
Gillibrand, who retired in January. Sydney,
who became chairman of AMEC in 1997,
helped steer the company through some
major changes, including the acquisitions
of AGRA and SPIE. He will be much missed,
both personally and professionally.
George Payne, Commercial Director,
retired from the board in March 2003, and
David Robson, responsible for UK and
Asia Pacific operations, retired at the 
end of July 2003 after 40 years’ service. 
I would like to thank both George and
David for the enormous contribution they
have made to AMEC over the years, and 
I wish them well in their retirement.
Another important change at AMEC 
during the year was the appointment 
of Carlos Riva as executive director
responsible for our Americas business
and AMEC Group Limited in the UK.
Carlos brings outstanding commercial
experience from his role as Chief Executive
Officer of Intergen, the Shell-Bechtel
power joint-venture, and his position
across the UK and the Americas 
will help us bring these businesses 
closer together .
Project management and services
His appointment, together with some 
other senior changes at the operating
level, marks the end of a phase of
substantial change and restructuring 
for AMEC. Over the last decade, AMEC
has been transformed from a largely UK-
based traditional construction company to
an international group focused on project
management and services, able to attract
and retain clients at the highest level,
from the US and UK government through
the oil and gas majors to cities and
communities worldwide.
We are still something of a well-kept
secret. Few people recognise the scope 
or scale of our enterprise – from delivering
customised light rail solutions for clients
from Bordeaux to Caracas, to helping
reconstruct the Pentagon after 9/11, 
and creating some of the world’s largest
oil and gas facilities. There is still huge
unrealised value in this company – in 
the potential of its skills, experience and
clients. Few companies in the world can do
what we do and people are beginning to
see us as a real force to be reckoned with.
Two-thirds of profit from 
Services and Investments
We are also continuing to evolve towards
our goal of being a services company.
Last year, we moved even further forward
in terms of exiting businesses with poor
quality earnings and investing in areas
where we can add real value. As a result,
two-thirds of our total operating profit 
is now generated from Services and
Investments activities.
We are, today, a financially robust, major
company, employing 45,000 people in over
40 countries worldwide, with an enviable
client list and the trust of governments
and blue-chip corporations. The potential
is significant and I believe that our results
demonstrate that we are on track to deliver
against that potential.
Growth in earnings was resumed last
year . Pre-tax profits of £112.5 million 
are up seven per cent and were in line
with our expectations. Proposed dividends
for the year are increased by five per 
cent to 10.5 pence per share, reflecting
our confidence in the future. The outlook
for 2004 is still in line with our previous
expectations.
The last few years have been difficult for
many companies but, as signs of recovery
emerge, I feel confident that AMEC’s highly
skilled and dedicated people will grasp
the opportunity to build on our strengths,
expand our service, deepen our client
relationships and create value for all 
our stakeholders.
Jock Green-Armytage
Chairman
11 March 2004
Proposed dividends
are increased by 5%
to 10.5p per share
5
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  6:29 AM  Page 27 28 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Chief Ex ecutive’ s
Review
Increased focus on higher
margin services and project
delivery activity
“ AMEC is well positioned 
to maintain momentum 
in earnings growth”
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief Executive
28 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  7:56 AM  Page 28 29 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
These results confirm the transformation
of AMEC from its history in traditional
construction to a focus on services, with
two-thirds of total operating profit 
now generated by Services and
Investments activities.
After the difficult markets of 2002 and
much of 2003, AMEC has not only returned
to earnings growth, but has reached the
end of this testing time in good shape and
is well positioned to maintain momentum
in earnings growth.
Further strategic restructuring took place,
together with acquisitions and disposals in
the year . The acquisition of the outstanding
54 per cent interest in SPIE strengthened
AMEC’ s position in Continental Europe, whilst
the subsequent disposal of a majority stake
in Spie Batignolles, the France-based
regional construction business, demonstrated
a focus on higher value-added services.
Growth in earnings resumed during 2003,
despite continuing weakness in industrial
markets generally and poor performance
in the US Construction Management
business. Pre-tax profit increased by seven
per cent to £112.5 million and was in line
with the board’s expectations, established
in December 2002. Average weekly net
debt during 2003 increased to £360 million,
largely reflecting the net cash impact of
acquiring SPIE.
Market sectors
Total turnover in AMEC’s market sectors
was as follows:
2003* 2002*
£ billion £ billion
Regional Services 1.3 0.7 
Oil and Gas 1.2 0.8 
Transport 0.8 0.7 
Infrastructure 0.6 0.5 
Industrial 0.5 0.7 
4.4 3.4 
Full consolidation of SPIE for 10 months
of 2003 makes year-on-year comparisons
difficult. Following the acquisition of the
outstanding 54 per cent interest in SPIE,
Regional Services becomes AMEC’s
largest market sector, with annualised
total turnover in 2003 of some £1.4 billion. 
North American industrial markets
Since 1 January 2004, AMEC has either
been awarded contracts or has been
confirmed as preferred bidder on projects
expected to be worth about £100 million.
Levels of front-end activity in North
America are ahead of this time last year,
with the dollar value of feasibility studies
currently being worked on up by over 50
per cent. The directors expect that this
will lead to an improvement in industrial
activities during the course of 2004, but
timing remains difficult to predict.
Iraq
AMEC is now working in Iraq on the
restoration of damaged power generation,
transmission and distribution systems,
acting as prime subcontractor to 
Fluor on task orders currently worth
US$140 million under the CETAC II
contract. AMEC will share the profit 
from this work with Fluor on a 49 per
cent: 51 per cent basis.
Through the AMEC Fluor LLC joint venture,
AMEC is actively bidding for seven “second
round” contracts in various sectors, including
power and water, that are expected to 
be worth some US$4 billion. AMEC is also
bidding for task orders worth about US$140
million under AMEC Earth and Environment’ s
AFCEE contract. The outcome of these
various bids, all of which are on a cost-
reimbursable basis, is anticipated during
March or early April 2004.
Safety remains of paramount importance
and all activity in Iraq calls for absolute
vigilance. To this end, AMEC continues to
invest considerable effort in implementing
detailed safety arrangements for its
involvement in Iraq. 
Rail
On 24 October 2003, Network Rail
announced that it was to take all UK 
rail maintenance activities in-house. 
The announcement affected AMEC’s 
two infrastructure maintenance contracts
in the West Anglia and Sussex regions,
which together generated total turnover
of some £130 million and a margin of
about five per cent in 2003. AMEC now
expects these two contracts to be
transferred by 24 July 2004 and is presently
negotiating compensation with Network
Rail. No material impact on 2004 group
performance is anticipated.
Although disappointed to be losing its UK
rail maintenance activities, representing
around a quarter of its total turnover in
rail, AMEC has a wide range of railway
infrastructure skills and remains
committed to the UK market. AMEC
remains confident that, with its ongoing
activities in the UK and its secure position
in France, the rail business has excellent
prospects, not least in the fast developing
European urban light rail market. 
Wind energy
AMEC is one of the leading UK wind
energy development companies.  
AMEC’s business covers all aspects 
of design, delivery, finance and operations
and has a strong track record in both
onshore and offshore development,
together with a portfolio of 17 evelopments
being worked on at present. This means
AMEC has the potential to deliver more
than 1,000 MW of operational assets 
by 2010. With its completed, early-phase
developments sold off to utility companies,
AMEC is now exploring opportunities for 
a long-term investment position in the
larger wind energy projects, building on
its experience in PPP and property
development.
Wind energy – onshore
Development project pipeline
Likely Output Anticipated 
(MW) commissioning
1 Ardkinglas 15 2005
2 Minch Moor 25 2005
3 Edinbane 50 2006
4 Werfa 15 2006
5 Tees Wind (50%) 50 2006
6 Clashindarroch 130 2006/07
7 Aultmore 55 2006/07
8 Kyle 150 2008
9 Lewis (50%) 600 2007-09
10-14 Others (5 No) 280 2007-09
Wind energy – offshore
Working with Centrica in the Greater Wash
Likely Output Anticipated 
(MW) commissioning
1Lynn 90 2005
2 Docking Shoal 375-500 2008/9
3 Race Bank 375-500 2009/10
4
5
14
13 2
12
1
3
9
10
7
6
11
8
Centrica/AMEC
Further details are available at www.amec.com/wind
1
2
3
*Excluding non-core activities in UK rail 
maintenance, SPIE Batignolles and US 
Construction Management activities
Amec Front_Wace  4/1/04  6:27 AM  Page 29 30 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Chief Executive’s
Review 
continued 
Increase share of existing client spend
Headroom for growth – North America
Existing share
Growth headroom
Order book* £bn
2002 2003
Order book £3.0 billion (2002: £2.7 billion)
*Excludes Regional Services and non-core activities
in UK rail maintenance, Spie Batignolles and 
US Construction Management
1.1
0.9
0.8
0.2
1.1
0.9
0.3
0.4
Oil and Gas 
Transport 
Infrastructure 
Industrial
Design
Project Delivery
Operations Support
Acquisition of the
outstanding 54% of
SPI E has strengthened
AMEC’ s position in
Continental Europe
54
30
20
10
00
AMEC % share of a
client’s annual spend
Amec Front_Wace  31/3/04  11:14 pm  Page 30 31 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
In the offshore wind sector, AMEC was
awarded two licences in the recent UK
government grant. These will be developed
with Centrica, with whom AMEC continues
to work on the Lynn development, a first
round licence, the rights for which it recently
acquired from AMEC. This market provides
prospects for a substantial business to
emerge for AMEC in the future.
Order book
The year-end order book, excluding
Regional Services and non-core activities
in UK rail maintenance, Spie Batignolles
and US Construction Management, stood
at £3.0 billion (2002: £2.7 billion). 
As expected, industrial orders declined
over the period, but were offset by an
increase in infrastructure orders. Oil and
gas and transport orders were maintained,
with order intake having been matched by
the high levels of activity in the year . 
Regional Services activities are characterised
by large numbers of small, short-term
contracts with the relationship between
order intake and total turnover providing 
a more meaningful indicator of prospects
than the absolute level of order book. 
In 2003, order intake exceeded sales by 
seven per cent (2002: three per cent).
Strategy
The board’s overall aims are:
Continued growth in the proportion 
of earnings from higher margin 
services activities
Increased volume of business with
existing clients and
Continued development of the 
business portfolio. 
Continued growth in the proportion 
of earnings from higher margin 
services activities
During 2003, AMEC improved its 
services capability and geographical
spread through a number of acquisitions
including SPIE, and, through SPIE, the
French oil services company Ipedex.
Ipedex’s presence in West Africa was a
key factor in securing the first two year
maintenance contract for Shell’s Bonga
facility and provides a good example of
group cross selling and project delivery
leading to a services contract.
The acquisition of the assets of Kamtech
enables AMEC to offer a wider range 
of services to North American clients 
in the forest industry and power sectors, 
to whom it had previously offered only a
consulting and design service. Not only
can AMEC now provide clients with a more
integrated project delivery service, but it 
is also better placed to increase services
activities in the maintenance and repair
side of the industrial sector .
The North American and European regional
services markets are fragmented, providing
significant opportunities for growth through
increased geographical spread. During
2003, AMEC strengthened the position of
its Denver operation as a regional water
resources hub, whilst in Continental
Europe, SPIE continued to strengthen 
its network of over 300 locations through
the acquisition of six new businesses in
France, the Netherlands, Portugal and
Spain. Further such geographical
expansion is anticipated in 2004.
Increased volume of business 
with existing clients
Through developing its portfolio of
services and increasing its geographical
spread, AMEC aims to secure a greater
share of existing clients’ annual spend
across all areas of activity, from consulting
and design through project delivery to
support services.
During 2003, AMEC strengthened 
its relationships with major clients
including Shell, the UK Ministry of
Defence, BAA and Network Rail through
the award of major long-term services
contracts. The aggregate value of these
contracts is expected to be over £1 billion,
although only £440 million has been
recorded in the order book, reflecting
AMEC’s policy of only booking value 
up to the first potential break point 
in the contract. 
In addition, AMEC reached agreements
with important clients including the 
US Air Force Center for Environmental
Excellence, GlaxoSmithKline, EADS and
INEOS Chlor Enterprises (China), which
are on a call-off basis, but where real
value is expected to be secured over 
the next few years. 
Continued development of the 
business portfolio 
Over the last few years, AMEC has pursued
a strategy of substantially downsizing its
US Construction Management business,
which has made it possible for AMEC now
to consider various strategic options. 
A strategic review of this business is 
well advanced and is expected to be
concluded shortly.
In September 2003, AMEC announced 
the disposal of a majority holding in the
French regional construction business,
Spie Batignolles, which had generated
total turnover of about £500 million in
2000. This transaction reduces AMEC's
overall risk profile and results in greater
focus on engineering services and higher
margin project delivery activity, where
there is the ability to add value through
consultancy, design and project
management services. 
AMEC will continue to expand its
geographical coverage and invest in
growth markets such as wind energy 
and PPP . More will be done to fill in 
the value chain, through investing in
businesses that help AMEC provide 
a more integrated service and project
management capability to a greater
number of clients in a wider range 
of growing end markets.
Outlook
AMEC’s oil and gas, transport and
infrastructure markets remain steady,
and there are important new opportunities
in Iraq. 
Despite continuing uncertainty in
industrial markets, the board is confident
that AMEC will make further progress in
2004 and, at this early stage, is maintaining
its earlier expectations for the year .
In summary, AMEC starts 2004 in good
shape, having achieved further strategic
restructuring with acquisitions and
disposals over the last 12 months. With
these developments and the first signs 
of recovery in industrial markets in North
America, AMEC is well positioned to
maintain momentum in earnings in the
coming year . The company’s strategy 
for growth will increase focus on higher
margin services and project delivery
activity only where AMEC has the ability 
to add value, whilst reducing its overall
risk profile. The end result is expected 
to be a better quality of earnings.
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief Executive
11 March 2004
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  7:03 AM  Page 31 Operating and
Financial Review
Pre-tax profit increased 
by 7%, in line 
with expectations
“There has been a
significant change in
the profile of AMEC’ s
activities towards those
in the Client Support
Services sector”
Stuart Siddall
Finance Director
32 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec Front_Wace  4/1/04  6:31 AM  Page 32 33 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Acquisition of SPIE and disposal 
of Spie Batignolles
AMEC acquired the outstanding 54 per
cent of SPIE on 5 March 2003. The results
for the year ended 31 December 2003
include SPIE’s trading for January and
February in line with previous years, that 
is including AMEC’s share of turnover and
profit at 46 per cent. After this date, SPIE
has been consolidated as a wholly owned
subsidiary by including its results at 100
per cent with those of the AMEC group
and as a consequence its performance 
is no longer reported through the joint
ventures caption. Joint venture turnover 
of about £900 million and total operating
profit of over £20 million are now
consolidated in AMEC’s group results.
On 5 September 2003, AMEC disposed 
of 51 per cent of the shares in Spie
Batignolles to the management team. 
AMEC has accounted for Spie Batignolles 
as an associate with effect from 5 March
2003. In other words, Spie Batignolles was
treated as a 100 per cent associate up 
until the part disposal and thereafter is
being treated as a 49 per cent associate.
AMEC has not recognised its share of
turnover in Spie Batignolles post 5 March
2003, but has accounted for its share of 
the profit, interest and tax.
The board believes the disposal of Spie
Batignolles represented a favourable
outcome as AMEC was able to maximise
the price obtained and minimise the
warranties given. Certain assurances 
have been given by AMEC that it will
indemnify the purchasers against the 
cost of some long outstanding claims
against the company. These relate to 
a few old contracts and some legislative
issues. It is by no means certain that 
these obligations will be incurred, but 
it is considered appropriate to prudently
provide against the possibility of a 
future liability.
The management team has a call option
over the remaining 49 per cent of the
shares at any time in the next five years.
A provisional assessment of the
adjustments required to fair value 
the net assets acquired has been 
made and these in aggregate are about 
£26 million. These in the main relate to
the Spie Batignolles disposal. The main
adjustments in respect of SPIE relate 
to tax liabilities arising directly from 
the acquisition.
Other corporate activity
Other corporate transactions during the
year ended 31 December 2003 included
the following:
Acquisitions
Ipedex, a French oil services company,
which provides training, commissioning,
operations and maintenance services in
Africa, the Middle East and the Far East.
IMISA, a mechanical and electrical services
business based in Spain, whose acquisition
is part of the strategy to grow the
Regional Services network throughout
Continental Europe.
Wrights Engineering, a business which
has skills in high-pressure vessels, 
and fits well with the UK shutdown 
and maintenance business.
Kamtech, a business which provides 
a critical link in the project delivery
capability of AMEC’s North American
forest industry and power operations.
Disposals
AMEC’s interest in the Grand Cayman
hotel was disposed of. The initial disposal
proceeds were received in December 
2003, with the outstanding amount, 
due in June 2004, being secured by 
a first charge over the hotel.
Total turnover and gross margin
Total turnover for the year was £4,712.7
million (2002: £4,331.6 million), with the
increase reflecting some £700 million from
the full consolidation of SPIE, offset by a
decline of £300 million in the activities of
US Construction Management, as planned.
In addition, there has been some good
growth in the UK infrastructure and
transport markets.
There has been a significant change in the
profile of AMEC’s activities towards those
in the Client Support Services sector . 
This follows the full consolidation of SPIE
and its services activities, the disposal of a
majority stake in the regional construction
activities in France and the downsizing of 
US Construction Management.
The gross profit margin before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items was
12.8 per cent (2002: 10.1 per cent) and this
principally reflects the consolidation of SPIE
as a subsidiary undertaking, whose gross
margins are higher than those of AMEC. 
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items were
10.0 per cent of group turnover (2002: 7.4
per cent) again, largely reflecting the SPIE
acquisition. SPIE, as a result of its regional
business structure, has a higher level of
administration expenses than AMEC.
Corporate costs, which represent the
costs of operating the head office of AMEC
and certain regional overheads not directly
related to the business segments, were
higher than those incurred in 2002. 
This cost caption was expanded in 2003
following the acquisition of the outstanding
54 per cent of SPIE and now includes
certain regional overheads incurred 
in Continental Europe. 
Profit to cash conversion
Eight year cash history as at 31 December (£ million)
250
200
150
100
050
000
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Cumulative adjusted retained profit excluding goodwill write off and amortisation
Cumulative adjusted cash flow excluding that relating to acquisitions, disposals and share transactions
Total turnover*
Percentage by business 2003
Client Support
Services
53%
Capital Projects 
45%
Investments 
2%
Percentage by business 2002
Client Support
Services
41%
Capital Projects 
55%
Investments 
4%
*Before internal turnover
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  7:04 AM  Page 33 34 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Operating and 
Financial Review
continued
Interest
Net interest payable of £29.2 million (2002:
£21.0 million) principally reflects a ten
month charge in respect of the acquisition
funding of SPIE. In addition, it also reflects
AMEC’s hedging strategy of extending the
level of fixed interest debt in the group to
nearly £180 million (equivalent to about
half of the average weekly net debt for
2003) which includes the short-term
increase in costs following the placement 
of debt with private UK and US institutions.
The placement demonstrates the
confidence others have in the financial
health of the group and has allowed AMEC
to lock in to some favourable long-term
interest rates. In the short term there will
be an increase of about £2.5 million to the
group’s annual interest cost. 
The increase in the share of net interest
payable from joint ventures reflects the
increase in the number of operational
PPP concessions in 2003.
67% of operating
profit from Services 
and Investments
activities
67
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  11:35 AM  Page 34 35 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
The 2003 total dividend cover was
maintained at 2.4 times (2002: 2.4 times)
earnings on a diluted basis before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
The company had distributable reserves
of £159.9 million as at 31 December 2003. 
Balance sheet
All consolidated balance sheet captions
are significantly different from the
comparative year as a result of fully
consolidating SPIE. The dynamics 
of many of SPIE’s businesses are very
different from those of AMEC. The 
Regional Services business typically 
has an average of approximately 75 
days sales outstanding but has a much
shorter period over which to settle the
associated contract costs.
Investments in joint ventures
Following the acquisition of the outstanding
54 per cent of SPIE, the investment in
joint ventures has reduced significantly. 
Most of AMEC’s interests in PPP 
concession companies and several
property development projects are
accounted for using the gross equity
method. These joint ventures are all
stand-alone businesses, where AMEC 
is in partnership with others, and are
independently funded with only limited
support from the shareholders.
In total, AMEC’s share of net debt in 
PPP companies was £441.9 million as 
at 31 December 2003 (2002: £339.3
million) and this is fully non-recourse 
to AMEC. Of this amount, approximately
£210 million relates to the operational
concession companies. In 2003, AMEC’s
share of the operating profit of these
concessions was £10.6 million (2002: 
£8.1 million) and after taking into account
the share of net interest payable, resulted
in a net contribution.
The debt in PPP joint ventures is without
recourse to AMEC. As at 31 December
2003, financial support was limited to
equity commitments of £30.5 million
(2002: £24.2 million), contingent equity 
of £10 million (2002: £10 million) and in
the unlikely event that AMEC’s partners
fail, their share of equity of £27.0 million
(2002: £27.0 million). AMEC believes that
its PPP projects are financially sound. 
Where it can be demonstrated that the
concession agreement transfers limited
risks and rewards associated with the
relevant asset to AMEC, then the asset is
accounted for as a finance lease. Where
significant risks and rewards are retained
by AMEC, the asset is accounted for as 
a fixed asset.
In the case of a finance lease, the payment
received by the concession company is
apportioned between operating profit 
and interest in the profit and loss account
and as a repayment of the finance lease
debtor in the balance sheet. In the case of 
a fixed asset the payment received by the
concession company is accounted for 
as operating profit. The fixed asset is
depreciated over the term of the
concession contract.
In addition, AMEC has investment
commitments of £26.2 million (2002: 
£28.3 million) in respect of joint ventures
connected with its British Waterways, 
and English Cities Fund activities.
Cash flow and current liquidity
In calculating the average weekly net debt
for 2003, the acquisition of SPIE and the
disposal of Spie Batignolles have been
rebased as if they had happened on 
1 January 2003. 
AMEC’s average weekly net debt was 
£360 million in 2003, an increase of 
£165 million over 2002. The increase
largely reflected the net cash cost 
of acquiring SPIE of approximately 
£150 million, and the net cost of other
acquisitions and disposals of about 
£37 million. The level of advance cash,
excluding SPIE, fell in 2003, as predicted,
reducing cash flow from trading activities.
It is expected that net debt in 2004 will 
be at a similar level to 2003, however, 
if the AMEC Fluor LLC joint venture is
successful in bidding for large contracts
for construction work in Iraq, there is
likely to be a short-term requirement 
for working capital.
After reporting an outflow of £70.0 million
from operating activities in the first half 
of 2003, AMEC generated an inflow of
£167.9 million in the second half of the
year . This represented an inflow for the
year of £97.9 million. In both 2003 and 2002
the second half inflow was greatly assisted
by good cash collections in December .
The net interest and tax paid in the year
reflect the funding and impact of the 
SPIE acquisition.
A core element of the group’s committed
facilities is always drawn. In addition,
drawings are made to match the underlying
business requirements, usually for periods
of between one and six months.
Uncommitted and overdraft facilities 
are used to manage day to day liquidity
requirements. Drawings are usually 
made in Sterling, and swapped into other
currencies as required. 
It is important to look at the relationship
of cash and profit over a period of 
years. Over the eight years ended 31
December 2003, AMEC’s cumulative 
cash flow, excluding corporate
transactions, was below retained profit
before taking into account goodwill
expensed through the profit and loss
account. This reflected the reduction 
in advance cash of about £30 million 
as at 31 December 2003.
This overall position is expected to reverse
during 2004 leading to the profit and 
cash profiles being brought into line 
with each other .
Net interest payable was covered 
almost 6.4 times by total operating 
profit on what AMEC regards as the 
most meaningful basis. This is before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, but excluding both the contribution
from PPP concessions and AMEC’s share
of interest from PPP concessions. This
level of cover is in line with the board’s
plans following the acquisition of SPIE.
Taxation
The tax charge before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items amounted to 
£36.0 million (2002: £32.6 million). 
An attributable tax credit of £1.1 million
(2002: £4.0 million) arose on the
exceptional items.
The effective rate, which was 32.0 per 
cent in 2003 (2002: 31.0 per cent)
reflects an inability to equalise taxable
profits and losses in North America in
2003. A reconciliation of the current tax
charge is given in note 8 on page 62. 
The rate is expected to remain above 
30.0 per cent due to the underlying
corporation tax rates in Continental Europe
being higher than the UK standard rate.
Goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items
Goodwill amortisation increased in the
year to £17.0 million (2002: £13.1 million).
The increased charge principally reflects
the acquisition of the outstanding 54 per
cent of SPIE.
AMEC typically uses a 20 year period 
over which to amortise goodwill arising
on large acquisitions and a period ranging
between three and ten years for smaller
acquisitions.
Exceptional items amounted to a pre-tax
credit of £0.2 million in 2003 and were 
in line with the board’s expectations. 
This credit principally arose from the
disposal of SPIE’s headquarters in Paris
which was offset by the net cost of a 
few business disposals/closures.
Subsequent to the review in 2002 of 
the goodwill arising on the acquisition 
of AGRA Inc in 2000, AMEC, in line with
FRS 11 ’Impairment of fixed assets and
goodwill’ undertook a further impairment
review. The review confirmed that the
carrying value of the remaining assets was
reasonably stated as at 31 December 2003.
Earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share were 25.3 pence
(2002: 24.3 pence) and the increase year
on year principally reflects the change in
the reported post-tax profit performance
of the group and was in line with the
board’s expectations.
Dividends per ordinary share
The recommended final dividend is 
6.9 pence which, together with the interim
dividend of 3.6 pence, results in a total
dividend of 10.5 pence per ordinary share,
an increase of 5.0 per cent over last year .
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  7:09 AM  Page 35 36 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Operating and 
Financial Review
continued 
Group treasury policies
The group’s treasury department manages
the liquidity, funding and exposure to
foreign exchange risk in a manner which
ensures the most effective financing 
of the group’s operations. It aims to
reduce financial risks arising from these
operations to levels acceptable to the board
and manage the residual risk, by the use of
agreed procedures and instruments. The
treasury department is a cost centre, and
its activity is aimed at preventing an
increase in financial risk above the levels
inherent in the underlying businesses.
The significant financial risks and exposures
to the group are in respect of liquidity,
interest rates and foreign currency. These
are managed by the treasury department
within a framework of policies and
guidelines authorised by the board.
Liquidity risk
Other than derivatives, the group’s financial
instruments comprise cash, liquid
resources and borrowings.
The group’s funding policy aims to ensure
the availability of an appropriate amount
of reasonably priced funding to meet
current requirements as well as future
growth anticipated within the group’s
budget and strategic plan. Accordingly,
the group aims to keep committed
facilities to a minimum of 125 per cent of
peak gross debt. The board has approved
targets for a minimum interest cover of
four times and a net debt to Earnings
Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and
Amortisation (EBITDA) not exceeding two
times as being appropriate for managing
the operations of the group.
In June 2003, AMEC undertook an exercise
to place long-term debt with private UK
and US institutions, typically pension funds
and similar institutions. This exercise was
completed in July 2003 and resulted in
US$189 million being raised, mainly in the
US. These funds were used to replace
existing bank facilities of £116 million that
were due to mature in January 2005. This
represented a significant first step in
diversifying away from the group’s past
reliance on the banking market for sources
of funds. Excluding the private placement,
AMEC had committed bank facilities of
£609 million as at 31 December 2003. In
addition to these was SPIE’s Eurobond
which was repaid on 16 January 2004. 
The placement also considerably extended
the maturity of AMEC’s longer-term
facilities, which, on average, amounted 
to 43 months at the year end (2002: 38
months) which compares with the board’s
target of a minimum of 30 months.
All facilities are unsecured, and the
principal covenants relate to interest
cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Interest rate risk
The group finances its operations through
a mixture of equity, retained profit, cash
and debt facilities. The objective of the
interest rate policy for the group is to
ensure a suitable match of its interest
rate characteristics to its underlying
assets, revenues and expenditures 
whilst ensuring adequate interest 
cover is maintained in line with board
approved targets and banking covenants.
Most borrowings are on a floating rate
basis, however, the rate of interest on 
the private placement debt of some 
£109 million is fixed. Recognising the
need to link interest rate risk to the
underlying businesses, the group has 
in addition used interest rate swaps
during the year to convert a proportion 
of its floating rate debt to fixed rate 
and vice versa. The group now has
approximately £75 million Sterling
equivalent of interest rate swaps, in a
mixture of Sterling, US dollars, Canadian
dollars and Euros, with an effective rate
of 4.4 per cent and with a weighted
average of 37 months to maturity. Using
average net debt of £360 million, a one
per cent change in interest rates would 
have an impact of around £2 million 
on reported profit, largely mitigated 
by interest rate swaps.
Foreign exchange risk
The group is exposed to both transaction
and translation of foreign exchange risk.
Transaction exposures
A significant proportion of trading activity
is denominated in the relevant local
currency of the businesses matching the
currency of its cost base. Where contracts
are awarded, or involve costs in non local
currency, the group looks to mitigate the
foreign exchange risk arising through the
use of forward currency arrangements,
which may include the purchase of
currency options.
020 40 6080100 120 140 160 180
Analysis of total operating profit £m
03
02
UK
Europe
North America
Rest of the World
SPIE transforms geographic profile 
Management of Euro is key
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  11:54 AM  Page 36 37 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
was approximately £500 million as at 
31 December 2003.
International accounting standards (IAS)
No major changes have been identified in
accounting for contract work in progress,
this being the most important accounting
standard for AMEC.
The areas of significant impact are likely
to be similar to other groups, although
the directors continue to think that even
under IAS there will be a significant
balance sheet benefit to AMEC through
accounting for pensions.
FRS 17
The stock market rally has had little
overall effect on FRS 17 pension scheme
valuations generally and AMEC is no
exception to this. This is because liabilities
are valued relative to AA corporate bond
spreads, which have contracted further 
in 2003, and also take into account future
inflation, where market implied levels
have risen during 2003.
Translation exposures
As a Sterling based group, AMEC now 
has a significant part of its earnings
denominated in Euros whilst other
currencies including the US dollar play 
a secondary role. In 2003, AMEC partially
hedged the profit and loss account against
a fall in the Euro and has done so 
again in 2004.
The group has various assets denominated
in foreign currency. The policy is to hedge
a proportion of the assets and unamortised
goodwill. Such hedging activity is
undertaken through foreign exchange
swaps and foreign currency borrowings.
At 31 December 2003, the principal
exposure was to assets denominated 
in US dollars, Canadian dollars and the
Euro. At that date, balance sheet hedges
totalled approximately £80 million and
there were foreign currency borrowings
with a Sterling equivalent of approximately
£150 million. The book value of the
assets, including unamortised goodwill
At 31 December 2003, the aggregate
FRS 17 pre-tax surplus in AMEC’s 
three principal pension schemes was
£120.3 million.
This surplus compares to the SSAP 24
pre-tax pension prepayment of £70.3
million currently recognised in the
accounts. Had AMEC adopted the
requirements of FRS 17, the pension
costs charged in the profit and loss
account for the year ended 31 December
2003 would have been £10.8 million,
some £4.2 million higher than the SSAP
24 charge included in the 2003 accounts.
Stuart Siddall
Finance Director
11 March 2004
FRS 17 pre-tax surplus
in AMEC’s three
principal pension
schemes was 
£120.3 million
120
Amec Front_Wace  31/3/04  12:44 am  Page 37 38 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Segmental
Review
There is good evidence 
to suggest the industrial
market in North America
may improve in 2004
Operations Support
total operating profit
increased by 41%
41
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  7:09 AM  Page 38 39 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Operations Support 
Activities include outsourced design,
maintenance, installation and renewal
services in the oil and gas, transport,
infrastructure and industrial markets.
Activities are typically long-term or 
repeat contracts with clients where 
there is a well-established relationship.
The largely blue-collar activities are
undertaken in the UK and in Continental
Europe. Opportunities in the oil and gas
business have traditionally been in the
North Sea. As AMEC follows its clients, 
who are moving to new areas of exploration
including West Africa and the Caspian,
Operations Support activities will have a
greater international presence.
The increase in total turnover of 51 per cent
principally relates to the acquisition of
SPIE and the inclusion of its regional and
oil and gas service activities. Whilst SPIE
diluted margins by about 0.3 per cent, 
it contributed to a 41 per cent increase 
in total operating profit.
AMEC’s oil and gas and rail activities
continued to perform strongly and 
the performance of SPIE’s existing and
acquired regional businesses was robust.
The result also reflects changes in the UK
gas and water utilities maintenance markets
where AMEC encountered some unrealistic
pricing when tendering for contract
renewals, a hardening of contract
conditions and unattractive work mix in the
first half of the year . Action was taken to
reduce the cost base in line with this lower
level of activity and an improvement in the
second half was reported.
The full year margin of about 4 per cent is
indicative of ongoing margin levels for the
Operations Support businesses, although
some margin dilution can be expected as
Network Rail takes AMEC’s rail maintenance
contracts in-house in July 2004.
Consulting and Design
Consulting and Design undertakes
engineering, process, environmental 
and architectural services for clients, often
on a long-term or repeat contract basis. 
Its activities are confined to businesses
operating in North America which work for
clients in the industrial sector and include
those in the forestry, food and beverage,
mining, energy and pharmachem
engineering services business and also 
the regional services activities of the Earth
and Environmental business.
Turnover in Consulting and Design was
broadly in line with 2002. During 2003,
industrial markets remained weak in
North America, with this being the
principal factor behind the reduction in
total operating profit. The second half
operating margin increased to 3.3 per
cent from 2.3 per cent in the first half 
and there is good evidence to suggest 
that the market may improve during 2004.
As expected, performance in the Earth
and Environmental business improved in
the second half, reflecting management
action taken earlier in the year and an
improvement in the market. This followed
a weak first half, which reflected the
sluggish US economy and a redirection of
the military budget towards Iraq and away
from defence-related projects in the US.
Client Support Services
52.5% of total 
turnover in 2003* 
56.4% of total 
operating profit 
in 2003 
2003 2002
Consulting and Design £m £m
Total turnover 309.5 317.8
Total operating profit 8.7 14.7
Margin 2.8% 4.6%
2003 2002
Operations Support £m £m
Total turnover 2,207.8 1,463.3
Total operating profit 86.1 60.9
Margin 3.9% 4.2%
*Before internal turnover
Total turnover £m
03 2,517.3
02 1,781.1
2,207.8 309.5
317.8 1,463.3
Total operating profit £m
03 94.8
02 75.6
Consulting and Design
Operations Support
86.1 8.7
14.7 60.9
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  7:09 AM  Page 39 40 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Segmental Review
continued 
Construction Management
These activities are undertaken by AMEC
Construction Management Inc, a company
based in the US, and relate to the
management of projects on behalf of clients.
Activities are conducted on a non-risk
basis through construction management
contracts or on an at-risk basis through
guaranteed maximum price contracts.
Performance in Construction Management
was poor, with a further loss of £1.6 million
in the second half of the year . 
In 2000, the Construction Management
business generated turnover of almost
£700 million. Over the last few years, AMEC
has pursued a strategy of substantially
downsizing the business, which has made 
it possible for AMEC to consider its
strategic options. AMEC is well advanced
with a strategic review of the business
which is now focused on the East Coast 
of America. The review is expected to 
be concluded in the next month or so.
Court hearings have recently commenced
on the ongoing dispute with the US General
Services Administration. AMEC continues
to hope to reach resolution of the
outstanding matters in an amicable way.
Construction
These activities include the procurement
and construction of projects in selected
sectors and cover work principally
undertaken in the three home markets. 
In the UK, these include civil, mechanical
and electrical engineering and design,
engineering and build businesses whilst
in North America, they include the
construction component of the engineering
services business and the foundations
and pipelines businesses. Construction
activities also include AMEC SPIE’s
transport and energy businesses which,
other than the international pipeline
operations, are predominantly undertaken
in Continental Europe. AMEC’s 49 per
cent interest in Spie Batignolles, which
undertakes regional contracting mainly in
France, is also reported in these activities.
Total turnover increased slightly, reflecting
increased activities in AMEC SPIE’s pipeline
activities, offset by the exclusion of turnover
generated by Spie Batignolles. After
adjusting for the SPIE impact, underlying
turnover increased by about £50 million,
reflecting increased activities in the UK
infrastructure and transport sectors.
The second half saw the normal
improvement in margins, resulting in a
full year margin of around three per cent,
the average rate seen for these activities
in recent years.
Increased activities in UK
infrastructure and transport
sectors helped maintain
margins at 3%
Capital Projects
45.0% of total 
turnover in 2003*
33.1% of total 
operating profit 
in 2003 
2003 2002
Construction Management £m £m
Total turnover 213.6 513.0
Total operating profit (5.0) (2.3)
Margin (2.3)% (0.4)%
2003 2002
Construction £m £m
Total turnover 1,940.1 1,897.7
Total operating profit 60.6 56.1
Margin 3.1 3.0
Total turnover £m
03 2,153.7
02 2,410.7
1,940.1 213.6
513.0 1,897.7
Total operating profit/(loss) £m
03 55.6
02 53.8
Construction Management
Construction
60.6 (5.0)
(2.3) 56.1
*Before internal turnover
Amec Front_Wace  3/31/04  11:54 AM  Page 40 Planning applications
to be submitted for
over 600,000 square
feet of mixed 
use regeneration
developments in 2004
6
41 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Investments
2.5% of total 
turnover in 2003*
10.6% of total 
operating profit 
in 2003 
Total turnover £m
03 118.8
02 189.3
36.2
32.6 156.7
Total operating profit £m
03 17.8
02 19.1
2003 2002
£m £m
Total turnover 82.6 156.7
Total operating profit 8.3 12.9
2003 2002
Public Private Partnerships £m £m
Total turnover 36.2 32.6
Total operating profit 9.5 6.2
Development and Regeneration
Public Private Partnerships
9.5
6.2 12.9
Development and Regeneration
The activities of Development and
Regeneration are predominantly UK-
based and undertaken in the retail, leisure,
commercial and other selected markets.
Development is conducted on a
managed-risk basis and often in
partnership with the public sector . 
Also included in these activities is the
Wind Energy onshore and offshore
development business and the Grand
Cayman hotel (sold in December 2003).
The UK property development activities
have experienced a weak commercial
letting market in 2003 although in line
with previous years, it performed more
strongly in the second half of the year . 
The Wind Energy business produced a
first contribution in 2003 and the outlook
for this business suggests it should make
another useful contribution in 2004.
Regeneration activities with British
Waterways and English Cities Fund
continue to make good progress and
detailed planning applications for over
600,000 square feet of mixed use
developments on six sites should be
submitted during 2004. A good contribution
is expected from these activities in 2005.
The disposal of AMEC’s interest in the
Grand Cayman hotel was concluded 
in December 2003 with the expected
disposal proceeds of US$40 million being
broadly in line with book value.
Public Private Partnerships
PPP activities are confined to the share 
of results from concession companies
and the external and internal costs of
bidding for the concession contracts.
Whilst these companies can provide
multiple income streams for AMEC
through the letting of construction and
development contracts, the bidding for
and performance of these contracts 
are reported in other segments.
The operating profit for PPP is significantly
ahead of last year mainly due to an
increased contribution from the
operational concession companies.
The reported result for this business can
be volatile due to the amount of bid costs
expensed and these were reduced in 2003
for two principal reasons. Firstly, AMEC
achieved financial close on the A1M and
Docklands Light Rail projects in early 2003.
In 2002 costs were being expensed on
these and other projects where AMEC
was not preferred bidder . Secondly, there
have been instances where AMEC has not
been successful in winning projects
because the pricing was not in line with its
required rates of return for working in this
market.
In 2004, a higher level of overseas activity
is expected. AMEC is preferred bidder on
the Incheon Bridge project in South Korea
as development manager and is one of
three consortia bidding for an extension
to the Vancouver Rapid Transport Project
in Canada.
In the UK, AMEC has prequalified for 
a large PPP hospital at Colchester and
expects to pursue several of the larger
PPP schools projects. In addition, AMEC
expects to realise further value from the
disposal of investments in mature PPP
projects in 2004.
Overall, AMEC remains committed to
PPP and will continue to pursue projects
that meet its rigorous risk-return criteria.
Development and
Regeneration
*Before internal turnover
8.3
82.6
Amec Front_Wace  31/3/04  12:45 am  Page 41 42 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Report of the
Directors
The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report and
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Business Review
Information on the businesses of AMEC, their development during
the year and on the future outlook is contained on pages 1 to 41.
An analysis of AMEC’s activities is given in note 2 on pages 
59 and 60.
The profit on ordinary activities after taxation, which amounted 
to £60.8 million (2002: £10.6 million), is shown in the consolidated
profit and loss account on page 53. 
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 6.9 pence 
(2002: 6.6 pence) per share be paid which, together with the interim
dividend of 3.6 pence (2002: 3.4 pence), results in a total dividend
for the year of 10.5 pence (2002: 10.0 pence) per share. Dividends
amounted to £30.7 million (2002: £29.5 million). The final dividend
will be payable on 1 July 2004 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 14 May 2004.
On 5 March 2003, AMEC acquired the outstanding 54 per cent
interest in SPIE S.A., its French associate.
On 3 April 2003, AMEC acquired Ipedex SAS, a French oil 
services company.
On 5 September 2003, AMEC announced the disposal to a
management buy out of 51 per cent of Spie Batignolles, its France-
based regional construction business. The minority shareholding
will be retained for a period to provide ongoing stability to this
company and allow AMEC to benefit from future performance.
AMEC’s interest in the Grand Cayman hotel was disposed 
of on 18 December 2003.
Share Capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the company as 
at 31 December 2003 and movements during the year are set 
out in note 21 on page 69.
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2002 annual general
meeting to allot up to £49,790,640 of ordinary share capital, 
of which up to £7,204,249 could be allotted for cash other than
by way of a rights issue. This authority extends through until
8 May 2007.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares 
other than in respect of the exercise of share options. No issue 
will be made which will effectively alter the control of the company
without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 10 will be proposed at the annual general meeting, to 
be held on 19 May 2004, to grant authority to the directors to make
market purchases of up to 10 per cent of the company’s shares
within prescribed limits. No such purchases were made in 2003 
or up to the date of this report pursuant to the authority granted 
at last year’s annual general meeting. 
The directors will only exercise such authority to purchase shares 
if circumstances arise in which they consider purchases would 
be of benefit to the company. No purchase would be made unless
the directors are of the view that it would result in an increase 
in earnings per share. The directors will also take into account 
the company’s cash resources, the effect on gearing and other
possible investment opportunities before exercising this authority.
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  5:32 AM  Page 42 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 43
On 5 January 2004, Mr J D Early exercised an option over 3,369
shares at an option price of 230p held under the SAYE Scheme.
The shares were retained by him.
There were no other changes in the directors’ interests in the
share capital of the company between 31 December 2003 and 
11 March 2004.
Mr J A Monville’s shareholding of 40,118 shares and 
Mr J-P Jacamon’s shareholding of 1,817 shares in Financière SPIE
SCA were acquired by AMEC on 5 March 2003, upon completion 
of the acquisition of the outstanding 54 per cent interest in SPIE S.A.,
at a price of 173.69 per share. The total consideration received 
by them was 12,956,000 and 1134,000 respectively.
Mr Monville also held stock options over 100,655 shares in SPIE
S.A., exercisable at 111.59 per share. He exercised these options
on 19 March 2003 at 137.28 per share, realising a gain of 12,586,000.
No director was materially interested in any contract of significance
to AMEC’s businesses.
Employees
In 2003, AMEC employed on average 45,901 people worldwide.
Details are given in note 6 on page 61.
The development of employees, to ensure that AMEC has the
necessary skills and behaviours to deliver its strategic business
objectives and to provide for management succession, is given 
high priority. In addition, recognising the importance for the future
of bringing young people into the group, all businesses have well
established programmes for recruiting and developing graduates
and other trainees. 
Respect for cultural diversity and equal opportunities are included
among AMEC’s Guiding Principles which are incorporated into
management policies and processes worldwide. The policy is to
recruit from the widest labour market, determining the careers 
of all employees solely on merit and making judgements about
employees, free from the effects of bias and prejudice. 
It is AMEC’s policy to consider for employment suitably qualified
disabled people and to assist them in overcoming handicaps at
work. AMEC recognises that special arrangements are necessary,
in view of the nature of its main activities, to ensure that disabled
employees are properly trained for the tasks they perform. 
AMEC endeavours to retrain any employee who develops a
disability during employment, wherever practicable.
Internal communication is a priority for AMEC, as employees carry
forward AMEC’s knowledge, brand and reputation. AMEC provides
numerous direct or electronic opportunities for employees to raise
issues and discuss matters of concern with management.
Employees share knowledge and are kept informed of
developments within AMEC through various means, including 
its intranet AMECnet, internal publications, best practice groups,
news bulletins and announcements. A global conference of senior
managers is held each year to discuss developing issues. 
The company operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related
share option scheme open to all eligible UK employees. Shareholders’
approval was given at the 2002 annual general meeting to also
make the scheme available to overseas employees.
Corporate Governance
The board is responsible to the shareholders for the management
of the company and for the protection of its assets. As such, 
it is ultimately responsible for putting in place AMEC’s systems 
of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. These
systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives and consequently can
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
Substantial Interests
Pursuant to Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, notifications
have been received by the company of shareholdings of three per
cent or more of the issued share capital as at 11 March 2004 and
these are as follows:
Number Per cent
ToscaFund Limited 21,662,073 7.21
Morgan Stanley Securities Limited 15,978,222 5.32
Legal & General Investment 
Management Limited 11,160,201 3.73
FMR Corporation/
Fidelity International Limited 9,136,492 3.05
Directors
Details of the directors of the company at the date of this report 
are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Mr G E Payne resigned from the board on 31 March 2003, having
taken early retirement, and Mr D Robson resigned from the board
on 31 July 2003 upon his retirement. Mr C A Riva was appointed to
the board as an executive director on 1 August 2003. In accordance
with article 91 of the articles of association of the company, Mr Riva
will retire from office at the forthcoming annual general meeting
and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. Mr Riva has an
employment contract with the company terminable by one year’s
notice by either party.
Mr S Gillibrand retired from the board on 21 January 2004 and 
Mr J M Green-Armytage replaced him as chairman on that date.
In accordance with NAPF good practice, Mr Green-Armytage 
will retire from office at the annual general meeting and offers
himself for re-election as chairman of the board.
Mr S J Siddall and Ms M O Hesse retire in accordance with article
85 of the articles of association of the company and, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election. Mr Siddall has an employment
contract with the company terminable by one year’s notice by
either party. Ms Hesse does not have an employment contract 
with the company.
The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of the
directors holding office as at 31 December 2003 were as follows:
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2003 2002
Number Number
S Gillibrand 61,645 59,951
Sir Peter Mason 86,458 86,458
J D Early 49,382 49,382
J M Green-Armytage 10,000 10,000
J A Monville 13,143 –
E P Airey 18,120 18,120
J A Dallas 2,000 2,000
M O Hesse 16,414 16,414
S J Siddall 17,641 10,413
J-P Jacamon 10,000 –
C A Riva – –
Except for interests under share option schemes, the Long-Term
Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan, details of which
are contained in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 47
to 52, no director as at 31 December 2003 had any other interests,
beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital of the company or
any of its subsidiaries.
On 2 January 2004, Mr Gillibrand acquired a beneficial interest
in a further 505 shares, pursuant to the provisions of the dividend
reinvestment plan, relating to the 2003 interim dividend.
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  5:32 AM  Page 43 Combined Code Compliance 2003
The company complied throughout the year ended 31 December
2003 with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined
Code, published in June 1998, and with the recommendations of
‘Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’
(the Turnbull guidance) except as follows: 
The company has interests in a number of joint ventures,
associates and joint arrangements. Controls within these
entities may not be reviewed as part of AMEC’s formal 
corporate governance process because of the joint management
responsibilities but are reviewed as part of the normal internal
audit process. 
Up to 5 March 2003, AMEC owned 46 per cent of SPIE S.A., a
company incorporated in France. During this period, the board 
did not specifically review the effectiveness of SPIE’s systems of
internal control, but received reports detailing the methods for 
the identification, assessment and control of risks within the SPIE
group of companies. Following the acquisition of the outstanding
54 per cent interest in SPIE S.A. on 5 March 2003, further work
has been done in this area and a special exercise has been carried
out to review the effectiveness of SPIE’s systems of control. This
has been performed to comply with the French “Loi n° 2003-706
du 1er août 2003 de sécurité financière”. However, this work also
provides assurance that the requirements of the Combined Code
in this area have been complied with as at 31 December 2003. 
Combined Code Compliance 2004
Following the issue in January 2003 of the reports by Derek Higgs
on ‘Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors’
and by Sir Robert Smith on ‘Audit Committees – Combined Code
Guidance’, a new Combined Code was issued in July 2003. The new
Combined Code will apply for reporting years beginning on or after
1 November 2003. Consequently the first year for which the company
is required to comply is the year ending 31 December 2004.
AMEC has carried out a detailed review of the impact of the new
Combined Code on the way its board and committees carry out
their responsibilities. The board considered that, as at 1 January
2004, it had taken the necessary steps to put appropriate processes
in place and accordingly it intends to be compliant with the revised
Combined Code throughout 2004. As referred to above, the
company has interests in a number of joint ventures, associates
and joint arrangements. Controls within these entities may not be
reviewed as part of AMEC’s formal corporate governance process
because of the joint management responsibilities but are reviewed
as part of the normal internal audit process.
Following the acquisition of the outstanding 54 per cent interest 
in SPIE S.A. on 5 March 2003, AMEC’s risk management processes
are being introduced into the SPIE group of companies, where
practicable. This exercise will be complete by the end of 2004.
Management and Policy Framework
AMEC’s businesses are managed on a decentralised basis. Whilst
the board has retained reserve powers, the day to day management
has been passed to the business leaders, within defined authority
limits. The management philosophy is to empower the business
leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the company’s
operational business objectives within the AMEC Management
and Policy Framework, which establishes the standards AMEC
employees and contracting staff are expected to meet.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders
Mr J M Green-Armytage, chairman, wrote to all major shareholders
shortly after his appointment in January 2004 informing them that
he and the senior independent director, Ms E P Airey, were available
for meetings or telephone calls with them if required. Both the
chairman and Ms. Airey will attend preliminary and interim 
results presentations. Ms Airey will also be available to attend, 
if requested, one-on-one meetings with major shareholders 
as a silent observer .
An in-depth annual perception study of investors’ views, prepared 
by an independent third party, is presented to all board members,
who also receive unexpurgated feedback reports following
shareholder meetings or events together with all material 
brokers’ research notes on the company.
The Board
During 2003, the board comprised the non-executive chairman,
seven executive directors (including Mr G E Payne, until his
retirement on 31 March 2003, Mr D Robson, until his retirement
on 31 July 2003 and Mr C A Riva since his appointment on 
1 August 2003) and five other non-executive directors 
(see pages 24 and 25 for biographical details). 
This board structure creates a balance of power such that no
individual or small group of individuals can dominate the board’s
decisions. The company does not combine the role of chairman
and chief executive. The chairman is responsible for the running 
of the board, with the chief executive being responsible for
running the group and implementing board strategy and policy. 
This ensures a clear division of responsibilities at the head 
of the company, so that no individual has unfettered powers 
of decision.
The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent
by the board. Mr J M Green-Armytage was the board’s senior
independent director until his appointment as chairman on 
21 January 2004, when he was replaced in that role by Ms E P Airey.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders if they
have concerns which contact through the normal channels of
chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve
such concerns or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board
procedures are followed and all directors have access to his 
advice and services. 
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval,
covering areas such as company strategy, the appointment of 
key executives, approval of accounts, approval of the business 
plan, budget and financial policies, review of operating results, 
risk management strategy, ensuring the effectiveness of governance
practices, succession planning and significant capital expenditure.
The board is supplied in a timely manner with information which
enables it to discharge its duties. 
44 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Report of the Directors
continued
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  11:56 AM  Page 44 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 45
Full details of the constitution and remit of the audit committee 
can be found under corporate governance on www.amec.com. 
Nominations Committee – Makes recommendations to the board
concerning the appointment or termination of a director or the
company secretary and, in the case of a non-executive director 
and the chairman, the extension of an existing appointment. 
As from 1 January 2004, it will regularly evaluate the structure, 
size and composition of the board, including its skills, knowledge
and experience, and its overall effectiveness, and make
recommendations to the board with regard to any changes
considered necessary.
It will also commence regularly reviewing board succession
planning, in conjunction with a report from the chief executive
and corporate human resources director on senior management
succession planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance
of skills is maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
The nominations committee appointed the executive selection
firm, Spencer Stuart, as its external professional advisers to assist 
it in the recruitment of a new chairman. This process included 
the determination of a detailed job specification and qualification
criteria for the post and involved a full external market search 
which resulted in a shortlist of several external and one internal
candidate being prepared by them. After full consideration by the
committee, it agreed to recommend to the board the appointment
of Mr J M Green-Armytage. The then chairman did not participate
in the final decisions of either the committee or the board, being
specifically excluded on corporate governance grounds.
Full details of the constitution and remit of the nominations
committee can be found under corporate governance on
www.amec.com. 
Remuneration Committee – Sets, and reviews as necessary, 
the overall contractual and remuneration framework for the
chairman, the executive directors and the company secretary,
including pension rights and annual bonus incentives. 
It considers and determines such other matters relating to the
engagement of the chief executive and other executive directors
(including matters relating to the enforcement of their service
contracts and payments on termination) as the chairman, in
respect of the chief executive, and the chief executive, in respect 
of the other executive directors, refer to the committee.
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new chairman 
or executive director .
It reviews the salaries of executive directors annually and the
chairman biennially, or more frequently as is deemed necessary
by the committee chairman.
It agrees the performance targets of executive directors and 
the levels of bonus to be paid to them under the annual bonus
incentive scheme.
It determines and agrees with the chief executive the remuneration
policy and structure, including annual bonus, for corporate functional
executives and deputy operational executives immediately below
board level.
It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards
for any executive share based incentive scheme.
Full details of the constitution and remit of the remuneration
committee can be found under corporate governance on
www.amec.com.
A formal process exists for the directors to take independent
professional advice and receive appropriate training in the course 
of their duties, at the company’s expense, via the company 
secretary and the corporate head of human resources.
Board Committees
Under AMEC’s Management and Policy Framework, the board has
formally delegated specific responsibilities to various committees,
all of which have written terms of reference. The remit of each
committee is set out below. The quorum is generally three directors.
The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows:
Audit Committee – Reviews the integrity, including the material
financial reporting judgements, of the company’s accounts,
including the annual and interim results, related report and
accounts and Stock Exchange announcements and any other
formal announcements in connection with the company’s financial
performance, and recommends their approval to the board.
It also reviews the company’s internal financial controls and,
in conjunction with the risk review committee, the internal 
control and risk management systems. 
The committee has unrestricted access to company documents
and meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other
member of staff, without the executive directors being present,
as required. The head of internal audit formally reports to the
committee chairman. 
It reviews the head of internal audit’s regular reports and, from 
1 January 2004, will also formally assess the effectiveness of 
the internal audit function. During 2004, this assessment will 
be carried out by the audit committee primarily by way of a self-
assessment by the head of internal audit, following guidance 
set out by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
&Wales (ICAEW) in “Evaluating the Effectiveness of Internal
Audit”, published in November 2003. The audit committee 
will commission an independent review of the internal audit
function in 2005, once SPIE’s audit group has been more fully
aligned with the existing function.
The committee considers the appointment, re-appointment,
removal, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external
auditor and makes recommendations to the board. It discusses the
scope and planning of the external audit and reviews the outcome 
of the external audit and any formal communications from
the external auditors, including internal control reports. 
As from 1 January 2004, it will also formally review and monitor
the external auditor’s independence and objectivity and the
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements, and make
recommendations to the board. This review will be co-ordinated 
on behalf of the committee by the head of internal audit.
During 2003, the audit committee developed and implemented 
a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply
non-audit services. This new policy follows the guidelines set out 
by the ICAEW and clearly defines what work can and cannot be
performed by any group company’s statutory auditor . It also sets
out the necessary approval process for those that are acceptable. 
All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided 
by the auditor are reported to the audit committee. During 2003,
the fees paid to the company’s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its
associates, for non-audit work were £0.8 million (2002: £1.3 million),
which comprised £0.6 million primarily relating to taxation and
£0.2 million for other work (2002: £0.6 million and £0.7 million).
In addition to the above, fees of £1.2 million were paid to KPMG
Audit Plc in connection with due diligence undertaken on the 
SPIE acquisition.
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  12:03 PM  Page 45 The following table is a record of the directors’ attendance at
board and principal board committee meetings during the year
ended 31 December 2003.
AMEC plc Audit Nominations Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 85 6 5
S Gillibrand 8 5 6 5
Sir Peter Mason 8 6
J D Early 8
D Robson 
(to 31 July 2003) 4
G E Payne 
(to 31 March 2003) 1
J M Green-Armytage 73 3 3
J A Monville 8
E P Airey 7 4 5 4
J A Dallas 8 5 6 5
M O Hesse 8 4 6 4
S J Siddall 8
J-P Jacamon 8 3 5 5
C A Riva 
(from 1 August 2003) 3
Charities Committee – Makes commitments and donations in
support of charitable, educational and cultural causes.
Compliance and Ethics Committee – Considers and approves the
codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements
and takes responsibility for management of investigations of
violations, as required.
Share Transaction Committee – Provides clearance or denies
permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC plc shares.
The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows:
Banking Committee – Reviews and approves borrowing, guarantees,
bonds, indemnities, employee bridging facilities and interest rate
and foreign exchange hedging strategies within authority limits
set by the board.
Corporate Transactions Committee – Considers acquisitions 
and disposals of businesses and provides guidelines in respect 
of such transactions within authority limits set by the board.
Pensions and Retirement Benefits Committee – Reviews proposals
relating to new arrangements, amendments, discontinuance, funding
or any other matters relating to pension and retirement benefits.
46 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Report of the Directors
continued
Risk Review Committee – Approves the AMEC plc risk register, 
the AMEC plc risk transfer policy and proposals to enter into
contractual commitments that fall outside the delegated 
authority limits of the executive directors.
Risk Management Processes
Through the committees described above and at their regular
meetings, the board has an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the company,
including the group’s strategy, major projects to be undertaken by
the group, significant acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry
to and exit from different markets. Where appropriate, business
decisions are reached following a structured and documented review
of potential opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to
manage or mitigate the risk exposure resulting from the decision.
AMEC’s generic seven-step Total Risk Management process 
has been used within the company since January 2000 and
is incorporated into the Management and Policy Framework. 
The process involves the identification of risks to the business 
at the gross and net level, recording the information in risk
registers and pro-actively managing the net position. The risk
management process also accommodates mergers, acquisitions
and disposals as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
Risk management within AMEC is coordinated via the risk
management forum, which meets at least twice yearly. The forum,
which consists of business risk sponsors for each of the businesses
and certain heads of corporate function, has a remit to report to
the risk review committee of the board on significant or new risks
at least annually. It also reviews the embedding of risk management
within the businesses, dissemination of best practice in processes
and communication of lessons learned. 
The risk management and internal control processes are
complemented by an annual control risk self-assessment exercise
which is carried out by the principal businesses. This covers risks
in the areas of safety, health and environment, legal, commercial
and contractual, financial, information technology and human
resources. The results are reviewed by the board, through the
audit committee, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
Going Concern
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company
and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate
to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts.
Creditor Payment Policy
Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions
under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted. It is
group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance
with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier
complies with all of its obligations in this regard.
The company had 42 days’ purchases outstanding as at
31 December 2003 based on the average daily amount
invoiced by suppliers during the year .
Donations
Donations to United Kingdom charities amounted to £69,000 for
the year ended 31 December 2003.
Auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for
the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
By order of the board
P J Holland
Secretary
11 March 2004
Note
There were no changes in either the directors’ interests or in the
substantial interests in the share capital of the company between
11 March 2004 and 26 March 2004.
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  11:07 AM  Page 46 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 47
Directors ’
Remuneration
Report
Remuneration packages comprise:
base salaries which broadly equate to the mid-market salary
practices of a relevant group of engineering, construction 
and support services comparator companies and other
companies regarded as comparable by virtue of, amongst 
other factors, their turnover, employee numbers, market
capitalisation and/or geographic coverage;
annual bonuses which incentivise the achievement of stretching
business and individual performance targets and offer the
opportunity to achieve upper quartile annual cash earnings 
if these targets are achieved; and 
medium and long-term incentives which align the interests 
of shareholders and senior executives by offering the latter 
the opportunity to accumulate significant capital over a period
if stretching shareholder value targets are met.
A significant proportion of the overall remuneration package 
is therefore performance related.
Executive Directors’ Base Salaries and Annual Bonuses 
The base salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually,
having regard to personal performance, company performance
and competitive market practice, as determined by external
research. The following salaries have been approved from 
1 January 2004:
Sir Peter Mason £575,000
J D Early £262,500
J A Monville £370,000
C A Riva £460,000
S J Siddall £340,000
All executive directors participate in the AMEC executive annual
bonus plan which generates bonus payments calculated by
reference to each of the following:
the profit achievement of the group as compared to budget;
the achievement of other specific business targets (for example,
business unit profit and/or cash flow) as compared to budget; and 
individual performance objectives (for example, in relation 
to safety, strategy and/or organisational issues).
A separate amount of bonus attaches to each of these components.
The proportions vary between individuals depending on their specific
executive roles but in every case the profit and other business
target components represent at least half of the potential total. 
In addition, 10 per cent may be allocated to allow recognition of how
participants have responded to changing circumstances during the
year which cannot necessarily be addressed by predefined targets. 
For 2003, the maximum potential annual bonus was 60 per cent 
of base salary. This was increased to 80 per cent for Sir Peter Mason
and Mr Monville and included 20 per cent related to the success of
the integration of SPIE into AMEC. In the light of the independent
advice received on market practice, the maximum potential annual
bonus from 1 January 2004 will be 80 per cent for all executive
directors. This change has been brought about in order to give
effect to the stated competitive policy of offering the opportunity 
to achieve upper quartile annual cash earnings if stretching targets
are achieved. As indicated above, the performance targets and
elements have been reviewed to ensure that they remain stretching 
in relation to the increased maximum. 
No elements of remuneration other than base salary are pensionable
other than for Mr Monville, who is 59, and whose base salary
and ordinary annual bonus, up to a maximum of 60 per cent of
base salary, are pensionable. Mr Monville’s pension arrangements
are covered on page 52 of this report. These arrangements are
common for senior executives in France and are a contractual
obligation that AMEC inherited with the acquisition of SPIE.
Mr Monville will retain these arrangements but it is not intended
that they will be extended to any other current or future
executive director .
This report covers the remuneration of executive and non-executive
directors and related matters, including grants of share options and
long-term incentive awards. 
Remuneration Committee Membership and Advisers
During the year, the members of the remuneration committee,
any three of whom may form a quorum, comprised Mr J A Dallas
(chairman), Mr S Gillibrand, Mr J M Green-Armytage, Ms E P Airey,
Ms M O Hesse and Mr J-P Jacamon. From 1 January 2004, in
accordance with the Combined Code regulations, the new chairman,
Mr J M Green-Armytage, will attend meetings by invitation but will
not be a member of the remuneration committee.
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee takes
account of recommendations from the chairman in respect of the
chief executive and from the chief executive in respect of other
executives and is advised by the group human resources director .
During 2003, the committee appointed New Bridge Street
Consultants LLP to provide standing advice to the committee 
in connection with its responsibilities. In addition, Hewitt Bacon
and Woodrow provided technical advice related to the application
of the total shareholder return performance condition under the
Performance Share Plan 2002 and the Long-Term Incentive Plan,
Watson Wyatt provided technical advice on the present economic
value of performance share and share option awards and CMS
Cameron McKenna provided advice in relation to executive directors’
service contracts. None of these organisations carried out additional
work for the company. Monks Partnership, in relation to the 
UK, and Towers Perrin, in relation to France, provided market
remuneration and benefits reports covering various levels of
management which, in respect of the executive directors, 
were reviewed by New Bridge Street Consultants. 
Remuneration Policy
The objective of the remuneration policy, in respect of the
executive directors and other senior executives, is to offer
remuneration packages that are competitive in the markets 
in which the executives are based and which:
allow AMEC to attract and retain senior executives of high calibre;
and
incentivise senior executives to achieve superior short-term
performance and increase the medium and long-term value 
of AMEC for its shareholders and encourage executives to build
and retain a significant shareholding in AMEC.
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  11:08 AM  Page 47 48 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Year of Award
2000 2001 2002 2003
Company
AEA Technology plc
AGA Foodservice Group plc
Aggregate Industries plc
Aggreko plc
Allen plc
Amey plc
Ashtead Group plc
Atkins (WS) plc
Babcock International Group plc
Balfour Beatty plc
Barratt Developments plc
Bellway plc
Berkeley Group (The) plc
Bodycote International plc
Bovis Homes Group plc
BPB plc
Brambles Industries plc
BTG plc
Bullough plc
Bunzl plc
Carclo plc
Carillion plc
Charter plc
Cobham plc
Cookson Group plc
Corporate Service Group (The) plc
Crest Nicholson plc
Danka Business Systems plc
Davis Service Group (The) plc
De La Rue plc
Electrocomponents plc
Emblaze Systems Ltd
Enodis plc
Fenner plc
Firth Rixson plc
FKI plc
Grafton Group plc
Guinness Peat Group plc
Halma plc
Hanson plc
Hays plc
Hunting plc
IMI plc
Infast Group plc
Interserve plc
Intertek Testing Services plc
Jarvis plc
Johnson Service Group plc
Keller Group plc
Kidde plc
Kier Group plc
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Executive Directors’ Share Options and Long-Term Incentives
AMEC operates two long-term incentive arrangements. These
allow for annual awards under the Performance Share Plan 2002
of restricted shares of up to one times annual base salary and
annual grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme
2002 with a face value up to two times annual base salary, with
the proviso that the present economic value (that is, an assessment 
of the value today of an award, taking account of various factors
including the likelihood of vesting, using an adaptation of the
Black Scholes option pricing model) of the combined awards 
in any year cannot exceed one times annual base salary.
In relation to the Performance Share Plan 2002, current policy is
to make annual awards to executive directors of restricted shares,
with a value at the time of award of 75 per cent of base salary plus
a further award, up to a maximum of 25 per cent of base salary,
of five restricted shares for every three purchased by the director
and held on his behalf as investment shares. 
These restricted shares will only vest if pre-determined performance
conditions are met. For full vesting, the requirement is for AMEC
to be ranked in the top quartile of total shareholder return,
measured over a three year period, of a comparator group. 
This comprises the companies (approximately 60 in number) 
that, at the time of grant of each award, are in the FTSE All Share
Construction and Building Materials and Engineering and Machinery
sectors and the Support Services sector (except for the Education,
Business Training and Employment Agencies, Delivery Services,
Security and Alarm Services, Environmental Control and
Transaction and Payroll Services subsectors), whose market
capitalisations lie between £250 million and £3,000 million 
(or such other range as may be agreed from time to time spanning
that of AMEC). If AMEC’s performance is at the median, 25 per
cent of the award will vest. Between the median and the upper
quartile, the award will vest on a straight line basis. No awards
will vest if AMEC’s performance is below median or if AMEC’s
earnings per share have grown by less than the rate of inflation
plus six percentage points. These performance conditions are
intended to focus executives’ attention on the relative return which
AMEC is delivering to its shareholders over the medium-term
relative to broadly comparable alternative companies in which
shareholders could have invested. 
The comparator companies for the awards which lapsed during 
the year and those awards currently subsisting are as follows:
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  12:15 PM  Page 48 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 49
Year of Award
2000 2001 2002 2003
Company
Kingspan Group plc
Laing (John) plc
Marshalls plc
McAlpine (Alfred) plc
McCarthy & Stone plc
Meggitt plc
Mentmore Abbey plc
Metalrax Group plc
MITIE Group plc
Molins plc
Morgan Crucible Company (The) plc
Mowlem (John) & Co plc
Novar plc
Persimmon plc
Peterhouse Group plc
PHS Group plc
Pilkington plc
Premier Farnell plc
RAC plc
Redrow plc
Regus plc
Renold plc
Rexam plc
Ricardo plc
RMC Group plc
Robotic Technology Systems plc
Rotork plc
RPS Group plc
Securicor plc
Senior plc
Serco Group plc
SIG plc
South Staffordshire Group plc
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc
Taylor Woodrow plc
Tomkins plc
Travis Perkins plc
TT Electronics plc
Ultraframe plc
Vitec Group plc
Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc
Wagon plc
Weir Group plc
Westbury plc
Whatman plc
Wiggins Group plc
Wilson Bowden plc
Wilson Connolly Holdings plc
Wimpey (George) plc
Wolseley plc
In relation to the Executive Share Option Scheme 2002, current
policy is to make annual grants to executive directors of options
over a number of shares which, when multiplied by the option
price, equates to approximately 100 per cent of base salary. The
option price is the market value around the time of grant. Higher
levels of award will only be made in exceptional circumstances, for
example, to new executives when this is considered appropriate to
secure their services and to incentivise their contribution. 
Subsisting options will be exercisable in full if AMEC’s diluted
earnings per share growth, before exceptional items, exceeds the
rate of inflation by at least an average of nine percentage points
per annum. This is measured initially over a three year period 
and can be remeasured after four or five years but, in such cases,
over the full four or five year period. No part of the option will 
be exercisable if the earnings per share growth does not exceed
the Retail Prices Index by an average of at least four percentage
points per annum.
The proportion of the option exercisable will increase on a straight
line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent if average annual
earnings per share growth in excess of the Retail Prices Index is
between four and nine percentage points. Once exercisable, options
may be exercised up to the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
This performance condition allows executives the opportunity to
accumulate significant capital over the long-term, provided real
and sustained earnings growth is delivered. 
In the light of independent advice on current remuneration practice
and a review of future economic conditions since the plan was
established, the committee is consulting with AMEC’s principal
shareholders with a view to modifying the earnings per share
targets and removing the retest after five years for the awards
which it anticipates making in 2004.
In addition, executive directors may participate in relevant all-
employee share plans up to the limits of those schemes. Up to
and including 2003, the only such scheme has been the AMEC
Savings Related Share Option Scheme for UK based employees
which provides options, without performance conditions, related
to a savings contract with a limit of £250 maximum savings 
per month. 
Executive Directors’ Pension Entitlements and Benefits
The executive directors, except for Mr J A Monville, are members
of the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme and have top-up benefits
provided through the AMEC Executive Pension Scheme. The
schemes are both approved defined benefit schemes and also
provide for life assurance cover and dependants’ pensions. 
These executive directors have a normal retirement age of 60 
and accrue pension rights which are linked to the length of
pensionable service and to final pensionable salary.
The benefits of Sir Peter Mason, Mr S J Siddall and Mr C A Riva
are restricted to take account of the earnings cap and they receive
a taxable supplement to their salaries in relation to earnings
above the cap. There are no funded or unfunded unapproved
arrangements in force for executive directors.
Mr Monville is a member of the SPIE top-up scheme for senior
executives, which provides additional pension payments on top 
of the French compulsory arrangements to provide an aggregate
pension of up to 50 per cent of pensionable pay at retirement. 
Due to French tax rules, this additional pension does not vest until
the point of retirement. Mr Monville may retire with the agreement
of AMEC from age 60 and must retire by age 65.
Employment related benefits, principally the provision of a company
car or car allowance, life assurance and private medical expenses
insurance, are also provided to executive directors. 
Executive Directors’ Employment Contracts
AMEC’s policy, since 1 January 2003, is that directors will normally
be employed with a notice period of one year and that, in the event
of employment being terminated with less notice than this, damages
will be determined at the time taking account of the circumstances
leading up to the termination and the individual’s duty to mitigate
his loss. 
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:54 PM  Page 49 50 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
The current chairman’s fee is £200,000 per annum irrespective 
of time commitment. 
The board’s current policy with regard to non-executive directors
is that appointments should be for a period of three years with
provision for a review upon expiry. Any extended term, mutually
acceptable to both AMEC and the director, will normally be for 
a period no greater than three years, however, further renewal
can be made in exceptional circumstances.
Performance Graph
The following graph (rebased to 100 as at 1 January 1999) charts
the total cumulative shareholder return of the company since 
1 January 1999:
Index of Total Cumulative Shareholder Return for the Five Year
Period Ended 31 December 2003
Source: DataStream
This graph shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical £100
holding in AMEC plc ordinary shares over five years relative to
abroad equity market index. As the company’s activities span
avariety of sectors, the remuneration committee has determined
that AMEC’s relative performance is best judged against a
general market index and, therefore, the relative performance
against both the FTSE All Share and FTSE Mid 250 indices is
shown. As additional information, the performance against the
FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector, where AMEC
is presently listed, is also shown.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Jan 99 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03
AMEC plc FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector
FTSE All Share Index FTSE Mid 250 Index
Until the end of 2002 Sir Peter Mason, Mr J D Early and 
Mr S J Siddall, had employment contracts with notice periods 
of two years. This was reduced without compensation to one 
year by agreement earlier in 2002 but with provision that if the
company terminates employment (other than for gross misconduct),
rather than receiving notice, the individual will be entitled to one
year’s remuneration (less tax) as liquidated damages in full and
final settlement. For this purpose and, as a reasonable estimate 
of loss, remuneration is defined as 1.75 times basic annual salary
to take account of salary, bonus potential, pension arrangements,
the value of benefits and compensation for loss of office.
Mr J A Monville is employed as chairman of AMEC SPIE S.A. 
As a governing executive (mandataire social) any compensation 
for loss of office would be subject to negotiation under French law.
Discussions are taking place with Mr Monville with a view to
agreeing a contract which reflects AMEC’s UK practice.
In accordance with the articles of association of AMEC, all directors
are required to seek re-election by shareholders every three years.
External Directorships 
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external director-
ships without the prior approval of the board. With such approval,
Sir Peter Mason became a non-executive director of BAe Systems
plc with effect from 22 January 2003. He retains the fee of £50,000
per annum which he receives in relation to this appointment.
Non-Executive Directors
The OAP non-executive directors receive fees for their services
and do not participate in any of the incentive or benefit schemes of 
the group (except for Mr S Gillibrand, who was provided, until 
his retirement, with a company car and life assurance cover).
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the
chairman and the executive directors under delegated authority
from the board. The current fee is £30,000 per annum plus a
further £5,000 per annum in respect of chairing one or more
committees of the board. Additional fees are payable for days 
in excess of 20 per annum at the rate of £1,500 per day. 
Directors’ Remuneration and Related Matters
The auditors are required to report on the following information on pages 50 to 52 of the directors’ remuneration report. 
Individual aspects of remuneration were as follows:
2003 2002
Salary/fee Bonus Benefits in kind
(iv)
Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive: Sir Peter Mason
(i)
628 356 37 1,021 719
J D Early 250 111 17 378 305
D Robson (to 31 July 2003) 184 75 9 268 391
G E Payne (to 31 March 2003) 62 – 5 67 302
J A Monville 298 237 7 542 30
P S Janson (to 21 August 2002) –––– 696
S J Siddall
(ii)
352 139 22 513 387
C A Riva
(iii)
(from 1 August 2003) 217 164 45 426 –
Non-executive: S Gillibrand 145 – 22 167 165
J M Green-Armytage 46 – – 46 35
E P Airey 52 – – 52 50
J A Dallas 43 – – 43 43
M O Hesse 78 – – 78 81
J-P Jacamon (from 27 November 2002) 38–– 38 3
Total board 2,393 1,082 164 3,639 3,207
Notes
(i) Sir Peter Mason’s salary includes a taxable supplement in relation to earnings above the earnings cap for pension purposes 
of £88,000 (2002: £81,000).
(ii) Mr Siddall’s salary includes a taxable supplement in relation to earnings above the earnings cap for pension purposes of £42,000 
(2002: £36,000).
(iii) Mr Riva’s salary includes a taxable supplement in relation to earnings above the earnings cap for pension purposes of £29,000 (2002: £nil).
Mr Riva’s bonus includes a guaranteed amount of £84,000 (US$150,000) paid in accordance with his employment agreement.
(iv) The value of benefits in kind received during the year relates principally to the provision of a company car or car allowance, travelling
expenses, life assurance and private medical expenses insurance. Unemployment insurance is also made available to Mr Monville in accordance
with French practice and certain relocation expenses have been reimbursed to Mr Riva. None of these benefits are pensionable.
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:47 PM  Page 50 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 51
The number of options over AMEC plc shares held by the directors under the Executive Share Option Schemes and Savings Related 
Share Option Scheme* (together the ‘Option Schemes’) were as follows:
As at Granted As at
1 January during 31 December Option
2003 the year 2003 price
Number Number Number Pence Exercise period
Sir Peter Mason 600,000 600,000 99.00 Feb 1999-Feb 2006
451,388 451,388 144.00 Apr 2000-Apr 2007
4,211* 4,211* 230.00 Jan 2004-June 2004
215,500 215,500 219.75 Oct 2005-Oct 2012
208,000 208,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
4,231* 4,231* 218.00 Jan 2007-June 2007
J D Early 50,000 50,000 144.00 Apr 2000-Apr 2007
596* 596* 181.00 Jul 2004-Dec 2004
3,369* 3,369* 230.00 Jan 2004-June 2004
101,000 101,000 219.75 Oct 2005-Oct 2012
96,000 96,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
3,893* 3,893* 218.00 Jan 2007-June 2007
S J Siddall 97,902 97,902 214.50 Jun 2003-Jun 2010
118,500 118,500 219.75 Oct 2005-Oct 2012
119,000 119,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
4,231* 4,231* 218.00 Jan 2007-June 2007
J A Monville – 135,000 135,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
C A Riva – 325,791 325,791 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
Notes
(i) No options were exercised during the year .
(ii) Mr G E Payne’s savings related option over 3,942 shares at 230p lapsed upon his retirement on 31 March 2003.
(iii) The terms and conditions of the Option Schemes have not been varied during the year . All awards were at nil cost.
(iv) Certain of the options were capable of being exercised on 31 December 2003 as all performance conditions had been met. If the options had been
exercised on that date the approximate gain before appropriate taxes for each of the current directors would have been: Sir Peter Mason, £1,490,000;
Mr Early, £58,000 and Mr Siddall, £44,500. Had the remainder of the options been capable of being exercised and vested in full on 31 December 2003,
the approximate latent gain before appropriate taxes for each of the current directors would have been: Sir Peter Mason, £90,000; Mr Early, £44,000
and Mr Siddall, £49,500. These hypothetical figures assume that all performance conditions will be fully met, which may not in practice transpire.
The Performance Share Plan 2002 (the ‘PSP’) was approved by shareholders in 2002. The PSP replaced the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(the ‘Plan’) which was introduced in 1998. The design of the PSP took account of the provisions of Schedule ‘A’ to the Combined Code.
The number of restricted shares held by the executive directors to whom awards have been made under the PSP and the Plan were as follows:
As at Awarded Market price Lapsed As at
1 January during at date during 31 December End of
2003 the year Date of award the year 2003 performance
Number Number awarded Pence Number Number period
Sir Peter Mason 152,567 Apr 2000 185.00 152,567 – Mar 2003
68,972 Apr 2001 462.50 68,972 Mar 2004
79,500 Apr 2002 430.50 79,500 Mar 2005
221,248 Apr 2003 228.25 221,248 Mar 2006
J D Early 72,202 Apr 2000 185.00 72,202 – Mar 2003
32,729 Apr 2001 462.50 32,729 Mar 2004
38,030 Apr 2002 430.50 38,030 Mar 2005
105,826 Apr 2003 228.25 105,826 Mar 2006
D Robson (retired 31 July 2003) 90,089 Apr 2000 185.00 90,089 – Mar 2003
42,431 Apr 2001 462.50 42,431 Mar 2004
G E Payne (retired 31 March 2003) 76,202 Apr 2000 185.00 76,202 – Mar 2003
33,151 Apr 2001 462.50 33,151 Mar 2004
S J Siddall 31,891 Apr 2001 462.50 31,891 Mar 2004
43,890 Apr 2002 430.50 43,890 Mar 2005
113,909 Apr 2003 228.25 113,909 Mar 2006
J A Monville 134,281 Apr 2003 228.25 134,281 Mar 2006
C A Riva 167,597 Aug 2003 268.50 167,597 Mar 2006
Notes
(i) The first share awards, as determined by the remuneration committee, were made under the PSP on 15 April 2003 to Sir Peter Mason, 
Mr J D Early, Mr S J Siddall and Mr J A Monville at a market price of 228.25 pence and to Mr C A Riva, in accordance with the terms of his
employment agreement, on 28 August 2003 at a market price of 268.50 pence.
(ii) For the awards made in April 2000, AMEC met the earnings per share growth requirement but failed to meet the total shareholder 
return requirement and, therefore, the awards lapsed in April 2003.
(iii) The terms and conditions of the PSP and the Plan have not been varied during the year .
(iv) The closing price of the shares at 31 December 2003 was 260.00 pence (2002: 143.25 pence).
(v) The range of the closing prices for the shares during the year was 143.25 pence to 289.00 pence.
(vi) The register of directors’ interests, which is open to inspection at the company’s registered office, contains full details of directors’ 
shareholdings, share options and awards under the PSP and the Plan.
(vii) Had the above restricted shares been vested in full on 31 December 2003, the approximate latent value before appropriate taxes for each 
of the current directors would have been: Sir Peter Mason, £961,500; Mr Early, £459,000; Mr Siddall, £493,000; Mr Monville, £349,000 and
Mr Riva, £436,000. These hypothetical figures assume that all performance conditions will be fully met, which may not in practice transpire.
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:45 PM  Page 51 52 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Pension arrangements
The following directors were members of defined benefit schemes provided by the company during the year . Pension entitlements 
and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year .
Value of Value of
Gross Increase in Total accrued Value of net accrued accrued 
increase in accrued pension at increase Total change pension at pension at 
accrued pension net 31 December in accrual in value 31 December 31 December 
pension of inflation
(a)
2003 over period
(b)
during period
(c)
2003 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sir Peter Mason 43 26 34 70 522 447
J D Early 17 13 151 116 327 2,961 2,623
D Robson (retired 31 July 2003) 93 203 (139) 162 3,901 3,730
G E Payne (retired 31 March 2003) 3– 118 (113) 72 2,393 2,318
S J Siddall 33 11 55 66 212 142
C A Riva 111 23 23 25 –
Notes
(i) Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year .
(ii) Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 1.5 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
(iii) The value of net increase (b) represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption service
terminated at the year-end. It is based on the accrued pension increase (a) after deducting the director’s contribution. The change in the transfer
value is shown as a negative amount for Mr D Robson and for Mr G E Payne. This reflects the fact that, over the course of the year, the value of
the pension payable has in fact reduced. In each case, the member could have taken an unreduced pension on early retirement at 1 January 2003.
A pension payable for an individual at any particular age is more valuable than that payable for the same individual assuming it starts one year later .
(iv) The change in the transfer value (c) includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the 
company and directors, such as stockmarket movements. It is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution.
(v) Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Mr J A Monville is a member of the SPIE top-up pension scheme for senior executives. Although the scheme, arranged through an insurance
company, is a defined benefit scheme it is not possible to disclose his pension benefits in the above format. A pension is payable by SPIE only 
in the event of Mr Monville reaching his normal retirement age of 65 or, following the attainment of age 60, by agreement with AMEC. No
pension is due or payable in other circumstances and Mr Monville currently has no accrued right to a pension payment. His pension at the
normal retirement age, or as agreed by AMEC, would be based on the average of his last three years base salary and bonus, up to a maximum
of 20 per cent of this figure. As at 31 December 2003, this would equate to £94,000 (1134,000) per annum. It is not possible to attribute a value
to the accrued funds as these are not separately identified by the insurance company.
By order of the board
P J Holland
Secretary
11 March 2004
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:54 PM  Page 52 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended 31 December 2003
2003 2002
Before Before
goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill
amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation
and and and and
exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional
items items Total items items T otal
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Turnover: Group and share of joint ventures 2 4,712.7 – 4,712.7 4,331.6 – 4,331.6
Share of turnover in joint ventures (289.9) – (289.9) (1,119.0) – (1,119.0)
Group turnover 4,422.8 – 4,422.8 3,212.6 – 3,212.6
Continuing operations 2,938.5 – 2,938.5 3,212.6 – 3,212.6
Acquisitions 1,484.3 – 1,484.3 –––
Group turnover 4,422.8 – 4,422.8 3,212.6 – 3,212.6
Cost of sales (3,853.2) – (3,853.2) (2,888.2) – (2,888.2)
Gross profit 569.6 – 569.6 324.4 – 324.4
Administrative expenses (441.1) (16.3) (457.4) (238.5) (20.0) (258.5)
Group operating profit/(loss) 128.5 (16.3) 112.2 85.9 (20.0) 65.9
Continuing operations 74.3 (8.8) 65.5 85.9 (20.0) 65.9
Acquisitions 54.2 (7.5) 46.7 –––
Group operating profit/(loss) 128.5 (16.3) 112.2 85.9 (20.0) 65.9
Share of operating profit/(loss) in joint ventures 
and associates 2 13.2 (0.7) 12.5 40.3 (6.0) 34.3
Total operating profit/(loss) 2 & 3 141.7 (17.0) 124.7 126.2 (26.0) 100.2
Profit/(loss) on disposal or closure of operations 4 – 0.6 0.6 – (40.0) (40.0)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets 4 – (0.4) (0.4) –––
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before interest 141.7 (16.8) 124.9 126.2 (66.0) 60.2
Net interest payable: 7
Group (18.4) – (18.4) (12.8) – (12.8)
Joint ventures and associates (10.8) – (10.8) (8.2) – (8.2)
(29.2) – (29.2) (21.0) – (21.0)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before taxation 112.5 (16.8) 95.7 105.2 (66.0) 39.2
Taxation on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 8 (36.0) 1.1 (34.9) (32.6) 4.0 (28.6)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
after taxation 76.5 (15.7) 60.8 72.6 (62.0) 10.6
Equity minority interests (0.8) 0.2
Profit for the year 60.0 10.8
Dividends 9 (30.7) (29.5)
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 22 29.3 (18.7)
Earnings per ordinary share: 10
Basic 25.8p 20.4p 24.8p 3.7p
Diluted 25.3p 20.0p 24.3p 3.6p
Dividends per ordinary share 9 10.5p 10.0p
AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 53
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  5:27 PM  Page 53 Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2003
2003 2002
Notes £ million £ million
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 11 342.1 133.3
Tangible assets 12 207.0 150.5
549.1 283.8
Investments: 13
Joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 639.7 1,189.9
Share of gross liabilities (585.6) (1,083.4)
54.1 106.5
Associates 12.7 –
Other 36.3 5.4
103.1 111.9
652.2 395.7
Current assets
Stocks 14 102.0 86.5
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 15 1,664.6 777.1
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year 15 177.6 127.1
Cash at bank and in hand 364.8 242.7
2,309.0 1,233.4
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (2,042.1) (1,024.6)
Net current assets 266.9 208.8
Total assets less current liabilities 919.1 604.5
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 17 (587.3) (303.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (57.3) (47.1)
Net assets 2 274.5 253.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 21 149.6 149.5
Share premium account 22 82.8 82.5
Revaluation reserve 22 11.1 11.2
Capital redemption reserve 22 17.2 17.2
Profit and loss account 22 6.4 (8.6)
Equity shareholders’ funds 267.1 251.8
Equity minority interests 7.4 1.8
Capital employed 274.5 253.6
The accounts on pages 53 to 76 were approved by the board of directors on 11 March 2004 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief Executive
S J Siddall
Finance Director
54 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:45 PM  Page 54 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 55
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2003
2003 2002
Notes £ million £ million
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 12 7.3 8.0
Investments: 13
Subsidiaries 850.5 819.4
Joint ventures 11.1 14.7
Other 6.1 4.3
867.7 838.4
875.0 846.4
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 15 9.3 14.5
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year 15 66.0 59.0
Cash at bank and in hand 9.0 –
84.3 73.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (76.0) (209.8)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 8.3 (136.3)
Total assets less current liabilities 883.3 710.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 17 (452.8) (249.6)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (20.7) (17.9)
Net assets 409.8 442.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 21 149.6 149.5
Share premium account 22 82.8 82.5
Revaluation reserve 22 0.3 0.3
Capital redemption reserve 22 17.2 17.2
Profit and loss account 22 159.9 193.1
Equity shareholders’ funds 409.8 442.6
The accounts on pages 53 to 76 were approved by the board of directors on 11 March 2004 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief Executive
S J Siddall
Finance Director
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:44 PM  Page 55 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2003
2003 2002
Notes £ million £ million
Net cash flow from operating activities 23 97.9 73.3
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 4.3 4.5
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 24.1 4.1
Interest paid (37.0) (12.9)
Dividends paid to non-equity shareholders – (8.0)
(12.9) (16.8)
Taxation (30.6) (20.1)
Capital expenditure
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (69.6) (21.8)
Disposal of tangible fixed assets 50.8 20.1
(18.8) (1.7)
Acquisitions and disposals 26
Acquisition of subsidiaries (182.4) –
Acquisition of joint ventures, associates and other investments (16.3) (8.6)
Disposal of joint ventures, associates and other investments 11.7 9.4
(187.0) 0.8
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (28.9) (26.0)
Net cash flow before management of liquid resources and financing (176.0) 14.0
Management of liquid resources 25 (20.2) 25.2
Financing
Shares issued 0.4 0.9
Net movement in debt 291.3 (54.9)
291.7 (54.0)
Increase/(decrease) in cash 24 95.5 (14.8)
56 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:56 PM  Page 56 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 57
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
For the year ended 31 December 2003
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Profit for the year 60.0 10.8
Exchange and other movements (2.3) (16.1)
Adjustment arising from the full consolidation of SPIE (12.1) –
Total gains and losses relating to the year 45.6 (5.3)
Note of Consolidated Historical Cost Profits and Losses
For the year ended 31 December 2003
There is no material difference between the reported results and the results calculated on an unmodified historical cost basis.
Reconciliation of Movements in Consolidated 
Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 31 December 2003
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Profit for the year 60.0 10.8
Dividends (30.7) (29.5)
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 29.3 (18.7)
Exchange and other movements (2.3) (16.1)
Shares issued 0.4 0.9
Adjustment arising from the full consolidation of SPIE (12.1) –
Net increase/(reduction) in shareholders’ funds 15.3 (33.9)
Shareholders’ funds as at 1 January 251.8 285.7
Shareholders’ funds as at 31 December 267.1 251.8
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:56 PM  Page 57 1 Accounting Policies
Basis of Accounting
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain land and buildings and 
in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
Full implementation of FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’ is not mandatory. The additional disclosures required during the transitional period 
have been included in note 30 to the accounts. 
Prior to becoming a subsidiary undertaking, SPIE S.A. (SPIE) was accounted for as a joint venture in accordance with FRS 9 “Associates and Joint
Ventures” . In accordance with FRS 2 “Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings”, and in order to give a true and fair view, goodwill arising on the
overall acquisition has been calculated as the difference, at the date of each purchase, between the fair value of the consideration paid and the 
fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities attributable to the interest purchased. This represents a departure from the accounting prescribed
by the Companies Act 1985, under which goodwill is calculated as the difference between the cost and fair value of the net assets on the date SPIE
became a subsidiary undertaking. The accounting prescribed by the Companies Act 1985 would not give a true and fair view because it would result
in the group’s share of SPIE retained reserves during the period that it was a joint venture being recharacterised as goodwill. The effect of this
departure is to reduce the retained profit and loss account and capitalised goodwill by £14.9 million.
Basis of Consolidation
The group accounts include the accounts of AMEC plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year and the group’s share 
of the results and net assets of joint ventures and associates, based on the gross equity and equity methods of accounting, respectively. 
Joint arrangements, where each party has its own separate interest in particular risks and rewards, are accounted for by including the
attributable share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows measured according to the terms of the arrangement.
The company has not presented its own profit and loss account, as permitted by section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all tangible assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write-off the cost or valuation, less estimated
residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings the shorter of the lease term or 50 years
Plant and equipment mainly three to five years
Foreign Currencies
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Trading results are translated at average rates for the year . Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency net
investments and foreign currency borrowings, or forward exchange contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken directly to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account in the year .
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on
acquisitions made post 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised, on a straight line basis, over its estimated useful life, which is not 
expected to exceed 20 years. Where a business is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure includes any unamortised
amount included within intangible assets.
As permitted by FRS 10 ‘Goodwill and intangible assets’, goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1 January 1998 has been written-off 
to reserves. Where a business is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure includes the attributable amount of goodwill
previously charged to reserves.
Interest 
Interest is written-off to the profit and loss account as incurred by all subsidiaries in the group. The group has, however, investments in joint
ventures which are involved in public private partnership projects to finance, design and build assets and operate them on behalf of the client. 
In view of the nature of these projects, interest directly incurred in funding the construction programme is capitalised until the relevant 
assets are brought into operational use.
Leases 
Operating lease costs are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Long-Term Contracts
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts are stated at cost plus attributable profits, less provision for any known or anticipated losses and payments
on account, and are included in debtors. Payments on account in excess of amounts recoverable on long-term contracts are included in creditors.
Pensions
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are allocated to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the normal expected service 
lives of employees. Contributions to money purchase schemes are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are incurred.
Share Option Schemes
No charge is made to the profit and loss account in respect of SAYE schemes that are offered on similar terms to all, or substantially all, UK
employees. Included within other investments are shares in the company held by the AMEC plc Employee Share Trust. This is a discretionary
trust, established for the benefit of AMEC employees, the trustee of which is an independent trustee company which retains legal responsibility,
control and ownership of these shares.
Notes to the Accounts
58 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:44 PM  Page 58 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 59
1 Accounting Policies continued
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 “Deferred Tax”.
Turnover
Turnover represents sales and value of work done excluding all internal transactions within the group.
2 Segmental Analyses
Total Total Net Net
Total Total operating operating assets/ assets/
turnover turnover profit/(loss) profit/(loss) (liabilities) (liabilities)
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Class of business:
Client Support Services:
Operations Support 2,207.8 1,463.3 86.1 60.9
Consulting and Design 309.5 317.8 8.7 14.7
2,517.3 1,781.1 94.8 75.6 18.8 59.2
Capital Projects:
Construction Management 213.6 513.0 (5.0) (2.3)
Construction 1,940.1 1,897.7 60.6 56.1
2,153.7 2,410.7 55.6 53.8 (0.1) 20.4
Investments:
Development and Regeneration 82.6 156.7 8.3 12.9
Public Private Partnerships 36.2 32.6 9.5 6.2
118.8 189.3 17.8 19.1 101.3 78.8
4,789.8 4,381.1 168.2 148.5 120.0 158.4
Internal turnover (77.1) (49.5) – – – –
Corporate costs – – (26.5) (22.3) – –
4,712.7 4,331.6 141.7 126.2 120.0 158.4
Goodwill amortisation/capitalised – – (17.0) (13.1) 342.1 133.3
Exceptional items – – – (12.9) – –
Net debt – – – – (218.1) (37.3)
Unallocated net assets/(liabilities) – – – – 30.5 (0.8)
4,712.7 4,331.6 124.7 100.2 274.5 253.6
Geographical origin:
United Kingdom 2,109.6 2,107.5 94.8 90.8 52.3 34.7
Rest of Europe 1,379.6 845.7 43.1 19.2 (26.3) 75.8
Americas 749.3 1,069.0 9.1 19.6 100.6 75.8
Rest of the world 474.2 309.4 21.2 18.9 (6.6) (27.9)
4,712.7 4,331.6 168.2 148.5 120.0 158.4
Corporate costs – – (26.5) (22.3) – –
4,712.7 4,331.6 141.7 126.2 120.0 158.4
Goodwill amortisation/capitalised – – (17.0) (13.1) 342.1 133.3
Exceptional items – – – (12.9) – –
Net debt – – – – (218.1) (37.3)
Unallocated net assets/(liabilities) – – – – 30.5 (0.8)
4,712.7 4,331.6 124.7 100.2 274.5 253.6
The analysis of total turnover by geographical market is not materially different from that by geographical origin.
Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating the head office of AMEC plc and also certain regional overheads. These are not directly related
to the activities of the segments.
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:45 PM  Page 59 2 Segmental Analyses continued
The financing of the group’s activities is undertaken at a head office level and consequently net interest payable cannot be analysed segmentally.
Due to the nature of the businesses acquired, goodwill amortisation/capitalised cannot be analysed segmentally. The unallocated net assets/
(liabilities) principally comprise assets relating to the pension schemes prepayment and liabilities relating to dividends and taxation and are 
not directly related to the activities of the segments.
The group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates was as follows:
SPIE S.A. SPIE S.A. Others Others Total Total
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Turnover:
Client Support Services:
Operations Support 92.3 527.7 32.9 6.2 125.2 533.9
Capital Projects:
Construction 63.7 449.5 55.7 93.7 119.4 543.2
Investments:
Development and Regeneration – – 9.0 9.3 9.0 9.3
Public Private Partnerships – – 36.3 32.6 36.3 32.6
156.0 977.2 133.9 141.8 289.9 1,119.0
Total operating (loss)/profit:
Client Support Services:
Operations Support (1.8) 15.4 0.8 0.4 (1.0) 15.8
Capital Projects:
Construction
Before restructuring costs (4.2) 8.9 5.7 2.8 1.5 11.7
Restructuring costs – (4.6) – – – (4.6)
(4.2) 4.3 5.7 2.8 1.5 7.1
Investments:
Development and Regeneration – – 1.4 3.3 1.4 3.3
Public Private Partnerships – – 10.6 8.1 10.6 8.1
Total operating (loss)/profit (6.0) 19.7 18.5 14.6 12.5 34.3
Profit on disposal or closure of operations 7.4 – – – 7.4 –
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 1.4 19.7 18.5 14.6 19.9 34.3
Net interest payable – (0.6) (10.8) (7.6) (10.8) (8.2)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1.4 19.1 7.7 7.0 9.1 26.1
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities – (6.6) 0.7 (0.4) 0.7 (7.0)
Profit for the year 1.4 12.5 8.4 6.6 9.8 19.1
SPIE’s total operating profit for Operations Support is after charging goodwill amortisation of £0.7 million (2002: £1.4 million).
3 Total Operating Profit/(Loss)
Total operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging the following:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Goodwill amortisation 17.0 13.1
Depreciation 47.8 26.3
Restructuring costs – 12.9
Operating lease payments:
Land and buildings 33.7 20.1
Plant and equipment (including short-term hire)
(i)
119.9 69.9
Fees paid to auditors and their associates:
Audit fees:
KPMG Audit Plc 1.6 1.6
Other auditors 1.4 0.1
Non-audit fees: 
KPMG Audit Plc or its associates: taxation – £0.6 million (2002: £0.6 million) and other services – 
£0.2 million (2002: £0.7 million) 0.8 1.3
Other auditors 0.4 0.1
Note
(i) Current annual commitments are detailed in note 28.
60 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:56 PM  Page 60 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 61
3 Total Operating Profit/(Loss) continued
Total operating profit includes the following in respect of acquisitions: turnover of £1,484.3 million, cost of sales of £1,210.4 million, gross profit
of £273.9 million and administrative expenses (before goodwill amortisation) of £219.7 million and goodwill amortisation of £7.5 million.
The results of SPIE under French GAAP and using SPIE’s accounting policies for the period from 1 January 2003 to 6 March 2003 were as
follows: turnover of 1511.8 million; total operating profit of 15.8 million; interest of 10.1 million; profit on disposal of operations of 138.0 million
and taxation charge of 111.9 million.
The profit after tax and minority interests for the year ended 31 December 2002 as reported by SPIE under French GAAP was 155.6 million.
In addition to the above amounts paid to auditors and their associates, due diligence fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc of £1.2 million were
capitalised as part of the costs of acquisition in the year ended 31 December 2003.
4 Non-operating Exceptional Items
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Profit/(loss) on disposal or closure of operations:
Client Support Services 2.4 (2.4)
Capital Projects 0.7 (7.0)
Investments (2.5) (0.6)
Corporate – (2.0)
Goodwill written-off on disposal or closure of operations – (28.0)
0.6 (40.0)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets (0.4) –
0.2 (40.0)
5 Directors’ Remuneration and Related Matters
2003 2002
£000 £000
Directors’ emoluments 3,639 3,207
Amounts receivable under Long-Term Incentive Plans – 1,099
Gains on exercise of share options – 1
More detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, including pension benefits, share options and long-term incentive 
arrangements, is set out in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 47 to 52.
6 Staff Costs and Employee Numbers
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Wages and salaries 1,271.0 733.6
Social security costs 317.7 72.5
Other pension costs 12.8 16.9
1,601.5 823.0
The average number of people employed was as follows:
2003 2002
Number Number
Client Support Services 33,189 11,998
Capital Projects 12,600 10,844
Investments 112 122
45,901 22,964
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:57 PM  Page 61 7 Net Interest Payable
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Interest payable and similar charges:
Group:
Bank loans and overdrafts (37.1) (20.3)
Other charges (5.2) (4.5)
(42.3) (24.8)
Joint ventures and associates (12.0) (8.2)
(54.3) (33.0)
Interest receivable and similar income:
Group:
Bank and short-term deposits 16.0 6.3
Other income 7.9 5.7
23.9 12.0
Joint ventures and associates 1.2 –
25.1 12.0
(29.2) (21.0)
The group’s share of interest capitalised by joint ventures involved in public private partnership projects amounted to £10.2 million (2002: £4.7 million).
8 Taxation on Profit/(Loss) on Ordinary Activities
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at 30.0% (2002: 30.0%) 16.6 13.5
Double taxation relief (0.9) (0.4)
Overseas taxation 21.1 2.4
Joint ventures and associates taxation (1.4) 7.0
35.4 22.5
Deferred tax:
Deferred tax at 30.0% (2002: 30.0%) – origination and reversal of timing differences (2.6) 4.6
Joint ventures and associates deferred tax 2.1 1.5
(0.5) 6.1
34.9 28.6
Included within the current tax charge is a credit of £1.1 million (2002: £4.0 million) in respect of exceptional items.
The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK and is explained as follows:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 95.7 39.2
Tax charge at 30.0% (2002: 30.0%) 28.7 11.8
Goodwill amortisation/written-off 4.9 12.3
Non-deductible expenses, non taxable income and other differences 0.1 (5.6)
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than 30.0% (2002: 30.0%) 1.7 4.0
Current tax charge for the year 35.4 22.5
62 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:46 PM  Page 62 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 63
9 Dividends
2003 2002 2003 2002
Pence Pence £ million £ million
Ordinary shares:
Interim paid 2 January 2004 3.6 3.4 10.6 10.1
Final recommended payable 1 July 2004 6.9 6.6 20.1 19.4
10.5 10.0 30.7 29.5
The amounts waived and to be waived by the Trustees of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan 2002 in respect of the
interim and final dividends is £0.4 million (2002: £0.3 million). 
The amounts waived and to be waived by the Trustees of the qualifying employee share ownership trust in respect of the interim and final
dividends is £0.2 million (2002: £0.2 million).
10 Earnings per Ordinary Share
In order to appreciate the effect of goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (net of attributable tax) on the reported underlying performance,
additional calculations of earnings per ordinary share have been presented.
2003 2002
Weighted Weighted 
average average
ordinary ordinary
shares Earnings shares Earnings
Earnings Number per share Earnings Number per share
£ million million Pence £ million million Pence
Basic earnings before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, net of attributable tax 75.7 293.3 25.8 72.8 293.6 24.8
Goodwill amortisation (17.0) – (5.8) (13.1) – (4.4)
Exceptional items 0.2 – – (52.9) – (18.0)
Attributable tax on exceptional items 1.1 – 0.4 4.0 – 1.3
Basic earnings 60.0 293.3 20.4 10.8 293.6 3.7
Basic earnings before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, net of attributable tax 75.7 293.3 25.8 72.8 293.6 24.8
Share options – 1.5 (0.1) – 1.7 (0.1)
Employee share and incentive schemes – 4.5 (0.4) – 4.5 (0.4)
Diluted earnings before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, net of attributable tax 75.7 299.3 25.3 72.8 299.8 24.3
Goodwill amortisation (17.0) – (5.8) (13.1) – (4.4)
Exceptional items 0.2 – 0.1 (52.9) – (17.6)
Attributable tax on exceptional items 1.1 – 0.4 4.0 – 1.3
Diluted earnings 60.0 299.3 20.0 10.8 299.8 3.6
11 Intangible Assets
Goodwill
£ million
Group:
Cost:
As at 1 January 2003 154.5
Exchange and other movements 18.5
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses 208.2
Disposals (2.2)
As at 31 December 2003 379.0
Amortisation:
As at 1 January 2003 21.2
Exchange and other movements 1.6
Provided during the year 16.3
Disposals (2.2)
As at 31 December 2003 36.9
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2003 342.1
As at 31 December 2002 133.3
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:47 PM  Page 63 12 Tangible Assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment T otal
£ million £ million £ million
Group:
Cost or valuation:
As at 1 January 2003 82.2 190.5 272.7
Exchange and other movements (3.7) (5.3) (9.0)
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses 42.6 46.3 88.9
Additions 12.5 55.6 68.1
Disposals (40.4) (71.7) (112.1)
As at 31 December 2003 93.2 215.4 308.6
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2003 7.2 115.0 122.2
Exchange and other movements (0.8) (4.5) (5.3)
Provided during the year 7.8 40.0 47.8
Disposals (4.8) (58.3) (63.1)
As at 31 December 2003 9.4 92.2 101.6
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2003 83.8 123.2 207.0
As at 31 December 2002 75.0 75.5 150.5
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment T otal
£ million £ million £ million
Company:
Cost or valuation:
As at 1 January 2003 7.4 2.4 9.8
Additions – 0.2 0.2
Disposals – (0.5) (0.5)
As at 31 December 2003 7.4 2.1 9.5
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2003 0.5 1.3 1.8
Provided during the year 0.2 0.2 0.4
As at 31 December 2003 0.7 1.5 2.2
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2003 6.7 0.6 7.3
As at 31 December 2002 6.9 1.1 8.0
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freehold 61.4 63.6 4.4 4.4
Long leasehold 15.0 6.1 – –
Short leasehold 7.4 5.3 2.3 2.5
83.8 75.0 6.7 6.9
The cost or valuation of land and buildings comprised:
Cost 55.5 39.7 2.8 2.8
External valuation in 1999 37.7 42.5 4.6 4.6
93.2 82.2 7.4 7.4
The basis of the external valuation is existing use for properties occupied by group companies and open market value for those properties
without group occupancy.
No provision has been made for the tax liability which may arise in the event that certain properties are disposed of at their revalued amounts.
64 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:57 PM  Page 64 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 65
12 Tangible Assets continued
The amount of land and buildings included at valuation, determined according to the historical cost convention, was as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Cost 46.4 38.6 8.6 8.7
Depreciation (13.9) (12.7) (1.7) (1.6)
Net book value 32.5 25.9 6.9 7.1
13 Investments (Held as Fixed Assets)
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Company:
Investments in subsidiaries:
Shares at cost less amounts written-off 1,505.8 1,178.0
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 401.4 199.1
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (1,056.7) (557.7)
850.5 819.4 
Joint Other
ventures Associates investments Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Net book value:
As at 1 January 2003 106.5 – 5.4 111.9
Exchange and other movements 2.8 – (0.1) 2.7
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses 9.8 20.6 29.2 59.6
Additions and transfers 10.4 – 5.9 16.3
Adjustment on full consolidation of SPIE (76.0) – – (76.0)
Disposals and amounts written-off (2.6) (10.2) (4.1) (16.9)
Net movement in share of reserves 5.2 4.6 – 9.8
Dividends received (2.0) (2.3) – (4.3)
As at 31 December 2003 54.1 12.7 36.3 103.1
Represented by:
Shares at cost less amounts written-off 44.5 10.4 36.3 91.2
Share of post acquisition results 26.4 2.3 – 28.7
Net loans from group companies (16.8) – – (16.8)
54.1 12.7 36.3 103.1
Company:
Cost:
As at 1 January 2003 14.7 – 4.3 19.0
Additions –– 5.9 5.9
Amounts written-off – – (4.1) (4.1)
Disposals (3.6) – – (3.6)
As at 31 December 2003 11.1 – 6.1 17.2
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:30 PM  Page 65 13 Investments (Held as Fixed Assets) continued
An analysis of the group’s share of net assets of joint ventures was as follows:
SPIE S.A. SPIE S.A. Others Others Total Total
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Fixed assets – 110.8 215.6 171.5 215.6 282.3
Current assets – 613.2 447.4 310.1 447.4 923.3
Share of gross assets – 724.0 663.0 481.6 663.0 1,205.6
Loans to group companies – – (23.3) (15.7) (23.3) (15.7)
Group share of gross assets – 724.0 639.7 465.9 639.7 1,189.9
Liabilities due within one year – (618.9) (51.6) (59.6) (51.6) (678.5)
Liabilities due after one year – (36.1) (540.5) (369.5) (540.5) (405.6)
Share of gross liabilities – (655.0) (592.1) (429.1) (592.1) (1,084.1)
Loans from group companies – – 6.5 0.7 6.5 0.7
Group share of gross liabilities – (655.0) (585.6) (428.4) (585.6) (1,083.4)
Share of net assets – 69.0 54.1 37.5 54.1 106.5
Principal group companies are listed on page 80.
Included within other investments is £6.0 million (2002: £4.2 million) in respect of 4,008,353 (2002: 2,847,751) shares of 50 pence each in 
the company, held by the trustees of the AMEC plc Employee Share Trust to satisfy awards in respect of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the
Performance Share Plan 2002. The cost of these shares is being written-off to the profit and loss account over the period between the dates of
the awards and the expected vesting of the shares. The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2003 was £10.4 million (2002: £4.1 million).
A qualifying employee share ownership trust (Quest) was established on 26 August 1999. The Quest holds shares issued by the company in
connection with the savings related share option scheme. During the year the company allotted 59,629 (2002: 244,514) shares to the Quest 
and the Quest transferred 72,109 (2002: 483,686) of these shares to employees exercising options.
As at 31 December 2003 the Quest held 1,608,337 (2002: 1,620,817) shares and these are included within investments at £nil (2002: £nil).
14 Stocks
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Group:
Development land and work in progress 69.9 54.6
Raw materials and consumables 7.6 9.5
Other work in progress 16.4 13.9
Finished goods and goods for resale 8.1 8.5
102.0 86.5
15 Debtors
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts recoverable on contracts 476.1 288.5 – –
Trade debtors 1,087.7 436.2 3.6 3.3
Amounts owed by subsidiaries – – 2.3 7.7
Amounts owed by joint ventures 3.4 2.6 0.1 –
Other debtors 73.7 28.6 1.2 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income 23.7 21.2 2.1 3.0
1,664.6 777.1 9.3 14.5
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year
Trade debtors 105.0 66.0 – –
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1.6 1.5 – –
Other debtors 0.3 0.2 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 70.7 59.4 66.0 59.0
177.6 127.1 66.0 59.0
1,842.2 904.2 75.3 73.5
66 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:30 PM  Page 66 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 67
16 Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Y ear
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Bank and other loans and overdrafts 109.8 33.7 – 140.1
Payments on account 180.3 165.8 – –
Trade creditors 1,163.9 639.5 4.7 3.9
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – – 0.4 –
Amounts owed to joint ventures 2.9 5.5 3.0 5.3
Corporation tax 22.7 13.9 2.2 15.9
Other taxation and social security costs 272.3 31.1 13.8 3.9
Other creditors 44.0 37.6 9.0 2.8
Accruals and deferred income 215.4 68.1 12.1 8.5
Dividends 30.8 29.4 30.8 29.4
2,042.1 1,024.6 76.0 209.8
17 Creditors: Amounts Falling Due After One Y ear
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Bank and other loans 473.1 246.3 448.8 245.6
Trade creditors 39.5 47.5 – –
Amounts owed to joint ventures – 0.5 4.0 4.0
Other taxation and social security costs 3.7 – – –
Other creditors 2.3 2.3 – –
Accruals and deferred income 68.7 7.2 – –
587.3 303.8 452.8 249.6
18 Analysis of Borrowings and Banking Facilities
The maturity of borrowings was as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Due:
In one year or less, or on demand 109.8 33.7 – 140.1
Between one and two years 184.1 0.7 180.0 –
Between two and five years 168.0 245.6 159.6 245.6
In more than five years 121.0 – 109.2 –
582.9 280.0 448.8 385.7
The available undrawn committed bank facilities were as follows:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Group:
Expiring in:
In one year or less 42.7 7.9
Between one and two years 40.0 –
In more than two years 176.8 220.4
259.5 228.3
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:36 PM  Page 67 19 Financial Instruments
Details of the group’s policies on the use of financial instruments are provided in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 32 to 37. 
As permitted by FRS 13 ‘Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures’, short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded 
from the following analyses.
The interest rate risk currency profile of financial assets and liabilities was as follows:
2003 2002
Non interest Floating Fixed Non interest Floating Fixed
bearing rate rate Total bearing rate rate T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Financial assets:
Sterling 73.3 43.8 0.1 117.2 57.8 71.3 16.1 145.2
Euro 117.3 96.2 1.1 214.6 1.7 9.8 5.2 16.7
US dollar 5.8 56.4 – 62.2 4.8 69.1 – 73.9
Hong Kong dollar 6.1 17.5 – 23.6 3.8 19.9 – 23.7
Canadian dollar 0.2 3.9 – 4.1 0.7 8.0 – 8.7
Other 10.3 7.6 0.3 18.2 10.2 6.9 – 17.1
213.0 225.4 1.5 439.9 79.0 185.0 21.3 285.3
Floating rate financial assets comprise cash at bank and in hand which bears interest at prevailing market rates.
2003 2002
Non interest Floating Fixed Non interest Floating Fixed
bearing rate rate Total bearing rate rate T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Financial liabilities:
Sterling 62.6 255.0 45.0 362.6 70.8 229.8 2.5 303.1
Euro 81.3 146.0 25.4 252.7 3.2 19.8 – 23.0
US dollar 2.3 – 64.8 67.1 1.9 2.7 0.6 5.2
Hong Kong dollar 1.6 5.0 – 6.6 4.0 – – 4.0
Canadian dollar 1.4 – 0.4 1.8 1.2 – 2.4 3.6
Other 0.2 8.1 – 8.3 0.3 1.0 – 1.3
149.4 414.1 135.6 699.1 81.4 253.3 5.5 340.2
Floating rate financial liabilities comprise borrowings which primarily bear interest at a margin over the relevant inter-bank rate. The fixed rate
financial liabilities relate to certain bank and other loans. The weighted average interest rate of the fixed rate loans as at 31 December 2003
was 5.4 per cent (2002: 8.0 per cent).
The maturity of the financial liabilities was as follows:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Group:
Due:
In one year or less, or on demand 122.8 40.9
Between one and two years 245.0 45.0
Between two and five years 209.2 252.2
Over five years 122.1 2.1
699.1 340.2
There is no material difference between the book and fair value of financial assets and liabilities save for financial liabilities in the two to 
five years category which have a book value of £209.2 million and a fair value of £186.3 million as at 31 December 2003 (£252.2 million and 
£227.2 million respectively as at 31 December 2002) and those in the over five years category which have a book value of £122.1 million and
£86.3 million respectively as at 31 December 2003 (2002: £nil).
As at 31 December 2003, there were eight outstanding interest rate swaps under which the group pays a fixed rate of interest and receives 
a floating rate based on six months’ LIBOR. The instruments cover US dollars, Canadian dollars, Euro and Sterling, and have a Sterling 
equivalent of £75.1 million. The expiry dates range from October 2004 to January 2008, with a weighted average period to maturity of 37 months
as at 31 December 2003.
There were six outstanding Euro interest rate swaps with a Sterling equivalent of £56.3 million held as at 31 December 2003 under which
the group paid a fixed rate of interest and received a floating rate. These expired on 16 January 2004 when the SPIE Eurobond was repaid.
In addition, there were two outstanding interest rate swaps under which the group pays a floating rate of interest and receives a fixed rate.
The instruments cover US dollars with a Sterling equivalent of £16.8 million and expire in July 2013. 
After taking into account the effects of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, there were no material currency exposures in respect
of monetary assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency of the relevant business unit. 
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging purposes are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is recognised in either
the profit and loss account or via an adjustment to the carrying value of an asset on the balance sheet.
There were no material unrecognised gains or losses at the beginning or end of the year .
68 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:22 PM  Page 68 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 69
20 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
Onerous
Deferred property Retirement
taxation Insurance contracts indemnities T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
As at 1 January 2003 17.0 24.5 5.6 – 47.1
Exchange and other movements 5.2 – – 0.8 6.0
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses (32.1) – – 26.1 (6.0)
Utilised – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Profit and loss account (0.5) 1.3 (0.5) – 0.3
Transfer to debtors 10.4 – – – 10.4
As at 31 December 2003 – 25.3 5.1 26.9 57.3
Deferred
taxation
£ million
Company:
As at 1 January 2003 17.9
Profit and loss account 2.8
As at 31 December 2003 20.7
The deferred tax (asset)/provision is analysed as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Difference between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances (2.6) 3.1 0.3 0.4
Other timing differences 1.9 23.6 20.4 17.5
Tax losses (9.7) (9.7) – –
(10.4) 17.0 20.7 17.9
21 Share Capital
The authorised share capital of the company is £350.0 million (2002: £350.0 million).
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Group and company:
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 pence each 149.6 149.5
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £ million
Group and company:
As at 1 January 2003 298,967,307 149.5
Qualifying employee share ownership trust allotments 59,629 –
Exercise of executive share options 90,000 0.1
Exercise of AGRA Inc. stock options 47,245 –
As at 31 December 2003 299,164,181 149.6
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:22 PM  Page 69 21 Share Capital continued
There are no performance criteria for the Savings Related Scheme nor for the Executive Share Option Scheme. The performance criteria 
for the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 has been met in prior periods and the criteria for the Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 
are outlined in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 49.
The number of share options outstanding under the Savings Related and Executive Schemes as at 31 December 2003 was as follows.
Option price 
per share 
Pence Number
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Normally exercisable in the period between:
July 2004 and December 2004 181.00 552,486
January 2004 and June 2004 230.00 2,871,738
January 2007 and June 2007 218.00 6,220,987
9,645,211
Executive Share Option Scheme
Normally exercisable in the period between:
May 1997 and May 2004 118.00 5,000
Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 
Normally exercisable in the period between:
February 1999 and February 2006 99.00 600,000
April 2000 and April 2007 144.00 511,388
March 2001 and March 2008 153.50 19,543
April 2003 and April 2010 169.00 25,000
June 2003 and June 2010 214.50 97,902
1,253,833
Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 
Normally exercisable in the period between:
October 2005 and October 2012 219.75 2,168,000
March 2007 and March 2013 183.25 70,000
September 2007 and September 2013 276.25 2,871,541
5,109,541
In April 2000, AMEC acquired AGRA Inc. (now AMEC Inc.). At the time of the acquisition, AGRA Inc. Stock Option Plans were available to senior
AGRA employees. Grants of stock options were approved and the conditions for the exercise of grants were established by the AGRA Inc. board 
of directors. The Plans were approved under the rules of the Montreal and Toronto Stock Exchanges. No performance criteria are required 
to be met prior to exercise of options pursuant to the Plans.
Employees holding options under the Plans were permitted to roll-over their options over AGRA Inc. shares into options over AMEC plc shares
following the acquisition. The resultant AMEC options outstanding as at 31 December 2003 are as follows: 
Option price 
per share 
Pence Number
AGRA Inc. 10 year Stock Option Plan
Normally exercisable in the period between:
February 2000 and February 2009 132.20 610
December 2000 and December 2009 171.30 85,484
86,094
As at 31 December 2003, there were 4,103 participants in the Savings Related Scheme, 170 participants in the Executive Schemes and 
4 participants in the AGRA Plan.
During the year, under the provisions of the Savings Related Scheme, 72,109 shares were transferred to participants from the qualifying
employee share ownership trust (Quest) for a total consideration of £0.2 million. The company received £0.2 million from employees in 
respect of 59,629 shares allotted to the Quest. 
Under the provisions of the Executive Schemes, 90,000 shares were allotted to participants for a total consideration of £0.1 million and, 
under the provisions of the AGRA Inc. Plans, 47,245 shares were allotted to participants for a total consideration of £0.1 million. 
The closing price of the shares at 31 December 2003 was 260.00 pence (2002: 143.25 pence).
Options over 6,255,100 shares were granted during the year under the provisions of the AMEC Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Options over 3,002,541 shares were granted pursuant to the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme 2002.
70 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:37 PM  Page 70 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 71
22 Reserves
Share Capital Profit
premium Revaluation redemption and loss
account reserve reserve account T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
As at 1 January 2003 82.5 11.2 17.2 (8.6) 102.3
Exchange and other movements – – – (2.3) (2.3)
Shares issued 0.3 – – – 0.3
Transfers on disposals – (0.1) – 0.1 –
Adjustments arising from the full consolidation of SPIE – – – (12.1) (12.1)
Retained profit for the year – – – 29.3 29.3
As at 31 December 2003 82.8 11.1 17.2 6.4 117.5
Company:
As at 1 January 2003 82.5 0.3 17.2 193.1 293.1
Exchange and other movements – – – (1.4) (1.4)
Shares issued 0.3 – – – 0.3
Retained loss for the year – – – (31.8) (31.8)
As at 31 December 2003 82.8 0.3 17.2 159.9 260.2
The cumulative goodwill (at historic exchange rates) written-off against reserves in respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998, when
FRS 10 ‘Goodwill and intangible assets’ was adopted, amounts to £200.2 million (2002: £200.2 million). Of these amounts, £nil relates to joint
ventures (2002: £40.5 million). 
The loss of the company for the year was £1.1 million.
23 Reconciliation of Group Operating Profit to Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Group operating profit 112.2 65.9
Profit on disposal of fixed assets – (1.5)
Goodwill amortisation 16.3 10.7
Depreciation 47.8 26.3
(Decrease)/increase in stocks (0.3) 33.5
Decrease in debtors 184.7 122.1
Decrease in creditors and provisions (259.2) (198.7)
Exchange and other movements (3.6) 15.0
Net cash flow from operating activities 97.9 73.3
24 Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Funds
2003 2002
£ million £ million
Increase/(decrease) in cash 95.5 (14.8)
Cash flow from movement in debt (291.3) 54.9
Cash flow from movement in liquid resources 20.2 (25.2)
Change in funds resulting from cash flows (175.6) 14.9
Exchange and other non cash movements (5.2) (7.6)
Movement in net funds in the year (180.8) 7.3
Net funds as at 1 January (37.3) (44.6)
Net funds as at 31 December (218.1) (37.3)
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:37 PM  Page 71 25 Analysis of Net Funds
As at Exchange and As at
1 January other non-cash 31 December
2003 Cash flow movements 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Cash at bank and in hand 138.3 110.3 (4.8) 243.8
Overdrafts (8.0) (14.8) (0.1) (22.9)
95.5
Debt due within one year (25.7) (61.1) (0.1) (86.9)
Debt due after one year (246.3) (230.2) 3.4 (473.1)
(291.3)
Liquid resources 104.4 20.2 (3.6) 121.0
(37.3) (175.6) (5.2) (218.1)
Liquid resources comprise short-term bank deposits, investments in government and corporate bonds and floating rate notes.
26 Acquisitions and Disposals
All acquisitions in 2003 have been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. A provisional assessment of the fair value to the
group of the assets and liabilities acquired on all acquisitions has been made.
The book value of the identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of the outstanding 54 per cent of SPIE was as follows:
Other Net assets
Book value Revaluations
(i)
Restatements
(ii)
adjustments acquired
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Intangible assets 157.3 (3.3) (154.0)
(iii)
–
Tangible assets 110.5 (23.8) 86.7
Investments 47.8 10.5 58.3
Stocks 51.5 (36.7) 14.8
Debtors 1,332.5 (299.9) 84.2 1,116.8
Deferred tax 39.1 (7.0) 32.1
Net cash 114.7 (78.0) 36.7
Creditors (1,563.5) 424.9 (84.2) (19.7)
(iv)
(1,242.5)
Provisions (32.6) 6.5 (26.1)
257.3 (6.8) – (173.7) 76.8
Equity minority interests (3.2) 0.3 (2.9)
Net assets/(liabilities) acquired 254.1 (6.5) – (173.7) 73.9
Outstanding 54 per cent of net assets/(liabilities) acquired 39.9
Goodwill on acquisition of outstanding 54 per cent 146.7
186.6
Consideration:
Cash 182.6
Costs of acquisition 4.0
186.6
The goodwill capitalised relating to SPIE comprised the following:
Goodwill on acquisition of outstanding 54 per cent 146.7
Share of SPIE’s goodwill on acquisitions made since February 1997 35.0
Unamortised goodwill arising from 46 per cent acquisition of SPIE 0.7
Goodwill capitalised 182.4
Notes
(i) Removal of assets and liabilities relating to Spie Batignolles and revaluation in line with the consideration received for the disposal 
of 51 per cent of the shares in this company.
(ii) Adjustment for a non-consolidated subsidiary.
(iii) Removal of goodwill.
(iv) Provisions for warranties and indemnities arising from the disposal of Spie Batignolles and provisions for taxation arising directly from
AMEC’s acquisition of the outstanding 54 per cent of SPIE.
72 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:21 PM  Page 72 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 73
26 Acquisitions and Disposals continued
A number of smaller acquisitions were made in the year ended 31 December 2003 for an aggregate consideration of £33.7 million. The aggregate
book value of the identifiable assets and liabilities was £7.9 million and the aggregate goodwill arising on the acquisitions was £25.8 million.
The acquisition cost of joint ventures and other investments amounted to £16.3 million in 2003 and principally related to investments in public
private partnership projects and shares in the company acquired for the purposes of the Performance Share Plan 2002.
Joint ventures and other investments with a carrying value of £11.6 million were disposed of in the year, realising proceeds of £11.7 million.
27 Capital Commitments
Group Group Company Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Contracted but not provided for in the accounts 2.2 1.6 – 0.1
As at 31 December 2003, there was a commitment to invest a total of £56.7 million (2002: £52.5 million) in various public private and 
regeneration partnership projects of which £2.8 million (2002: £1.2 million) will be equity investment and £53.9 million (2002: £51.3 million) 
will be subordinated debt.
28 Lease Commitments
The current annual commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:
Land and Land and Plant and Plant and
buildings buildings equipment equipment
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Expiring:
In one year or less 1.3 3.0 5.0 3.0
Between two and five years 10.7 13.9 15.0 8.8
Over five years 19.3 5.0 0.1 –
31.3 21.9 20.1 11.8
Company:
Expiring:
Over five years 0.4 0.4 – –
29 Contingent Liabilities
Guarantees given by the company in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries amounted to £0.2 million as at 31 December 2003 (2002: £2.6 million).
The company and certain subsidiaries have given counter indemnities in respect of performance bonds issued, on behalf of group companies,
in the normal course of business. This includes direct and indirect support on a joint and several basis for a performance bond on the
Cross Israel Highway Concession for an amount of £83.7 million (2002: £93.3 million).
AMEC has an effective 11 per cent interest in the Cross Israel Highway Concession. It has provided support on a joint and several basis both
directly to an intermediate company and indirectly from the intermediate company to the concession for letters of credit that the concession
has procured from external banks. These letters principally relate to the performance obligations of the concession. The intermediate company
(in which AMEC has a one third share) has a one third share in the concession and its share of the performance obligations of the concession
amounted to £28.8 million as at 31 December 2003 (2002: £41.8 million). The performance obligations of the concession amounted to
£86.4 million as at 31 December 2003 (2002: £125.4 million). AMEC’s share of the concession’s obligations may exceed its effective 11 per cent
share should any of the other parties fail, a situation, which is not currently envisaged. One of the letters of credit procured by the concession
is a continuous guarantee for an amount of £22.6 million and is renewable annually. It is not envisaged that the guarantee would exceed this
amount over the life of the concession.
The borrowings of joint ventures, consolidated on a gross equity basis, are generally without recourse to AMEC other than for normal
performance obligations which are usually given on a several basis. AMEC has provided guarantees in respect of committed bank facilities
granted to certain property joint ventures. The borrowings drawn against these facilities amounted to £37.0 million at 31 December 2003 
(2002: £34.0 million), and the current debt service ratios for these joint ventures are all within the agreed levels.
AMEC has a commitment to invest £56.7 million in joint venture projects and further details are provided in note 27. It has also provided guarantees
on certain projects to invest further amounts of up to £9.8 million if the projects do not perform satisfactorily. No future adverse events, however,
are currently envisaged. In addition, AMEC has provided joint and several guarantees on certain projects for its partners’ investment commitments.
Guarantees provided directly amounted to £27.0 million as at 31 December 2003, an amount that would be increased by a further £53.3 million if the
indirect guarantees on the Cross Israel Highway Concession were included. All parties on the Cross Israel Highway Concession are forecast
to fulfil their investment commitments by the end of April 2004. The failure of any of AMEC’s partners, however, is not currently envisaged.
AMEC takes internal and external legal advice in considering known legal claims and actions made by or against the company. Consequently 
it carefully assesses the likelihood of the success of a claim or action. AMEC makes an appropriate provision for those legal actions or claims 
for and against the company on the basis of the likely outcome, but makes no provision for those which are unlikely to succeed.
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:20 PM  Page 73 29 Contingent Liabilities continued
During 1994 and 1995, AMEC Construction Management Inc. (ACMI), (a wholly owned subsidiary of AMEC plc), entered into various contracts
with the United States General Services Administration (GSA) for the construction of courthouses in Missouri and California and for the
refurbishment and seismic upgrade of a US Customs House in California. The total value of these contracts at point of signing was in the 
order of US$290 million. Due, inter alia, to unforeseen site conditions, client delays and numerous design and scope changes, ACMI 
suffered significant cost overruns and submitted substantial recovery claims.
In June 1999, GSA terminated the right of ACMI to complete one contract, which at that stage was 85 per cent complete. ACMI contested the
termination and sued the GSA for recovery of all claims on this contract.
The United States Department of Justice then filed a counterclaim alleging false claims on the GSA contracts and sought to argue that, 
as a result, ACMI had forfeited its rights to recovery of all claims.
ACMI, upon legal advice, pleaded guilty in December 2000 and November 2001 to two federal felonies and paid two fines totalling approximately
US$1.2 million. AMEC also agreed to introduce additional ethical processes and procedures, both for the North American workforce and for
those staff employed by AMEC, whose responsibilities caused them to have regular business contact with AMEC North America and thus, 
the US Government.
On 20 August 2002, ACMI and AMEC plc, a party to the North American bonding arrangements, were notified, as a consequence of the ACMI 
non-compliance offences, that they had been debarred from seeking contracts with the US Government with retrospective effect for a 12 month
period from 20 February 2002. AMEC ceased to be debarred on 20 February 2003 and is now able to bid for all US government contracts.
The GSA recently filed a motion for summary judgement seeking an order declaring that ACMI had forfeited its claims on all the projects. 
ACMI opposed the motion and oral argument was held in February 2004. A decision is not expected for at least six months.
AMEC continues to hope that an amicable settlement of all the outstanding issues with the GSA can be secured but there is, at this time, 
no certainty that such an outcome will be achieved.
30 Pension Arrangements
The group operates a number of pension schemes for United Kingdom and overseas employees. All United Kingdom members are in defined
benefit schemes and the majority of overseas employees are in defined contribution schemes.
(a) SSAP 24 ‘ Accounting for Pension Costs’
Contributions by employees and employers are paid in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and are held separately from the assets
of the group in trustee administered funds.
The total pension cost for the group was £12.8 million (2002: £16.9 million) and there is a prepayment of pension costs as at 31 December 2003 
of £70.3 million (2002: £59.0 million) included within debtors: amounts falling due after one year .
The projected unit valuation method has been used to assess liabilities and future funding rates for the three major schemes which cover
approximately 90 per cent of United Kingdom members. The latest actuarial valuations of these schemes were undertaken as at 31 December
2001 and 1 April 2002. These showed that the market value of the assets was £1,058.6 million, with the actuarial value of assets being sufficient
to cover 114 per cent of the accrued benefits. The principal assumptions were based upon future investment returns of 5.50 to 6.30 per cent,
future pensionable salary increases of 3.70 to 4.75 per cent, future pension increases of 2.50 to 2.70 per cent and valuation rates of interest 
of 5.50 to 5.60 per cent.
(b) FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’
The valuations used for FRS 17 disclosures have been based on the most recent valuations of the three major schemes as at 31 December
2001 and 1 April 2002, and updated by the schemes’ actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes 
as at 31 December . The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December .
The financial assumptions used to calculate the schemes’ liabilities under FRS 17, on a projected unit valuation method, are as follows: 
2003 2002 2001
Per cent Per cent Per cent
Rate of discount 5.4 5.5 6.0
Rate of inflation 2.7 2.3 2.4
Rate of increase in salaries 3.7 3.3 3.4
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.7 2.3 2.4
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
74 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:38 PM  Page 74 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 75
30 Pension Arrangements continued
The market value of the schemes’ assets, (which are not intended to be realised in the short-term, and may be subject to significant change
before they are realised), and the present value of the schemes’ liabilities (which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods 
and thus inherently uncertain) were as follows:
Long-term rate Long-term rate Long-term rate
of return of return of return
expected as at Value as at expected as at Value as at expected as at Value as at
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2003 2003 2002 2002 2001 2001
Per cent £ million Per cent £ million Per cent £ million
Equities 7.8 621.3 7.5 459.9 7.5 548.0
Bonds 5.4 360.1 5.5 380.1 5.5 366.0
Property 6.8 90.1 6.5 75.9 6.5 81.0
Cash 4.5 3.4 4.5 25.2 4.5 35.0
Total market value of schemes’ assets 1,074.9 941.1 1,030.0
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (954.6) (825.7) (726.0)
Surplus in the schemes 120.3 115.4 304.0
Related deferred tax liability (36.1) (34.6) (91.2)
Net pension asset arising under FRS 17 84.2 80.8 212.8
The movement in the surplus in the schemes during the year is as follows:
2003 2002
Group Group
£ million £ million
Surplus in the schemes as at 1 January 115.4 304.0
Current service cost (25.7) (23.2)
Contributions paid 16.4 15.5
Net return on assets 14.9 23.1
Actuarial losses (0.7) (204.0)
Surplus in the schemes as at 31 December 120.3 115.4
If FRS 17 had been fully adopted in these accounts the pension costs charged would have been as follows:
2003 2002
Group Group
(i) Analysis of other pension costs charged in arriving at group operating profit: £ million £ million
Current service cost 25.7 23.2
2003 2002
Group Group
(ii) Analysis of amounts included in arriving at net interest payable: £ million £ million
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets 57.7 63.7
Interest on pension schemes’ liabilities (42.8) (40.6)
14.9 23.1
2003 2002
Group Group
(iii) Analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses: £ million £ million
Actual return less expected return on schemes’ assets 84.7 (150.7)
Experience gains and losses on schemes’ liabilities (7.0) (4.6)
Changes in assumptions (78.4) (48.7)
Actuarial losses (0.7) (204.0)
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:38 PM  Page 75 30 Pension Arrangements continued
If FRS 17 had been fully adopted in these accounts the net assets and profit and loss account reserve would have been as follows:
2003 2002
Group Group
(i) Net assets £ million £ million
Net assets per consolidated balance sheet 274.5 253.6
SSAP 24 prepayment (net of deferred tax) (49.2) (41.3)
Net assets excluding SSAP 24 prepayment 225.3 212.3
Net pension asset arising under FRS 17 84.2 80.8
Net assets including net pension asset arising under FRS 17 309.5 293.1
2003 2002
Group Group
(ii) Profit and loss account reserve: £ million £ million
Profit and loss account reserve per consolidated balance sheet 6.4 (8.6)
SSAP 24 prepayment (net of deferred tax) (49.2) (41.3)
Profit and loss account reserve excluding SSAP 24 prepayment (42.8) (49.9)
Net pension asset arising under FRS 17 84.2 80.8
Profit and loss account reserve including net pension asset arising under FRS 17 41.4 30.9
History of experience gains and losses:
2003 2003 2002 2002
Group Group Group Group
£ million Per cent £ million Per cent
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 84.7 (150.7)
Percentage of scheme assets 7.9 (16.0)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (7.0) (4.6)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (0.7) (0.6)
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (0.7) (204.0)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (0.1) (24.7)
31 Related Party Transactions
During the year there were a number of transactions with joint ventures, associates and joint arrangements, all of which arose in the normal
course of business. These transactions and the related balances outstanding as at 31 December are as follows:
Outstanding balance 
Value of transactions in the year as at 31 December
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Services rendered 63.2 27.3 8.3 11.4
Services received 19.0 18.9 0.6 2.6
Sale of fixed assets 49.2 34.9 – –
Purchase of fixed assets 1.6 1.1 – –
Provision of finance 14.3 7.4 44.0 14.5
The amounts receivable from, and payable to, joint ventures are disclosed in notes 15 and 16.
76 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Notes to the Accounts
continued
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:22 PM  Page 76 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 77
The following should be read in conjunction with the report of 
the auditors which is set out on the following page.
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for 
each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss 
for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the accounts; and 
prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure
that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  5:49 AM  Page 77 78 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
We have audited the accounts on pages 53 to 76. We have also
audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that
is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and
the directors’ remuneration report. As described on the previous
page, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting
standards. Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing
Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and by our profession’s ethical guidance. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a
true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also
report to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not
consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified
by law regarding directors’ remuneration and transactions with
the group is not disclosed. 
We review whether the statement on page 44 reflects the
company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report 
if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report,
including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited
part of the directors’ remuneration report, and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited accounts. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts. 
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors
in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity 
or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and
the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and the group as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit 
of the group for the year then ended; and 
the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report, 
on pages 50 to 52, to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
Manchester
11 March 2004
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of AMEC plc
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  5:49 AM  Page 78 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 79
Five Year Record
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Summarised consolidated results
Total turnover:
Continuing operations 4,712.7 4,331.6 4,467.5 3,980.0 3,062.5
Discontinued operations – ––– 38.3
4,712.7 4,331.6 4,467.5 3,980.0 3,100.8
Profit on ordinary activities before goodwill amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation:
Continuing operations 112.5 105.2 116.7 96.9 79.3
Discontinued operations – ––– 2.9
112.5 105.2 116.7 96.9 82.2
Goodwill amortisation (17.0) (13.1) (11.1) (6.7) –
Exceptional items:
Reorganisation costs – (12.9) – – –
Profit/(loss) on disposal or closure of operations 0.6 (12.0) (24.0) (6.8) 16.6
Attributable goodwill – (28.0) (0.5) (3.6) (15.8)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets (0.4) – (0.4) – (3.0)
0.2 (52.9) (24.9) (10.4) (2.2)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 95.7 39.2 80.7 79.8 80.0
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities (34.9) (28.6) (33.3) (29.9) (29.6)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 60.8 10.6 47.4 49.9 50.4
Equity minority interests (0.8) 0.2 – (0.1) –
Profit for the year 60.0 10.8 47.4 49.8 50.4
Dividends on equity shares (30.7) (29.5) (25.9) (18.8) (15.9)
Dividends on non-equity shares – – (15.8) (9.2) (10.4)
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 29.3 (18.7) 5.7 21.8 24.1
Basic earnings per ordinary share 20.4p 3.7p 13.7p 19.1p 19.1p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share* 25.3p 24.3p 26.5p
†
23.5p 19.0p
Dividends per ordinary share 10.5p 10.0p 9.5p 8.5p 7.5p
Dividend cover* 2.4x 2.4x 2.8x 2.8x 2.5x
Summarised consolidated balance sheets
Fixed assets 652.2 395.7 461.6 452.3 144.5
Net working capital (102.3) (57.7) (84.9) 91.8 40.7
Net (debt)/cash (218.1) (37.3) (44.6) (211.8) 105.2
Provisions for liabilities and charges (57.3) (47.1) (44.2) (48.6) (46.7)
Net assets 274.5 253.6 287.9 283.7 243.7
Shareholders’ funds 267.1 251.8 285.7 281.5 243.7
Equity minority interests 7.4 1.8 2.2 2.2 –
274.5 253.6 287.9 283.7 243.7
The figures are stated in accordance with the accounting policies set out on page 58. 
*Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
†
Pro forma basis assuming preference shares were converted to ordinary shares on 1 January 2001.
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:38 PM  Page 79 80 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
The subsidiaries and joint ventures which, in the opinion of the
directors, principally affect group trading results and net assets are
listed below. Except where indicated, all subsidiaries listed below are
wholly owned, incorporated in Great Britain and carry on their activities
principally in their countries of incorporation. Shares are held by
subsidiary companies except where marked with an asterisk where they
are held directly by the company. All holdings are of ordinary shares,
except where otherwise indicated. A full list of subsidiaries will be
filed with the Registrar of Companies with the next annual return.
Subsidiaries
AMEC S.A. (France)
AMEC Australia Pty Limited (Australia) (note 1)
AMEC (Bermuda) Limited (Bermuda) 
AMEC BKW Limited
AMEC Capital Projects Limited
AMEC Civil Engineering Limited
AMEC Civil LLC (USA) (80%) (note 2)
AMEC Construction Limited
AMEC Construction Management Inc. (USA) 
AMEC Developments Limited
AMEC Earth and Environmental Limited (Canada) (note 3)
AMEC Earth and Environmental Inc. (USA)
AMEC E&C Services Limited (Canada) (note 3)
AMEC E&C Services Inc. (USA)
AMEC Electrical and Mechanical Engineers Limited 
(Hong Kong) (note 4)
AMEC Facilities Limited
*AMEC Finance Limited
AMEC Foundations Limited (Canada)
AMEC Foundations Inc. (USA)
*AMEC Group Limited
AMEC Group Singapore Pte Limited (Singapore)
AMEC Holdings Inc. (USA)
AMEC Inc. (Canada)
AMEC Ingenieurbau GmbH (Germany)
AMEC Internal Asset Management Limited
AMEC International Construction Limited 
(operating outside the United Kingdom)
*AMEC Investments Limited
AMEC Offshore Services Limited
AMEC Power Limited
AMEC Project Investments Limited
*AMEC Property and Overseas Investments Limited
*AMEC Services Limited (note 5)
AMEC SPIE S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Benelux b.v. (Belgium)
AMEC SPIE Capag S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Communications S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Energie Services S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Est SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Ile-de-France Nord-Ouest SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Ouest-Centre SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Rail (FR) S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Rail Systems Limited (note 6)
AMEC SPIE Rail (UK) Limited
AMEC SPIE Sud-Est SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Sud-Ouest SAS (France)
AMEC Utilities Limited
Atlantic Services Limited (Bermuda)
CV Buchan Limited
IMISA S.A. (Spain)
Ipedex SAS (France)
Midwest Pipeline Contractors Inc. (USA) 
SPIE S.A. (France)
Spie Enertrans S.A. (France)
US Pipelines Inc. (USA)
Joint Ventures
City Airport Rail Enterprises (Holdings) Limited (50%) (note 7)
Eurogem S.A. (France) (40%) (note 8)
Européenne de Travaux Ferroviaires S.A. (France) (50%) (note 9)
Fluor AMEC Enterprises LLC (49%) (note 10)
Health Management (Carlisle) Holdings Limited (50%) (note 11)
Health Management (UCLH) Holdings Limited (33.3%) (note 12)
Ician Developments Limited (50%) (note 13)
KIG Immobilien Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (Germany) (50%) (note 14)
Newcastle Estate Partnership Holdings Limited (50% – ‘A’ shares) (note 15)
*Northern Integrated Services Limited (50% – ‘B’ shares) (note 16)
*Road Management Group Limited (25%) (note 17)
Road Management Services (A13) Holdings Limited (25%) (note 18)
Road Management Services (Darrington) Holdings Limited (25%) (note 19)
Wastewater Management Holdings Limited (25% – ‘B’ shares) (note 20)
Associates
Spie Batignolles S.A. (France) (49%) (note 21)
Notes
1 The issued share capital of AMEC Australia Pty Limited is 62,930,001 ordinary
shares of A$1 each, 12,500,000 class ‘A’ redeemable preference shares of A$1
each and 2,500 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of A$1 each.
2 The issued share capital of AMEC Civil LLC is 1,000 common shares of 
US$1 each.
3 In January 2004, AMEC Earth and Environmental Limited and AMEC E&C Services
Limited merged to form AMEC Americas Limited.
4 The issued share capital of AMEC Electrical and Mechanical Engineers 
Limited is 41,000,000 ordinary shares of HK$1 each, 1,035,000 cumulative
redeemable preference shares of US$1 each and 150,000 ‘B’ preference shares
of HK$10 each.
5 The issued share capital of AMEC Services Limited is 50 million ordinary shares
of 99p each and 50 million preference shares of 1p each.
6 The issued share capital of AMEC SPIE Rail Systems Limited is held 50% AMEC
plc and 50% SPIE Enertrans UK Limited.
7 The issued share capital of City Airport Rail Enterprises (Holdings) Limited 
is 50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each.
8 The issued share capital of Eurogem S.A. is 60,220 ordinary shares of 117 each.
9 The issued share capital of Européenne de Travaux Ferroviaires S.A. is 990,000
ordinary shares of 116 each.
10 The share capital of Fluor AMEC Enterprises LLC is as yet unissued but is
expected to be initially US$4,000,000.
11 The issued share capital of Health Management (Carlisle) Holdings Limited 
is 841,002 ordinary shares of £1 each.
12 The issued share capital of Health Management (UCLH) Holdings Limited 
is 2,112,135 ordinary shares of £1 each.
13 The issued share capital of Ician Developments Limited is 10,000 ordinary 
‘A’ shares of £1 each and 10,000 ordinary ‘B’ shares of £1 each.
14 KIG Immobilien Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH is a limited liability partnership.
15 The issued share capital of Newcastle Estate Partnership Holdings Limited 
is 500,000 ‘A’ ordinary shares of £1 each and 500,000 ‘B’ ordinary shares of 
£1 each.
16 The issued share capital of Northern Integrated Services Limited is 12,500 
‘A’ ordinary shares of £1 each and 12,500 ‘B’ ordinary shares of £1 each.
17 The issued share capital of Road Management Group Limited is 25,335,004
ordinary shares of £1 each.
18 The issued share capital of Road Management Services (A13) Holdings Limited
is 334,454 ordinary shares of £1 each.
19 The issued share capital of Road Management Services (Darrington) Holdings
Limited is 50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each.
20 The issued share capital of Wastewater Management Holdings Limited is
150,000 ‘A’ ordinary shares of £1 each, 75,000 ‘B’ ordinary shares of £1 each and
75,000 ‘C’ ordinary shares of £1 each.
21 The issued share capital of Spie Batignolles S.A. is 25,805,280 ordinary shares 
of 11 each.
Principal Group Companies
As at 31 December 2003
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  5:24 AM  Page 80 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 81
Financial Calendar
March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
May Annual general meeting.
September Interim report for the half year ended 30 June.
Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London Stock
Exchange are available on the internet at www.amec.com. Copies 
of annual reports and accounts are also available upon written 
request from: WILink, Hook Rise South, Surbiton, Surrey KT6 7LD,
United Kingdom. 
Payment of Dividends
Interim ordinary dividend announced in August and paid in January.
Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly into
their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers Automated
Clearing System (BACS) may do so by contacting the company’s
registrar, Capita Registrars.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is available for the convenience 
of shareholders who would prefer the company to utilise their dividends
for the purchase, on their behalf, of additional shares of the company
instead of receiving cash dividends. 
The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or 
as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment 
date at the price then prevailing in the market. Further details 
of the DRIP may be obtained from:
Capita Registrars
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8639 2000
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com or visit the web site at
www.capitaregistrars.com
Electronic Communications
AMEC’s web site has a facility whereby shareholders can link to the
company’s registrar Capita Registrars via its web site in order to 
gain access to general shareholder information as well as personal
shareholding details. You will need an internet-enabled computer 
with Internet Explorer 4 or Netscape 4 or above to access these
shareholder services. If you wish to access details of your personal
shareholding you will need your investor code, which is printed in 
the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and
dividend tax vouchers. 
To access these services:
1 Select the ‘Investors’ home page of www.amec.com 
2 Click on the ‘Need to contact the registrar?’ link
3 Select the service required
AMEC now offers shareholders the opportunity to receive
communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and 
the annual report and accounts electronically. AMEC encourages 
the use of electronic communication as, not only does it save the
company printing and mailing costs, it is also a more convenient 
and prompt method of communication.
If you decide to receive communications electronically, you will be 
sent an e-mail message each time a new shareholder report or
notice of meeting is published. The e-mail will contain links to the
appropriate web site where documents can be viewed. It is possible 
to change your instruction at any time by amending your details on
the register .
If you would like to receive electronic communications, you will need 
to register your e-mail address as follows:
1 Select the ‘Investors’ home page of www.amec.com 
2 Click on the ‘Need to contact the registrar?’ link
3 Click on the ‘Electronic shareholder communications’ link
4 Subject to having accepted the conditions of use of the Electronic
Communications Service provided by Capita Registrars, enter your
family name, investor code and postcode and then click on ‘go’ 
If you decide not to register an e-mail address with the registrar, 
you will continue to receive all communications in hard copy form. 
If you have any queries regarding electronic communications, 
please contact the company’s registrar, Capita Registrars, 
on +44 (0)870 162 3100.
Registered Office
AMEC plc
Sandiway House, Hartford, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2YA
United Kingdom
Registered in England No 1675285
Shareholder Information
Amec back_WACE  3/31/04  5:24 AM  Page 81 82 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Investor Relations Report
AMEC investor relations is committed to improving the
understanding of AMEC and its business activities in the financial
community, enabling financial markets to place an appropriate
valuation on the company. 
This report provides an overview of AMEC’s investor relations
strategy, the investor relations programme in 2003 and other
information of interest to shareholders.
AMEC’s investor relations strategy reflects the company’s guiding
principles (available at www.amec.com) and its responsibilities
to shareholders, which are:
to seek to achieve the best returns on investment that markets 
will allow and provide accurate and timely information on the
company’s performance; and
to manage the affairs of the company through responsible and
effective corporate governance, identifying and managing the 
risks inherent in our activities on an ongoing basis. 
Visits to the
investors pages 
of www.amec.com 
are up 37% on 
a year ago.
37
Amec back_WACE  31/3/04  5:34 pm  Page 82 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 83
The strategy is focused on three key areas
Compliance with all regulations relating to the conduct of companies
listed on the London Stock Exchange. This includes ensuring 
that all market sensitive information is issued firstly through the
London Stock Exchange and as soon as possible thereafter is
made available to the financial community through various channels
including AMEC’s corporate web site at www.amec.com;
Understanding the shareholder base and market sentiment
towards AMEC. This is achieved through close working relationships
with advisers, regular share register analysis and non-attributable
feedback from analysts and investors; and 
Delivery of a comprehensive programme of investor relations
activity involving effective communication and consultation with
current and potential investors and analysts.
AMEC investor relations controls and coordinates the company’s
programme of investor relations activity in line with this strategy.
In support of its objectives, AMEC has put in place a management
and policy framework for investor relations together with best
practice notes on contact with the financial community, stock
exchange announcements and published information. These
documents are available to all employees on the company’s intranet. 
Review of 2003
Key events in AMEC’s investor relations programme are the
company’s preliminary and interim results announcements,
annual general meeting and related trading updates. In the year
ending March 2004, these events took place on the following dates:
Annual general meeting trading update 8 May 2003
Trading update 24 June 2003
Interim results announcement 28 August 2003
Trading update 8 January 2004
Preliminary results announcement 11 March 2004
On the days the preliminary and interim results were announced,
AMEC’s chairman, chief executive and finance director made
presentations to analysts and institutional investors in London,
with their slides and speaking remarks being published at the
time of delivery on AMEC’s web site. Interviews were also given to
journalists from leading newswires and the national press.
Following both the preliminary and interim results announcements,
major shareholders were offered one-on-one meetings with
management, with other institutional shareholders being 
offered the opportunity to attend group meetings hosted by the
company’s brokers. 
During the course of 2003, AMEC met with a total of 73 institutions 
in the UK, France, Germany and the United States. In 2004
meetings in other European countries are also being considered.
AMEC recognises the importance attached by the financial
community to meetings with line management and having 
the opportunity to take part in site visits. In 2003, analysts and
institutional investors took part in successful site visits to
Wallsend, UK and Bordeaux, France, at which AMEC’s oil and 
gas and railway businesses respectively were presented by senior
operational management. A forum was held in London at which
the financial community was given the opportunity to meet
management representing AMEC’s UK, North American and
European businesses. All of these events were announced in
advance to the London Stock Exchange, with all slides being
published on www.amec.com on the day of presentation. 
Non-attributable feedback was extremely positive and such events
will continue to form a central part of AMEC’s investor relations
programme.
During 2003 over 100,000 visits were made to the investors pages
of www.amec.com. With the number of visits currently running
some 37 per cent above a year ago, this confirms the importance of
the internet as a source of information for the financial community.
The site was nominated for the “Best FTSE 250 Investor Relations
web site” in 2003 by the UK Investor Relations Society. It is
AMEC’s policy to review the site in line with investor relations best
practice and in this regard broker forecasts, details of major
shareholders and directors’ share dealings have been added over
the last year . The site’s e-mail alerting service remains a quick
and efficient way to be kept appraised of company
announcements. 
AMEC was pleased to be nominated by ProShare, the UK
independent organisation that promotes wider share ownership
and financial education, for the “Best Overall Performance
Category in the Private Investor Awards for a FTSE 250 company”
in 2003. 
Amec back_WACE  4/1/04  4:32 PM  Page 83 AMEC in 2003
We delivered Bonga, one of the world’s
largest floating oil production facilities, 
for Shell
We developed satellite technology for the
European Space Agency
We overcame logistics and technical
challenges to fit more than 20,000
specially-designed lightbulbs to
illuminate the Paris landmark, the 
Eiffel Tower
We completed the first section of the 
£1.9 billion Channel Tunnel Rail link, 
the UK’s first high-speed route
We project managed a 1,000 kilometre
pipeline from Chad to Cameroon 
for Exxon 
We advised the UK Ministry of Defence on
the development of new aircraft carriers
We provided key engineering and pipeline
services to the project to assemble the
prestigious Airbus A380 in Toulouse
We worked with BAA to create Heathrow
airport’s super Jumbo taxiway
We started a highly-skilled programme to
dismantle the turbine hall at the site of
the French fast-breeder nuclear reactor,
working within a stringent regulatory
framework 
We helped the town of Annecy, in France
fight crime by implementing a high-tech 
video surveillance system
We found a solution to an Arizona power
company’s cooling problems by using old
tyres to reline a pond – without disrupting
the station
We worked with United Utilities in the 
UK to set up a rapid response plan to
combat water shortages in the North
West of England
We helped the city of Lethbridge, Alberta,
develop a solution to landslide risks
We partnered with Welsh Water to 
create a utility alliance that has won
plaudits for rethinking the way water
projects are undertaken
We partnered with McLaren, the Formula
One company to create high-specification
systems in their new technology centre,
home of McLaren Formula One cars
We teamed up with the Portland
Development Commission in Portland
Oregon to transform contaminated land
into a thriving recreational, residential
and commercial area
We worked with the city of Vancouver 
to develop its Winter Olympic bid,
including planning detailed infrastructure
requirements
We worked with the US Department of
Energy to develop a new technology 
to treat nuclear waste
We created a unique light railway for
Bordeaux in France, working with
minimal disruption in a busy city centre
We installed super-heavy new style pylons
on a complex route crossing existing
electricity lines in France
84 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 
Amec back_WACE  31/3/04  7:12 pm  Page 84 This report is printed on Mega Matt. The paper is made from 50 per cent
chlorine-free pulp from plantation forests and from 50 per cent recycled
and de-inked fibres. Any wastage in the finishing process has been
addressed and minimised. The printers of the report are also ISO 14001
accredited and actively work to minimise the effects of the business on
the environment.
Designed and produced by in collaboration with
Johnny Boylan, Roger Fox, navyblue and Saffron Digital Production Ltd.
Printed by wace. AMEC plc
65 Carter Lane 
London EC4V 5HF 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7634 0000 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7634 0001
www.amec.com
AMEC plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
