 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2004
AMEC plc
65 Carter Lane
London EC4V 5HF
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7634 0000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7634 0001
www.amec.com
A leader in project management
and services, we design, deliver
and support infrastructure – from
local technical services to international
landmark projects
Across the world
Responsibly
For the long term
44,000 people
700 locations
40 countries
Contents
Financial highlights 1
Why AMEC? 2
Engineering and Technical 
Services 4
Oil and Gas 10
Project Solutions 16
Sustainability 20
Our board of directors 22
Chairman’s statement 24
Chief executive’s review 26
Operating and financial review 32
Segmental review 40
Report of the directors 44
Directors’ remuneration report 49
Consolidated profit and 
loss account 55
Consolidated balance sheet 56
Company balance sheet 57
Consolidated cash flow 
statement 58
Consolidated statement of total
recognised gains and losses 59
Note of consolidated historical 
cost profits and losses 59
Reconciliation of movements in
consolidated shareholders’ funds 59
Notes to the accounts 60
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 79
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of AMEC plc 80
Five year record 81
Principal group companies 82
Shareholder information 83
Investor relations report 84
AMEC in 2004 85
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2004 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2004
AMEC plc
65 Carter Lane
London EC4V 5HF
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7634 0000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7634 0001
www.amec.com
A leader in project management
and services, we design, deliver
and support infrastructure – from
local technical services to international
landmark projects
Across the world
Responsibly
For the long term
44,000 people
700 locations
40 countries
Contents
Financial highlights 1
Why AMEC? 2
Engineering and Technical 
Services 4
Oil and Gas 10
Project Solutions 16
Sustainability 20
Our board of directors 22
Chairman’s statement 24
Chief executive’s review 26
Operating and financial review 32
Segmental review 40
Report of the directors 44
Directors’ remuneration report 49
Consolidated profit and 
loss account 55
Consolidated balance sheet 56
Company balance sheet 57
Consolidated cash flow 
statement 58
Consolidated statement of total
recognised gains and losses 59
Note of consolidated historical 
cost profits and losses 59
Reconciliation of movements in
consolidated shareholders’ funds 59
Notes to the accounts 60
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 79
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of AMEC plc 80
Five year record 81
Principal group companies 82
Shareholder information 83
Investor relations report 84
AMEC in 2004 85
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2004 About us
AMEC is an international project
management and services company,
employing 44,000 people in over
40 countries around the world.
We provide total life of asset services –
designing, delivering and supporting our
clients’ investments in capital assets.
Design
We help develop the initial concept, plan
funding and add value from the initial
concepts through to detailed designs.
Deliver
We project manage, construct and 
take care of commissioning according 
to individual client’s requirements. 
Support
We offer support services, from 
long-term maintenance to specialist
technical services such as environmental
consulting. And at the end of the asset’s
life, we can help shut it down safely. 
AMEC at a glance
Our markets and customers
AMEC has major home markets in the
UK, Continental Europe and the Americas
and works internationally from Alaska
to Australia.
We work for a wide range of clients
across the public and private sectors,
ranging from national and local
governments to blue chip companies 
on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Our largest customer accounts for around
six per cent of total turnover .
Principal activities
Engineering and Technical 
Services (“ETS”)
Specialist services ranging from
environmental consulting to asset
maintenance.
Unlike the rest of AMEC, where we meet
customers’ needs as a national or
international business, the Multitechnical
and Environmental businesses provide
services locally, to a diverse regional and
international client base. With over 50,000
clients in many different sectors and a high
percentage of repeat business, ETS is
generally a highly predictable business. 
Multitechnical Services
In Europe, AMEC SPIE provides a broad
range of mechanical, electrical and
communications services, ranging from
maintenance of street lighting for local
authorities to design and delivery of fully
automated vehicle assembly lines and
advanced voice and data systems. It has
a network of offices in over 300 locations
across Benelux, France, Portugal
and Spain.
Environmental Services
With a network of 100 offices in North
America and beyond, the Environmental
business provides a range of specialist
services from environmental assessments
to geo-technical and materials 
testing services.
Design and Engineering Services
Provides services from front-end design
to maintenance support across a wide
range of market sectors, mainly
in North America and the UK. 
Oil and Gas
With market-leading expertise 
working in hostile deepwater
environments, AMEC provides total life 
of asset services to clients in the
international oil and gas industry, where
barriers to entry are extremely high.
In recent years AMEC has successfully
pursued a strategy of international
growth, working closely with long-term
clients who are developing new sources
of supply around the world. 
Upstream
AMEC has leading market positions
in the engineering and project
management of complex offshore
topsides and in operations and
maintenance services. In Canada,
we have a strong position in the large
and growing oil sands industry.
Downstream and Pipelines
In Downstream, AMEC is recognised
for its expertise in gas processing
and operations and maintenance,
whilst in Pipelines the group is one
of the world’s leading large-diameter
pipeline contractors.
Project Solutions
Construction Services 
AMEC takes a selective approach
to project delivery for public and private
sector clients, in particular markets
where we have expertise, often involving
design, maintenance or operations support
and sometimes equity participation.
Project Equity Investments
AMEC has equity participation in 
PPP and urban regeneration projects
where multiple income streams
are typically generated – from
the investment, construction work
and associated services. Significant
opportunities also exist for additional
investment in our Wind Energy business.
AMEC in 2004
Engineering and Technical Services
We continued to grow our European
Multitechnical Services business 
with a series of eight acquisitions
We teamed up with Thales to design 
and upgrade the entire infrastructure
security system for the French Ministry 
of Economy, Finance and Industry
We headed a consortium of companies 
to provide full site support services 
to EDF’s Fessenheim nuclear power
station in France
We helped the French government
improve its road safety by implementing 
a system of speed cameras across
mainland France which automatically
detects and fines traffic offenders
We tested our innovative GeoMelt
technology for use at the world’s largest
environmental clean-up project at the
United States nuclear weapons site 
in Hanford, Washington
We were chosen to prepare the
environmental impact assessment 
for the Sydney Tar Ponds in Nova 
Scotia – one of Canada’s largest
remediation projects
Our joint venture with Fluor worked on
three major reconstruction contracts in
Iraq, covering power generation facilities
and water infrastructure
We were awarded a long-term framework
contract by Thames Water to install water
meters in London and the Thames Valley
– which will run for up to ten years and
involve installations at over 200,000
properties in its first five year period
Oil and Gas
We strengthened our international 
oil and gas presence with a series of
important contract wins in the Caspian,
Kuwait, Western Australia, South East
Asia, Nigeria, Canada and the UK 
We delivered the Cheyenne Plains
pipeline project – over 250 miles of
natural gas pipeline – the largest US
cross-country pipeline project in 2004 
Over the last 15 months our business 
in the large and growing Canadian 
oil sands secured a series of important
contracts with clients including Deer
Creek, Shell Canada and Imperial 
Oil Canada
In January 2005 we acquired oil and gas
engineering services company Paragon,
which strengthens our portfolio of services
and client relationships in Houston –
establishing us as a Tier One contractor
in the region 
In February 2005 we were awarded an
eight year alliance contract worth £280
million by National Grid Transco – to
replace gas mains along the M1 corridor
between Sheffield and Leicester, UK
Project Solutions
We worked with the UK Highways Agency
to deliver the Bingley Relief Road three
months ahead of schedule – and were
awarded the Prime Minister’s Better
Public Building Award, the UK’s leading
accolade for infrastructure projects 
We were selected by two leading
healthcare facility and service providers
to deliver £33 million worth of new
patient facilities for the NHS in the north
and south east of England
An AMEC joint venture was awarded 
the contract to partner with Northern
Ireland Railways on a major renewal 
and upgrade of its coast line between
Belfast and Larne 
We were selected in joint venture as
preferred bidder for a landmark urban
regeneration project in London which 
will transform Lewisham town centre 
into a thriving residential, commercial
and recreation area – and have started 
on-site at similar schemes in Reading
and Durham
In recent months we have been chosen 
as preferred bidder for three major UK
PPP projects: Colchester Hospital, the
Docklands Light Railway extension to
Woolwich Arsenal and South Lanarkshire
schools, the largest single schools PPP
project to date – and are also preferred
bidder on the Incheon Bridge PPP project
in South Korea
This report is printed on paper made from 55 per cent recycled fibre and 45 per cent virgin
elemental chlorine free fibre from certified sustainable resources. Any wastage in the finishing
process has been addressed and minimised. The printers of the report are also ISO 14001
accredited and actively work to minimise the effects of the business on the environment.
Designed and produced by in collaboration with Romanus Odiwe, Johnny Boylan
and Saffron Digital Production Ltd.
Printed by Wace Limited. About us
AMEC is an international project
management and services company,
employing 44,000 people in over
40 countries around the world.
We provide total life of asset services –
designing, delivering and supporting our
clients’ investments in capital assets.
Design
We help develop the initial concept, plan
funding and add value from the initial
concepts through to detailed designs.
Deliver
We project manage, construct and 
take care of commissioning according 
to individual client’s requirements. 
Support
We offer support services, from 
long-term maintenance to specialist
technical services such as environmental
consulting. And at the end of the asset’s
life, we can help shut it down safely. 
AMEC at a glance
Our markets and customers
AMEC has major home markets in the
UK, Continental Europe and the Americas
and works internationally from Alaska
to Australia.
We work for a wide range of clients
across the public and private sectors,
ranging from national and local
governments to blue chip companies 
on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Our largest customer accounts for around
six per cent of total turnover .
Principal activities
Engineering and Technical 
Services (“ETS”)
Specialist services ranging from
environmental consulting to asset
maintenance.
Unlike the rest of AMEC, where we meet
customers’ needs as a national or
international business, the Multitechnical
and Environmental businesses provide
services locally, to a diverse regional and
international client base. With over 50,000
clients in many different sectors and a high
percentage of repeat business, ETS is
generally a highly predictable business. 
Multitechnical Services
In Europe, AMEC SPIE provides a broad
range of mechanical, electrical and
communications services, ranging from
maintenance of street lighting for local
authorities to design and delivery of fully
automated vehicle assembly lines and
advanced voice and data systems. It has
a network of offices in over 300 locations
across Benelux, France, Portugal
and Spain.
Environmental Services
With a network of 100 offices in North
America and beyond, the Environmental
business provides a range of specialist
services from environmental assessments
to geo-technical and materials 
testing services.
Design and Engineering Services
Provides services from front-end design
to maintenance support across a wide
range of market sectors, mainly
in North America and the UK. 
Oil and Gas
With market-leading expertise 
working in hostile deepwater
environments, AMEC provides total life 
of asset services to clients in the
international oil and gas industry, where
barriers to entry are extremely high.
In recent years AMEC has successfully
pursued a strategy of international
growth, working closely with long-term
clients who are developing new sources
of supply around the world. 
Upstream
AMEC has leading market positions
in the engineering and project
management of complex offshore
topsides and in operations and
maintenance services. In Canada,
we have a strong position in the large
and growing oil sands industry.
Downstream and Pipelines
In Downstream, AMEC is recognised
for its expertise in gas processing
and operations and maintenance,
whilst in Pipelines the group is one
of the world’s leading large-diameter
pipeline contractors.
Project Solutions
Construction Services 
AMEC takes a selective approach
to project delivery for public and private
sector clients, in particular markets
where we have expertise, often involving
design, maintenance or operations support
and sometimes equity participation.
Project Equity Investments
AMEC has equity participation in 
PPP and urban regeneration projects
where multiple income streams
are typically generated – from
the investment, construction work
and associated services. Significant
opportunities also exist for additional
investment in our Wind Energy business.
AMEC in 2004
Engineering and Technical Services
We continued to grow our European
Multitechnical Services business 
with a series of eight acquisitions
We teamed up with Thales to design 
and upgrade the entire infrastructure
security system for the French Ministry 
of Economy, Finance and Industry
We headed a consortium of companies 
to provide full site support services 
to EDF’s Fessenheim nuclear power
station in France
We helped the French government
improve its road safety by implementing 
a system of speed cameras across
mainland France which automatically
detects and fines traffic offenders
We tested our innovative GeoMelt
technology for use at the world’s largest
environmental clean-up project at the
United States nuclear weapons site 
in Hanford, Washington
We were chosen to prepare the
environmental impact assessment 
for the Sydney Tar Ponds in Nova 
Scotia – one of Canada’s largest
remediation projects
Our joint venture with Fluor worked on
three major reconstruction contracts in
Iraq, covering power generation facilities
and water infrastructure
We were awarded a long-term framework
contract by Thames Water to install water
meters in London and the Thames Valley
– which will run for up to ten years and
involve installations at over 200,000
properties in its first five year period
Oil and Gas
We strengthened our international 
oil and gas presence with a series of
important contract wins in the Caspian,
Kuwait, Western Australia, South East
Asia, Nigeria, Canada and the UK 
We delivered the Cheyenne Plains
pipeline project – over 250 miles of
natural gas pipeline – the largest US
cross-country pipeline project in 2004 
Over the last 15 months our business 
in the large and growing Canadian 
oil sands secured a series of important
contracts with clients including Deer
Creek, Shell Canada and Imperial 
Oil Canada
In January 2005 we acquired oil and gas
engineering services company Paragon,
which strengthens our portfolio of services
and client relationships in Houston –
establishing us as a Tier One contractor
in the region 
In February 2005 we were awarded an
eight year alliance contract worth £280
million by National Grid Transco – to
replace gas mains along the M1 corridor
between Sheffield and Leicester, UK
Project Solutions
We worked with the UK Highways Agency
to deliver the Bingley Relief Road three
months ahead of schedule – and were
awarded the Prime Minister’s Better
Public Building Award, the UK’s leading
accolade for infrastructure projects 
We were selected by two leading
healthcare facility and service providers
to deliver £33 million worth of new
patient facilities for the NHS in the north
and south east of England
An AMEC joint venture was awarded 
the contract to partner with Northern
Ireland Railways on a major renewal 
and upgrade of its coast line between
Belfast and Larne 
We were selected in joint venture as
preferred bidder for a landmark urban
regeneration project in London which 
will transform Lewisham town centre 
into a thriving residential, commercial
and recreation area – and have started 
on-site at similar schemes in Reading
and Durham
In recent months we have been chosen 
as preferred bidder for three major UK
PPP projects: Colchester Hospital, the
Docklands Light Railway extension to
Woolwich Arsenal and South Lanarkshire
schools, the largest single schools PPP
project to date – and are also preferred
bidder on the Incheon Bridge PPP project
in South Korea
This report is printed on paper made from 55 per cent recycled fibre and 45 per cent virgin
elemental chlorine free fibre from certified sustainable resources. Any wastage in the finishing
process has been addressed and minimised. The printers of the report are also ISO 14001
accredited and actively work to minimise the effects of the business on the environment.
Designed and produced by in collaboration with Romanus Odiwe, Johnny Boylan
and Saffron Digital Production Ltd.
Printed by Wace Limited. Financial highlights
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Total turnover 4,816.4 4,712.7 +2.2%
Total operating profit 149.6 141.7 +5.6%
Pre-tax profit 118.1 112.5 +5.0%
Pre-tax profit after goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items 65.7 95.7 -31.3%
Effective tax rate 32.8% 32.0% +0.8pts
Average weekly net debt 450.0 360.0* +25.0%
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 25.9p 25.3p +2.4%
Dividends per ordinary share 11.0p 10.5p +4.8%
Record pre-tax profit of £118.1 million – up 5%
Operating profit in Engineering and Technical Services up 8%
Oil and Gas boosts margin to 4.7% and expands in Houston 
PPP portfolio valued at £77 million 
Dividends increased by 5% to 11.0 pence per share
Further progress expected across all three businesses
Unless otherwise stated, amounts and percentage movements throughout this document relating to the profit and loss account are stated before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. Amounts and percentage movements relating to total operating profit and margin of Engineering and
Technical Services, Oil and Gas and Project Solutions activities are stated before corporate costs of £24.3 million, goodwill amortisation of £21.6 million,
a pre-tax exceptional charge of £17.8 million plus goodwill previously written off to reserves of £13.0 million.
Any forward looking statements made in this document represent management’s best judgement as to what may occur in the future. However, the
group’s actual results for the current and future fiscal periods and corporate developments will depend on a number of economic, competitive and
other factors including some which will be outside the control of the group. Such factors could cause the group’s actual results for future periods 
to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements made in this document. 
AMEC plc annual report 2004 1
*Pro forma average weekly net debt for the year ended 31 December 2003 assumes SPIE S.A. was acquired and 51 per cent of Spie Batignolles S.A. was
disposed of on 1 January 2003
† Pro forma basis assuming preference shares were converted to ordinary shares on 1 January 2001
Total operating profit 2004
Engineering 
and Technical
Services
43% £75.3m
Oil and Gas
33% £57.2m
Project Solutions
24% £41.4m
Pre-tax profit £m
04 118.1
03 112.5
02 105.2
01 116.7
00 96.9
Total turnover £m
04 4,816.4
03 4,712.7
02 4,331.6
01 4,467.5
00 3,980.0
Diluted earnings per ordinary share p
04 25.9
03 25.3
02 24.3
01 26.5
†
00 23.5
Dividends per ordinary share p
04 11.0
03 10.5
02 10.0
01 9.5
00 8.5 Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief executive 
New reporting
During 2004, we simplified the way 
we report our results. We now present 
these for our three main businesses:
Engineering and Technical Services, 
Oil and Gas and Project Solutions. 
This reflects better the way our business 
Why AMEC?
An introduction to this annual report 
and to investing in AMEC
2 AMEC plc annual report 2004 has been reshaped in recent years and
allows investors to develop an informed
view of the prospects for AMEC in each 
of our three areas of activity.
Over the next 16 pages, you can read 
about our services, customer base and 
the operating model of each of these 
in more detail. 
A balanced portfolio 
The new reporting should help to clarify
the reasons for investing in AMEC and the
way our three different but complementary
businesses fit together to make a balanced
portfolio. In particular, it shows: 
In Engineering and Technical Services we
have a robust business delivering predictable
earnings, which offers thousands of
customers, both large and small, a range 
of technical services through a growing
network of local outlets across Europe – 
and a similarly structured environmental
consulting business in the Americas. 
Year on year, these businesses grow by
pushing more volume through an expanding
network. In addition, our Design and
Engineering business is well positioned 
to benefit from any upturn in our industrial
clients’ capital spending in the Americas.
Our Oil and Gas business offers
particularly attractive prospects. A leading
player in the high growth upstream segment
of the oil and gas market, it has longstanding
relationships with a growing number of
major international and national oil
companies. Its competitive position has
been strengthened through the recent
acquisition of the engineering firm Paragon,
in Houston, which gives us more capacity
to benefit from strong demand and new
customer relationships won in 2004.
In Project Solutions, prospects in our UK
public sector markets of health, education,
transport and defence continue to look
promising as the Government renews its
commitment to these services. Importantly,
our strategy of prudent investment in
quality PPP, urban regeneration and wind
projects has paid off and we now have a
maturing portfolio of equity investments.
This makes us confident we can deliver
substantial and growing annual profits 
in 2005 and beyond, as we sell these
investments, and selectively reinvest – 
a process that has already begun. 
Differentiated by our expertise
All three of the businesses you will see 
in the next section are underpinned by our
technical skills, our long-term customer
relationships, and our project management
expertise – delivering best lifetime value.
With thousands of technical and scientific
experts, AMEC has deep specialist
knowledge in the industries in which it
works, where barriers to entry are often
high. This makes us the natural choice for
many of our customers. During 2004, we
forged more of the long-term contracts
with companies and governments that are
so important for our future and, importantly,
saw rising demand for our project
management skills. Increasingly, customers
are looking to us to take on the role of
adviser, structuring and shaping projects
at a high level. We see this as an important
future growth opportunity in a range 
of new markets.
The next section of this report gives you
more detail on the investment proposition
offered by each of our three main
businesses, after which you can turn 
to a review of our performance in 2004.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 3 With total turnover of over £2 billion and 
generating 43 per cent of total operating 
profit, Engineering and Technical Services 
(“ETS”) is the largest of AMEC’s three 
business segments.
ETS has three discrete areas of activity – 
Multitechnical Services, Environmental 
Services and Design and Engineering Services.
Engineering and 
T echnical Services 
Significant opportunities 
for growth
Jean Monville
Chairman and CEO,
AMEC Continental Europe
£2.3 billion
total turnover
4 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Services in the first two businesses are
delivered through extensive local networks
– with over 300 locations in Continental
Europe and around 100 in North America.
Unlike the rest of AMEC, where we meet
customers’ needs as a national or
international business, the Multitechnical
and Environmental businesses provide
services locally to a diverse regional and
international base. With over 50,000 clients
in many different sectors and a high
percentage of repeat business, ETS is
generally a highly predictable business.
Our Design and Engineering business,
provides services from front-end design to
maintenance support for North American
and UK clients across a range of sectors
including transport, defence, mining, forest
products, food and pharmaceutical.
Local service business model
The business model in Multitechnical
and Environmental Services differs
fundamentally from the model in other
parts of AMEC. 
First, these businesses are essentially
local. While other AMEC businesses
deliver from central locations, these work
mainly through extensive local networks. 
Secondly, the client base is extremely diverse.
We have tens of thousands of customers
across most sectors of the economy, while
the other AMEC businesses have fewer
customers and work on larger projects. 
Thirdly, our strong local relationships mean
we tend to win long-term or repeat business
over a number of years. This, and the diversity
of clients and end markets, gives our
business great resilience and predictability. 
Finally, our markets in both Europe and
North America are highly fragmented, giving
us significant opportunities for growth.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 5 Multitechnical Services
By far the largest of the three areas of
activity in ETS, is the Multitechnical Services
business in Continental Europe. Here,
AMEC SPIE provides a broad range of
electrical, mechanical and communications
services through its local service network
of over 300 locations across Benelux,
France, Portugal and Spain.
Examples of our Multitechnical Services
Our services span the total life of our
clients’ capital assets. Examples of our
work include the illumination of the Eiffel
tower – where we provided and maintain
more than 20,000 specially designed bulbs,
40,000 connectors and 78 kilometres
of cables – and other historic monuments
across France in places including Limoges
(illustrated left) and Toulouse. Also in
Toulouse, we provide facilities management
services for Airbus at their headquarters
and have provided electrical engineering,
heating, ventilation and air conditioning
systems on the new assembly facility for 
the Airbus A380, together with advanced
equipment for assembling various
components of the airframe. 
In the automotive sector, we have designed
and delivered the new body assembly line
for the recently launched Citroën C4 for
PSA Peugeot Citroën at Mulhouse. This
project involves 84 robots performing
welding and materials handling tasks – 
we carried out the installation and
programming – and is a good example 
of our automation skills. 
Engineering and Technical Services 
continued 
A highly 
predictable business 
6 AMEC plc annual report 2004 In the public sector, we have designed,
developed, installed and now support a
customised solution for traffic management
in the City of Lyons. This system has reduced
journey times, allows better coordination
of emergency services and provides high
quality information to road users and
operators. We have also been entrusted
with communications at events as
prestigious as the G8 summit in Evian,
where we installed two independent secure
telephone systems for the French Ministry
of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the
Interior – and put in more than 800 media
workstations – in just two weeks.
Diverse customer base
AMEC SPIE has an extremely diverse
customer base, spread across most
sectors of the economy. 
Our largest clients include government
departments, local authorities and blue-
chip companies such as Air Liquide,
Cegetel, European Aeronautic Defence
and Space Company (“EADS”), Electricité
de France (“EDF”), France Télécom,
and PSA Peugeot Citroën. It is our close
working relationships with these, and
tens of thousands of smaller customers,
that form the essence of the business. 
Large numbers of small contracts
Our customer relationships are characterised
by large numbers of small contracts, with
a high percentage of repeat business. 
At any one time AMEC SPIE is working on
around 10,000 contracts, with an average
size of less than £20,000. This results 
in the business having a high degree 
of predictability – and results over the 
last ten years show performance to have
been extremely robust through the
economic cycle. 
Fragmented market
The market for Multitechnical Services
is extremely fragmented and offers significant
opportunities for growth through
geographical expansion. 
Over the last five years, growth in this
business has been a blend between GDP
driven organic growth, the acquisition
of small local businesses to enlarge our
network and strategic acquisitions that 
give us an improved technical position –
and we expect this to be the pattern 
as we move forward.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 7 Engineering and Technical Services 
continued 
Environmental Services
Our Environmental business provides clients
with a range of specialist services from
environmental assessments to geo-technical
and clean-up services and is important
because it allows us to enter projects
at the very beginning of the asset’s life.
This business uses the same local service
business model as the European
Multitechnical Services business and
operates from a network of 100 offices
across North America and beyond. 
Examples of our work include the provision
of consultancy services in local storm
water and flood control for the City of
Charlotte, North Carolina. Here, we
provided compliance and technical advice,
and also developed software programs
which planned the management of storm
water flows. 
We have numerous clients in the energy
sector, where assignments include
environmental and geotechnical work
on projects such as the McKenzie Valley
pipeline in Western Canada. 
Early entry to the
project life cycle
8 AMEC plc annual report 2004 AMEC plc annual report 2004 9
We have built strong relationships in the
US Federal sector, where our expertise
includes the clean up of military facilities
including the firing range at the
Massachussetts Military Reserve, Cape
Cod. And we have major construction
support programmes underway in Guam 
and Iraq, with smaller projects at several
US domestic bases through our
relationship with the US Air Force. 
There are some very specialist niches
within this business. For instance,
Geomelt, which stabilises lower level
radioactive waste. We are carrying out 
a contract initially valued at US$60 million
for this process to be used to treat waste at
Hanford, in the US, the largest nuclear site
in the country . And we expect this technology
– which has also been successfully used 
in Australia and Japan – to be employed 
in future at other similar sites across
the world. 
The environmental market is large and
fragmented, has attractive margins and
offers good opportunities for growth in
the Americas, Europe and the Far East. 
Design and Engineering
Services
The last of our ETS businesses is Design
and Engineering, which provides services
from front-end design to maintenance
support for clients in the UK, the Americas
and Iraq. This business works in a range of
sectors, including transport, defence, mining,
forest products, food and pharmaceutical. 
In the UK, we have worked with British
Nuclear Group (“BNG”) and its predecessor
British Nuclear Fuels Ltd (“BNFL ”) for over
25 years. Today, we are working together 
to decommission some of the oldest
buildings on the UK Sellafield site and have
also installed special fire protection systems
in the waste storage silos. And we have 
a seven year joint venture contract, 
worth £460 million, to provide property
management services for around 400
establishments belonging to the UK
Ministry of Defence in Scotland, ranging
from RAF Lossiemouth to small
communications transmitters. 
Examples of our work in the Americas
include the design and delivery of a new
fibre line system for Bowater, the paper
company, in South Carolina. And we are
providing design and engineering services
for 10 stories or 250,000 square feet of new
laboratories for the University Health
Network in Toronto. 
Financial performance of this business
has been affected in recent years by severe
cutbacks in customers’ capital expenditure,
particularly in the US. We have, and
continue to, address our cost base – and
this business will be one of the earliest
beneficiaries of any resumption in our
customers’ capital expenditure. Oil and Gas 
Specialist total life of asset 
services and project delivery
Carlos Riva
Chief executive AMEC Group Limited,
Chairman AMEC Americas
33%
total operating profit
10 AMEC plc annual report 2004 With market-leading expertise working 
in deep water and hostile environments,
AMEC provides total life of asset services
and project delivery to clients in the
international oil and gas industry.
This business, with total operating profit 
of £57.2 million, makes up a third of our
business overall. 
We are a leader in our chosen fields and
work right across the upstream, downstream
and pipeline sectors of the market in
regions as widely spread as Australia,
West Africa and the Canadian oil sands.
We work closely with long-term clients
who are developing new sources of supply
around the world, often in hostile operating
environments. And we continue to increase
levels of activity through new client
relationships around the world. 
Competitive advantage
Barriers to entry in the oil and gas market
are extremely high, and our proven health
and safety management systems, robust
environmental systems, highly skilled
workforce and regional presence mean
we have a solid and established position
with our customers. 
Scope for margin improvement
Underlying margins in this business are
stable. Generally, we enjoy higher margins
in our design and support services than we
do in project delivery – where large sums of
money relating to procurement of materials
or subcontractors attract small margins.
As customers look to AMEC more for
design and project management services –
and less for actual construction, we see
scope for margin improvement and further 
risk reduction.
Long-term contracts
This business has a strong portfolio
of contracts and customers. We have
a number of long-term support services
contracts with a broad geographical
spread – and the three largest deepwater
operators – Shell, BP and ExxonMobil – 
are all long-term AMEC customers. 
With oil and gas expected to remain the
dominant source of global energy supply
for the foreseeable future, we see significant
long-term opportunities arising across all
areas of the business.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 11 A world leader in deep
water and hostile environments
Upstream
With over 30 years’ experience working
with our clients, this business has developed
a leading international position in the
upstream oil and gas industry . In this market
sector we design, deliver and support
offshore and onshore production facilities
and have special expertise on the complex
topsides found on oil rigs and the latest
generation of floating production, storage
and offtake vessels, or “FPSOs”. 
Specialist expertise
We are working in joint venture for
ExxonMobil on the Kizomba A and B FPSO
projects offshore Angola, and for Woodside
Energy on its Enfield FPSO offshore
Australia. In the past, we also fabricated
these FPSOs – for instance Shell’s massive
turnkey Bonga project, offshore Nigeria.
Today, however, customers are sending
FPSO construction work to lower-cost
locations like Korea – and using us 
for the higher-value front-end design,
procurement and project management
services. This means we book less turnover
than we did, but the attractive trade-off
is that we now carry far less risk and enjoy
a better margin. 
Oil and Gas 
continued 
12 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Shell Expro’s Sigma 3 is another example
of our upstream work, this time in the
North Sea. This is a seven year joint venture
services contract supporting all Shell’s
Northern North Sea assets. And we have
been building our international portfolio.
Shell’s Malampaya project is one example
of the support services work we are
developing in the Far East.
We are also working in Kuwait – where we
recently secured an important long-term
contract from the Kuwait Oil Company, to
support the development of their assets in
the south of the country – and in Indonesia,
where we are carrying out an offshore survey
for BP Indonesia, aimed at enhancing the
performance and life of 60 oil platforms.
This work may lead to additional
maintenance and engineering services
contracts in both regions.
Leading position in oil sands 
We have a strong position in the large
and growing Canadian oil sands industry,
servicing companies extracting onshore 
oil from the sands in Northern Alberta.
Here, a very different extraction technology
is used – it is more similar to mining. 
This business is extremely busy at present,
as more efficient extraction methods and 
a strong oil price have made it more
attractive for our customers to invest.
Long-term client relationships
We have strong relationships with the
major oil companies, built up over many
years. Examples include BP, with whom
we have been involved in project activity
on a continuous basis since the 1970s;
ExxonMobil, where our relationship with
Esso goes back to the 1960s; Shell, with
whom we have worked in the North Sea
since the early 1970s; and Total, where 
we have a long-term relationship in
asset support, both in West Africa and
the Middle East.
Our relationships with these and other
large operators are bringing in new work
as they develop new fields in West Africa,
the Caspian and Russia, the Gulf of Mexico,
Brazil and the North Atlantic. And we expect
to remain busy for the foreseeable future,
working with oil companies to maintain
and upgrade their existing assets, whilst
providing assistance as they bring on-line
new sources of supply to offset declining
reserves in existing areas of production.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 13 Delivering 
assured production
Oil and Gas 
continued 
Downstream
AMEC is recognised in the downstream
sector for its expertise in gas processing
and operations and maintenance and
provides a range of services to operators 
of refineries and petrochemical facilities. 
Gas
We have developed specialist expertise 
in the gas industry and have long-term
relationships with clients including Saudi
Aramco, with whom we have been working
since 1966 and National Grid Transco, where
our relationship goes back over 30 years.
14 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Refining
In the refining industry, we have maintained
a strong association with key clients over
the past forty years, having become firmly
established as one of the premier refinery
contractors, notably in the Middle East,
China and Western Europe. Our projects
have included new facilities, shutdowns
and maintenance management. One
example of a long-term client relationship
in this market sector is with BP at its large
Grangemouth facility in Scotland, where 
we have been working for 35 years. 
Petrochemicals
We provide a full range of total life of asset
services to our clients in the petrochemicals
sector . Here, we have over 70 years of
experience working in markets including
China, where we have undertaken over 
100 project and service contracts in the 
last 13 years. One of these is the SECCO
ethylene production plant in China – one
the largest of its kind in the world – where
we are providing project management
and procurement services. 
Pipelines
In the last of our businesses in the oil 
and gas sector, we are a global leader 
in large diameter pipelines, with extensive
experience of working on some of the most
challenging pipeline projects of recent
years in climates ranging from tropical
rainforests to frozen tundra. 
Our services range from planning and
regulatory permitting through to consulting
and design, financial planning, engineering,
procurement, construction, commissioning,
operation and maintenance. And we have
particular strength in meeting clients’ needs
in the areas of environmental protection 
and pipeline integrity .
Our pipelines are capable of distributing 
a wide variety of products, including
natural gas, liquid hydrocarbons, multi-
phase hydrocarbons, synthetic crude oil,
diluted bitumen and mine products
and tailings. 
Recent work in this sector includes over
1,000 kilometres of 30 inch diameter
pipeline from Chad to Cameroon in Africa,
the BTC pipelines in Georgia, which will
export oil and gas from the huge Caspian
fields, and the Cheyenne Plains pipeline –
the largest cross-country pipeline project 
in the US in 2004. 
AMEC plc annual report 2004 15 Project Solutions
Project Solutions is linked to
other parts of the life of asset
value chain 
Project Solutions is the business that has
evolved out of our traditional construction
activity. Today, it has total turnover of 
£1.4 billion, mainly in the UK, is an
important generator of future value 
and is central to our overall strategy.
In the past, we often simply built projects
for the lowest cost, whereas today, while
construction may form part of the job, we
typically get involved in design, maintenance
or operations support and sometimes equity
participation. Rarely, now, will we do stand-
alone construction.
£1.4 billion
total turnover
16 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Construction Services
We take a selective approach to project
delivery for public and private sector clients,
in particular markets where we have
expertise. Our projects normally arise 
as a result of an existing relationship with 
a client and we will sometimes make an
equity investment in a project, for instance
when it is delivered under a Public Private
Partnerships (“PPP”) scheme. 
Public sector markets
We are focused on five main public sector
markets: healthcare, education, transport,
defence and urban regeneration. We have
a long standing and, we believe, successful
relationship with the UK government and
we see significant opportunities arising
from its commitment to sustained spending.
In healthcare, we are working in joint venture
on the design, financing, construction and
operation of the new 669-bed University
College London Hospital – this being a
good example of our project delivery activity
within the framework of a PPP project. 
AMEC has long been associated with road
building, and is one of the leading players
in the UK market today. Our participation
is through either traditional contractual
relations with the Highways Agency, or
through PPP . One example of our current
involvement in this market is the A1 upgrade
between Darrington and Dishforth, which
is being delivered as a PPP project. 
Our work in the defence sector includes
designing and building a new submarine
berthing facility at Her Majesty’s Naval
Base Clyde – including a new floating jetty,
all electrical and mechanical services,
and a jetty support building.
Private sector markets
In the private sector, we work in particular
for customers who need high-specification,
high-quality delivery. For instance, we work
for pharmaceutical companies like Glaxo
SmithKline and Astra Zeneca, designing,
delivering and supporting their research
and development and other specialised
facilities. We also work for similarly
demanding commercial or light industrial
customers – for instance those who need
very engineered, high-quality storage,
production or retail outlets. Marks & Spencer,
for instance, is one of our retail customers. 
Overall in this segment, we are selective
in choosing customers and often have
a long-term relationship that will deliver
a stream of projects over time.
We also have an important rail projects
business – and are one of the leading
players in this market – which spans
the private and public sector . One example
of our work is the recently completed first
section of the new high speed Channel
Tunnel line between Folkestone and
Swanley, Kent, where we provided design,
supply, installation and testing. Another
sector where we see real potential and
have a strong position is in European light
rail systems, where we generally provide
track and power supplies. We have
delivered a number of projects already, 
for instance in the cities of Caen,
Strasbourg and Bordeaux. 
The projects side of AMEC has been
substantially overhauled over the last few
years, and what we have now is a very
focused business in markets we know well
and where we see real growth potential.
Through our risk management process, 
we will manage remaining risk in the
business and thereby improve the 
quality of earnings.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 17 Project Solutions
continued 
Delivering in partnership
John Early
Development and 
Investments director
Project Equity Investments
This business falls into three main areas –
Public Private Partnerships (“PPP”),
Property Developments and Wind Energy.
What is common to all three is the
opportunity to generate multiple income
streams from investment, construction
work, and associated services.
PPP
AMEC has been in the UK PPP market
since the introduction of the Private
Finance Initiative – and has a team of
project finance and legal professionals
engaged in the complete PPP delivery
structure, from front end bidding to long-
term management of the investment. 
18 AMEC plc annual report 2004 We apply strict selection criteria to the
work we do in PPP and stick to what
we know – the delivery and maintenance
of capital assets – we do not pursue “soft”
services like catering. 
To realise value from our PPP portfolio we
expect, at the appropriate time, routinely to
sell all or part of our investment in a rolling
process – similar to that which we use
in our Developments business.
Developments
In this business we have the ability to deal
with complex planning issues, financing
and project management and have particular
expertise in mixed-use urban regeneration
projects – which can include retail,
commercial, residential and other facilities. 
We have built strong relationships with
the key players in urban regeneration –
working in partnership with landowners
such as local authorities and occasionally
private sector organisations. 
We have two particularly important joint
ventures in the regeneration area – with
ISIS Waterside Regeneration, to redevelop
British Waterways’ large portfolio of surplus
land and with English Cities Fund, to
regenerate inner city locations. Both are
reaching the stage where they should soon
start to produce attractive earnings streams. 
Our business model in Developments 
is to minimise upfront capital employed, 
by partnering with landowners and to
reduce risk by securing pre-lets and pre-
selling developments. And we also keep
our portfolio balanced, with a mix of
projects at various stages of development
to give a consistent earnings stream. 
Wind Energy
We have been in the Wind Energy business
for five years and do everything from early
site identification, gathering and interpreting
wind data, to dealing with complex ecological
problems, handling the planning process
and, eventually, asset delivery, operations
and maintenance.
We have an onshore development portfolio
of around 1,500 MW, whilst our offshore
developments have all been pre-sold,
although we continue to be involved
in project management for the owner –
work that carries performance incentives
as well as the basic fee.
Recent market transactions suggest that
pre-tax returns well in excess of 20 per cent
can be secured on onshore projects with
planning consent.
We believe that we have built an important
position in what we think will be a very
valuable market for us over the next few years. 
AMEC plc annual report 2004 19 Sustainability
Sustainability, or corporate responsibility,
is a management approach that takes
into account the broad and long-term
interests of stakeholders, as well
as shorter-term profitability. 
AMEC started reporting on sustainability in
2000, when we drew up seven sustainability
principles: environmental management,
health and safety, ethical conduct,
community involvement, human rights,
employment rights and profitable growth.
These are now the heart of our company’s
Guiding Principles and we measure our
performance annually in each area.
We have made progress since then,
improving our own performance against
the targets we set ourselves. We also moved
up the latest published Business in the
Environment ranking, scoring 78 per cent 
in 2003 against 39 per cent in our first year . 
In February 2005, AMEC appointed a
dedicated manager, who now drives the
sustainability programme across the group.
20 AMEC plc annual report 2004 People, Planet, Profit
We also reviewed in detail our approach 
to reporting sustainability and measuring
performance in this area. We commissioned
an independent research consultancy
to interview customers, employees and
investors about sustainability in general and
AMEC’s approach in particular – and the
findings of this report are reflected in our
2004 sustainability report (published late
April 2005).
Y ou can see an overview of 2004 below. Please
refer to our website at www.amec.com for 
a detailed performance report.
Health and safety
One (2003: three) health and safety prosecution 
94 per cent (2003: 73 per cent) of our employees
working within an OHSAS 18001 compliant
health and safety management system
Nine (2003: four) fatalities at work – including
one subcontractor caught by a gas explosion
on a non-AMEC site
736 people (2003: 840) suffering lost time
accidents
Environment
AMEC’s Wind Energy portfolio has a 
potential to represent 16 per cent of the UK
government’s 2010 renewable energy target 
87 per cent (2003: 73 per cent) of our
employees working within an ISO 14001
compliant environmental management system
Two (2003: three) environmental notices
issued to the company 
19 per cent (2003: 50 per cent) of waste
recorded going to landfill
AMEC’s nuclear waste management
technology came into use at Hanford, US
Community
AMEC made charitable worldwide donations
of £265,000 (2003: £154,000)
Appointed to a major regeneration scheme 
in Lewisham and working on 12 other
schemes across the UK
Engineers Against Poverty published
the positive report “Learning from AMEC’s 
oil and gas asset support operations in the
Asia-Pacific region”
Supported orphanage in Baku, refurbishing
and providing resources for 200 orphans
Employment
Set up Young Offenders’ Initiative with major
UK client, National Grid Transco
Conducted senior management survey 
of 473 people – we are taking the findings
forward in the culture change programme
“Shaping AMEC”
Initiated more detailed analysis of diversity and
other key employment metrics within AMEC
General 
85 per cent (2003: 80 per cent) of our
employees operating under an ISO 900
compliant quality management system 
New long-term and framework contracts
signed with customers and introduced more
key account management
Stakeholder sustainability research
conducted for the first time 
AMEC plc annual report 2004 21 Jean-Paul Jacamon 123
Age 57, was appointed a non-executive
director in November 2002. He is
chairman of the audit committee.
He was previously vice-chairman and
chief operating officer of Schneider
Electric and is now an independent
consultant. He is a non-executive
director of Alcan Inc. of Canada and
several other companies.
John Early
Age 59, was appointed an executive
director in March 1986. He is the 
director responsible for the Project
Equity Investments operations. 
Martha Hesse 123
Age 62, was appointed a non-executive
director in June 2000. She was president
of Hesse Gas Company until the end
of 2003 and is the former chairman
of the US Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission and assistant secretary
for management and administration
of the US Department of Energy.
She chairs the Americas advisory
board and the compliance and ethics
committee and is also a director
of several other companies.
Our board of directors
Jock Green-Armytage 3
Age 59, was appointed a non-executive
director in June 1996 and became non-
executive chairman in January 2004.
He is the chairman of the nominations
committee. He is chairman of
JZ International Limited and a director
of JZ Equity Partners plc and several
other companies.
Key to principal committee membership
1 Audit
2 Remuneration
3 Nominations
Jean Monville
Age 60, was appointed an executive
director in February 1997. He is 
the director responsible for the
Continental European operations.
22 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Our directors have a broad 
base of experience
James Dallas 123
Age 49, was appointed a non-executive
director in October 1999. He is the
chairman of the remuneration
committee and is the chairman
of law firm Denton Wilde Sapte.
Liz Airey 123
Age 46, was appointed a non-executive
director in May 1999. She is the senior
independent director and chairs the
boards of the AMEC Staff and AMEC
Executive Pension Scheme companies.
She was previously the finance director 
of Monument Oil and Gas plc. She 
is currently a director of Harrison
Lovegrove & Co Limited and is also 
a non-executive director of several 
other companies.
Sir Peter Mason KBE 3
Age 58, was appointed chief executive 
in March 1996. He was previously 
an executive director of BICC plc
and chairman and chief executive
of Balfour Beatty Limited. He was
appointed a non-executive director 
of BAE Systems plc in January 2003.
Stuart Siddall
Age 51, was appointed finance director 
in June 2000. He was previously
finance director of Alpha Airports
Group PLC and of MANWEB plc.
Carlos Riva
Age 51, was appointed an executive
director in August 2003. He is
responsible for United Kingdom
and Americas operations. He was
previously CEO of Intergen, a United
States based power generation
company jointly owned by Shell
and Bechtel.
Peter Byrom
Age 60, was appointed a non-executive
director in February 2005. He is
chairman of Domino Printing Sciences
plc and Molins PLC. He is also a non-
executive director of Rolls-Royce plc
and Wilson Bowden plc. He was
a director of N M Rothschild from
1977 to 1996.
Tim Faithfull
Age 60, was appointed a non-executive
director in February 2005. He is a non-
executive director of Canadian Pacific
Railway, TransAlta Corporation and
Shell Pension Trust Limited. He was
president and chief executive of Shell
Canada Limited from 1999 to 2003.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 23 Chairman’ s statement
A world leader in technical services
and project management
“We are beginning
to see our strategy
translate into real
financial benefit”
At the end of my first full financial year in
the post of AMEC chairman, I am pleased
to report solid progress across all of our
three business segments, together with
signs of stronger growth coming through
in future years. 
This was a significant year for AMEC –
not because of any noticeable changes,
for indeed this was a year in which
we did not make any major acquisitions
or substantial changes to our business.
But it was significant because it marked
the successful end of a period of strategic
change and, more importantly, the
recognition and first fruits of that strategy.
24 AMEC plc annual report 2004 At the end of 2004, we were re-classified
as a Support Services company. This
change of stock market sector reflected
the success of our strategy, pursued in
previous years, of migrating AMEC away
from traditional construction. And we are
beginning to see that strategy translate
into real financial benefit.
Another significant change that came at
the end of 2004 was the re-segmentation
of our business, which highlights the
important and often unrecognised fact that
Oil and Gas now generates one third of
AMEC’s total operating profit. This business
is a strong companion to the solid and
predictable Engineering and Technical
Services business – our largest area 
of activity.
The new segmentation also revealed more
clearly the strength of our Project Solutions
business. Project work often has a bad
name – but if you choose carefully, as we
always seek to do, you can build a portfolio
that will release excellent value over time.
Today, our Project Solutions activities –
which include our investments in PPP,
Developments and Wind Energy, are
coming into their own – and are poised
to deliver growth well into the future.
So, overall, it was a year in which AMEC 
did not make any large acquisitions or
other strategic changes. We stuck to our
three main areas of activity, enhancing 
our Engineering and Technical Services
and Oil and Gas businesses with modest
acquisitions. 
I am pleased to report a record pre-tax
profit of £118.1 million, up 5.0 per cent,
and in line with our expectations. Proposed
dividends for the year are increased by
4.8 per cent to 11.0 pence (2003: 10.5 pence)
and the outlook for 2005 remains in line
with our earlier expectations. 
In January 2005, our placing of new ordinary
shares was extremely well received – raising
net proceeds of £88 million to support our
increased programme of investments.
I am delighted to welcome to the board
Peter Byrom and Tim Faithfull, who were
appointed as non-executive directors in
February 2005. Their wealth of international
knowledge and business experience,
particularly in business development
and the oil and gas market, will make a
valuable contribution as AMEC continues
to build its portfolio of project management
and services activities.
We are in good shape and, as we move
through 2005, feel comfortable with the
outlook for our three businesses. I remain
confident that AMEC’s highly skilled and
dedicated people will grasp the opportunity
to build on our strengths, expand our
service, deepen our client relationships
and create value for all our stakeholders.
Jock Green-Armytage
Chairman
10 March 2005
AMEC plc annual report 2004 25 Chief executive’ s review
Solid performance across 
all business segments
“The strength
of our portfolio
of Project Equity
Investments has
really come
through this year”
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief executive
AMEC made solid progress in 2004 and 
on 22 November was reclassified to the
Support Services Sector of the London
Stock Exchange by the FTSE Global
Classification Committee. This change 
of stock market sector, which recognises
the shift in the balance of AMEC’s activities
towards services, was followed on
2 December 2004 by the announcement 
of a revised statutory segmental analysis,
which better reflects the ongoing business
portfolio. The segments are Engineering
and Technical Services (“ETS”), Oil and Gas
and Project Solutions. 
26 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Business review
Engineering and T echnical
Services
With turnover of £2.3 billion, representing
47 per cent of total turnover in 2004, 
ETS is the largest of AMEC’s three
business segments.
This business delivered another robust
performance in 2004, with total operating
profit up 7.9 per cent. 
Multitechnical Services
2004 was another year of robust
performance, with increased activity
reflecting organic growth, driven broadly 
by levels of economic activity, together with
a series of eight small acquisitions that
extended the local services network 
and capability in France, the Netherlands,
Portugal and Spain. This business will
continue to follow the same growth
strategy in 2005, targeting further 
volume growth and an improved margin,
particularly in Benelux.
Environmental Services
2004 was a record year, with increased
levels of activity under a framework
contract for the US Air Force in locations
including Iraq and Guam. The Geomelt
contract for the US Department of Energy
at Hanford, initially valued at US$60 million,
continues to make progress and the first
full scale nuclear waste vitrification is due
to be completed by the end of 2005.
New offices are being opened in a number
of countries and this pattern of customer-
driven expansion is expected to continue
steadily with increasing demand for
environmental services.
Design and Engineering Services
Performance in 2004 was mixed.
In the UK, AMEC is active on framework
contracts for clients that include BAA and 
the Ministry of Defence. There are also
specific future opportunities, including 
the restructuring of the nuclear industry
which opens to private sector companies
from April 2005.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 27 AMEC is one of the few companies with the
expertise and relationships to pursue the
£2 billion of work that the UK government
estimates will be available on an annual
basis and is positioning itself to compete 
in that market. 
Investment in US industrial markets remains
low. While some sectors, like mining, are
now very busy, others, such as food and
forest products, have yet to show any signs
of recovery. AMEC has taken further action
to reduce the cost base in response. 
AMEC is working in Iraq under various
contracts to restore damaged infrastructure,
including power generation and water . 
Task orders under these contracts have, 
as expected, taken some time to come 
through and safety and security remain 
of paramount importance. Firm awards 
to date to the AMEC Fluor joint venture
amount to around US$730 million, although
the final value could be much higher . In
addition, AMEC has received direct orders
totalling around US$130 million. These
contracts continue to carry no commercial
risk as they are all fully cost reimbursable.
Activity in Iraq made a small contribution in
2004, and whilst conditions remain volatile
and it is difficult to predict rates of progress
on specific tasks, this contribution is
expected to increase in 2005. 
AMEC is committed to a long-term presence
in Iraq and is exploring opportunities in the
country and in the region.
28 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Chief executive’s review
continued 
Oil and Gas – Recent contract awards
SNEPCO
Bonga
Operations &
maintenance
2 years initial
contract
Nigeria
ConocoPhilips
Bayu Undan
Operations
& maintenance
support
Timor Sea
AIOC (BP)
Operations,
engineering
& project
management
4 years initial
contract
Caspian
KOC
Project
management
5 years initial
contract
Kuwait
Woodside
Enfield FPSO
Engineering
&  project
management
Perth
Nexen
Buzzard
Talisman
Tweedsmuir
Brownfield
Services
UK North Sea
Star Energy
Project
management
UK
Cheyenne
Plains
Pipeline Co.
Project
management
and delivery
USA
Exxon Mobil
Sable
Project
management
Canada
Shell Canada
Imperial Oil
CNRL
Canadian oil
sands Oil and Gas
This business generated turnover of 
£1.2 billion, representing 25 per cent 
of total turnover in 2004.
Activity levels remained high and the
quality of earnings was improved, with
operating margin increasing to 4.7 per 
cent (2003: 4.3 per cent).
During 2004, the services’ business
increased levels of international activity 
in regions including the Gulf of Mexico,
West Africa, Caspian, Canada and Asia
Pacific. 
The business has extended its portfolio of
services into gas storage and pipeline
design and strengthened its position in
brownfield projects, operations and asset
support services. More work was secured
from an increasing range of customers,
including the Kuwait Oil Company, the
Korean National Oil Company and
Woodside of Australia. 
The Canadian oil sands business is busy,
as more efficient extraction methods and 
a strong oil price have made the region’s
resources more profitable to develop,
whilst the pipelines business was active
during 2004 on a range of projects
including the BTC pipelines in Georgia and
the Cheyenne Plains project in the US.
Since the year-end, the acquisition of
Paragon, the Houston-based design and
engineering company, has significantly
improved AMEC’s competitive position in
the main decision-making centre for the
global oil and gas industry. 
Paragon allows AMEC to provide a more
complete service to customers in the Gulf
of Mexico region. It has acknowledged 
sub-sea pipeline design capability and is 
working on projects including the complex
Mardi Gras project for BP . 
Paragon positions AMEC as a top tier
designer and project manager in Houston,
in addition to strengthening its engineering
and asset support relationships with
customers such as Chevron/Texaco,
Marathon and Pemex. 
During 2004 AMEC completed the vast
majority of its upstream lump sum
contracts, with the remainder expected to
be completed during the first half of 2005.
These contracts are being replaced with
more stable, long-term services and the oil
and gas order book for 2005 is up year-on-
year despite a reduction in these lump-
sum contracts.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 29 Chief executive’s review
continued 
30 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Project Solutions
This segment, which is generally involved
with large infrastructure projects, generated
turnover of £1.4 billion, representing 
28 per cent of total turnover in 2004. 
Performance in the Project Solutions
business was steady, following AMEC’s exit
in the first half of 2004 from US Construction
Management and the disposal of AMEC’s
remaining 49 per cent interest in the 
regional French construction business 
Spie Batignolles. 
Project Solutions includes AMEC’s activities
in PPP, Developments and Wind Energy,
which reported an operating profit of 
£20 million, a 10 per cent improvement 
on 2003.
Construction Services
This business has strong relationships with
clients both in the public and private sectors
and was active in 2004 on major projects 
in defence, transport, healthcare and
infrastructure markets.
In 2004, good progress was made in
delivering the Docklands Light Railway
extension, and the University College London
Hospital is heading to completion on time
and on budget.
PPP
In 2004, AMEC’s share of the operating
profit of its PPP concessions was 
£10.8 million (2003: £10.6 million) and 
after taking into account the share of 
net interest payable, resulted in a small 
net contribution.
Since the year-end AMEC’s PPP portfolio
has been strengthened through the award
of preferred bidder status for Colchester
Hospital, the Docklands Light Railway
extension to Woolwich Arsenal and South
Lanarkshire Schools. In total these projects
have a value to AMEC in excess of £600
million. AMEC is also at preferred bidder 
stage on Incheon Bridge in South Korea, 
where financial close is expected shortly.
Over the coming years, AMEC expects  to
achieve increasing earnings from this
portfolio, either from the sale of its
investments or from increasing the
contribution from operational concessions.
Developments
AMEC has built a leading reputation in
urban regeneration, working in partnership
with landowners such as local authorities
and private sector organisations. Over a
dozen schemes were under development
during 2004, including projects in Reading
and Durham. During the year an AMEC
joint venture was awarded a major scheme
to regenerate Lewisham town centre.
Planning approval is expected for about
three million square feet of developments
in 2005, a threefold increase on the
previous year .
Wind Energy
AMEC is developing an onshore portfolio 
of around 1,500 MW, including third parties’
shares of developments being managed 
by AMEC. Its offshore developments have
all been pre-sold, although AMEC continues
to be involved in project management 
for the owner, with work that carries
performance incentives as well as
management fees.
During 2004, AMEC submitted planning
applications for major schemes at Kyle and
the Isle of Lewis in Scotland, the latter 
being potentially the world’s largest
onshore windfarm. 
The planning process is extremely slow and
at the end of 2004 a very large percentage of
the portfolio remained in planning. Over the
next few years an increasing number of
schemes are expected to emerge from
planning, enabling AMEC to commence
construction and to release value from its
onshore portfolio. 
Wind Energy
Onshore portfolio* planning status 
at December 2004
Pre-planning
Planning application
Conditional consent
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Potential capacity (MW)
Conditional c onsent Construction In operation
 
Potential capacity (MW)
* Assumptions
- Reflects projects as at 10 March 2005 and includes 
AMEC’ s share of joint venture developments
- Excludes any additional new developments
- Excludes projects developed by AMEC in the past 
and sold-on to third parties
- Based on planning submissions made or 
management estimates where proposals are 
at an earlier stage
- Developments are subject to environmental and 
planning risk until fully consented and to delays in 
the commissioning of the national grid infrastructure 
needed to support renewable energy expansion
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 
Onshore portfolio* development potential AMEC plc annual report 2004 31
Orders
Order intake in the ETS business continues
to exceed sales, whilst the year-end order
book in AMEC’s Oil and Gas and Projects
Solutions businesses remained solid at
£2.4 billion (2003: £2.4 billion). 
The quality and volume of the order book 
in Oil and Gas has improved over the last
12 months, with large project delivery
contracts being replaced by higher margin,
lower risk services activities. The year-end 
order book in Oil and Gas stood at £1.3 billion
(2003: £1.2 billion), whilst Project Solutions
recorded £1.1 billion (2003: £1.2 billion). 
Sustainability
2004 was a year of progress, with
improvements in our overall performance
in health and safety, environment,
community and employment. However, 
it is really unacceptable that the number 
of fatalities at work increased compared to
the previous year and yet further efforts are
being taken to ensure a safer year in 2005.
An overview of 2004 appears on page 21 
of this report and the sustainability report
will be published in late April 2005. 
Outlook
The board remains confident that each of
AMEC’s three business segments will deliver
further growth in 2005 in line with its earlier
expectations, even after the transfer of UK
rail maintenance contracts to Network Rail
and the disposal of Spie Batignolles, which
together represented about £10 million 
of total operating profit in 2004.
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief executive
10 March 2005
Outlook for 2005
Movement relative
to 2004 profit base
Rail Maintenance/
Spie Batignolles
North American industrial
markets
Increased contribution from
Iraq
Impact of Placing
Acquisition of Paragon
(Houston Oil and Gas)
Growth across all business
segments Operating and financial review
Our ETS business achieved strong 
sales growth, whilst the quality of
earnings was improved in Oil and Gas
and Project Solutions
32 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Pre-tax profit for the year ended
31 December 2004, before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items,
increased by 5.0 per cent to £118.1 million,
a performance that was slightly ahead 
of the consensus of market expectations* . 
The board is confident of delivering further
growth in 2005.
The following is based on a review of 
the year ended 31 December 2004 and
describes significant factors affecting 
the outturn, movements in the profit 
and loss account, balance sheet and 
cash flow statement and on matters that
may have an impact on the group’s future
financial performance.
“Pre-tax profit
increased by 5% 
to £118.1 million –
slightly ahead of
market consensus*”
Stuart Siddall
Finance director
*Source: Hemscott Group, 7 March 2005 Changes arising from 
corporate activity 
On 5 March 2003, AMEC acquired the
outstanding 54 per cent interest in SPIE
and its results have been included at 100
per cent since this date. Comments in 
the following review are made with reference
to a 12 month contribution in 2004 
(2003: 10 months). 
AMEC acquired Phoenix Imperative
®
Inc.
on 15 March 2004. This business, which
offers biotech and pharmaceutical
consulting services, has an annual
turnover of about £7 million.
AMEC announced in May 2004, the disposal
of the Washington and Florida US
Construction Management businesses 
and the closure of this operation’s other
activities. This business had a turnover 
of over £200 million in 2003, which halved
during 2004.
On 22 June 2004, AMEC disposed of its
outstanding 49 per cent interest in Spie
Batignolles. As this had been accounted 
for as an associate there was no impact 
on turnover .
The group’s UK rail maintenance contracts
were taken in house by Network Rail
on 24 July 2004. The annualised effect on
turnover is approximately £135 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2004,
AMEC’s Continental European operations
made eight small acquisitions extending
the Multitechnical Services branch network.
These in aggregate have an annual
turnover of about £35 million.
On 17 June 2004, AMEC received the
outstanding amount in respect of the
disposal of the Grand Cayman Hotel
and, in December 2004, a sale and
leaseback agreement was concluded
for about 40 properties in France.
The combined proceeds were about
£35 million.
Preparation of the accounts
In order to conform with the requirements
of UITF 38 and the amendment to UITF 17,
the investment shares held in respect of
long-term incentive schemes are no longer
carried as an asset, but deducted from
shareholders’ funds in the balance sheet.
This has the effect of reducing net assets
by £7.5 million and £6.0 million in 2004 
and 2003 respectively. This change has 
no effect on the profit and loss account.
The group has made no adjustments to its
assessment of the fair value of the assets
and liabilities acquired in with the purchase
of the outstanding 54 per cent interest 
in SPIE in 2003. Additional reviews of the 
SPIE balance sheet have however resulted 
in the reallocation of amounts held within
certain balance sheet captions as at 
31 December 2003. These changes provide
additional consistency in the presentation
of debtors and creditors and have no
impact on the net assets of the group 
at this date. 
AMEC plc annual report 2004 33 34 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Total turnover and gross margin
Total turnover for the year ended
31 December 2004 was £4,816.4 million
(2003: £4,712.7 million). Underlying sales
growth in 2004 was higher than these
figures indicate with strong sales growth
in Engineering and Technical Services
(“ETS”) offset by reduced turnover in both
Oil and Gas and Project Solutions.
The gross and operating margin for the
group were slightly ahead of those in 2003.
Whilst margins are important, return
on capital employed is an additional 
key indicator of performance. AMEC’s
margin is affected by the large element 
of subcontracted or pass through activities
included in turnover . The margin earned 
on these third party materials or resources
varies, but it is generally lower than the
margin earned on AMEC’s input. AMEC’s
clients require a one-stop service and 
third party activity will always be a 
feature of its business.
The chart on the right demonstrates that
AMEC’s return on capital employed is
reasonably good compared to other service
companies. This was nearly 17 per cent 
for 2004 and with the expected margin
increases and reduction in net debt in
2005, this measure should improve.
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses increased by
about £40 million due to the full year impact
of SPIE. Overall these costs remain at
about 10 per cent of group turnover .
Corporate costs, which represent the
costs of operating the head office of AMEC
and certain regional overheads not
directly related to the business segments,
were lower than in 2003. This reduction
reflects reduced establishment in
North America as a result of the exit
from US Construction Management.
Share of joint venture results
The share of profit from joint ventures
increased following an improved contribution
from Developments activities. This will be
an increasing trend as a result of growing
contributions from regeneration activities,
where the level of planning consent secured
is set to increase in 2005, and PPP, as
more projects become operational.
Interest
The group interest charge benefited from
a profit arising on the disposal of another
tranche of PPP subordinated debt
investment. The profit is reported
on the same basis as an earlier disposal
concluded in late 2001.
The group interest charge for the year also
reflected the higher level of average net
debt, a full period of the SPIE acquisition
funding and increased interest charges
arising from the group’s strategy to lock
into longer-term fixed interest rates,
a programme that started, largely,
in mid 2003.
Net interest payable was covered almost
6.1 times (2003: 6.4 times) by total operating
profit on what AMEC regards as the most
meaningful basis. This is before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, but
excluding AMEC’s share of the contribution
and interest in PPP concessions. 
The ratio of average weekly net debt
to Earnings Before Interest, Tax,
Depreciation and Amortisation (“EBITDA”)
was 2.4 times (2003: 1.9 times). 
Despite the increase in average weekly
net debt, the ratios remain good.
The increase in the joint venture interest
cost will continue in view of the level of
urban regeneration and PPP activities,
as referred to earlier .
Taxation
The tax charge before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items amounted
to £38.7 million (2003: £36.0 million).
An attributable tax charge of £4.4 million
(2003: credit of £1.1 million) arose
on the exceptional items.
Operating and financial review
continued 
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
UK Service Engineering Oil and Gas          Construction
30%
20%
10%
0%
0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10%
Operating margin*
ROCE**
Balfour Beatty
ROCE 95%
WS Atkins
ROCE 1233%
Skanska
Fluor
Interserve
Eiffage
Jacobs
Halliburton
Technip
URS
ACS Dragados
Wood Group
Abbot Group
Tetratech
Saipem
Suez
Serco
AMEC
Vinci
SNC Lavalin
 * Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
 ** Post-tax earnings (excluding goodwill amortisation,  
   exceptional items and interest) divided by the sum  
  of shareholders equity plus net debt 
  Source: Company accounts as at 8 December 2004
Total turnover
By business £m
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2003 2004
Sales
growth
Improving
sales mix
Strategic
repositioning
  ETS Oil and Gas Project 
    Solutions AMEC plc annual report 2004 35
The effective rate on the profit before
goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items was 32.8 per cent, in line with
expectations at the half-year and broadly
similar to prior periods. It continues
to reflect higher underlying corporation tax
rates in Continental Europe. As previously
reported, the trend in the rate is upwards
as certain activities, in particular Oil and
Gas, are undertaken outside of AMEC’s
home territories where the tax paid 
is typically at a higher rate.
Goodwill amortisation and 
exceptional items
Goodwill amortisation increased in the 
year to £21.6 million (2003: £17.0 million).
The increased charge principally reflects 
a full year’s charge on the SPIE acquisition
(2003: 10 months).
Subsequent to the 2002 review of the
goodwill arising on the acquisition of 
AGRA Inc., annual impairment reviews are
required, in line with FRS 11, ‘Impairment
of fixed assets and goodwill’. The results 
of the 2004 review confirmed that the
carrying value of the remaining asset 
was reasonably stated.
Aggregate exceptional costs in 2004 were
£22.2 million (including associated taxation
but excluding goodwill previously written off).
The most significant component related 
to the disposal/closure of US Construction
Management. Costs have also been
incurred in exiting other construction
activities where the risk/reward profile has
been considered unattractive. There have
also been several disposals of non-core
businesses in the second half of the year
and a net profit has arisen from the
rationalisation of the property portfolio.
The exceptional charge on a post-tax 
basis increased from the half year . This 
has arisen as a result of attributable 
tax on property disposals in France.
Aggregate goodwill of £13.0 million
on businesses that have been disposed
of, which had previously been written-off
to reserves, has been reported in the profit
and loss account as an exceptional charge.
This has no effect on the net assets
of the group.
Earnings per share
The increase in earnings per share 
to 25.9 pence (2003: 25.3 pence) was
constrained by the increased tax charge
and also by 0.7 pence, as a result of the
increase in the number of potentially dilutive
shares arising from share option awards. 
Dividends per ordinary share
The board is recommending a final
dividend of 7.2 pence per share (2003: 
6.9 pence) which, together with the interim
dividend of 3.8 pence per share (2003: 
3.6 pence), results in a total dividend 
of 11.0 pence per share (2003: 10.5 pence),
an increase of 4.8 per cent. Dividend cover
was maintained at 2.4 times, in line with 
the average for the last six years of about
2.5 times.
Balance sheet highlights
Tangible fixed assets reduced in the year
reflecting the disposal of property in
France offset to some extent by increased
investment in financial systems.
Investments increased as a result of
increased investment in PPP concessions
partially offset by the disposal of AMEC’s
interest in Spie Batignolles.
The ratio between stocks/trade debtors
and trade creditors (as illustrated to the
right) increased marginally in the year 
in view of the capital employed in certain
highlighted areas.
In January 2005, AMEC issued
approximately 30 million new shares
via a placing and raised nearly £90 million.
This would have increased shareholders’
funds as at 31 December 2004 to over
£350 million on a pro forma basis.
Balance sheet analysis £m
2004 2003*
Payments on account (177.7) (180.3)
Trade creditors (1,277.0) (1,163.9)
(1,454.7) (1,344.2)
Stocks/trade debtors 1,741.5 1,542.8
Net current operating
assets 286.8 198.6
Months of turnover 
in stocks/debtors** 4.2 4.0
Months of turnover 
in creditors** 3.1 3.0
Ratio of stocks/debtors
to creditors 1.4 1.3
* Restated for changes in debtor/creditor offsets 
in SPIE balance sheet
** Based on previous six months’ turnover 
excluding joint ventures 36 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Investments in joint ventures
Most of AMEC’s interests in PPP
concession companies and several
property development projects are
accounted for using the gross equity
method. These joint ventures are all 
stand-alone businesses, where AMEC
is in partnership with others, and are
independently funded with only limited
support from the shareholders.
The debt in PPP joint ventures is without
recourse to AMEC. As at 31 December 2004,
financial support was limited to equity
commitments of £12.8 million (2003: 
£30.5 million) and contingent equity of
£16.4 million (2003: £9.8 million). AMEC does
not believe that it will be called upon to
invest the contingent equity and believes
that its PPP projects are financially sound.
On 2 February 2005, AMEC disposed of
its investment in the Cross Israel Highway
for an amount close to its carrying value.
Importantly, this transaction released
AMEC from a number of commitments 
and guarantees which are referred to 
in note 29 to the accounts.
AMEC’s share of net debt in PPP companies
was £543.6 million as at 31 December 
2004 (2003: £441.9 million). Of this amount,
approximately £296.5 million relates to
operational concession companies, and this
amount reduced by £80.0 million following
the disposal of the Cross Israel investment. 
PPP equity commitments, including those
projects where AMEC is preferred bidder,
are approaching £60 million and the
investment of these funds is spread over
a five year period as illustrated to the right.
Whilst the equity is typically invested
towards the end of the construction phase, 
it does tie up bank facilities from day one 
as the lenders to the concession companies
require equity commitments to be backed
by letters of credit.
Having considered the future discounted
cash flows arising from AMEC’s PPP
concessions, the directors are of the view
that the net present value of the PPP
portfolio, excluding those contracts where
it is preferred bidder, is £77 million. The
valuation of the portfolio uses an average
discount rate (post-tax in the concession
company) of about 10.5 per cent, which 
is in line with the rates used to value PPP
investments in the secondary market. 
This compares with a book value at the
year end of £42 million. This value will, 
if AMEC retains the investments, flow
through the profit and loss account over
the next 15 years or so. If AMEC were to
sell the investments it would be realised
over a period of six to eight years.
Revaluation
Under UK GAAP, AMEC was required
to undertake an external revaluation
of its freehold and long leasehold land
and buildings as at 31 December 2004. 
The revaluation exercise resulted in a
surplus over book value of £9.6 million.
Cash flow and current liquidity
Average weekly net debt in 2004 was
£450 million (2003: £360 million).
As previously reported, this reflects
the temporary increase in capital employed
on several Oil and Gas contracts, the
planned reduction in AMEC’s traditional
construction activities, which in the past
have provided a good cash profile and
the expected funding of activities in Iraq,
which amounted to £24 million as
at 31 December 2004.
Closing net debt was £284 million
(2003: £218 million) reflecting the factors
noted above.
Operating and financial review
continued
Timing of PPP equity investment 
2005-2009 £m
* As at 10 March 2005, including preferred bids
Total equity commitment* £56.7 million
0
5
10
15
20
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Project Equity Investments
PPP equity profile £m
 30.3 30.5 4.9 65.7
 40.5 12.8 26.4 79.7
 33.5 12.8 43.9 90.2
31 Dec 
2003
31 Dec 
2004
10 Mar 
2005
Equity committed 
- financially  
 closed
Equity invested Equity committed
- preferred  
 bidder status
0 20 40 60 80  AMEC plc annual report 2004 37
Net debt has increased by some
£247 million over the last two years.
Of this amount £153 million has financed
the net cost of acquisitions and a further
£17 million has been absorbed with the
expected reduction in payments on account.
The profit conversion chart (illustrated to
the right) shows that over the eight years
ended 31 December 2003, cash matched
profit. The gap of some £80 million at the
end of 2004 is principally explained by the
cash tied up on Iraq work and on several
Oil and Gas projects. The position on these
projects is expected to improve in 2005,
although capital employed on Iraq work 
is likely to remain at similar levels for the
foreseeable future.
In July 2004, AMEC completed the
refinancing of some medium-term facilities
that were due to expire in the first half
of 2005. The new facility which is for a 
five year term, retains AMEC’s principal
covenants and is attractively priced.
On 20 January 2005, the company
successfully completed a placing of new
ordinary shares, which resulted in net
proceeds of £88 million. These were 
partly used to acquire Paragon, a Houston-
based oil and gas services company, for
approximately £20 million in cash.
AMEC has recently established a non-
recourse debtor securitisation programme 
in Continental Europe which is expected
to be substantially drawn by the end
of April 2005 and to generate about
£80 million of cash. AMEC SPIE had
a securitisation plan for a number of years
and this expired in late 2003. The delay
in implementing a new scheme was 
due to ensuring a suitable balance 
could be achieved between operational,
commercial and accounting considerations.
In 2005, the placing, together with the
proceeds from the securitisation and the
expected reduction in capital employed 
in Oil and Gas contracts, will be partially
offset by currently identified acquisitions
and investments and a reduction in 
advance payments. 
In aggregate, however, these are expected
to lead to a reduction in average weekly 
net debt in 2005 to around £350 million 
as illustrated in the chart below.
Group treasury policies
The group’s treasury department manages
the liquidity, funding and exposure to foreign
exchange risk in a manner which ensures
the most effective financing of the group’s
operations. It aims to reduce financial risks
arising from these operations to levels
acceptable to the board and manage
the residual risk, by the use of agreed
procedures and instruments. The treasury
department is a cost centre, and its activity
is aimed at preventing an increase
in financial risk above the levels inherent
in the underlying businesses.
The significant financial risks and exposures
to the group are in respect of liquidity,
interest rates and foreign currency. These
are managed by the treasury department
within a framework of policies and
guidelines authorised by the board.
Liquidity risk
Other than derivatives, the group’s financial
instruments comprise cash, liquid
resources and borrowings.
The group’s funding policy aims to ensure
the availability of an appropriate amount
of reasonably priced funding to meet
current requirements as well as future
growth anticipated within the group’s
budget and strategic plan. Accordingly,
the group aims to keep committed facilities
to a minimum of 125 per cent of peak
gross debt. The principal bank covenants
relate to interest cover and the ratio of net
debt to EBITDA. The board has approved
more stringent internal targets as being
appropriate for planning and managing 
the operations of the group for a minimum
interest cover of four times and a ratio 
of net debt to EBITDA not exceeding two.
Whilst the latter was exceeded in 2004, 
the board is confident that the ratio will 
fall below the target level in 2005.
Average weekly net debt in
2005 £m
-200
-250
-300
-350
-400
-450
Expected
reduction 
in Oil and
Gas capital
employed
Currently 
identified
acquisitions and 
Project Equity
Investments
Reduction 
in advance 
cash
Securitisation
Placing
Average net debt 2005
Average net debt 2004
Profit conversion £m
 1 Jan 1996 – 31 Dec 2004
Iraq £24m, Oil and Gas £40m Other
   * Profit excludes goodwill written off and amortisation
 ** Adjusted cash flow excludes acquisitions,  
     disposals  and share transactions, advance cash,   
     cash  retained in SPIE prior to March 2003 and      
       SSAP24 pension scheme accounting 
   
0 50 100 150 200 250
Cumulative retained profit* 
8 years 206
Cumulative adjusted cash flow**
8 years 234
Cumulative retained profit*  
9 years 227
Cumulative adjusted cash flow** 
9 years 147 64 16
 1 Jan 1996 – 31 Dec 2003 38 AMEC plc annual report 2004
AMEC had committed bank facilities, 
all of which are unsecured, of £861 million 
as at 31 December 2004. 
A core element of the group’s committed
facilities is always drawn. In addition,
drawings are made to match the underlying
business requirements, usually for periods
of between one and six months. 
Uncommitted and overdraft facilities
are used to manage day to day liquidity
requirements. Drawings are usually 
made in Sterling, and swapped into 
other currencies as required.
The average maturity of AMEC’s committed
facilities amounted to 47 months at the year
end (2003: 43 months) comfortably above the
board’s target of a minimum of 30 months.
Interest rate risk
The group finances its operations through
a mixture of equity, retained profit, cash
and debt facilities. The objectives of the
interest rate policy for the group is to ensure
a suitable match of its interest rate
characteristics to its underlying assets,
revenues and expenditures whilst ensuring
adequate interest cover is maintained
in line with board approved targets
and banking covenants.
Most borrowings are on a floating rate
basis, however, the rate of interest
on the private placement debt of some
£105 million is fixed. Recognising the need
to link interest rate risk to the underlying
businesses, the group has in addition used
interest rate swaps during the year to
convert a proportion of its floating rate debt
to fixed rate and vice versa. The group, as 
at 31 December 2004, had approximately
£81 million Sterling equivalent of interest
rate swaps, in a mixture of Sterling, US
dollars, Canadian dollars and Euros, with
an effective rate of 4.7 per cent and with a
weighted average of 25 months to maturity.
Using average net debt of £350 million, a
one per cent change in interest rates would
have an impact of around £2.5 million on
reported profit, mitigated in part by interest 
rate swaps.
Foreign exchange risk
The group is exposed to both transaction
and translation of foreign exchange risk.
Transaction exposures
A significant proportion of trading activity
is denominated in the relevant local
currency of the businesses matching the
currency of its cost base. Where contracts
are awarded, or involve costs in non local
currency, the group looks to mitigate
the foreign exchange risk arising through
the use of forward currency arrangements,
which may include the purchase of
currency options.
Translation exposures
As a Sterling-based group, AMEC now has
a significant part of its earnings denominated
in Euros whilst other currencies including
the US dollar play a secondary role.
In 2004, AMEC partially hedged the profit
and loss account against a fall in the Euro
and has done so again in 2005.
The group has various assets denominated
in foreign currency. The policy is to hedge
a proportion of the assets and unamortised
goodwill. Such hedging activity is undertaken
through foreign exchange swaps and
foreign currency borrowings.
At 31 December 2004, the principal
exposure was to assets denominated in 
US dollars, Canadian dollars and the Euro.
At that date, balance sheet hedges totalled
£263 million Sterling equivalent comprising
both foreign exchange swaps and currency
borrowings. The book value of the overseas
assets, including unamortised goodwill
was approximately £465 million as at 
31 December 2004.
Operating and financial review
continued  AMEC plc annual report 2004 39
FRS 17 ‘retirement benefits’
The FRS 17 pre-tax surplus of about
£120 million is in line with that calculated
using the bases prescribed by IAS 19.
Given the surplus in the principal pension
scheme, the adoption of IAS 19 will not
have an adverse impact on the company’s
ability to pay dividends.
Had AMEC adopted the requirements
of FRS 17, the pension cost charged
in the profit and loss account for the year
ended 31 December 2004 would have been
£8.5 million (2003: £10.8 million) some
£1.6 million (2003: £4.2 million) higher than
the SSAP 24 charge included in the accounts.
International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS)
Guidance given to the markets in terms
of AMEC’s outlook is currently based on
UK GAAP . AMEC intends to publish the
restated balance sheet as at 31 December
2003 and interim and year end accounts 
for 2004, in June 2005. From this time,
guidance will be based on IFRS. In overall
terms, the net assets are expected to
increase upon implementation of IFRS 
with no material impact expected on the
2004 results. 
AMEC’s transitional balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2003 will benefit by 
£20 million as a result of applying IAS 10, 
as dividends will no longer be accrued
in the balance sheet. The application of 
IAS 19 will also result in a further increase
in the net assets as a result of the pension
surplus in AMEC’s principal scheme. 
The net post tax pension adjustment 
is about £20 million.
No further adjustments are expected
in respect of deferred tax and no change
is expected to the way in which AMEC
values its fixed assets (other than ceasing
to revalue its property portfolio on
an ongoing basis) and joint ventures.
AMEC considers that all its short-term
property leases are of a standard nature
and will not require a finance lease
accounting treatment under IAS 17.
On the face of the income statement, 
AMEC will be required to report its 
share of results from joint ventures
as a one line item at the post tax level.
As a consequence the reported earnings
before interest and tax will reduce.
Under IFRS 2, AMEC will be required to
charge the income statement with the
value of options granted. The full impact 
of this standard is expected to result
in an annual charge of about £3 million. 
Goodwill will be subject to an annual
impairment test rather than annual
amortisation and whilst intangible assets
will have to be amortised, AMEC expects
the overall ongoing charge in the income
statement to be lower .
AMEC does not expect there to be any
change to the way it values work in progress
and applies its contract profit take policies
as a result of applying IAS 11.
AMEC has decided to adopt IAS 39 with
effect from 1 January 2005 and expects
that this will be the main contributor to 
any volatility in the income statement. 
The International Accounting Standards
Board has recently put forward its
proposals for accounting for service
concessions and AMEC is assessing the
potential impact of these and in addition
how IAS 39 might be applied to those
concessions that have interest or inflation
rate derivatives.
Stuart Siddall
Finance director
10 March 2005
International Financial Reporting
Standards
Main balance sheet Effect on
restatements net assets
IAS 10 – Dividends
IAS 19 – Pensions
IAS 12 – Deferred tax
IAS 16 – Plant and equipment
IAS 17 – Leases
IAS 31 – Joint ventures – PPP
IAS 39 – Financial instruments
Main profit and loss account Effect
restatements on EBIT
IAS 31 – Joint ventures – PPP
IFRS 2 – Share-based payments
IFRS 3 – Acquisitions (net)
IAS 11 – Construction contracts
IAS 19 – Pensions
IAS 39 – Financial instruments 40 AMEC plc annual report 2004
AMEC has, for a number of years, presented
itself as having three business segments.
Historically these have been Services,
Capital Projects and Investments. 
During 2004, the balance of AMEC’s
operations changed following the exit from
US Construction Management and the
disposal of the outstanding 49 per cent
interest in Spie Batignolles. 
In November 2004, AMEC was reclassified
to the Support Services Sector of the London
Stock Exchange by the FTSE Global
Classification Committee. These factors
resulted in the announcement of a revised
statutory segmental analysis which better
reflects the ongoing business portfolio.
The segments are Engineering and
Technical Services (“ETS”), Oil and Gas and
Project Solutions. Oil and Gas represents
such a substantial part of AMEC that it 
was considered that this merited separate
disclosure, making it easier for investors
to make a comparison with competitors
in this distinct market. The Oil and Gas
segment has been drawn from the former
Capital Projects and Services segments.
ETS is, in the main, the residual element
of the Services segment and Projects
Solutions is essentially what was Capital
Projects plus Investments. The latter
is vertically integrated with the projects
business and it was considered sensible
to absorb it in this segment. 
Under IFRS, AMEC’s primary segmentation
will be geographic, however, additional
data such as total operating profit and 
net assets will continue to be provided for
the business classes, which will become
AMEC’s secondary segmentation.
Segmental review
What’s in where
Engineering and Technical Services
Multitechnical Services
Environmental Services
Design and Engineering Services
Oil and Gas
Upstream
Downstream
Pipelines
Project Solutions
Construction Services
PPP
Developments
Wind Energy
Previous segmental analysis
Services
Services/Capital Projects
Capital Projects
Investments AMEC plc annual report 2004 41
Engineering and 
T echnical Services
Total turnover in 2004 increased by over
17 per cent, mainly reflecting growth in the
Multitechnical and Environmental Services
businesses and the consolidation of SPIE
for a full 12 months. Total operating profit
increased by 7.9 per cent to £75.3 million.
The Multitechnical Services business
reported another robust performance
and the Environmental Services business
reported record results. 
There was a good contribution from some
of the UK term contracts and framework
agreements with project management
activities in Iraq making a useful contribution.
Despite encouraging signs earlier
in the year, the performance of AMEC’s
North American Design and Engineering
operations was mixed. The level of
contribution from major industrial projects 
resulted in a decline in the overall margin
in this segment and in response the cost
base has been addressed. Costs of about
£2 million have been incurred in 2004 and a
further £1.5 million will be spent in 2005.
ETS margin improvement is expected
in 2005 as a result of additions to the
European branch network over the last
12 to 18 months, and as a result of
reducing the North American cost base.
This segment reported net liabilities as 
at 31 December 2004. This was due to
property disposals in France, a large
payment on account received immediately
prior to the year end, offset by the capital
employed on Iraq work.
Most of the businesses have no forward
order book and as such the most
meaningful indicator of future performance
is the relationship between order intake
and sales. Order intake exceeded sales
in 2004 and this gives confidence for 2005.
ETS margin is expected 
to improve in 2005
Engineering and Technical
Services
47% of total 
turnover in 2004*
43% of total 
operating profit
in 2004
Total turnover £m
04 2,293.8
03 1,952.7
Total operating profit £m
04 75.3
03 69.8
2004 2003
£m £m
Total turnover 2,293.8 1,952.7
Total operating profit 75.3 69.8
Margin 3.3% 3.6%
Net (liabilities) assets (8.1) 27.2
* Before internal turnover 42 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Oil and Gas
The result for 2004 represented a solid
overall performance and was similar to
2003. Total turnover decreased by over
£100 million reflecting changes in the way
oil and gas majors are procuring their
fabrication activities, which is increasingly
from Far East companies.
A cautious approach to profit recognition
continues to be taken on some Oil and Gas
projects. This is offset to some extent
by the improved performance of the gas
distribution business, following actions
taken in 2003 to bring costs in line with
lower levels of activity. 
AMEC is focusing on higher-value front-
end design, procurement and project
management services. This requires 
less external subcontract work, thereby
reducing AMEC’s reported turnover but this
does have a favourable impact on margin.
In addition, contracts of this nature have
better margins and carry less risk.
Whilst a substantial sum was received
prior to the year end, the net assets
remained higher than normal as at the
end of 2004. Further progress is expected
in 2005 and net assets can be expected
to return to more normal levels.
The order book at £1.3 billion was slightly
ahead of that at the end of 2003. This is
despite the run off of large turnkey projects
and reflects increased levels of engineering
activity, which is an encouraging sign for the
future. The order book excludes an eight
year alliance contract worth approximately
£280 million which was secured from
National Grid Transco early in 2005.
Segmental review
continued 
Capital employed in Oil and Gas 
is expected to decline in 2005
Oil and Gas
25% of total 
turnover in 2004*
33% of total 
operating profit
in 2004
Total turnover £m
04 1,212.1
03 1,350.0
Total operating profit £m
04 57.2
03 58.2
2004 2003
£m £m
Total turnover 1,212.1 1,350.0
Total operating profit 57.2 58.2
Margin 4.7% 4.3%
Net assets 129.2 76.5
* Before internal turnover AMEC plc annual report 2004 43
Project Solutions
Total turnover was reduced by the strategic
decision to exit non core construction. The
remaining activities are close to what should
be regarded as core and typically represent
those where AMEC can add value. 
The performance of the Project Equity
Investments business offset lower levels
of activity in UK roads and non-core
construction activities.
AMEC continues to see PPP opportunities
in both the UK and overseas. Recently, 
it has been appointed preferred bidder 
on three UK PPP projects with a value to
AMEC in excess of £600 million. In addition,
AMEC is preferred bidder on the Incheon
Bridge Project in Korea where it has a
project management role.
The Developments business performed
satisfactorily. Significant progress was
made in submitting planning applications
for urban regeneration schemes. AMEC
expects to secure consents for three million
square feet of mixed use developments 
for its joint ventures in 2005.
The Wind Energy business continues to
make good progress on its projects with 
the submission of planning applications for
projects involving some 800 MW of potential
capacity. Whilst the costs incurred in 
the development phase have an impact 
on the results of this segment, AMEC 
remains confident that future returns 
will be attractive.
The total operating profit excludes the gain
of several million pounds that arose from
the disposal of subordinated debt in a 
PPP concession company that has been
included within the interest line.
This segment will include gains made on the
disposal of interests in PPP and Wind Energy
activities as it remains AMEC’s intention to
consider the disposal of such interests as
they reach financial maturity as long as the
post-tax returns are attractive. To date, AMEC
has realised £17 million from disposals and
reported a cumulative profit of £9 million.
The overall margin is in line with
expectations for this business segment
with total operating profit slightly ahead 
of last year .
The increase in net assets reflects the
unwinding of the cash position following 
the exit from non-core construction
activities, reduced levels of advance cash
and increased PPP equity investment.
The order book was virtually stable year
on year at £1.1 billion with an increase
in the UK offsetting a decline in North
America. The order book only includes
projects that have been awarded and
therefore excludes those PPP contracts
where AMEC has recently secured
preferred bidder status. The order book
also excludes the concession income
streams of PPP projects.
The portfolio of Project Equity 
Investments is poised to deliver growth
Project Solutions
28% of total 
turnover in 2004*
24% of total 
operating profit
in 2004
Total turnover £m
04 1,368.4
03 1,487.1
Total operating profit £m
04 41.4
03 40.2
2004 2003
£m £m
Total turnover 1,368.4 1,487.1
Total operating profit 41.4 40.2
Margin 3.0% 2.7%
Net assets 65.9 10.3
* Before internal turnover 44 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Report of the directors
The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report and
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Business review
Information on the businesses of AMEC, their development during
the year and on the future outlook is contained on pages 1 to 43.
An analysis of AMEC’s activities is given in note 2 on pages 
61 and 62.
The profit on ordinary activities after taxation, which amounted 
to £22.6 million (2003: £60.8 million), is shown in the consolidated
profit and loss account on page 55. 
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 7.2 pence (2003: 
6.9 pence) per share be paid which, together with the interim dividend
of 3.8 pence (2003: 3.6 pence), results in a total dividend for the year
of 11.0 pence (2003: 10.5 pence) per share. Dividends amounted to 
£34.8 million (2003: £30.7 million). The final dividend will be payable 
on 1 July 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business
on 13 May 2005.
On 6 May 2004, AMEC announced that, following a strategic review,
it would exit from the US construction management market.
On 22 June 2004, the disposal of the remaining 49 per cent
shareholding in SPIE Batignolles S.A., its France – based regional
construction business, was completed.
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the company as at 
31 December 2004 and movements during the year are set out 
in note 21 on page 71. 
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2002 annual general
meeting to allot up to £49,790,640 of ordinary share capital, of which
up to £7,204,249 could be allotted for cash other than by way of 
a rights issue. This authority extends until 8 May 2007.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares other
than in respect of the exercise of share options. No issue will be
made which will effectively alter the control of the company without
the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 10 will be proposed at the annual general meeting, to 
be held on 18 May 2005, to grant authority to the directors to make
market purchases of up to 10 per cent of the company’s shares
within prescribed limits. No such purchases were made in 2004 
or up to the date of this report pursuant to the authority granted 
at last year’s annual general meeting. 
The directors will only exercise such authority to purchase shares 
if circumstances arise in which they consider purchases would be 
of benefit to the company. No purchase would be made unless the
directors are of the view that it would result in an increase in earnings
per share. The directors will also take into account the company’s
cash resources, the effect on gearing and other possible investment
opportunities before exercising this authority.
Resolution 11, which is covered in further detail in the appendix 
to the notice of annual general meeting, relates to the introduction 
of the Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2005, to replace the
existing scheme which expires in June 2005. Authority is also sought
to introduce an International Savings Related Share Option Scheme,
which is substantially the same as the UK scheme. The International
scheme requires specific shareholder approval in order that employees
in the United States and France can enjoy beneficial tax treatment.
Resolution 12, covered further in the directors’ remuneration report,
amends the rules of the Performance Share Plan 2002 to increase
the individual limit of shares which may be awarded to an executive
in any one year from one times to two times salary.  AMEC plc annual report 2004 45
Employees
In 2004, AMEC employed on average 43,660 people worldwide. 
Details are given in note 6 on page 63.
The development of employees, to ensure that AMEC has the
necessary skills and behaviours to deliver its strategic business
objectives and to provide for management succession, is given high
priority. In addition, recognising the importance for the future of
bringing young people into the group, all businesses have well
established programmes for recruiting and developing graduates
and other trainees. 
Respect for cultural diversity and equal opportunities are included
among AMEC’s Guiding Principles which are incorporated into
management policies and processes worldwide. The policy is to
recruit from the widest labour market, determining the careers 
of all employees solely on merit and making judgements about
employees, free from the effects of bias and prejudice. 
It is AMEC’s policy to consider for employment suitably qualified
disabled people and to assist them in overcoming handicaps at work.
AMEC recognises that special arrangements are necessary, in view
of the nature of its main activities, to ensure that disabled employees
are properly trained for the tasks they perform. AMEC endeavours 
to retrain any employee who develops a disability during employment,
wherever practicable.
Internal communication is a priority for AMEC, as employees carry
forward AMEC’s knowledge, brand and reputation. AMEC provides
numerous direct or electronic opportunities for employees to raise
issues and discuss matters of concern with management.
Employees share knowledge and are kept informed of developments
within AMEC through various means, including its intranet AMECnet,
internal publications, best practice groups, news bulletins and
announcements. A global conference of senior managers is held
each year to discuss developing issues. 
The company operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related
share option scheme open to all eligible UK employees. Shareholders’
approval was given at the 2002 annual general meeting to also make
the scheme available to overseas employees and the first launch 
of the scheme is scheduled to be made in North America and certain
European countries during 2005.
Substantial interests
Pursuant to Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, notifications have
been received by the company of shareholdings of three per cent 
or more of the issued share capital as at 10 March 2005 and these
are as follows:
Number Per cent
ToscaFund Limited 28,714,088 8.65
FMR Corp./Fidelity International Limited 21,430,039 6.45
Legal & General Investment
Management Limited 11,160,201 3.36
Where relevant, the percentage shareholdings have been adjusted
from that notified to the company to reflect the increased share
capital resulting from the placing of 30,164,357 shares announced 
on 20 January 2005.
Directors
Details of the directors of the company at the date of this report are
set out on pages 22 and 23.
Mr S Gillibrand retired from the board on 21 January 2004 and
Mr J M Green-Armytage replaced him as chairman on that date.
Mr P J Byrom and Mr T W Faithfull were appointed to the board
as non-executive directors on 10 February 2005. In accordance with
article 91 of the articles of association of the company, Mr Byrom
and Mr Faithfull will retire from office at the forthcoming annual
general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
They do not have employment contracts with the company.
Sir Peter Mason and Mr J D Early retire in accordance with article 
85 of the articles of association of the company and, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election. Sir Peter and Mr Early have
employment contracts with the company terminable by one year’s
notice by either party.
The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of the
directors holding office as at 31 December 2004 were as follows:
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2004 2003
Number Number
J M Green-Armytage 10,000 10,000
Sir Peter Mason 90,669 86,458
J D Early 53,347 49,382
J A Monville 19,809 13,143
E P Airey 18,120 18,120
J A Dallas 2,000 2,000
M O Hesse 16,414 16,414
S J Siddall 24,307 17,641
J-P Jacamon 10,000 10,000
C A Riva 23,000 –
Except for interests under share option schemes, the Long-Term
Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan, details of which 
are contained in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 49 
to 54, no director as at 31 December 2004 had any other interests,
beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital of the company or any 
of its subsidiaries.
There were no changes in the directors’ interests in the share capital
of the company between 31 December 2004 and 10 March 2005.
No director was materially interested in any contract of significance
to AMEC’s businesses. 46 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Corporate governance
The board is responsible to the shareholders for the management
of the company and for the protection of its assets. As such,
it is ultimately responsible for putting in place AMEC’s systems
of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. These
systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives and consequently can
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
Combined Code compliance 
Following the issue in January 2003 of the reports by Derek Higgs
on ‘Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors’
and by Sir Robert Smith on ‘Audit Committees – Combined Code
Guidance’, a new Combined Code was issued in July 2003. The new
Combined Code applies for reporting years beginning on or after
1 November 2003. Consequently the first year for which the company
is required to comply is the year ended 31 December 2004. 
As noted in last year’s annual report, AMEC carried out a detailed
review of the impact of the new Combined Code on the way in which
its board and committees carry out their responsibilities. Following
this review, the board considered that, as at 1 January 2004, it had
taken the necessary steps to put appropriate processes in place
to comply with the revised Combined Code throughout 2004. 
As at 31 December 2004, the board is able to confirm that the
company has complied with the relevant provisions of the revised
Combined Code except as follows: 
The revised Code requires there to be a “balance of executive and
non-executive directors (and in particular independent non-executive
directors) such that no individual or small group of individuals can
dominate the board’s decision taking”. Following the resignation
of Mr S Gillibrand and the subsequent appointment of Mr J M Green-
Armytage, who was previously senior independent director, to the
position of chairman on 21 January 2004, there has been an
imbalance of executive and non-executive directors, with five
executives and four non-executives. The board does not consider 
that this imbalance has impaired its effectiveness in any way. Two
new independent non-executive directors, Mr T W Faithfull and
Mr P J Byrom, were appointed to the board on 10 February 2005,
following an extensive executive search undertaken by Hanson Green
on behalf of the board.
The company has interests in a number of joint ventures, associates
and joint arrangements. Controls within these entities may not be
reviewed as part of AMEC’s formal corporate governance process
because of the joint management responsibilities but are reviewed
as part of the normal internal audit process. 
Management and Policy Framework
AMEC’s businesses are managed on a decentralised basis. Whilst
the board has retained reserve powers, the day-to-day management
has been passed to the business leaders, within defined authority
limits. The management philosophy is to empower the business
leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the company’s
operational business objectives within the AMEC Management and
Policy Framework, which establishes the standards AMEC employees
and contracting staff are expected to meet. 
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
Mr J M Green-Armytage, chairman, wrote to all major shareholders
shortly after his appointment in January 2004 informing them that
he and the senior independent director, Ms E P Airey, were available
for meetings or telephone calls with them if required. The chairman
attends preliminary and interim results presentations. Ms Airey is
available to attend, if requested, one-on-one meetings with major
shareholders. During 2004, the chairman had meetings with
representatives from two major institutional investors, one in
conjunction with Ms Airey.
An in-depth annual perception study of investors’ views, prepared
by an independent third party, is presented to all board members,
who also receive unexpurgated feedback reports following shareholder
meetings or events together with all material brokers’ research
notes on the company.
The board
For the majority of 2004, the board comprised the non-executive
chairman, five executive directors and four independent non-
executive directors. Two new independent non-executive directors
were appointed to the board in February 2005 (see pages 22 and 23
for biographical details). 
The company does not combine the role of chairman and chief
executive. The chairman is responsible for the running of the board,
with the chief executive being responsible for running the group 
and implementing board strategy and policy. This ensures a clear
division of responsibilities at the head of the company, so that no
individual has unfettered powers of decision. The independent non-
executive directors review the relationship between the chairman
and chief executive each year to ensure that the relationship is
working effectively.
The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent
by the board. They are not employed by the company in any capacity,
nor have they been in the past. Ms E P Airey has acted as the board’s
senior independent director since 21 January 2004, when she
replaced Mr J M Green-Armytage in that role. The company
secretary is responsible for ensuring that board procedures are
followed and all directors have access to his advice and services. 
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval,
covering areas such as company strategy, the appointment of key
executives, approval of accounts, approval of the business plan,
budget and financial policies, review of operating results, risk
management strategy, ensuring the effectiveness of governance
practices, succession planning and significant capital expenditure.
The board is supplied in a timely manner with information which
enables it to discharge its duties.
An external review of the effectiveness of the board and its committees
was carried out during the year by Spencer Stuart by way of interviews
with individual directors. Findings were considered by the board
as part of its review of both collective and individual board member
performance. No material changes were identified as being necessary
as a result of this exercise. The independent non-executive directors
also met privately both with and without the chairman present and
also with both the chairman and chief executive together to consider
management performance and succession issues. A formal process
exists for the directors to take independent professional advice
and receive appropriate training in the course of their duties,
at the company’s expense, organised by the company secretary.
Report of the directors
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 47
The committee also regularly reviews board succession planning,
in conjunction with reports from the chief executive and corporate
human resources director on senior management succession planning,
so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained
both within AMEC and on the board. 
Remuneration committee – Sets, and reviews as necessary, 
the overall contractual and remuneration framework for the
chairman, the executive directors and the company secretary,
including pension rights and annual bonus incentives. 
It considers and determines such other matters relating to the
engagement of the chief executive and other executive directors
(including matters relating to the enforcement of their service
contracts and payments on termination) as the chairman, in respect
of the chief executive, and the chief executive, in respect of the other
executive directors, refer to the committee. 
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new chairman 
or executive director . 
It reviews the salaries of executive directors annually and the
chairman biennially, or more frequently as is deemed necessary
by the committee chairman. It agrees the performance targets
of executive directors and the levels of bonus to be paid to them
under the annual bonus incentive scheme. 
It determines and agrees with the chief executive the remuneration
policy and structure, including annual bonus, for corporate functional
executives and deputy operational executives immediately below
board level. 
It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards
for any executive share based incentive scheme.
The following table is a record of the directors’ attendance at board
and principal board committee meetings during the year ended
31 December 2004. Mr Gillibrand attended one board meeting prior 
to his retirement on 21 January 2004.
AMEC plc Audit Nominations Remuneration
Board committee committee committee
Number of meetings 9 4 1 5
J M Green-Armytage91
Sir Peter Mason 9 1
J D Early 9
J A Monville 9
E P Airey 8 4 1 5
J A Dallas 9 4 1 5
M O Hesse 8 3 1 5
S J Siddall 9
J-P Jacamon 9 4 1 4
C A Riva 9
Charities committee – Makes commitments and donations
in support of charitable, educational and cultural causes. 
Compliance and ethics committee – Considers and approves
the codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements
and takes responsibility for management of investigations of
violations, as required. 
Share transaction committee – Provides clearance or denies
permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC plc shares. 
Board committees
Under AMEC’s Management and Policy Framework, the board has
formally delegated specific responsibilities to various committees,
all of which have written terms of reference. The remit of each
committee is set out below. The quorum is generally three directors. 
Full details of the constitution and remit of the audit, nominations
and remuneration committees can be found under “corporate
governance” on www.amec.com. 
The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows: 
Audit committee – Reviews the integrity, including the material
financial reporting judgements, of the company’s accounts, including
the annual and interim results, related report and accounts and Stock
Exchange announcements and any other formal announcements 
in connection with the company’s financial performance, and
recommends their approval to the board. 
It also reviews the company’s internal financial controls and, 
in conjunction with the risk review committee, the internal control
and risk management systems. 
The committee has unrestricted access to company documents 
and meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other
member of staff, without the executive directors being present, 
as required. The head of internal audit formally reports to the
committee chairman. 
It reviews the head of internal audit’s regular reports and, during
2004, carried out an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal
audit function. This assessment was carried out by the audit
committee primarily by way of a self-assessment by the head of
internal audit, following guidance set out by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England & Wales (ICAEW) in “Evaluating the
Effectiveness of Internal Audit”, published in November 2003. 
The audit committee will commission an independent review 
of the internal audit function in 2005. 
The committee considers the appointment, re-appointment, removal,
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor and
makes recommendations to the board. It discusses the scope and
planning of the external audit and reviews the outcome of the
external audit and any formal communications from the external
auditors, including internal control reports. 
The committee also formally reviews and monitors the external
auditor’s independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of
the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional
and regulatory requirements and makes recommendations to the
board. During 2004 a review, co-ordinated on behalf of the committee
by the head of internal audit, was carried out. The audit committee
has also monitored the implementation of the policy on the engagement
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, which was
introduced in 2003. This policy follows the guidelines set out by the
ICAEW and clearly defines what work can and cannot be performed
by any group company’s statutory auditor . It also sets out the necessary
approval process for those non-audit services that are acceptable. 
All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided
by the auditor are reported to the audit committee. During 2004,
the fees paid to the company’s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its
associates, for non-audit work were £0.7 million (2003: £0.8 million),
which comprised £0.6 million primarily relating to taxation and
£0.1 million for other work (2003: £0.6 million and £0.2 million).
In addition to the above amounts, fees of £0.2 million (2003: 
£1.2 million) were paid to KPMG Audit Plc in connection with 
due diligence undertaken on acquisitions.
Nominations committee – Makes recommendations to the board
concerning the appointment or termination of a director or the
company secretary and, in the case of a non-executive director
and the chairman, the extension of an existing appointment.  48 AMEC plc annual report 2004
The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows:
Banking committee – Reviews and approves facilities for
borrowing, guarantees, bonds, indemnities and employee bridging
loans and also interest rate and foreign exchange hedging strategies
within authority limits set by the board.
Corporate transactions committee – Considers acquisitions and
disposals of businesses and provides guidelines in respect of such
transactions within authority limits set by the board.
Pensions and retirement benefits committee – Reviews proposals
relating to new arrangements, amendments, discontinuance, funding
or any other matters relating to pension and retirement benefits. 
Risk review committee – Approves the AMEC plc risk register,
the AMEC plc risk transfer policy and proposals to enter into
contractual commitments that fall outside the delegated authority
limits of the executive directors. 
Risk management processes
The board, through the committees described above and at its
regular meetings, has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating
and managing significant risks faced by the company, including
strategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions
and disposals, as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following
a structured and documented review of potential opportunities
and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any
residual risk exposure. 
AMEC uses a seven-step Total Risk Management process and 
has incorporated it into the Management and Policy Framework. 
The process involves the identification of risks at the gross and net
level by each business and each corporate function. The risks are
recorded in separate risk registers for each business unit and each
function to enable the net positions to be pro-actively managed. The
highest risks based on probability and impact are then consolidated
into an overall risk register for AMEC plc, which is reviewed in detail
by the board on an ongoing basis. The risk management process
accommodates mergers, acquisitions and disposals as well as entry
to and exit from different markets. 
Report of the directors
continued
Risk management within AMEC is coordinated via the risk management
forum, which meets at least twice yearly. The forum consists of risk
managers/sponsors for the businesses and heads of corporate
functions and has the remit to report to the risk review committee of
the board at least annually. It also reviews progress made in embedding
risk management throughout the company, dissemination of best
practice and communication of lessons learned. 
The risk management and internal control processes are complemented
by an annual control risk self-assessment exercise carried out by
the principal businesses. This covers major risks, particularly safety,
health and environment, legal, commercial and contractual, financial,
information technology and human resources. The results are reviewed
by the board, through both the audit committee and the executive
directors, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process. 
The risk management processes were in place for the whole of 2004,
and up to the date of approval of the accounts, and satisfy the
requirements of the Turnbull guidance.
Going concern
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company
and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate
to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the accounts.
Creditor payment policy
Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions under
which transactions with their suppliers are conducted. It is group
policy that payments to suppliers are generally made in accordance
with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier complies
with all of its obligations in this regard. 
The company had 38 days’ purchases outstanding as at 31 December
2004 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during
the year .
Donations
Donations to United Kingdom charities amounted to £132,000 for the
year ended 31 December 2004. 
Auditors
A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for the
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company. 
Post balance sheet events
In January 2005, AMEC announced the successful placing of
30,164,397 new shares, just under 10 per cent of the issued 
share capital.
In January 2005, AMEC acquired Paragon Engineering Services Inc.
(now AMEC Paragon Inc.) a Houston-based oil and gas engineering
services company.
By order of the board
P J Holland
Secretary
10 March 2005
Note
Since 10 March 2005, FMR Corp./Fidelity International Limited have
notified further increases in their interests and on 30 March 2005
notified an interest of 34,212,407 shares (10.30%). There were no 
other changes in either the directors’ interests or in the substantial
interests in the share capital of the company between 10 March 2005
and 31 March 2005. AMEC plc annual report 2004 49
Directors’ remuneration
report
annual bonuses which incentivise the achievement of stretching
business and individual performance targets and offer the opportunity
to achieve upper quartile annual cash earnings if these targets
are achieved; and 
medium and long-term incentives which align the interests
of shareholders and senior executives by offering the latter the
opportunity to accumulate significant capital over a period but 
only if stretching shareholder value targets are met.
More than half of the overall remuneration package is therefore
performance related.
Executive directors’ base salaries and annual bonuses
The base salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually,
having regard to personal performance, company performance,
competitive market practice as determined by external research
and pay levels more broadly within the company. The following
salaries have been approved from 1 January 2005, representing
an average increase of approximately five per cent:
Sir Peter Mason £610,000
J D Early £277,500
J A Monville (€546,000 equivalent) £386,500
S J Siddall £360,000
C A Riva £475,000
All executive directors participate in the AMEC executive annual
bonus plan which generates bonus payments calculated by reference
to each of the following:
the profit achievement of the group, with a target level of bonus
payable for achieving budget and the maximum pay-out requiring
achievement of a more stretching target;
the achievement of other specific business targets, including cash
flow and business unit profit; and 
individual performance objectives (for example, in relation
to safety, strategy and organisational issues).
A separate amount of bonus attaches to each of these components.
The proportions vary between individuals depending on their specific
executive roles. In addition, 10 per cent may be allocated to allow
recognition of how participants have responded to changing
circumstances during the year which cannot necessarily be addressed
by predefined targets. The maximum potential annual bonus is
80 per cent of base salary. In every case the profit and other business
target components represent more than half of the potential total.
No elements of remuneration other than base salary are pensionable
other than for Mr Monville, who is 60, and whose base salary and
ordinary annual bonus, up to a maximum of 60 per cent of base
salary, are pensionable. Mr Monville’s pension arrangements are
covered on page 54 of this report. These arrangements are common
for senior executives in France and are a contractual obligation that
AMEC inherited with the acquisition of SPIE S.A. 
In the senior management group immediately below board level, 
no executive has a base salary or total remuneration higher than 
any executive director .
This report covers the remuneration of executive and non-executive
directors and related matters, including long-term incentive awards. 
Remuneration committee membership and advisers
During the year, the members of the remuneration committee,
any three of whom may form a quorum, comprised Mr J A Dallas
(chairman), Ms E P Airey, Ms M O Hesse and Mr J-P Jacamon.
In accordance with the Combined Code regulations, the chairman,
Mr J M Green-Armytage, attends meetings by invitation but is not
a member of the remuneration committee.
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee takes
account of recommendations from the chairman in respect of the
chief executive and from the chief executive in respect of other
executives and is advised by the group human resources director . 
During 2004, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (“New Bridge Street”)
continued to provide standing advice to the committee in connection
with its responsibilities. New Bridge Street does not carry out
additional work for the company. The terms of engagement between
the company and New Bridge Street are available from the company
secretary. Monks Partnership, in relation to the UK, and Towers
Perrin, particularly in relation to France and the USA, provided
market remuneration and benefits reports covering various levels
of management which, in respect of the executive directors, were
reviewed by New Bridge Street. 
Remuneration policy
The objective of the remuneration policy, in respect of the executive
directors and other senior executives, is to offer remuneration
packages that are competitive in the markets in which the executives
are based and which:
allow AMEC to attract and retain senior executives of high
calibre; and
incentivise senior executives to achieve superior short-term
performance and increase the medium and long-term value of AMEC
for its shareholders and encourage executives to build and retain
a significant shareholding in AMEC.
Remuneration packages comprise:
base salaries which broadly equate to the mid-market salary
practices of a relevant group of support services, engineering
and construction comparator companies and other companies
regarded as comparable by virtue of, amongst other factors,
turnover, employee numbers, market capitalisation and/or
geographic coverage; 50 AMEC plc annual report 2004
The present economic value of performance share awards made
on this basis in 2004 has been assessed by Watson Wyatt LLP
as 40 per cent of face value.
Awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 are made
at an option price based on the market value at the time of grant
and are subject to meeting earnings per share (“EPS”) performance
conditions measured over a fixed three year period as detailed below. 
Face value of shares EPS performance – Percentage of
under option growth per annum award vesting
Up to RPI +3 per cent 25 per cent
1 x base salary to RPI +5 per cent to 100 per cent
Any award above RPI +5 per cent 0 per cent
1 x base salary to RPI +9 per cent to 100 per cent
Once exercisable, options may be exercised up to the tenth
anniversary of the date of grant.
The present economic value of options granted on this basis in 2004
has been assessed by Watson Wyatt LLP as 17.5 per cent of face value.
During the transition to international financial reporting standards,
the Remuneration Committee will aim to ensure that performance
measurement for remuneration purposes will be consistent year
on year .
In addition, executive directors may participate in relevant all-
employee share plans which provide options, without performance
conditions, related to savings contracts with an aggregate limit 
of £250 maximum savings per month. 
Executive directors’ pension entitlements and benefits
The executive directors, except for Mr J A Monville, are members
of the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme and have top-up benefits
provided through the AMEC Executive Pension Scheme. The
schemes are both approved defined benefit schemes and also
provide for life assurance cover and dependants’ pensions. These
executive directors have a normal retirement age of 60 and accrue
pension rights which are linked to the length of pensionable service
and to final pensionable salary.
The benefits of Sir Peter Mason, Mr S J Siddall and Mr C A Riva
are restricted to take account of the earnings cap and they receive
a taxable supplement to their salaries in relation to earnings above
the cap. There are no funded or unfunded unapproved arrangements
in force for executive directors.
The review of policy on UK executive pensions has still to be
concluded following the introduction of the new tax regime that
comes into force in April 2006, but the Remuneration Committee
currently believes that:
Pensions should not be provided routinely in excess of the
Life Time Allowance;
The payment of any tax liability of employees will be the
responsibility of the individual and not AMEC;
The scheme design going forward should be aimed at achieving
a benefit equivalent to the life-time limit over 20 years service for
those executives who would currently have a 1/30ths accrual rate
and 30 years for those with a 1/45ths accrual rate. This would involve
applying a new scheme-specific earnings cap i.e. only earnings up 
to a certain level will be used to calculate the final salary-related
pension; and
Salary supplements may continue to be used, where appropriate.
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued
Executive directors’ long-term incentives
AMEC has in recent years operated two long-term incentive
arrangements, the Performance Share Plan 2002 and the Executive
Share Option Scheme 2002. In the light of market practice and
the introduction of international financial reporting standards, it has
been concluded that forward practice should be to make annual
awards of performance shares only. Major shareholders have been
consulted on this change of policy and as a result AMEC will be
seeking approval at the annual general meeting to increase the limit
of annual awards under the Performance Share Plan to a maximum
face value of two times’ salary, with the continuing proviso that
the present economic value (“PEV”) of all long-term incentive awards
to an individual in any year cannot exceed one times annual base
salary (PEV is an assessment of the value today of an award, taking
account of various factors including the likelihood of vesting, using
an adaptation of the Black Scholes option pricing model). Subject
to shareholders approving this proposal, in future share options would
only be granted in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
Assuming such approval, AMEC’s policy for 2005 and beyond will be
to make awards each year to executive directors, and to a very small
number of other senior executives just below board level, of restricted
shares with a value at the time of award of up to 175 per cent of base
salary. In addition participants will be offered a further award, up
to a maximum of 25 per cent of base salary, of five restricted shares
for every three purchased from their previous year’s post-tax bonus
and held on their behalf as investment shares for the full three year
performance period. Awards are also made to a wider group of
executives, with lower levels of face value to reflect seniority and
contribution. Awards are not normally made to those within
12 months of retirement and, where the individual is within three years
of retirement, the size of award has regard to the executive’s ability
to contribute to the achievement of the performance conditions.
These restricted shares will only vest if pre-determined performance
conditions are met. For full vesting, the requirement is for AMEC
to be ranked in the top quartile of total shareholder return, measured
over a three year period, of a comparator group. This comprises the
companies (approximately 40 in number) that, at the time of grant of
each award, are in the FTSE All Share Business Support, Environmental
Control, Other Construction and Oil Services sub-sectors, and whose
market capitalisations lie between £250 million and £3,000 million
(or such other range spanning that of AMEC as may be agreed from
time to time). If AMEC’s performance is at the median, 25 per cent 
of the award will vest. 100 per cent of the award will vest at upper
quartile. Between the median and the upper quartile, the award 
will vest on a straight-line basis. No awards will vest if AMEC’s
performance is below median. As a further threshold condition, 
to ensure that the company’s underlying performance is properly
reflected, no awards will vest if AMEC’s earnings per share have
grown by less than the rate of inflation plus six percentage points
over the three year period. 
These performance conditions are intended to focus executives’
attention on the return that AMEC is delivering to its shareholders
over the medium-term relative to broadly comparable alternative
companies in which shareholders could have invested. Lists of the
comparator companies for the awards that lapsed during the year
and those awards currently subsisting can be obtained on request
from the company secretary. AMEC plc annual report 2004 51
Mr Monville is a member of the SPIE top-up scheme for senior
executives, which provides additional pension of up to 20 per cent
of pensionable salary on top of the French compulsory social
security and industry arrangements, subject to an aggregate limit
of 50 per cent of pensionable pay at retirement. Due to French tax
rules, this additional pension does not vest until the point of retirement.
Mr Monville may retire with the agreement of AMEC from age 60
and must retire by age 65.
Employment related benefits, principally the provision of a company
car or car allowance, life assurance and private medical expenses
insurance, are also provided to executive directors. 
Executive directors’ employment contracts
AMEC’s policy is that on appointment, executive directors will
normally be employed with a notice period of one year . In the event 
of employment being terminated with less notice than this, damages
will be determined at the time taking account of the circumstances
leading up to the termination and the individual’s duty to mitigate
his loss. Mr C A Riva who was appointed in August 2003 has a
contract on this basis.
During 2001 the Remuneration Committee decided to change the
policy on notice periods from two years to one year . Sir Peter Mason,
Mr J D Early and Mr S J Siddall, had employment contracts with
notice periods of two years. These were reduced by agreement to
one year from 1 January 2003 without compensation but with
provision that if the company terminates employment (other than for
gross misconduct), rather than receiving notice, the individual will be
entitled to one year’s remuneration (less tax) as liquidated damages
in full and final settlement. For this purpose and, as a reasonable
estimate of loss, remuneration is defined as 1.75 times basic annual
salary to take account of salary, bonus potential, pension arrangements,
the value of benefits and compensation for loss of office.
Mr J A Monville is employed by SPIE S.A. as chairman. As a
governing executive (mandataire social) any compensation for loss 
of office would be subject to negotiation under French law.
External directorships 
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external directorships
without the prior approval of the board. Sir Peter Mason is a non-
executive director of BAe Systems plc. He retains the fee of £50,000
per annum which he receives in relation to this appointment. 
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors receive fees for their services and do not
participate in any of the incentive or benefit schemes of the group,
other than Mr J M Green-Armytage who is provided with life
assurance cover of four times the Inland Revenue pensions earnings
cap. The chairman’s current fee is £200,000 per annum. 
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by
the chairman and the executive directors under delegated authority
from the board. The current fee is £30,000 per annum plus a further
£5,000 per annum in respect of chairing one or more committees
of the board. Additional fees are payable for days in excess of 20 per
annum at the rate of £1,500 per day. 
Following a review of governance, a change has been made
to the board’s policy in relation to the term of office of non-executive
directors. The board has concluded that, given the changed
emphasis of the company to an increasingly complex international
long-term project management and services business, it is appropriate
that non-executive director appointments should be for three
consecutive three year terms, subject to review after the end of each
term. The previous policy was that appointments should be for three
years with provision for a review on expiry and that any extended
term would normally be for no greater than three years, however
further renewal could be made in exceptional circumstances.
The non-executive directors as at 31 December 2004 have fixed term
contracts which run until the dates set out below:
Date of contract Service review date
J M Green-Armytage 21 January 2004 20 January 2007
E P Airey 26 May 1999 25 May 2005
J A Dallas 28 October 1999 27 October 2005
M O Hesse 1 June 2000 31 May 2006
J-P Jacamon 27 November 2002 27 November 2005
The contract of the chairman, Mr Green-Armytage, contains
provision for six months’ written notice of resignation prior to the
expiry date and payment of six months’ fees if the board withdraw
their agreement to his continuing to serve as chairman, other than
for gross misconduct. The contracts of the other non-executive
directors may be terminated by the individual at any time and there
are no specific provisions for compensation in the event of early
termination by the company.
In accordance with the articles of association of AMEC, all directors
are required to seek re-election by shareholders every three years.
Performance graph
The following graph (rebased to 100 as at 1 January 2000) charts
the total cumulative shareholder return of the company since
1 January 2000:
This graph shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical £100
holding in AMEC plc ordinary shares over five years relative to a
broad equity market index. As the company’s activities span a variety
of sectors, the remuneration committee has determined that AMEC’s
relative performance is best judged against a general market index
and, therefore, the relative performance against the FTSE Mid 250
index is shown. As additional information, the performance against
the FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector, where AMEC
was listed until 22 November 2004, and the FTSE Support Services
sector, where AMEC is currently listed, are also shown. 
250
200
150
100
50
0
Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 
AMEC plc 
FTSE 250 index  
Source: DataStream
FTSE Support Services Sector index
FTSE Construction and Building Materials Sector index 52 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued
Directors’ remuneration and related matters
The auditors are required to report on the following information on pages 52 to 54 of the directors’ remuneration report. 
Individual aspects of remuneration were as follows:
Benefits 2004 2003
Salary/fee Bonus
(v)
in kind
(vi)
Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive: Sir Peter Mason
(i)
670 239 40 949 1,021
J D Early 263 139 16 418 378
J A Monville
(ii)
370 185 7 562 542
S J Siddall
(iii)
388 148 22 558 513
C A Riva
(iv)
(from 1 August 2003) 532 140 33 705 426
D Robson (to 31 July 2003) –––– 268
G E Payne (to 31 March 2003) –––– 67
Non-executive: J M Green-Armytage 191 – – 191 46
E P Airey 46–– 46 52
J A Dallas 35–– 35 43
M O Hesse 46–– 46 78
J-P Jacamon 35–– 35 38
S Gillibrand (to 21 January 2004) 12–– 12 167
Total board 2,588 851 118 3,557 3,639
Notes
(i) Sir Peter Mason’s salary includes a taxable supplement in relation to earnings above the earnings cap for pension purposes of £95,000
(2003: £88,000).
(ii) Mr Monville’s salary comprised €480,000 paid by SPIE S.A. and £30,000 paid by AMEC plc
(iii) Mr Siddall’s salary includes a taxable supplement in relation to earnings above the earnings cap for pension purposes of £48,000
(2003: £42,000).
(iv) Mr Riva’s salary includes a taxable supplement in relation to earnings above the earnings cap for pension purposes of £72,000
(2003: £29,000).
(v) The bonuses detailed above represented the following percentages of their base salaries for the year against a maximum potential 80 per
cent: Sir Peter Mason 41.5 per cent, Mr Early 52.9 per cent, Mr Monville 49.9 per cent, Mr Siddall 43.5 per cent and Mr Riva 30.4 per cent.
These reflected the achievement of AMEC plc profit performance that was midway between the threshold and stretch targets set at the
start of the year and varying achievement against specific business targets and personal objectives. 
(vi) The value of benefits in kind received during the year relates principally to the provision of a company car or car allowance, travelling
expenses, life assurance and private medical expenses insurance. Unemployment insurance is also made available to Mr Monville in
accordance with French practice and certain relocation expenses have been reimbursed to Mr Riva. None of these benefits are pensionable. AMEC plc annual report 2004 53
The number of options over AMEC plc shares held by the directors under the Executive Share Option Schemes and Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme* (together the ‘Option Schemes’) were as follows:
As at Granted Exercised As at Market price
1 January during during 31 December Option on date of
2004 the year the year 2004 price exercise
Number Number Number Number Pence Pence Exercise period
Sir Peter Mason
(i)
600,000 600,000 99.00 Feb 1999-Feb 2006
451,388 451,388 144.00 Apr 2000-Apr 2007
4,211* 4,211* 230.00 265.50 Jan 2004-June 2004
215,500 215,500 219.75 Oct 2005-Oct 2012
208,000 208,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
4,231* 4,231* 218.00 Jan 2007-June 2007
179,687 179,687 320.00 Sept 2007-Sept 2014
J D Early
(ii)
50,000 50,000 144.00 Apr 2000-Apr 2007
3,369* 3,369* 230.00 263.00 Jan 2004-June 2004
596* 596* 181.00 272.75 Jul 2004-Dec 2004
101,000 101,000 219.75 Oct 2005-Oct 2012
96,000 96,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
3,893* 3,893* 218.00 Jan 2007-June 2007
82,031 82,031 320.00 Sept 2007-Sept 2014
S J Siddall
(iii)
97,902 97,902 214.50 317.00 Jun 2003-Jun 2010
118,500 118,500 219.75 Oct 2005-Oct 2012
119,000 119,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
4,231* 4,231* 218.00 Jan 2007-June 2007
106,250 106,250 320.00 Sept 2007-Sept 2014
J A Monville 135,000 135,000 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
109,327 109,327320.00 Sept 2007-Sept 2014
C A Riva 325,791 325,791 276.25 Sept 2006-Sept 2013
143,750 143,750320.00 Sept 2007-Sept 2014
Notes
(i) Gain on exercise £1,495 (2003: £nil).
(ii) Gain on exercises £1,659 (2003: £nil).
(iii) Gain on exercise £100,350 (2003: £nil).
(iv) The performance conditions applied to awards made under the Executive Share Option Schemes during the year were varied from
previous years, including the removal of the facility to retest. All awards were at nil cost.
(v) Certain of the options were capable of being exercised as at 31 December 2004 as all performance conditions had been met. If the options
had been exercised on that date the approximate gain before appropriate taxes for each of the current directors would have been:
Sir Peter Mason, £1,900,000 and Mr Early, £76,875. Had the remainder of the options been capable of being exercised and vested in full
as at 31 December 2004, the approximate latent gain before appropriate taxes for each of the current directors would have been: Sir Peter
Mason, £213,000; Mr Early, £99,420; Mr Siddall, £118,000; Mr Monville, £29,000 and Mr Riva, £70,000. These hypothetical figures assume
that all performance conditions will be fully met, which may not in practice transpire.
The Performance Share Plan 2002 (the ‘PSP’) was approved by shareholders in 2002. The PSP replaced the Long-Term Incentive Plan
(the ‘LTIP’) which was introduced in 1998. The design of the PSP took account of the provisions of Schedule ‘A’ to the Combined Code.
The number of restricted shares held by executive directors to whom awards had been made under the PSP and the LTIP were as follows:
As at Awarded Market price Lapsed As at
1 January during at date during 31 December End of
2004 the year Date of award the year 2004 performance
Number Number awarded Pence Number Number period
Sir Peter Mason 68,972 Apr 2001 462.50 68,972 – Mar 2004
79,500 Apr 2002430.50 79,500 Mar 2005
221,248 Apr 2003228.25 221,248 Mar 2006
191,666 Apr 2004 300.00 191,666 Mar 2007
J D Early 32,729 Apr 2001 462.50 32,729 – Mar 2004
38,030 Apr 2002430.50 38,030 Mar 2005
105,826 Apr 2003228.25 105,826 Mar 2006
87,500 Apr 2004 300.00 87,500 Mar 2007
S J Siddall 31,891 Apr 2001 462.50 31,891 – Mar 2004
43,890 Apr 2002430.50 43,890 Mar 2005
113,909 Apr 2003228.25 113,909 Mar 2006
98,333 Apr 2004 300.00 98,333 Mar 2007
J A Monville 134,281 Apr 2003 228.25 134,281 Mar 2006
99,495 Apr 2004 300.00 99,495 Mar 2007
C A Riva 167,597 Aug 2003 268.50 167,597 Mar 2006
153,333 Apr 2004 300.00 153,333 Mar 2007
Notes relating to this table appear overleaf. 54 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Notes
(i) Awards, as determined by the remuneration committee, were made under the PSP on 14 April 2004 to Sir Peter Mason, Mr J D Early,
Mr S J Siddall, Mr J A Monville and Mr C A Riva at a market price of 300.00 pence.
(ii) For the LTIP awards made in April 2001, AMEC failed to meet the minimum performance conditions and, therefore, the awards lapsed 
in April 2004.
(iii) For the LTIP awards made in April 2002, AMEC failed to meet the earnings per share performance condition and, therefore, these awards
will lapse in April 2005. 
(iv) The terms and conditions of the PSP and the LTIP have not been varied during the year .
(v) The closing price of the shares at 31 December 2004 was 297.75 pence (2003: 260.00 pence).
(vi) The range of the closing prices for the shares during the year was 252.25 pence to 342.00 pence.
(vii) The register of directors’ interests, which is open to inspection at the company’s registered office, contains full details of directors’
shareholdings, share options and awards under the PSP and the LTIP .
(viii) Had the restricted shares detailed above vested in full as at 31 December 2004 the approximate latent value before appropriate taxes 
for each of the current directors would have been: Sir Peter Mason, £1,466,000; Mr Early, £689,000; Mr Siddall, £763,000; Mr Monville,
£696,000; and Mr Riva, £956,000. These hypothetical figures assume that all performance conditions will be fully met, which may not in
practice transpire.
Pension arrangements
The following directors were members of defined benefit schemes provided by the company during the year . Pension entitlements and
corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year:
Value of Value of
Gross Increase in Total accrued Value of net accrued accrued 
increase in accrued pension at increase Total change pension at pension at 
accrued pension net 31 December in accrual in value 31 December 31 December 
pension of inflation 2004
(i)
over period
(iii)
during period
(iv)
2004 2003
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sir Peter Mason 4 3 30 37 100 627 522
J D Early 16 12 167 78 434 3,406 2,961
S J Siddall 4 3 15 63 90 307 212
C A Riva 3 3 5 61 65 94 25
Notes
(i) Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year .
(ii) Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 1.5 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
(iii) The value of net increase represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption
service terminated at the year-end. It is based on the accrued pension increase after deducting the director’s contribution. 
(iv) The change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company
and directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution.
(v) Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Mr J A Monville is a member of the SPIE top-up pension scheme for senior executives. Although the scheme, arranged through an insurance
company, is a defined benefit scheme, it is not possible to disclose his pension benefits in the above format. A pension is payable by SPIE
only in the event of Mr Monville reaching his normal retirement age of 65 or, following the attainment of age 60, by agreement with AMEC.
No pension is due or payable in other circumstances and Mr Monville currently has no accrued right to a pension payment. His pension
at the normal retirement age, or as agreed by AMEC, would be based on the average of his last three years base salary and bonus, up
to a maximum of 20 per cent of this figure. As at 31 December 2004, this would equate to £106,000 (€149,000) (2003: £94,000 (€134,000)) 
per annum. It is not possible to attribute a value to the accrued funds as these are not separately identified by the insurance company.
J A Dallas
Chairman, remuneration committee
On behalf of the board
10 March 2005
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 55
Consolidated profit and loss account
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
Before Before
goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill
amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation
and and and and
exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional
items items Total items items T otal
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Turnover: Group and share of joint ventures 2 4,816.4 – 4,816.4 4,712.7 – 4,712.7
Share of turnover in joint ventures (158.9) – (158.9) (289.9) – (289.9)
Group turnover 4,657.5 – 4,657.5 4,422.8 – 4,422.8
Cost of sales (4,051.6) – (4,051.6) (3,853.2) – (3,853.2)
Gross profit 605.9 – 605.9 569.6 – 569.6
Administrative expenses (479.4) (21.6) (501.0) (441.1) (16.3) (457.4)
Group operating profit/(loss) 126.5 (21.6) 104.9 128.5 (16.3) 112.2
Share of operating profit/(loss) in joint ventures 
and associates 2 23.1 – 23.1 13.2 (0.7) 12.5
Total operating profit/(loss) 2 & 3 149.6 (21.6) 128.0 141.7 (17.0) 124.7
(Loss)/profit on disposal or closure of operations: 4
(Loss)/profit before goodwill – (21.5) (21.5) –0.6 0.6
Goodwill previously written-off to reserves – (13.0) (13.0) –––
– (34.5) (34.5) –0.6 0.6
Profit/(loss) on disposal of fixed assets 4 – 3.7 3.7 – (0.4) (0.4)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before interest 149.6 (52.4) 97.2 141.7 (16.8) 124.9
Net interest payable: 7
Group (18.8) – (18.8) (18.4) – (18.4)
Joint ventures and associates (12.7) – (12.7) (10.8) – (10.8)
(31.5) – (31.5) (29.2) – (29.2)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before taxation 118.1 (52.4) 65.7 112.5 (16.8) 95.7
Taxation on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 8 (38.7) (4.4) (43.1) (36.0) 1.1 (34.9)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
after taxation 79.4 (56.8) 22.6 76.5 (15.7) 60.8
Equity minority interests (0.8) (0.8)
Profit for the year 21.8 60.0
Dividends 9 (34.8) (30.7)
Retained (loss)/profit for the year 22 (13.0) 29.3
Earnings per ordinary share: 10
Basic 26.7p 7.4p 25.8p 20.4p
Diluted 25.9p 7.2p 25.3p 20.0p
Dividends per ordinary share 9 11.0p 10.5p 56 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2004
2004 2003
(as restated)
Notes £ million £ million
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 11 341.2 342.1
Tangible assets 12 187.1 207.0
528.3 549.1
Investments: 13
Joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 709.7 639.7
Share of gross liabilities (634.1) (585.6)
75.6 54.1
Associates – 12.7
Other 37.5 30.3
113.1 97.1
641.4 646.2
Current assets
Stocks 14 91.4 102.0
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 15 1,723.5 1,541.6
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year 15 184.3 177.6
Cash at bank and in hand 299.5 364.8
2,298.7 2,186.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (1,968.1) (1,919.1)
Net current assets 330.6 266.9
Total assets less current liabilities 972.0 913.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 17 (644.1) (587.3)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (59.8) (57.3)
Net assets 2 268.1 268.5
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 21 151.0 149.6
Share premium account 22 88.8 82.8
Revaluation reserve 22 20.1 11.1
Capital redemption reserve 22 17.2 17.2
Profit and loss account 22 (12.3) 0.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 264.8 261.1
Equity minority interests 3.3 7.4
Capital employed 268.1 268.5
The accounts on pages 55 to 78 were approved by the board of directors on 10 March 2005 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief executive
S J Siddall
Finance director AMEC plc annual report 2004 57
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2004
2004 2003
(as restated)
Notes £ million £ million
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 12 7.5 7.3
Investments: 13
Subsidiaries 891.8 850.5
Joint ventures 10.1 11.1
Other 0.1 0.1
902.0 861.7
909.5 869.0
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 15 12.9 9.3
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year 15 76.1 66.0
Cash at bank and in hand 4.0 9.0
93.0 84.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (86.8) (76.0)
Net current assets 6.2 8.3
Total assets less current liabilities 915.7 877.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 17 (528.8) (452.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (21.9) (20.7)
Net assets 365.0 403.8
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 21 151.0 149.6
Share premium account 22 88.8 82.8
Revaluation reserve 22 0.5 0.3
Capital redemption reserve 22 17.2 17.2
Profit and loss account 22 107.5 153.9
Equity shareholders’ funds 365.0 403.8
The accounts on pages 55 to 78 were approved by the board of directors on 10 March 2005 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Peter Mason KBE
Chief executive
S J Siddall
Finance director 58 AMEC plc annual report 2004
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
(as restated)
Notes £ million £ million
Net cash flow from operating activities 23 19.4 97.9
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 0.2 4.3
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 29.1 24.1
Interest paid (46.6) (37.0)
(17.5) (12.9)
Taxation (26.6) (30.6)
Capital expenditure
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (51.4) (69.6)
Disposal of tangible fixed assets 52.8 50.8
1.4 (18.8)
Acquisitions and disposals 26
Acquisition of subsidiaries (11.0) (182.4)
Acquisition of joint ventures, associates and other investments (20.1) (10.4)
Disposal of joint ventures, associates and other investments 19.7 11.7
(11.4) (181.1)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (30.8) (28.9)
Net cash flow before management of liquid resources and financing (65.3) (170.1)
Management of liquid resources 25 32.8 (20.2)
Financing
Shares issued 7.4 0.4
Purchase of own shares (6.5) (5.9)
Net movement in debt (1.7) 291.3
(0.8) 285.8
(Decrease)/increase in cash 24 (33.3) 95.5 AMEC plc annual report 2004 59
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Profit for the year 21.8 60.0
Exchange and other movements (11.8) (2.3)
Adjustment arising from the full consolidation of SPIE – (12.1)
Surplus on property revaluation 9.6 –
Total gains and losses relating to the year 19.6 45.6
Note of consolidated historical cost profits and losses
For the year ended 31 December 2004
There is no material difference between the reported results and the results calculated on an unmodified historical cost basis.
Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders’ funds
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
(as restated)
£ million £ million
Profit for the year 21.8 60.0
Dividends (34.8) (30.7)
Retained (loss)/profit for the year (13.0) 29.3
Exchange and other movements (11.8) (2.3)
Shares issued 7.4 0.4
Adjustment arising from the full consolidation of SPIE – (12.1)
Surplus on property revaluation 9.6 –
Goodwill written back on disposal or closure of operations 13.0 –
Movements relating to the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan 2002 (1.5) (1.8)
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 3.7 13.5
Equity shareholders’ funds as at 1 January 261.1 247.6
Equity shareholders’ funds as at 31 December 264.8 261.1
Shareholders’ funds as at 31 December 2002 were £251.8 million and have been amended to incorporate a prior year adjustment 
of £4.2 million which arose on the adoption of UITF Abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’ and the amendment to UITF Abstract 17 
‘Employee share schemes’. 60 AMEC plc annual report 2004
1 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain land and buildings and 
in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
Full implementation of FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’ is not mandatory. The additional disclosures required during the transitional period 
have been included in note 30 to the accounts. 
In order to conform with the requirements of UITF Abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’ and the amendment to UITF Abstract 17 ‘Employee
share schemes’, investments in AMEC plc ordinary shares of 50 pence each held by the trustees of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Performance
Share Plan 2002 are recorded as a deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds. Previously these shares were shown within investments. 
In addition, purchases of shares which were previously shown in the cash flow statement within acquisitions and disposals are now disclosed within
financing. This has the effect of reducing net assets by £7.5 million and £6.0 million in 2004 and 2003 respectively. This change has no impact
on either the profit and loss account or the statement of total recognised gains and losses for either the prior year or the year under review.
AMEC acquired the outstanding 54 per cent interest in SPIE on 5 March 2003, after which it was fully consolidated in the accounts of AMEC.
Additional reviews of the SPIE balance sheet have resulted in the reallocation of amounts held within certain balance sheet captions as at 
31 December 2003. These changes provide additional consistency in the presentation of debtors and creditors and have no impact on the 
net assets of the group.
A new segmental format showing the nature of the group’s total turnover, total operating profit and net assets has been adopted. The segments
reflect the changes to the composition of the group in 2004 arising from the exit of low margin, high risk construction activities. In addition, 
the company was reclassified as a Support Services company in November 2004 and the new segmental format is expected to enhance the
clarity of the group’s reporting and lead to a greater understanding of its activities.
Basis of consolidation
The group accounts include the accounts of AMEC plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year and the group’s share 
of the results and net assets of joint ventures and associates, based on the gross equity and equity methods of accounting, respectively. 
Joint arrangements, where each party has its own separate interest in particular risks and rewards, are accounted for by including the
attributable share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows measured according to the terms of the arrangement.
The company has not presented its own profit and loss account, as permitted by section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985. 
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all tangible assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write-off the cost or valuation, less estimated
residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings the shorter of the lease term or 50 years
Plant and equipment mainly three to five years
Foreign currencies
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Trading results are translated at average rates for the year . Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency net
investments and foreign currency borrowings, or forward exchange contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken directly to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account in the year .
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on
acquisitions made post 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised, on a straight line basis, over its estimated useful life, which for large
acquisitions is not expected to exceed 20 years and for smaller acquisitions, 10 years. Where a business is disposed of or closed, the profit 
or loss on disposal or closure includes any unamortised amount included within intangible assets.
As permitted by FRS 10 ‘Goodwill and intangible assets’, goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1 January 1998 has been written-off 
to reserves. Where a business is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure includes the attributable amount of goodwill
previously charged to reserves.
Interest 
Interest is written-off to the profit and loss account as incurred by all subsidiaries in the group. The group has, however, investments in joint
ventures which are involved in public private partnership projects to finance, design and build assets and operate them on behalf of the client. 
In view of the nature of these projects, interest directly incurred in funding the construction programme is capitalised until the relevant 
assets are brought into operational use.
Leases 
Operating lease costs are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Long-term contracts
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts are stated at cost plus attributable profits, less provision for any known or anticipated losses and payments
on account, and are included in debtors. Payments on account in excess of amounts recoverable on long-term contracts are included in creditors.
Notes to the accounts AMEC plc annual report 2004 61
1 Accounting policies continued
Pensions
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are allocated to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the normal expected service 
lives of employees. Contributions to money purchase schemes are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are incurred.
Share option schemes
No charge is made to the profit and loss account in respect of SAYE schemes that are offered on similar terms to all, or substantially all, UK employees.
Included within the profit and loss account reserve are shares in the company held by the AMEC plc Employee Share Trust. This is a discretionary
trust, established for the benefit of AMEC employees, the trustee of which is an independent trustee company which retains legal responsibility,
control and ownership of these shares.
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’.
Turnover
Turnover represents sales and value of work done excluding all internal transactions within the group.
2 Segmental analyses
Total Total Net Net
Total Total operating operating assets/ assets/
turnover turnover profit/(loss) profit/(loss) (liabilities) (liabilities)
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Class of business:
Engineering and Technical Services 2,293.8 1,952.7 75.3 69.8 (8.1) 27.2
Oil and Gas 1,212.1 1,350.0 57.2 58.2 129.2 76.5
Project Solutions 1,368.4 1,487.1 41.4 40.2 65.9 10.3
4,874.3 4,789.8 173.9 168.2 187.0 114.0
Internal turnover (57.9) (77.1) – – – –
Corporate costs – – (24.3) (26.5) – –
4,816.4 4,712.7 149.6 141.7 187.0 114.0
Goodwill amortisation/capitalised – – (21.6) (17.0) 341.2 342.1
Net debt – – – – (283.7) (218.1)
Unallocated net assets – – – – 23.6 30.5
4,816.4 4,712.7 128.0 124.7 268.1 268.5
Geographical origin:
United Kingdom 1,974.8 2,109.6 89.2 94.8 67.2 46.3
Rest of Europe 1,651.3 1,379.6 46.4 43.1 (10.9) (26.3)
Americas 690.2 749.3 15.3 9.1 109.9 100.6
Rest of the world 500.1 474.2 23.0 21.2 20.8 (6.6)
4,816.4 4,712.7 173.9 168.2 187.0 114.0
Corporate costs – – (24.3) (26.5) – –
4,816.4 4,712.7 149.6 141.7 187.0 114.0
Goodwill amortisation/capitalised – – (21.6) (17.0) 341.2 342.1
Net debt – – – – (283.7) (218.1)
Unallocated net assets – – – – 23.6 30.5
4,816.4 4,712.7 128.0 124.7 268.1 268.5
The analysis of total turnover by geographical market is not materially different from that by geographical origin.
Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating the head office of AMEC plc and also certain regional overheads. These are not directly related
to the activities of the segments.
The financing of the group’s activities is undertaken at a head office level and consequently net interest payable cannot be analysed segmentally.
Due to the nature of the businesses acquired, goodwill amortisation/capitalised cannot be analysed segmentally. The unallocated net assets
principally comprise assets relating to the pension schemes prepayment and liabilities relating to dividends and taxation and are not directly
related to the activities of the segments. 62 AMEC plc annual report 2004
2 Segmental analyses continued
The group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates was as follows:
SPIE S.A. SPIE S.A. Others Others Total Total
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Turnover:
Engineering and Technical Services – 76.8 41.8 27.7 41.8 104.5
Oil and Gas – 28.5 39.5 39.8 39.5 68.3
Project Solutions – 50.7 77.6 66.4 77.6 117.1
– 156.0 158.9 133.9 158.9 289.9
Total operating profit/(loss):
Engineering and Technical Services – (1.5) 1.4 0.9 1.4 (0.6)
Oil and Gas – – 1.6 2.2 1.6 2.2
Project Solutions – (4.5) 20.1 15.4 20.1 10.9
Total operating profit/(loss) – (6.0) 23.1 18.5 23.1 12.5
Profit on disposal or closure of operations – 7.4 – – – 7.4
Profit on ordinary activities before interest – 1.4 23.1 18.5 23.1 19.9
Net interest payable – – (12.7) (10.8) (12.7) (10.8)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation – 1.4 10.4 7.7 10.4 9.1
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities – – (2.4) 0.7 (2.4) 0.7
Profit for the year – 1.4 8.0 8.4 8.0 9.8
SPIE’s total operating loss for Engineering and Technical Services in 2003 is after charging goodwill amortisation of £0.7 million.
3 Total operating profit/(loss)
Total operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging the following:
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Goodwill amortisation 21.6 17.0
Depreciation 39.8 47.8
Operating lease payments:
Land and buildings 49.6 33.7
Plant and equipment (including short-term hire)
(i)
139.3 119.9
Fees paid to auditors and their associates:
Audit fees:
KPMG Audit Plc 1.7 1.6
Other auditors 1.7 1.4
Non-audit fees: 
KPMG Audit Plc or its associates: taxation – £0.6 million (2003: £0.6 million) and other services – 
£0.1 million (2003: £0.2 million)
(ii)
0.7 0.8
Other auditors 1.0 0.4
Notes
(i) Current annual commitments are detailed in note 28.
(ii) In addition to the above amounts paid to auditors and their associates, due diligence fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc of £0.2 million 
(2003: £1.2 million) were capitalised as part of the costs of acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 2004.
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 63
4 Non-operating exceptional items
2004 2003
£ million £ million
(Loss)/profit on disposal or closure of operations:
Engineering and Technical Services 9.7 7.4
Oil and Gas – (0.5)
Project Solutions (31.2) (6.3)
Goodwill previously written-off to reserves (13.0) –
(34.5) 0.6
Profit/(loss) on disposal of fixed assets 3.7 (0.4)
(30.8) 0.2
5 Directors’ remuneration and related matters
2004 2003
£000 £000
Directors’ emoluments 3,557 3,639
Gains on exercise of share options 104 –
More detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, including pension benefits, share options and long-term incentive 
arrangements, is set out in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 49 to 54.
6 Staff costs and employee numbers
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Wages and salaries 1,226.4 1,271.0
Social security costs 298.8 317.7
Other pension costs 13.5 12.8
1,538.7 1,601.5
The average number of people employed was as follows:
2004 2003
Number Number
Engineering and Technical Services 25,248 25,891
Oil and Gas 11,647 12,806
Project Solutions 6,765 7,204
43,660 45,901 64 AMEC plc annual report 2004
7 Net interest payable
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Interest payable and similar charges:
Group:
Bank loans and overdrafts (40.7) (37.1)
Other charges (6.4) (5.2)
(47.1) (42.3)
Joint ventures and associates (13.1) (12.0)
(60.2) (54.3)
Interest receivable and similar income:
Group:
Bank and short-term deposits 16.6 16.0
Other income 11.7 7.9
28.3 23.9
Joint ventures and associates 0.4 1.2
28.7 25.1
(31.5) (29.2)
The group’s share of interest capitalised by joint ventures involved in public private partnership projects amounted to £13.1 million (2003: £10.2 million).
8 Taxation on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Current tax:
UK corporation taxation at 30.0% (2003: 30.0%) 20.8 16.6
Double taxation relief (2.7) (0.9)
Overseas taxation 17.7 21.1
Joint ventures’ and associates’ taxation (1.8) (1.4)
34.0 35.4
Deferred tax:
UK deferred taxation at 30.0% (2003: 30.0%) – origination and reversal of timing differences 1.7 (2.6)
Overseas deferred taxation 3.2 –
Joint ventures’ and associates’ deferred taxation 4.2 2.1
9.1 (0.5)
43.1 34.9
Included within the current tax charge is £4.4 million (2003: credit of £1.1 million) in respect of exceptional items.
The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK and is explained as follows:
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 65.7 95.7
Tax charge at 30.0% (2003: 30.0%) 19.7 28.7
Goodwill amortisation 6.4 4.9
Non-deductible expenses, non taxable income and other differences 2.2 0.1
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than 30.0% (2003: 30.0%) 5.7 1.7
Current tax charge for the year 34.0 35.4
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 65
9 Dividends
2004 2003 2004 2003
Pence Pence £ million £ million
Ordinary shares:
Interim dividend paid 4 January 2005 3.8 3.6 11.3 10.6
Final recommended dividend payable 1 July 2005 7.2 6.9 23.5 20.1
11.0 10.5 34.8 30.7
The amounts waived and to be waived by the Trustees of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan 2002 in respect of the
interim and final dividends is £0.6 million (2003: £0.4 million). 
The amounts waived and to be waived by the Trustees of the qualifying employee share ownership trust in respect of the interim and final
dividends is £0.1 million (2003: £0.2 million).
10 Earnings per ordinary share
In order to appreciate the effect of goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (net of attributable tax) on the reported underlying performance,
additional calculations of earnings per ordinary share have been presented.
2004 2003
Weighted Weighted 
average average
ordinary ordinary
shares Earnings shares Earnings
Earnings Number per share Earnings Number per share
£ million million Pence £ million million Pence
Basic earnings before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, net of attributable tax 78.6 295.0 26.7 75.7 293.3 25.8
Goodwill amortisation (21.6) – (7.3) (17.0) – (5.8)
Exceptional items (30.8) – (10.5) 0.2––
Attributable tax on exceptional items (4.4) – (1.5) 1.1 – 0.4
Basic earnings 21.8 295.0 7.4 60.0 293.3 20.4
Basic earnings before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, net of attributable tax 78.6 295.0 26.7 75.7 293.3 25.8
Share options – 1.5 (0.1) – 1.5 (0.1)
Employee share and incentive schemes – 6.7 (0.7) – 4.5 (0.4)
Diluted earnings before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, net of attributable tax 78.6 303.2 25.9 75.7 299.3 25.3
Goodwill amortisation (21.6) – (7.1) (17.0) – (5.8)
Exceptional items (30.8) – (10.2) 0.2 – 0.1
Attributable tax on exceptional items (4.4) – (1.4) 1.1 – 0.4
Diluted earnings 21.8 303.2 7.2 60.0 299.3 20.0
11 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£ million
Group:
Cost:
As at 1 January 2004 379.0
Exchange and other movements 10.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses 9.7
As at 31 December 2004 399.6
Amortisation:
As at 1 January 2004 36.9
Exchange and other movements (0.1)
Provided during the year 21.6
As at 31 December 2004 58.4
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2004 341.2
As at 31 December 2003 342.1 66 AMEC plc annual report 2004
12 Tangible assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment T otal
£ million £ million £ million
Group:
Cost or valuation:
As at 1 January 2004 93.2 215.4 308.6
Exchange and other movements (0.3) (3.5) (3.8)
Additions and transfers 7.9 46.8 54.7
Property revaluation 1.0 – 1.0
Disposals and transfers (29.4) (39.5) (68.9)
As at 31 December 2004 72.4 219.2 291.6
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2004 9.4 92.2 101.6
Exchange and other movements 0.1 (2.1) (2.0)
Property revaluation (8.6) – (8.6)
Provided during the year 6.8 33.0 39.8
Disposals and transfers (1.7) (24.6) (26.3)
As at 31 December 2004 6.0 98.5 104.5
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2004 66.4 120.7 187.1
As at 31 December 2003 83.8 123.2 207.0
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment T otal
£ million £ million £ million
Company:
Cost or valuation:
As at 1 January 2004 7.4 2.1 9.5
Additions and transfers 1.3 0.1 1.4
Property revaluation (0.8) – (0.8)
Disposals (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
As at 31 December 2004 7.8 2.1 9.9
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2004 0.7 1.5 2.2
Exchange and other movements 0.1 – 0.1
Property revaluation (0.4) – (0.4)
Provided during the year 0.3 0.3 0.6
Disposals – (0.1) (0.1)
As at 31 December 2004 0.7 1.7 2.4
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2004 7.1 0.4 7.5
As at 31 December 2003 6.7 0.6 7.3
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freehold 55.2 61.4 4.9 4.4
Long leasehold 6.9 15.0 – –
Short leasehold 4.3 7.4 2.2 2.3
66.4 83.8 7.1 6.7
The cost or valuation of land and buildings comprised:
Cost 26.3 55.5 2.9 2.8
External valuation in 1999 – 37.7 – 4.6
External valuation in 2004 46.1 – 4.9 –
72.4 93.2 7.8 7.4
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 67
12 Tangible assets continued
All significant freehold and long leasehold properties were externally valued as at 31 December 2004 by CB Richard Ellis Limited in accordance
with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
For the United Kingdom, the basis of revaluation was existing use value for properties occupied by group companies and market value for those
properties without group occupancy. For properties outside the United Kingdom, the appropriate country valuation standards were adopted
which generally reflect market value.
No provision has been made for the tax liability which may arise in the event that certain properties are disposed of at their revalued amounts.
The amount of land and buildings included at valuation, determined according to the historical cost convention, was as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Cost 39.2 46.4 9.3 8.6
Depreciation (10.6) (13.9) (2.5) (1.7)
Net book value 28.6 32.5 6.8 6.9
13 Investments (held as fixed assets)
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Company:
Investments in subsidiaries:
Shares at cost less amounts written-off 1,495.1 1,505.8
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 411.3 401.4
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (1,014.6) (1,056.7)
891.8 850.5
Joint Other
ventures Associates investments Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Net book value:
As at 1 January 2004 54.1 12.7 30.3 97.1
Exchange and other movements 3.4 0.2 – 3.6
Additions and transfers 12.9 – 7.2 20.1
Disposals and amounts written-off (5.7) (14.0) – (19.7)
Net movement in share of reserves 11.1 1.1 – 12.2
Dividends received (0.2) – – (0.2)
As at 31 December 2004 75.6 – 37.5 113.1
Represented by:
Shares at cost less amounts written-off 21.1 – 37.5 58.6
Share of post acquisition results 24.2 – – 24.2
Net loans from group companies 30.3 – – 30.3
75.6 – 37.5 113.1
Company:
Cost:
As at 1 January 2004 11.1 – 0.1 11.2
Disposals (1.0) – – (1.0)
As at 31 December 2004 10.1 – 0.1 10.2
Principal group companies are listed on page 82. 68 AMEC plc annual report 2004
13 Investments (held as fixed assets) continued
An analysis of the group’s share of net assets of joint ventures was as follows:
Total Total
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Fixed assets 245.6 215.6
Current assets 499.2 447.4
Share of gross assets 744.8 663.0
Loans to group companies (35.1) (23.3)
Group share of gross assets 709.7 639.7
Liabilities due within one year (69.1) (51.6)
Liabilities due after one year (569.8) (540.5)
Share of gross liabilities (638.9) (592.1)
Loans from group companies 4.8 6.5
Group share of gross liabilities (634.1) (585.6)
Share of net assets 75.6 54.1
14 Stocks
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Group:
Development land and work in progress 71.8 69.9
Raw materials and consumables 6.6 7.6
Other work in progress 2.0 16.4
Finished goods and goods for resale 11.0 8.1
91.4 102.0
15 Debtors
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts recoverable on contracts 512.2 476.1 – –
Trade debtors 1,137.9 964.7 5.6 3.6
Amounts owed by subsidiaries – – 3.5 2.3
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1.3 3.4 0.2 0.1
Other debtors 48.3 73.7 1.4 1.2
Prepayments and accrued income 23.8 23.7 2.2 2.1
1,723.5 1,541.6 12.9 9.3
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year
Trade debtors 99.2 105.0 – –
Amounts owed by joint ventures 4.4 1.6 – –
Other debtors 0.2 0.3 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 80.5 70.7 76.1 66.0
184.3 177.6 76.1 66.0
1,907.8 1,719.2 89.0 75.3
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 69
16 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Bank and other loans and overdrafts 46.0 109.8 21.4 –
Payments on account 177.7 180.3 – –
Trade creditors 1,277.0 1,163.9 7.0 4.7
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – – 0.4 0.4
Amounts owed to joint ventures 2.5 2.9 0.4 3.0
Corporation tax 29.9 22.7 1.8 2.2
Other taxation and social security costs 270.5 272.3 2.8 13.8
Other creditors 59.3 44.0 6.6 9.0
Accruals and deferred income 70.4 92.4 11.6 12.1
Dividends 34.8 30.8 34.8 30.8
1,968.1 1,919.1 86.8 76.0
17 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Bank and other loans 537.2 473.1 524.8 448.8
Trade creditors 26.9 39.5 – –
Amounts owed to joint ventures – – 4.0 4.0
Other taxation and social security costs 6.4 3.7 – –
Other creditors 2.8 2.3 – –
Accruals and deferred income 70.8 68.7 – –
644.1 587.3 528.8 452.8
18 Analysis of borrowings and banking facilities
The maturity of borrowings was as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Due:
In one year or less, or on demand 46.0 109.8 21.4 –
Between one and two years 5.9 184.1 – 180.0
Between two and five years 423.6 168.0 419.9 159.6
In more than five years 107.7 121.0 104.9 109.2
583.2 582.9 546.2 448.8
The available undrawn committed bank facilities were as follows:
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Group:
Expiring in:
In one year or less – 42.7
Between one and two years 6.4 40.0
In more than two years 329.7 176.8
336.1 259.5 70 AMEC plc annual report 2004
19 Financial instruments
Details of the group’s policies on the use of financial instruments are provided in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 32 to 39. 
As permitted by FRS 13 ‘Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures’, short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded 
from the following analyses.
The interest rate risk currency profile of financial assets and liabilities was as follows:
2004 2003
Non interest Floating Fixed Non interest Floating Fixed
bearing rate rate Total bearing rate rate T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Financial assets:
Sterling 45.4 41.0 – 86.4 73.3 43.8 0.1 117.2
Euro 114.0 98.5 0.1 212.6 117.3 96.2 1.1 214.6
US dollar 6.0 23.3 – 29.3 5.8 56.4 – 62.2
Hong Kong dollar 2.0 3.6 – 5.6 6.1 17.5 – 23.6
Canadian dollar 0.1 11.5 – 11.6 0.2 3.9 – 4.1
Other 17.2 7.1 0.1 24.4 10.3 7.6 0.3 18.2
184.7 185.0 0.2 369.9 213.0 225.4 1.5 439.9
Floating rate financial assets comprise cash at bank and in hand which bears interest at prevailing market rates.
2004 2003
Non interest Floating Fixed Non interest Floating Fixed
bearing rate rate Total bearing rate rate T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Financial liabilities:
Sterling 30.4 344.1 45.0 419.5 62.6 255.0 45.0 362.6
Euro 78.5 101.9 13.0 193.4 81.3 146.0 25.4 252.7
US dollar 2.2 12.6 60.0 74.8 2.3 – 64.8 67.1
Hong Kong dollar 0.5 1.3 – 1.8 1.6 5.0 – 6.6
Canadian dollar 1.4 – 0.2 1.6 1.4 – 0.4 1.8
Other 0.4 – – 0.4 0.2 8.1 – 8.3
113.4 459.9 118.2 691.5 149.4 414.1 135.6 699.1
Floating rate financial liabilities comprise borrowings which primarily bear interest at a margin over the relevant inter-bank rate. The fixed rate
financial liabilities relate to certain bank and other loans. The weighted average interest rate of the fixed rate loans as at 31 December 2004
was 5.4 per cent (2003: 5.4 per cent).
The maturity of the financial liabilities was as follows:
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Group:
Due:
In one year or less, or on demand 50.3 122.8
Between one and two years 70.6 245.0
Between two and five years 424.5 209.2
Over five years 146.1 122.1
691.5 699.1
There is no material difference between the book and fair value of financial assets and liabilities save for financial liabilities in the two to 
five years category which have a book value of £424.5 million and a fair value of £343.8 million as at 31 December 2004 (£209.2 million and 
£186.3 million respectively as at 31 December 2003) and those in the over five years category which have a book value of £146.1 million and 
£116.0 million respectively as at 31 December 2004 (2003: £122.1 million and £86.3 million).
As at 31 December 2004, there were six outstanding interest rate swaps under which the group pays a fixed rate of interest and receives a
floating rate based on six months’ LIBOR. The instruments cover US dollars, Canadian dollars, Euro and Sterling, and have a Sterling equivalent
of £65.0 million. The expiry dates range from January 2005 to January 2008, with a weighted average period to maturity of 29 months as 
at 31 December 2004.
In addition, there were two outstanding interest rate swaps under which the group pays a floating rate of interest and receives a fixed rate.
The instruments cover US dollars with a Sterling equivalent of £15.6 million and expire in July 2013. 
After taking into account the effects of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, there were no material currency exposures in respect
of monetary assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency of the relevant business unit. 
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging purposes are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is recognised in either
the profit and loss account or via an adjustment to the carrying value of an asset on the balance sheet.
There were no material unrecognised gains or losses at the beginning or end of the year .
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 71
20 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Onerous
Deferred property Retirement
taxation Insurance contracts indemnities T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
As at 1 January 2004 – 25.3 5.1 26.9 57.3
Exchange and other movements 0.2 – – 0.8 1.0
Included within debtors (10.4) – – – (10.4)
Utilised (2.8) – (1.5) – (4.3)
Profit and loss account 9.1 3.1 0.1 – 12.3
Transfer to debtors 3.9––– 3.9
As at 31 December 2004 – 28.4 3.7 27.7 59.8
Deferred
taxation
£ million
Company:
As at 1 January 2004 20.7
Profit and loss account 1.2
As at 31 December 2004 21.9
The deferred tax (asset)/provision is analysed as follows:
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Difference between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances (2.7) (2.6) 0.3 0.3
Other timing differences 15.8 3.9 21.6 20.4
Tax losses (17.0) (11.7) – –
(3.9) (10.4) 21.9 20.7
21 Share capital
The authorised share capital of the company is £350.0 million (2003: £350.0 million).
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Group and company:
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 pence each 151.0 149.6
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £ million
Group and company:
As at 1 January 2004 299,164,181 149.6
Qualifying employee share ownership trust allotments 2,538,668 1.3
Exercise of executive share options 146,902 0.1
Exercise of AGRA Inc. stock options 61,060 –
As at 31 December 2004 301,910,811 151.0 72 AMEC plc annual report 2004
21 Share capital continued
There are no performance criteria for the Savings Related Share Option Scheme. The performance criteria for the Executive Share Option
Scheme 1995 has been met in prior periods and the criteria for the Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 are outlined in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on page 50.
The number of share options outstanding under the Savings Related and Executive Schemes as at 31 December 2004 was as follows. 
Option price 
per share 
Pence Number
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Normally exercisable in the period between:
July 2004 and December 2004 181.00 50,994
January 2004 and June 2004 230.00 842
January 2007 and June 2007 218.00 5,673,512
5,725,348
Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 
Normally exercisable in the period between:
February 1999 and February 2006 99.00 600,000
April 2000 and April 2007 144.00 501,388
March 2001 and March 2008 153.50 19,543
April 2003 and April 2010 169.00 10,000
1,130,931
Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 
Normally exercisable in the period between:
October 2005 and October 2012 219.75 2,088,002
March 2007 and March 2013 183.25 70,000
September 2007 and September 2013 276.25 2,811,541
September 2008 and September 2014 320.00 2,538,726
7,508,269
In April 2000, AMEC acquired AGRA Inc. (now AMEC Inc.). At the time of the acquisition, AGRA Inc. Stock Option Plans were available to senior
AGRA employees. Grants of stock options were approved and the conditions for the exercise of grants were established by the AGRA Inc. board 
of directors. The Plans were approved under the rules of the Montreal and Toronto Stock Exchanges. No performance criteria are required 
to be met prior to exercise of options pursuant to the Plans.
Employees holding options under the Plans were permitted to roll-over their options over AGRA Inc. shares into options over AMEC plc shares
following the acquisition. The resultant AMEC options outstanding as at 31 December 2004 are as follows: 
Option price 
per share 
Pence Number
AGRA Inc. 10 year Stock Option Plan
Normally exercisable in the period between:
February 2000 and February 2009 132.20 610
December 2000 and December 2009 171.30 24,424
25,034
As at 31 December 2004, there were 3,019 participants in the Savings Related Scheme, 182 participants in the Executive Schemes and 
2 participants in the AGRA Plan.
During the year, under the provisions of the Savings Related Scheme, 3,140,312 shares were transferred to participants from the qualifying
employee share ownership trust (Quest) for a total consideration of £7.0 million. The company received £7.0 million from employees in 
respect of 2,538,668 shares allotted to the Quest. 
Under the provisions of the Executive Schemes, 146,902 shares were allotted to participants for a total consideration of £0.3 million and, 
under the provisions of the AGRA Inc. Plans, 61,060 shares were allotted to participants for a total consideration of £0.1 million. 
The closing price of the shares at 31 December 2004 was 297.75 pence (2003: 260.00 pence).
No options were granted during the year under the provisions of the AMEC Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Options over 2,538,726 shares were granted pursuant to the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme 2002.
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 73
22 Reserves
Share Capital Profit
premium Revaluation redemption and loss
account reserve reserve account T otal
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
As at 1 January 2004 (as originally stated) 82.8 11.1 17.2 6.4 117.5
Prior year adjustment (note 1) – – – (6.0) (6.0)
As at 1 January 2004 (as restated) 82.8 11.1 17.2 0.4 111.5
Exchange and other movements – – – (11.8) (11.8)
Shares issued 6.0––– 6.0
Transfers on disposals – (0.6) – 0.6 –
Surplus on revaluation – 9.6 – – 9.6
Goodwill written back on disposal or closure of operations – – – 13.0 13.0
Movements relating to the Long-Term Incentive Plan and 
Performance Share Plan 2002 – – – (1.5) (1.5)
Retained loss for the year – – – (13.0) (13.0)
As at 31 December 2004 88.8 20.1 17.2 (12.3) 113.8
Company:
As at 1 January 2004 (as originally stated) 82.8 0.3 17.2 159.9 260.2
Prior year adjustment (note 1) – – – (6.0) (6.0)
As at 1 January 2004 (as restated) 82.8 0.3 17.2 153.9 254.2
Exchange and other movements – 0.6 – (2.5) (1.9)
Shares issued 6.0––– 6.0
Deficit on property revaluation – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Movements relating to the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
and Performance Share Plan 2002 – – – (1.5) (1.5)
Retained loss for the year – – – (42.4) (42.4)
As at 31 December 2004 88.8 0.5 17.2 107.5 214.0
Included within the profit and loss account is £7.5 million (2003: £6.0 million) in respect of 5,313,367 (2003: 4,008,353) shares of 50 pence each 
in the company, held by the trustees of the AMEC plc Employee Share Trust to satisfy awards in respect of the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the
Performance Share Plan 2002. The cost of these shares is being written-off to the profit and loss account over the period between the dates of the
awards and the expected vesting of the shares. The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2004 was £15.8 million (2003: £10.4 million).
A qualifying employee share ownership trust (Quest) was established on 26 August 1999. The Quest holds shares issued by the company 
in connection with the savings related share option scheme. During the year the company allotted 2,538,668 (2003: 59,629) shares to the 
Quest and the Quest transferred 3,140,312 (2003: 72,109) of these shares to employees exercising options.
As at 31 December 2004 the Quest held 1,006,693 (2003: 1,608,337) shares and these are included within investments at £nil (2003: £nil).
The cumulative goodwill (at historic exchange rates) written-off against reserves in respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998, 
when FRS 10 ‘Goodwill and intangible assets’ was adopted, amounts to £187.2 million (2003: £200.2 million).
The loss of the company for the year was £7.6 million.
23 Reconciliation of group operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities
2004 2003
£ million £ million
Group operating profit 104.9 112.2
Goodwill amortisation 21.6 16.3
Depreciation 39.8 47.8
Decrease/(increase) in stocks 10.0 (0.3)
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (206.2) 307.7
Increase/(decrease) in creditors and provisions 52.0 (382.2)
Exchange and other movements (2.7) (3.6)
Net cash flow from operating activities 19.4 97.9 74 AMEC plc annual report 2004
24 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
2004 2003
£ million £ million
(Decrease)/increase in cash (33.3) 95.5
Cash flow from movement in debt 1.7 (291.3)
Cash flow from movement in liquid resources (32.8) 20.2
Change in funds resulting from cash flows (64.4) (175.6)
Exchange and other non cash movements (1.2) (5.2)
Movement in net funds in the year (65.6) (180.8)
Net funds as at 1 January (218.1) (37.3)
Net funds as at 31 December (283.7) (218.1)
25 Analysis of net funds
As at Exchange and As at
1 January other non-cash 31 December
2004 Cash flow movements 2004
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Cash at bank and in hand 243.8 (26.8) (2.5) 214.5
Overdrafts (22.9) (6.5) (0.1) (29.5)
(33.3)
Debt due within one year (86.9) 69.6 0.8 (16.5)
Debt due after one year (473.1) (67.9) 3.8 (537.2)
1.7
Liquid resources 121.0 (32.8) (3.2) 85.0
(218.1) (64.4) (1.2) (283.7)
Liquid resources comprise short-term bank deposits, investments in government and corporate bonds and floating rate notes.
26 Acquisitions and disposals
All acquisitions in 2004 have been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting and a provisional assessment of the fair value 
to the group of the assets and liabilities acquired has been made.
A number of small acquisitions were made in the year ended 31 December 2004 for an aggregate consideration of £11.0 million. The aggregate
book value of the identifiable assets and liabilities was £1.3 million and the aggregate goodwill arising on the acquisitions was £9.7 million.
The acquisition cost of joint ventures and other investments amounted to £20.1 million in 2004 and principally related to investments in public
private partnership projects.
Joint ventures, associates and other investments with a carrying value of £19.7 million were disposed of in the year, realising proceeds of £19.7 million.
27 Capital commitments
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Contracted but not provided for in the accounts 1.2 2.2 – –
As at 31 December 2004, there was a commitment to invest a total of £36.0 million (2003: £56.7 million) in various public private and 
regeneration partnership projects.
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 75
28 Lease commitments
The current annual commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:
Land and Land and Plant and Plant and
buildings buildings equipment equipment
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Group:
Expiring:
In one year or less 6.3 1.3 9.2 5.0
Between two and five years 14.2 10.7 9.6 15.0
Over five years 10.2 19.3 0.1 0.1
30.7 31.3 18.9 20.1
Company:
Expiring:
Over five years – 0.4 – –
29 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees and indemnities
Guarantees given by the company in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries amounted to £nil as at 31 December 2004 (2003: £0.2 million).
The borrowings of joint ventures, consolidated on a gross equity basis, are generally without recourse to AMEC other than for normal
performance obligations which are usually given on a several basis. AMEC has provided guarantees in respect of committed bank facilities
granted to certain property joint ventures. The borrowings drawn against these facilities amounted to £35.0 million at 31 December 2004 
(2003: £37.0 million) and the current debt service ratios for these joint ventures are all within the agreed levels.
The company and certain subsidiaries have given counter indemnities in respect of performance bonds issued, on behalf of group companies,
in the normal course of business.
On 2 February 2005, AMEC completed a series of transactions that resulted in the disposal of its effective interest in Derech Eretz Highway
(1997) Limited, which owns the concession rights for the Cross Israel Highway, Derech Eretz Construction joint venture, which undertook 
the design and construction of the Highway and Derech Eretz Highways Management Corporation Limited which acts as the operator to 
the Highway. As a result of these disposals, AMEC has been released from all guarantees and obligations relating to its various interests 
as at 31 December 2004.
Prior to the disposal, AMEC had provided direct and indirect support on a joint and several basis for a performance bond on the Cross Israel
Highway Concession (the “Concession”) for an amount of £78.1 million as at 31 December 2004 (2003: £83.7 million). In addition, AMEC had also
provided support on a joint and several basis, both directly to an intermediate holding company and indirectly from the intermediate holding
company, to the Concession for letters of credit that the Concession had procured from external banks. These letters principally relate to the
performance obligations of the Concession. The intermediate company (in which AMEC had a one third share) had a third share in the Concession
and its share of the performance obligations of the Concession amounted to £10.9 million as at 31 December 2004 (2003: £28.8 million). 
The performance obligations of the Concession amounted to £32.7 million as at 31 December 2004 (2003: £86.4 million).
As at 31 December 2004, AMEC has a commitment to invest £36.0 million (2003: £56.7 million) in joint venture projects. It has also provided
guarantees on certain projects to invest further amounts of up to £16.4 million (2003: £9.8 million) if the projects do not perform satisfactorily. 
No future adverse events, however, are currently envisaged. 76 AMEC plc annual report 2004
29 Contingent liabilities continued
Legal claims and actions
AMEC takes internal and external legal advice in considering known legal claims and actions made by or against the company. Consequently 
it carefully assesses the likelihood of the success of a claim or action. AMEC makes an appropriate provision for those legal claims or actions
for and against the company on the basis of the likely outcome, but makes no provision for those which are unlikely to succeed.
During 1994 and 1995, AMEC Construction Management Inc. (ACMI), (a wholly owned subsidiary of AMEC plc), entered into various contracts
with the United States General Services Administration (GSA) for the construction of courthouses in Missouri and California and for the
refurbishment and seismic upgrade of a US Customs House in California. The total value of these contracts at point of signing was in the 
order of US$290 million. Due, inter alia, to unforeseen site conditions, client delays and numerous design and scope changes, ACMI 
suffered significant cost overruns and submitted substantial recovery claims.
In June 1999, GSA terminated the right of ACMI to complete one contract, which at that stage was 85 per cent complete. ACMI contested the
termination and sued the GSA for recovery of all claims on this contract.
The United States Department of Justice then filed a counterclaim alleging false claims on the GSA contracts and sought to argue that, 
as a result, ACMI had forfeited its rights to recovery of all claims.
ACMI, upon legal advice, pleaded guilty in December 2000 and November 2001 to two federal felonies and paid two fines totalling approximately
US$1.2 million. AMEC also agreed to introduce additional ethical processes and procedures, both for the North American workforce and 
for those staff employed by AMEC, whose responsibilities caused them to have regular business contact with AMEC Americas and thus, 
the US Government.
The GSA subsequently filed a motion for summary judgement seeking an order declaring that ACMI had forfeited its claims on all the projects. 
ACMI opposed the motion and oral argument was held in February 2004. There were no further developments in the year ended 31 December
2004 and a decision is not expected for at least six months.
AMEC continues to hope that an amicable settlement of all the outstanding issues with the GSA can be secured but there is, at this time, 
no certainty that such an outcome will be achieved.
30 Pension arrangements
The group operates a number of pension schemes for United Kingdom and overseas employees. All United Kingdom members are in defined
benefit schemes and the majority of overseas employees are in defined contribution schemes.
SSAP 24 ‘accounting for pension costs’
Contributions by employees and employers are paid in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and are held separately from the assets
of the group in trustee administered funds.
The total pension cost for the group was £13.5 million (2003: £12.8 million) and there is a prepayment of pension costs as at 31 December 2004 
of £80.1 million (2003: £70.3 million) included within debtors: amounts falling due after one year .
The projected unit valuation method has been used to assess liabilities and future funding rates for the three major schemes which cover
approximately 90 per cent of United Kingdom members. The latest actuarial valuations of these schemes were undertaken as at 31 December
2001 and 1 April 2002. These showed that the market value of the assets was £1,058.6 million, with the actuarial value of assets being sufficient
to cover 114 per cent of the accrued benefits. The principal assumptions were based upon future investment returns of 5.50 to 6.30 per cent,
future pensionable salary increases of 3.70 to 4.75 per cent, future pension increases of 2.50 to 2.70 per cent and valuation rates of interest 
of 5.50 to 5.60 per cent.
FRS 17 ‘retirement benefits’
The valuations used for FRS 17 disclosures have been based on the most recent valuations of the three major schemes as at 31 December
2001 and 1 April 2002, and updated by the schemes’ actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes 
as at 31 December . The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December .
The financial assumptions used to calculate the schemes’ liabilities under FRS 17, on a projected unit valuation method, are as follows: 
2004 2003 2002
Per cent Per cent Per cent
Rate of discount 5.3 5.4 5.5
Rate of inflation 2.7 2.7 2.3
Rate of increase in salaries 3.8 3.7 3.3
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.8 2.7 2.3
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 77
30 Pension arrangements continued
The market value of the schemes’ assets, (which are not intended to be realised in the short-term, and may be subject to significant change
before they are realised), and the present value of the schemes’ liabilities (which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods 
and thus inherently uncertain) were as follows:
Long-term rate Long-term rate Long-term rate
of return of return of return
expected as at Value as at expected as at Value as at expected as at Value as at
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2004 2004 2003 2003 2002 2002
Per cent £ million Per cent £ million Per cent £ million
Equities 7.5 620.4 7.8 621.3 7.5 459.9
Bonds 5.3 422.6 5.4 360.1 5.5 380.1
Property 6.5 88.8 6.8 90.1 6.5 75.9
Cash 4.5 29.7 4.5 3.4 4.5 25.2
Total market value of schemes’ assets 1,161.5 1,074.9 941.1
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (1,042.6) (954.6) (825.7)
Surplus in the schemes 118.9 120.3 115.4
Related deferred tax liability (35.7) (36.1) (34.6)
Net pension asset arising under FRS 17 83.2 84.2 80.8
The movement in the surplus in the schemes during the year is as follows:
2004 2003
Group Group
£ million £ million
Surplus in the schemes as at 1 January 120.3 115.4
Current service cost (29.5) (25.7)
Contributions paid 16.8 16.4
Other financial income 21.0 14.9
Actuarial losses (9.7) (0.7)
Surplus in the schemes as at 31 December 118.9 120.3
If FRS 17 had been fully adopted in these accounts the pension costs charged would have been as follows:
2004 2003
Group Group
Analysis of other pension costs charged in arriving at group operating profit: £ million £ million
Current service cost 29.5 25.7
2004 2003
Group Group
Analysis of the amount credited to other financial income: £ million £ million
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets 69.5 57.7
Interest on pension schemes’ liabilities (48.5) (42.8)
Other financial income 21.0 14.9
2004 2003
Group Group
Analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses: £ million £ million
Actual return less expected return on schemes’ assets 27.8 84.7
Experience gains and losses on schemes’ liabilities (0.7) (7.0)
Changes in assumptions (36.8) (78.4)
Actuarial losses (9.7) (0.7) 78 AMEC plc annual report 2004
30 Pension arrangements continued
If FRS 17 had been fully adopted in these accounts the net assets and profit and loss account reserve would have been as follows:
2004 2003
Group Group
Net assets £ million £ million
Net assets per consolidated balance sheet 268.1 268.5
SSAP 24 prepayment (net of deferred tax) (56.1) (49.2)
Net assets excluding SSAP 24 prepayment 212.0 219.3
Net pension asset arising under FRS 17 83.2 84.2
Net assets including net pension asset arising under FRS 17 295.2 303.5
2004 2003
Group Group
Profit and loss account reserve £ million £ million
Profit and loss account reserve per consolidated balance sheet (12.3) 0.4
SSAP 24 prepayment (net of deferred tax) (56.1) (49.2)
Profit and loss account reserve excluding SSAP 24 prepayment (68.4) (48.8)
Net pension asset arising under FRS 17 83.2 84.2
Profit and loss account reserve including net pension asset arising under FRS 17 14.8 35.4
The history of experience gains and losses has been as follows:
2004 2004 2003 2003 2002 2002
Group Group Group Group Group Group
£ million Per cent £ million Per cent £ million Per cent
Difference between expected and actual return 
on scheme assets 27.8 84.7 (150.7)
Percentage of scheme assets 2.4 7.9 (16.0)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (0.7) (7.0) (4.6)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (0.1) (0.7) (0.6)
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised 
gains and losses (9.7) (0.7) (204.0)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (0.9) (0.1) (24.7)
31 Related party transactions
During the year there were a number of transactions with joint ventures, associates and joint arrangements, all of which arose in the normal
course of business. These transactions and the related balances outstanding as at 31 December are as follows:
Outstanding balance 
Value of transactions in the year as at 31 December
2004 2003 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Services rendered 59.6 63.2 6.5 8.3
Services received 3.0 19.0 – 0.6
Sale of fixed assets 29.7 49.2 – –
Purchase of fixed assets – 1.6 – –
Provision of finance 18.0 14.3 25.4 44.0
The amounts receivable from, and payable to, joint ventures are disclosed in notes 15 and 16.
Notes to the accounts
continued AMEC plc annual report 2004 79
The following should be read in conjunction with the report of the
auditors which is set out on the following page.
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each
financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the company and the group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
accounts; and 
prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard
the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 80 AMEC plc annual report 2004
We have audited the accounts on pages 55 to 78. We have also audited
the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described
as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the company and the company’s members as a body for our audit
work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 
the directors’ remuneration report. As described on the previous page,
this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance
with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards. 
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the
United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and by our profession’s
ethical guidance. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true
and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if,
in our opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the accounts,
if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have
not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement on pages
46 to 48 reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules
and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls,
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including
the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the
directors’ remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent
with the audited accounts. We consider the implications for our report
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the accounts. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued
by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, 
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures
in the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation
of the accounts, and whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the
accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information 
in the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and the group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit 
of the group for the year then ended; and 
the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report, 
on pages 52 to 54, to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
Manchester
10 March 2005
Independent auditors’ report to the members of AMEC plc AMEC plc annual report 2004 81
Five year record
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Summarised consolidated results
Total turnover 4,816.4 4,712.7 4,331.6 4,467.5 3,980.0
Profit on ordinary activities before goodwill amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation: 118.1 112.5 105.2 116.7 96.9
Goodwill amortisation (21.6) (17.0) (13.1) (11.1) (6.7)
Exceptional items:
Reorganisation costs – – (12.9) – –
(Loss)/profit on disposal or closure of operations (21.5) 0.6 (12.0) (24.0) (6.8)
Attributable goodwill (13.0) – (28.0) (0.5) (3.6)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of fixed assets 3.7 (0.4) – (0.4) –
(30.8) 0.2 (52.9) (24.9) (10.4)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 65.7 95.7 39.2 80.7 79.8
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities (43.1) (34.9) (28.6) (33.3) (29.9)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 22.6 60.8 10.6 47.4 49.9
Equity minority interests (0.8) (0.8) 0.2 – (0.1)
Profit for the year 21.8 60.0 10.8 47.4 49.8
Dividends on equity shares (34.8) (30.7) (29.5) (25.9) (18.8)
Dividends on non-equity shares – – – (15.8) (9.2)
Retained (loss)/profit for the year (13.0) 29.3 (18.7) 5.7 21.8
Basic earnings per ordinary share 7.4p 20.4p 3.7p 13.7p 19.1p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share* 25.9p 25.3p 24.3p 26.5p
†
23.5p
Dividends per ordinary share 11.0p 10.5p 10.0p 9.5p 8.5p
Dividend cover* 2.4x 2.4x 2.4x 2.8x 2.8x
Summarised consolidated balance sheets
Fixed assets 641.4 646.2 391.5 457.4 449.4
Net working capital (29.8) (102.3) (57.7) (84.9) 91.8
Net debt (283.7) (218.1) (37.3) (44.6) (211.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (59.8) (57.3) (47.1) (44.2) (48.6)
Net assets 268.1 268.5 249.4 283.7 280.8
Shareholders’ funds 264.8 261.1 247.6 281.5 278.6
Equity minority interests 3.3 7.4 1.8 2.2 2.2
268.1 268.5 249.4 283.7 280.8
The figures are stated in accordance with the accounting policies set out on page 60. 
*Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
†
Pro forma basis assuming preference shares were converted to ordinary shares on 1 January 2001. 82 AMEC plc annual report 2004
The subsidiaries and joint ventures which, in the opinion of the
directors, principally affect group trading results and net assets are
listed below. Except where indicated, all subsidiaries listed below are
wholly owned, incorporated in Great Britain and carry on their activities
principally in their countries of incorporation. Shares are held by
subsidiary companies except where marked with an asterisk where they
are held directly by the company. All holdings are of ordinary shares,
except where otherwise indicated. A full list of subsidiaries will be
filed with the Registrar of Companies with the next annual return.
Subsidiaries
AMEC S.A. (France)
AMEC Americas Limited (Canada) (note 1)
AMEC Australia Pty Limited (Australia) (note 2)
AMEC (Bermuda) Limited (Bermuda) 
AMEC Biopharmaceuticals Inc. (USA)
AMEC BKW Limited
AMEC Capital Projects Limited
AMEC Civil Engineering Limited
AMEC Civil Inc. (USA)
AMEC Civil LLC (USA) (80%) (note 3)
AMEC Construction Limited
AMEC Construction Management Inc. (USA) 
AMEC Developments Limited
AMEC Dynamic Structures Ltd. (Canada)
AMEC Dynamic Structures Inc. (USA)
AMEC Earth & Environmental Inc. (USA)
AMEC Earth & Environmental (UK) Limited
AMEC E&C Services Inc. (USA)
AMEC Facilities Limited
*AMEC Finance Limited
AGRA Foundations Limited (Canada)
AGRA Foundations Inc. (USA)
*AMEC Group Limited
AMEC Group Singapore Pte Limited (Singapore)
AMEC Holdings Inc. (USA)
AMEC Inc. (Canada)
AMEC Infrastructure Inc. (USA)
AMEC Infrastructure Limited (Canada)
AMEC Ingenieurbau GmbH (Germany)
AMEC Internal Asset Management Limited
AMEC International Construction Limited 
(operating outside the United Kingdom)
*AMEC Investments Limited
AMEC Kamtech Inc. (USA)
AMEC Offshore Inc. (USA)
AMEC Offshore Services Limited
AMEC Paragon Inc. (USA) (acquired 20 January 2005)
AMEC Pipeline Professionals Inc. (USA)
AMEC Power Limited
AMEC Project Investments Limited
*AMEC Property and Overseas Investments Limited
*AMEC Services Limited (note 4)
AMEC SPIE S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Benelux b.v. (Belgium)
AMEC SPIE Capag S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Communications S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Energie Services S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Est SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Ile-de-France Nord-Ouest SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Oil and Gas Services SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Ouest-Centre SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Rail (FR) S.A. (France)
AMEC SPIE Rail Systems Limited (note 5)
AMEC SPIE Rail (UK) Limited
AMEC SPIE Sud-Est SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Sud-Ouest SAS (France)
AMEC SPIE Thermatome SAS (France)
AMEC Utilities Limited
Atlantic Services Limited (Bermuda)
CV Buchan Limited (name changed to Buchan Concrete Solutions
Limited on 15 February 2005)
IMISA S.A. (Spain)
Ipedex SAS (France)
Laurent SAS (France)
Midwest Management (1987) Ltd (Canada) 
National Ventures Inc. (USA)
Primat Recruitment Limited
SPIE S.A. (France)
Spie Enertrans S.A. (France)
US Pipeline Inc. (USA)
Joint ventures
City Airport Rail Enterprises (Holdings) Limited (50%) (note 6)
Européenne de Travaux Ferroviaires S.A. (France) (50%) (note 7)
Fluor AMEC Enterprises LLC (49%) (note 8)
Health Management (Carlisle) Holdings Limited (50%) (note 9)
Health Management (UCLH) Holdings Limited (33.3%) (note 10)
Ician Developments Limited (50%) (note 11)
KIG Immobilien Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (Germany) (50%) (note 12)
Newcastle Estate Partnership Holdings Limited (50% – ‘A’ shares) (note 13)
*Northern Integrated Services Limited (50% – ‘B’ shares) (note 14)
*Road Management Group Limited (25%) (note 15)
Road Management Services (A13) Holdings Limited (25%) (note 16)
Road Management Services (Darrington) Holdings Limited (25%) (note 17)
Wastewater Management Holdings Limited (25% – ‘B’ shares) (note 18)
Notes
1 In January 2004, the operations of AMEC Earth & Environmental Limited and
AMEC E&C Services Limited merged to form AMEC Americas Limited.
2 The issued share capital of AMEC Australia Pty Limited is 62,930,001 ordinary
shares of A$1 each, 12,500,000 class ‘A’ redeemable preference shares of A$1
each and 2,500 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of A$1 each.
3 The issued share capital of AMEC Civil LLC is 1,000 common shares of 
US$1 each.
4 The issued share capital of AMEC Services Limited is 50 million ordinary shares
of 99 pence each and 50 million preference shares of 1 pence each.
5 The issued share capital of AMEC SPIE Rail Systems Limited is held 50% AMEC
plc and 50% SPIE Enertrans UK Limited.
6 The issued share capital of City Airport Rail Enterprises (Holdings) Limited 
is 50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each.
7 The issued share capital of Européenne de Travaux Ferroviaires S.A. is 990,000
ordinary shares of €16 each.
8 The share capital of Fluor AMEC Enterprises LLC is as yet unissued but is
expected to be initially US$4,000,000.
9 The issued share capital of Health Management (Carlisle) Holdings Limited 
is 841,002 ordinary shares of £1 each.
10 The issued share capital of Health Management (UCLH) Holdings Limited 
is 2,521,149 ordinary shares of £1 each.
11 The issued share capital of Ician Developments Limited is 10,000 ordinary 
‘A’ shares of £1 each and 10,000 ordinary ‘B’ shares of £1 each.
12 KIG Immobilien Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH is a limited liability partnership.
13 The issued share capital of Newcastle Estate Partnership Holdings Limited 
is 500,000 ‘A’ ordinary shares of £1 each, 200,000 ‘B’ ordinary shares of 
£1 each, 250,000 ‘C’ ordinary shares of £1 each and 50,000 ‘D’ ordinary shares
of £1 each.
14 The issued share capital of Northern Integrated Services Limited is 12,500 
‘A’ ordinary shares of £1 each and 12,500 ‘B’ ordinary shares of £1 each.
15 The issued share capital of Road Management Group Limited is 25,335,004
ordinary shares of £1 each.
16 The issued share capital of Road Management Services (A13) Holdings Limited
is 1,233,754 ordinary shares of £1 each.
17 The issued share capital of Road Management Services (Darrington) Holdings
Limited is 50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each.
18 The issued share capital of Wastewater Management Holdings Limited is
150,000 ‘A’ ordinary shares of £1 each, 75,000 ‘B’ ordinary shares of £1 each 
and 75,000 ‘C’ ordinary shares of £1 each.
Principal group companies
As at 31 December 2004 AMEC plc annual report 2004 83
Financial calendar
March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
May Annual general meeting.
September Interim report for the half year ended 30 June.
Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London Stock
Exchange are available on the internet at www.amec.com. Copies 
of annual reports and accounts are also available upon written 
request from: 
WILink
Hook Rise South, Surbiton, Surrey KT6 7LD
United Kingdom
Payment of dividends
Interim ordinary dividend announced in September and paid in January.
Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly into
their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers Automated
Clearing System (BACS) may do so by contacting the company’s
registrar, Capita Registrars.
Dividend reinvestment plan
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is available for the convenience 
of shareholders who would prefer the company to utilise their dividends
for the purchase, on their behalf, of additional shares of the company
instead of receiving cash dividends. 
The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or 
as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment 
date at the price then prevailing in the market. Further details 
of the DRIP may be obtained from:
Capita Registrars
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)870 162 3100
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com or visit the web site at
www.capitaregistrars.com
Electronic communications
Electronic shareholder communication
AMEC is working with Future Forests to reduce the impact of
shareholder communications on the environment – as well as cutting
the cost of printing and distribution. For every shareholder that elects
to receive communications electronically, AMEC will plant a tree on
their behalf at the Donkleywood Forest project in Northumberland.
Further information on Future Forests and the Donkleywood project 
is available at www.futureforests.com/forestsandprojects/forests.asp
Choosing electronic shareholder information means you will receive
an e-mail every time any new shareholder information is published –
instead of paper documents in the post. E-mails will refer to AMEC
annual and interim reports, documents relating to our annual general
meeting and any other shareholder communications – and will 
normally be from our registrar, Capita Registrars. E-mails will 
contain links to the appropriate website where the documents 
can be viewed.
Shareholders – how to register
If you are an AMEC shareholder and wish to receive electronic
communications, you will need your investor code, which is printed 
in the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates 
and dividend tax vouchers.
You must register with Capita Registrars to receive electronic
shareholder communications as follows:
1 Go to www.amec.com/plantatree
2 Follow the “Shareholders – how to register” instructions
Once you confirm your details, Capita Registrars will e-mail you to
verify the change. Every time Capita Registrars receives a shareholder
request to switch from paper to e-communications, we will ask
Future Forests to plant a tree.
You can opt to return to paper communications at any time by
amending your details with Capita Registrars. Shareholders who
decline to register for e-communications will continue to receive
paper documents.
If you have any questions about electronic shareholder communications,
contact Capita Registrars on +44 (0)870 162 3100, visit their website 
at www.capitaregistrars.com or e-mail at ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Electronic shareholder information
AMEC’s web site has a facility whereby shareholders can link to 
the company’s registrar, Capita Registrars, via its web site in order 
to gain access to general shareholder information as well as personal
shareholding details. If you wish to access details of your personal
shareholding you will need your investor code, which is printed in 
the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and
dividend tax vouchers.
To access these services:
1 Select the “Investors” home page at www.amec.com
2 Select “Electronic communications” from the main menu.
3 Select the “Electronic shareholder services” link.
4 Follow the instructions at the Capita Registrars website.
If you have any questions about electronic shareholder information,
contact Capita Registrars on +44 (0)870 162 3100, visit their website 
at www.capitaregistrars.com or e-mail at ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Registered office
AMEC plc
Sandiway House, Hartford, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2YA
United Kingdom
Registered in England No 1675285
Shareholder information Investor relations report
Overview
AMEC investor relations is committed to improving the understanding
of AMEC and its business activities in the financial community, enabling
financial markets to place an appropriate valuation on the company.
This report provides an overview of AMEC’s investor relations strategy,
the investor relations programme in 2004 and other information of
interest to shareholders.
AMEC’s investor relations strategy reflects the company’s guiding
principles (available at www.amec.com) and its responsibilities to
shareholders, which are:
to seek to achieve the best returns on investment that markets
will allow and provide accurate and timely information on the
company’s performance; and
to manage the affairs of the company through responsible and
effective corporate governance, identifying and managing the risks
inherent in our activities on an ongoing basis.
The strategy is focused on three key areas which are:
Compliance with all regulations relating to the conduct of companies
listed on the London Stock Exchange. This includes ensuring that 
all market sensitive information is issued firstly through the London
Stock Exchange and as soon as possible thereafter is made available
to the financial community through various channels including
AMEC’s corporate website at www.amec.com;
Understanding the shareholder base and market sentiment
towards AMEC. This is achieved through close working relationships
with advisers, regular share register analysis and non-attributable
feedback from analysts and investors; and
Delivery of a comprehensive programme of investor relations
activity involving effective communication and consultation with
current and potential investors and analysts.
AMEC investor relations controls and coordinates the company’s
programme of investor relations activity in line with this strategy.
In support of its objectives, AMEC has put in place a management
and policy framework for investor relations together with best practice
notes on contact with the financial community, stock exchange
announcements and published information. These documents 
are available to employees on the company’s intranet.
Review of 2004
Key events in AMEC’s investor relations programme are the company’s
preliminary and interim results announcements, annual general
meeting and related trading updates. In the year ended 10 March 2005,
these events took place on the following dates:
Annual general meeting trading update 19 May 2004
Trading update 23 June 2004
Interim results announcement 2 September 2004
Trading update 12 January 2005
Preliminary results announcement 10 March 2005
On the days the preliminary and interim results were announced,
AMEC’s chairman, chief executive and finance director made
presentations to analysts, institutional investors and banks in London,
with their slides and speaking remarks being published at the time
of delivery on AMEC’s website. Interviews were also given to journalists
from leading newswires and the national and regional press.
Following both the preliminary and interim results announcements,
major shareholders were offered one-on-one meetings with
management, with other institutional shareholders being offered the
opportunity to attend group meetings hosted by the company’s brokers.
During the course of 2004, AMEC met with a total of 72 (2003: 73)
institutions  in the UK, Europe and the US.
Following two major site visits in 2003 at which AMEC’s oil and 
gas and railway businesses were presented by senior operational
management, the main event in 2004 was the sector change
presentation on 8 December, which introduced AMEC to new analysts
and investors in the Support Services sector, whilst at the same time
introducing the company’s new segmental analysis to the financial
community. This event was announced in advance to the London
Stock Exchange, with all slides and speaking remarks being published
on www.amec.com on the day of presentation. Non-attributable
feedback from this event was extremely positive.
AMEC recognises the importance of the internet in financial
communications and closely follows developments in best practice 
in investor communications on the internet. Over the last 12 months 
a new charting facility which maps key events against the company’s
share price was introduced, together with the first “on-line” version 
of AMEC’s annual report. The site’s best practice e-mail alerting service
remains a quick and efficient way to be kept appraised of company
announcements. During 2004 the number of visits made to the
investors pages of www.amec.com doubled to some 204,000. The site
was runner up in the IR Magazine 2004 Awards in the “Best use of the
internet for investor relations” category for a non-FTSE 100 company.
84 AMEC plc annual report 2004 About us
AMEC is an international project
management and services company,
employing 44,000 people in over
40 countries around the world.
We provide total life of asset services –
designing, delivering and supporting our
clients’ investments in capital assets.
Design
We help develop the initial concept, plan
funding and add value from the initial
concepts through to detailed designs.
Deliver
We project manage, construct and 
take care of commissioning according 
to individual client’s requirements. 
Support
We offer support services, from 
long-term maintenance to specialist
technical services such as environmental
consulting. And at the end of the asset’s
life, we can help shut it down safely. 
AMEC at a glance
Our markets and customers
AMEC has major home markets in the
UK, Continental Europe and the Americas
and works internationally from Alaska
to Australia.
We work for a wide range of clients
across the public and private sectors,
ranging from national and local
governments to blue chip companies 
on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Our largest customer accounts for around
six per cent of total turnover .
Principal activities
Engineering and Technical 
Services (“ETS”)
Specialist services ranging from
environmental consulting to asset
maintenance.
Unlike the rest of AMEC, where we meet
customers’ needs as a national or
international business, the Multitechnical
and Environmental businesses provide
services locally, to a diverse regional and
international client base. With over 50,000
clients in many different sectors and a high
percentage of repeat business, ETS is
generally a highly predictable business. 
Multitechnical Services
In Europe, AMEC SPIE provides a broad
range of mechanical, electrical and
communications services, ranging from
maintenance of street lighting for local
authorities to design and delivery of fully
automated vehicle assembly lines and
advanced voice and data systems. It has
a network of offices in over 300 locations
across Benelux, France, Portugal
and Spain.
Environmental Services
With a network of 100 offices in North
America and beyond, the Environmental
business provides a range of specialist
services from environmental assessments
to geo-technical and materials 
testing services.
Design and Engineering Services
Provides services from front-end design
to maintenance support across a wide
range of market sectors, mainly
in North America and the UK. 
Oil and Gas
With market-leading expertise 
working in hostile deepwater
environments, AMEC provides total life 
of asset services to clients in the
international oil and gas industry, where
barriers to entry are extremely high.
In recent years AMEC has successfully
pursued a strategy of international
growth, working closely with long-term
clients who are developing new sources
of supply around the world. 
Upstream
AMEC has leading market positions
in the engineering and project
management of complex offshore
topsides and in operations and
maintenance services. In Canada,
we have a strong position in the large
and growing oil sands industry.
Downstream and Pipelines
In Downstream, AMEC is recognised
for its expertise in gas processing
and operations and maintenance,
whilst in Pipelines the group is one
of the world’s leading large-diameter
pipeline contractors.
Project Solutions
Construction Services 
AMEC takes a selective approach
to project delivery for public and private
sector clients, in particular markets
where we have expertise, often involving
design, maintenance or operations support
and sometimes equity participation.
Project Equity Investments
AMEC has equity participation in 
PPP and urban regeneration projects
where multiple income streams
are typically generated – from
the investment, construction work
and associated services. Significant
opportunities also exist for additional
investment in our Wind Energy business.
AMEC in 2004
Engineering and Technical Services
We continued to grow our European
Multitechnical Services business 
with a series of eight acquisitions
We teamed up with Thales to design 
and upgrade the entire infrastructure
security system for the French Ministry 
of Economy, Finance and Industry
We headed a consortium of companies 
to provide full site support services 
to EDF’s Fessenheim nuclear power
station in France
We helped the French government
improve its road safety by implementing 
a system of speed cameras across
mainland France which automatically
detects and fines traffic offenders
We tested our innovative GeoMelt
technology for use at the world’s largest
environmental clean-up project at the
United States nuclear weapons site 
in Hanford, Washington
We were chosen to prepare the
environmental impact assessment 
for the Sydney Tar Ponds in Nova 
Scotia – one of Canada’s largest
remediation projects
Our joint venture with Fluor worked on
three major reconstruction contracts in
Iraq, covering power generation facilities
and water infrastructure
We were awarded a long-term framework
contract by Thames Water to install water
meters in London and the Thames Valley
– which will run for up to ten years and
involve installations at over 200,000
properties in its first five year period
Oil and Gas
We strengthened our international 
oil and gas presence with a series of
important contract wins in the Caspian,
Kuwait, Western Australia, South East
Asia, Nigeria, Canada and the UK 
We delivered the Cheyenne Plains
pipeline project – over 250 miles of
natural gas pipeline – the largest US
cross-country pipeline project in 2004 
Over the last 15 months our business 
in the large and growing Canadian 
oil sands secured a series of important
contracts with clients including Deer
Creek, Shell Canada and Imperial 
Oil Canada
In January 2005 we acquired oil and gas
engineering services company Paragon,
which strengthens our portfolio of services
and client relationships in Houston –
establishing us as a Tier One contractor
in the region 
In February 2005 we were awarded an
eight year alliance contract worth £280
million by National Grid Transco – to
replace gas mains along the M1 corridor
between Sheffield and Leicester, UK
Project Solutions
We worked with the UK Highways Agency
to deliver the Bingley Relief Road three
months ahead of schedule – and were
awarded the Prime Minister’s Better
Public Building Award, the UK’s leading
accolade for infrastructure projects 
We were selected by two leading
healthcare facility and service providers
to deliver £33 million worth of new
patient facilities for the NHS in the north
and south east of England
An AMEC joint venture was awarded 
the contract to partner with Northern
Ireland Railways on a major renewal 
and upgrade of its coast line between
Belfast and Larne 
We were selected in joint venture as
preferred bidder for a landmark urban
regeneration project in London which 
will transform Lewisham town centre 
into a thriving residential, commercial
and recreation area – and have started 
on-site at similar schemes in Reading
and Durham
In recent months we have been chosen 
as preferred bidder for three major UK
PPP projects: Colchester Hospital, the
Docklands Light Railway extension to
Woolwich Arsenal and South Lanarkshire
schools, the largest single schools PPP
project to date – and are also preferred
bidder on the Incheon Bridge PPP project
in South Korea
This report is printed on paper made from 55 per cent recycled fibre and 45 per cent virgin
elemental chlorine free fibre from certified sustainable resources. Any wastage in the finishing
process has been addressed and minimised. The printers of the report are also ISO 14001
accredited and actively work to minimise the effects of the business on the environment.
Designed and produced by in collaboration with Romanus Odiwe, Johnny Boylan
and Saffron Digital Production Ltd.
Printed by Wace Limited. AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2004
AMEC plc
65 Carter Lane
London EC4V 5HF
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7634 0000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7634 0001
www.amec.com
A leader in project management
and services, we design, deliver
and support infrastructure – from
local technical services to international
landmark projects
Across the world
Responsibly
For the long term
44,000 people
700 locations
40 countries
Contents
Financial highlights 1
Why AMEC? 2
Engineering and Technical 
Services 4
Oil and Gas 10
Project Solutions 16
Sustainability 20
Our board of directors 22
Chairman’s statement 24
Chief executive’s review 26
Operating and financial review 32
Segmental review 40
Report of the directors 44
Directors’ remuneration report 49
Consolidated profit and 
loss account 55
Consolidated balance sheet 56
Company balance sheet 57
Consolidated cash flow 
statement 58
Consolidated statement of total
recognised gains and losses 59
Note of consolidated historical 
cost profits and losses 59
Reconciliation of movements in
consolidated shareholders’ funds 59
Notes to the accounts 60
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 79
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of AMEC plc 80
Five year record 81
Principal group companies 82
Shareholder information 83
Investor relations report 84
AMEC in 2004 85
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2004
