 AMEC plc 
76-78 Old Street  
London EC1V 9RU  
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7539 5800
amec.com
Growing into 
Vision 2015
 
AMEC plc annual report 
and accounts 2010
Growing into Vision 2015 | AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Contents
Overview
2	 AMEC	at	a	glance
3	 Performance	highlights
Strategy
4	 Chairman’s	statement
5	 Chief	Executive’s	review
6	 Our	strategy	for	growth	–	Vision	2015
Risk
10	 Managing	risk
Performance
14	 Key	Performance	Indicators
15	 Sustainability
16	 Business	and	financial	review
	 17		Natural	Resources
	 23		Power	&	Process
	 28		Earth	&	Environmental
	 31		Financial	review
Governance
36	 Our	group	management	team
38	 Our	board	of	directors
39	 Report	of	the	directors
48	 Directors’	remuneration	report
Financials
59	 Consolidated	income	statement
60	 	 Consolidated	statement	of 	 	
comprehensive	income
61	 Consolidated	balance	sheet 	
62	 	 Consolidated	statement	of	changes	in	equity
64	 Consolidated	cash	flow	statement
65	 Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts
105	 Responsibility	statements	of	the	directors
106		 Independent	auditors’	report	to	the 	 	
members	of	AMEC	plc	for	the	consolidated 	
accounts
107	 Company	balance	sheet
108	 Notes	to	the	company	balance	sheet
113		 Independent	auditors’	report	to	the 	 	
members	of	AMEC	plc	for	the	company
114	 Principal	group	companies
115	 Five	year	record
116	 Shareholder	information
Notes:  
Any	forward-looking	statements	made	in	this	document	represent	management’s	best	judgement	as	to	what	may	occur	in	the	future. 	 	
However,	the	group’s	actual	results	for	the	current	and	future	fiscal	periods	and	corporate	developments	will	depend	on	a	number	of	economic, 	
competitive	and	other	factors,	some	of	which	will	be	outside	the	control	of	the	group.	Such	factors	could	cause	the	group’s	actual	results	for 	
future	periods	to	differ	materially	from	those	expressed	in	any	forward-looking	statements	made	in	this	document. Minerals & Metals 11%
Oil & Gas
Clean Energy
Environment and Water
Unconventional  
Oil & Gas 20%
Oil & Gas 24%
Nuclear 9%
Renewables/Bioprocess 9%
Power 8%
Transmission & Distribution 4%
Water 3%
Transport/Infrastructure 3%
Industrial/Commercial 3%
Government Services 6%
Sector
1
2 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
AMEC at a glance
AMEC’s people design, deliver and maintain strategic assets for our customers, offering services which extend from 
environmental and front end engineering design services before the start of a project, to decommissioning at the end  
of an asset’s life. We operate in some 40 countries, working for customers ranging from blue chip companies to national 
and local governments and supporting assets such as oil and gas production facilities and nuclear power stations.  
Our engineers, project managers and consultants use their skills and expertise to deliver successful projects for our 
customers, so building long-term relationships with them. 
Our customers include: BG, BP, Bruce Power, ConocoPhillips, Dominion Power, EDF, ExxonMobil, Imperial Oil, INPEX, 
Kuwait Oil Company (KOC), National Grid, PotashCorp, Sellafield Limited, Shell, UK NDA, US Air Force, US Navy.
Analysis of AMEC 2010 
EBITA
1
 Revenues
1
51%
30%
19%
57%
25%
18%
20%
45%
35%
Average employees
1
  Natural Resources     Power & Process     Earth & Environmental
Power & Process is principally based  
in the UK and Americas and provides  
a balanced portfolio of services to a 
broad range of public and private sector 
customers, including major utilities.  
It is increasingly focused on clean 
energy and carbon efficiency and has  
a leading position in the nuclear sector, 
particularly in the UK. See page 23 for 
further details.
Natural Resources is recognised  
as a world leader in the provision of 
engineering, project management and 
asset support services, particularly in 
upstream oil and gas, unconventional oil 
and in surface mining. It has particular 
expertise in large and complex projects 
in growth regions and in extending the 
life of assets. The business portfolio  
is well balanced by customer, by end 
market, by geography, and in terms  
of the nature of services provided.  
See page 17 for further details. 
Earth & Environmental is a leading 
international environmental and 
engineering consulting organisation, 
operating mainly in North America,  
with a growing European and South 
American presence. Although it offers  
a diverse portfolio of services to a broad 
spread of public and private sector 
clients, it increasingly works with 
customers common to Natural 
Resources or Power & Process, 
providing a complementary offering. 
Recent acquisitions have been 
particularly focused on the water sector . 
See page 28 for further details.
Revenue by: 
Geography
  UK  
  Canada
  US  
   Rest of the World  
37%
29%
20%
14%
1  Excluding Investments and other activities. For basis of presentation see page 16 . AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 3 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
Performance highlights
    2010 2009 
    £ million £ million
Continuing operations: 
 Revenue   2,950.6 2,539.1 
  EBITA
1
   271.8 208.3 
  Adjusted profit before tax
3
   279.7 215.6
 Profit before tax
6
   258.2 203.5 
Operating cash flow
5
   227.0 266.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
4
   62.5p 46.9p
Diluted earnings per share  
from continuing operations   71.3p 46.7p
Dividends per share   26.5p 17.7p
Strong operating performance
O O
 Revenue £2,950.6 million, up 16 per cent on 2009
O O
 EBITA
1
 £271.8 million, up 30 per cent 
O O
 EBITA margin
2
 9.2 per cent, 100 basis points higher
O O
 Diluted EPS from continuing operations
4
 62.5 pence, up 33 per cent
Order book strong at £3.1 billion
O O
 Order intake over 25 per cent above 2009
Cash flow conversion 83 per cent 
O O
 Operating cash flow £227 million
5
Continued financial strength
O O
 Net cash as at 31 December 2010 £740 million
Dividends per share up 50 per cent, to 26.5 pence
O O
 Over last five years dividends have more than doubled
O O
 Progressive dividend policy to be maintained, with cover of 2 to 2.5 times
1  EBITA for continuing operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items but 
including joint venture profit before tax
2  EBITA as defined above as a percentage of revenue
3  EBITA, as defined above, plus net financing income of £7.9 million (2009: £7.3 million)
4  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before intangible amortisation and 
exceptional items
5  Cash generated from operations before exceptional items and discontinued operations, legacy 
settlements and pension payments in excess of amounts recognised in the income statement  
but including dividends received from joint ventures
6  The average numbers of employees shown include agency staff, unless otherwise stated.  
The average number of employees in the Power & Process division for 2008 has been restated  
to include all categories of employees in the Americas on a consistent basis. Figures for Earth  
& Environmental employees in 2009 and prior have been restated to bring the definition of full 
time equivalents in line with the other divisions
n/a: not applicable
Revenue £m
 06 07 08 09 10
2,951
2,539
2,606
2,356
2,122
Adjusted profit 
before tax
3
 £m
 06 07 08 09 10
279.7
215.6
210.3
126.5
79.7
 
Diluted EPS
4
 p
 06 07 08 09 10
62.5
46.9
44.0
28.0
16.6
 
Dividends per share p
 06 07 08 09 10
26.5
17.7
15.4
13.4
12.2
 
Average employees
6
 06 07 08 09 10
21,907
20,762
22,516
20,099
17,432 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 4
Chairman’s statement
the subject and a review of how effective the meeting 
has been. The aim is to change the focus of board  
meetings to enable more discussion and debate on  
key strategic matters. 
I was delighted to welcome Neil Carson and Colin Day 
to the board as non-executive directors on 31 August 
and 14 October respectively. Neil brings his knowledge 
of running and growing a successful business in 
Johnson Matthey Plc; Colin a depth of financial 
experience, mostly recently as Chief Financial Officer  
at Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. Both have already 
contributed substantially to the discussions and 
decisions of the board. Sadly, in May 2010 Martha 
Hesse retired after three terms of service. Her insight 
is much missed. Peter Byrom retired on 9 February 
2011 having completed two terms as a non-executive 
director . We are grateful for his contribution both as  
a director and as Chairman of the audit committee  
over the past six years. He has been succeeded in  
this role by Colin Day.
As you will be aware, I myself have decided to retire 
with effect from our Annual General Meeting on  
5 May 2011. The search for my replacement is well 
underway (see page 40 for further details). I have 
greatly enjoyed my involvement with AMEC over the 
past 15 years and particularly with its employees,  
who have been both supportive and enthusiastic as 
they embraced the challenges we have faced. AMEC is 
a very different business now than it was in 1996 when  
I joined and its success owes much to their dedication.
Some things do not change. In the 2004 Annual Report, 
I said that I remained confident “ that AMEC’s highly 
skilled and dedicated people will grasp the opportunity 
to build on our strengths, expand our service, deepen 
our client relationships and create value for all our 
stakeholders” . The delivery since then has proved the 
truth of these words and I believe they remain equally 
valid going forwards. It has been an honour to be 
Chairman of your company.
Jock Green-Armytage  
Chairman 
3 March 2011
 
 
In 2004, when I was appointed as AMEC’s Chairman, 
we were beginning the migration away from being a 
“typical” construction business and had begun to 
appreciate the increasing importance of oil and gas to 
AMEC’s future. Since then, we have embraced many 
beneficial changes. The AMEC of today is clearly 
focused on the provision of services to the oil and gas, 
minerals and metals, clean energy, water and 
environmental sectors and it is consistently delivering 
its financial targets. Adjusted profit before tax in 2010  
of £280 million was more than double that of 2004, and 
profit margins have increased almost four fold. 
This focus, the commitment and skills of AMEC’s 
22,000 employees, and the strength and depth of our 
customer relationships, have all helped to position the 
company for achievement of its growth strategy: Vision 
2015 (described in more detail on page 6). We have 
started well, achieving organic growth in each of our 
three divisions despite challenging markets. We also 
continue to achieve these results in a manner 
consistent with our values: we have retained our 
position as Oil Equipment and Services sector leader  
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index; were once more 
one of Canada's Top 100 best employers; and we 
received a number of other accolades for our health, 
safety and environmental performance. AMEC also 
made charitable contributions of £553,000, both by 
‘matching’ our employees’ fundraising efforts in their 
local communities and in support of relief efforts in 
Haiti, Chile and Pakistan. Further details on all these 
items can be found in our 2010 sustainability report.
I have been fortunate to be surrounded by board 
colleagues who understand the need for openness  
and debate as the risks and rewards of Vision 2015 are 
assessed and as performance is managed, measured 
and reported. As a team, we need to understand how 
the company intends to generate value for its 
stakeholders and as Chairman, it has been my task  
to ensure the board has the right balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the 
company. During the year I led a number of initiatives 
to prompt the board to consider proactively its role and 
effectiveness and as a result, this is now a continuous 
process and not just an annual review. We now 
conclude each board meeting with a discussion on   5 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s review
Our health and safety performance was strong yet  
lost time incidents were 50 per cent above 2009 at  
0.06 per 200,000 exposure hours. We seek to learn 
from every incident and we continue to explore new 
ways of keeping safety top of mind in everything we do. 
This commitment is recognised by our employees,  
as evidenced by our recent survey.
The results of this, our third global employee survey, 
were mixed. Engagement levels remained good, 
though down on 2009. This may be a reflection of the 
global economy but our customers value the skills of 
AMEC’s people, so we continue to invest in 
development, including through the AMEC Academy 
and career paths. 
Our carbon emissions reduction target (see KPIs,  
page 14) is only one small part of our sustainability 
agenda, as we see commercial advantage to be gained 
from supporting our customers’ own initiatives.  
For example, we have been working with National Grid 
on a carbon capture and storage project in Scotland 
and on INEOS Bio’s first commercial scale advanced 
bio-energy facility in the US.
The changes made to the Group Management Team,  
in particular the appointment of Neil Bruce as Chief 
Operating Officer, will continue to support this growth. 
Though sad to see Michael Blacker and Roger Jinks 
announce their retirements, I am delighted to welcome 
Hisham Mahmoud and Eleanor Evans to AMEC. And 
finally, I have personally gained much from Jock 
Green-Armytage’s knowledge and insight and, on your 
behalf, would like to thank him for his unstinting 
service to AMEC. 
Despite uncertainty on the pace of economic recovery, 
the latest IEA World Energy Outlook points to continued 
increases in demand for energy. AMEC is well 
positioned to take advantage of this and has a clear 
strategy for growth (see page 6). Our priorities for 2011 
are simple: to grow while maintaining margins by 
continuing to deliver to our customers and invest in  
our employees. 
Samir Brikho  
Chief Executive 
3 March 2011
The first stage of AMEC’s journey is now done. EBITA of 
£271.8 million in 2010 was more than triple that in 2006 
and the 2010 EBITA margin of 9.2 per cent compared 
with 4.1 per cent in 2006. This hard work by our 22,000 
employees has positioned AMEC as a credible 
long-term partner for our customers. 
Our markets and our customers’ expectations have  
not stayed static during this period. We are becoming  
a more global organisation, as we follow the expansion 
plans of our clients. There is continuing pressure on 
margins and increasing flexibility and responsiveness 
is demanded, if we are to serve our customers well.  
It is our job to manage this while creating additional 
value for all our stakeholders. 
The next stage of our journey is growth, towards our 
Vision 2015. We are striving to build a high-performing 
company while the global economy is recovering.  
We must remain cost competitive, continuing to learn 
from our STEP Change programme. We need to widen 
our customer reach, focusing on key segments, 
prioritising markets, reinforcing the strong delivery 
inherent in our brand and broadening our service 
offering. We have to demonstrate Operational 
Excellence and AMEC’s agility, in the speed of our 
response to our customers’ challenges; the flexibility  
in the way we deliver; our approach to innovation and 
collaboration; and the engagement and skills of our 
employees across all of AMEC's sectors.
We continue to strengthen and develop our customer 
relationships. During 2010 we entered into a global 
agreement to support BP for their onshore facilities 
developments around the world; have been working  
to support EDF’s architect engineer operations on their 
UK nuclear new build programme; and have continued 
to deliver on the Kearl expansion project for Imperial 
Oil in the Canadian oil sands. Further examples can be 
found on pages 17 to 30.
In 2010, underlying revenue growth was 8 per cent,  
and we made a number of acquisitions including Entec 
Holdings Limited. Such growth needs to be aligned 
with AMEC’s values and we set high standards against 
which to measure delivery.  6 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Our strategy for growth – Vision 2015
Since late 2006, AMEC’s focus has been on improving 
margins and creating a stronger, more sustainable 
business, positioned across the energy and power 
markets. Our Vision 2015, announced in December 
2009, builds on this solid base. During 2010 significant 
progress has been made towards our long-term goals.
AMEC’s vision is to be the leading supplier of high-value 
consultancy, engineering and project management 
services to the world’s oil and gas, minerals and metals,  
clean energy, water and environmental sectors.
The company is now focused on growth, which we 
believe can be achieved through the skills of our people 
and the way in which they deliver successful projects 
for our customers; the strength of the customer 
relationships this engenders; the markets in which we 
are positioned; and the strength of our balance sheet.
Each of the sectors in which AMEC operates is forecast 
to grow between now and 2015, supported by longer 
term global fundamentals. These are examined in 
more detail on page 8 and by sector in the relevant 
section of the Business and Financial review.  
 Sectors and divisions  Market growth* 
Oil & Gas
Conventional Oil & Gas
1,3
8-10%
Unconventional Oil & Gas
1,3
5-7%
Minerals & Metals
1,3
6-8%
Clean Energy
Nuclear 
2,3
5-7%
Renewables/Bioprocess 
2,3
8-10%
Power 
2,3
3-5%
Transmission & Distribution (T&D) 
2,3
4-6%
Environment and Water
Water
 3
5-6%
Transportation/Infrastructure
 3
4-5%
Commercial/Industrial 
3
3-6%
Government Services 
3
3-5%
 
Key: 
1 Natural Resources: see pages 17 to 22.  
2 Power & Process: see pages 23 to 27.  
3 Earth & Environmental: see pages 28 to 30. 
*AMEC estimates of market growth potential in our accessible markets 
(CAGR 2010 – 2015) based on a mid-cycle assumption.
Our Vision 2015 goal is to achieve earnings per share  
of greater than 100 pence in 2015, more than double 
the starting point in 2009.
2010 achievements
O O
 EPS was 62.5 pence, up 33 per cent on 2009. 
We have identified a number of areas of focus which, 
combined, will enable us to achieve our Vision 2015 
EPS target.
Our customers  
We want our customers to recognise our engineering, 
project management and consultancy expertise  
and to trust us to deliver their projects successfully.  
Such a reputation does not come overnight, but is a  
key cornerstone of future growth. Our history 
demonstrates the importance of the long-term 
relationships we have built with many of our 
customers. Only by understanding their business,  
their objectives and their values can we identify how 
best we can use our expertise to help them deliver . 
2010 achievements included:
O O
 Added new customers including: Xcite Energy 
Resources, Bluewater Services UK Ltd and  
Maersk FPSOs
O O
 New global agreement to support BP for their 
onshore facilities developments around the world. 
This further strengthens an existing relationship, with 
AMEC having been one of three global providers of 
BP's equivalent global offshore services since 2008
O O
 Won 'tier one' position to support EDF's architect 
engineer operations on their UK nuclear new build 
programme
O O
 Bolstered our position in the Government Services 
sector when an AMEC-led joint venture was 
amongst those selected for five-year, US$4 billion 
framework contract for design and construction 
work to support US Defense Policy review initiative in 
the Pacific region
O O
  Further details on these and many other contract 
wins can be found on pages 17, 23 and 28.
O O
 Received a number of awards, details of which are 
contained in the 2010 Sustainability report  
amec.com/aboutus/sustainability. 7 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Our people  
Our success lies in the success of our employees and 
the way in which they deliver to our customers, as we 
do not own significant plant and equipment or 
proprietary technology. 
It is vital that we recruit, develop and retain the best 
people, ensuring they are engaged with AMEC and 
committed to the company’s success. We want to 
provide a safe working environment and encourage  
our people to take this same thinking home and into 
their communities – AMEC’s Beyond Zero approach. 
2010 achievements included:
O O
  Some 60 development programmes involving  
over 500 people were run by the newly launched 
AMEC Academy 
O O
 More than 7,000 people have used the career paths 
tool to help them develop their career within AMEC
O O
 Over 13,000 participants in third global survey; 
response rate up six percentage points compared 
with 2009 
O O
 Employee engagement at 68 per cent; still strong, 
though down five percentage points compared  
with 2009 
O O
 A further 1,170 people attended AMEC's First Step 
Safety Leadership training in 2010
O O
 50 occupational health risk reviews were completed 
and the employee assistance programmes were 
extended to all UK staff
O O
 Around one-third of our people participate in AMEC 
share ownership schemes.
See also the Key Performance Indicators on page 14.
Further details on each of these items can be found  
in the 2010 sustainability report amec.com/aboutus/
sustainability. 
Achieving growth  
To achieve our Vision 2015 strategy, we need not  
only to build on our existing market positions but  
also to enhance our capabilities and expand our 
geographic coverage.
In late 2009, we said we had identified specific areas in 
which we wanted to expand our service offering: 
subsea engineering, underground mining, renewables 
and water . We saw this capability expansion as coming 
from a combination of acquisition and organic growth.
In 2010 we made progress in many of these areas  
and continued to plan the further implementation of 
our strategy.
2010 achievements included:
O O
 The acquisition of the UK-based environmental and 
engineering consultancy Entec Holdings Limited in 
March strengthened AMEC’s capabilities in the water 
and energy sectors
O O
 Revenue from the provision of water services grew 
by 46 per cent year on year . The sector now accounts 
for 3 per cent of AMEC’s revenues 
O O
 New contracts in the renewable sector included the 
provision of engineering, procurement and 
construction services for INEOS Bio’s first 
commercial-scale advanced bio-energy facility
O O
 In November, and as a result of our reputation in 
surface mining, AMEC was commissioned by Oyu 
Tolgoi LLC to undertake the feasibility study for Lift 1 
of the underground Hugo North block cave operation 
of its copper and gold mining project in Mongolia
O O
 In December, we announced the creation of a 
strategic partnership with S2V Consulting Pty of 
Australia, a specialist front-end consulting company. 
As a result, we can now offer our customers 
in-house subsea and field development services.
Vision 2015 identifies opportunities to further build our 
presence in our established geographies, particularly 
the UK and North America, as well as to expand in the 
Middle East, Australasia and South America.
2010 achievements included:
O O
 The acquisition of Entec also significantly 
strengthened Earth & Environmental’s position in 
Europe. The division has historically been largely 
North American based
O O
 The GRD Minproc business in Australia, acquired in 
November 2009, has been integrated as planned 
during 2010. Combined with the existing business 
and subsequent acquisitions of Currie & Brown 
(Australia) Limited, BurmanGriffiths, S2V Consulting 
and, in 2011, Zektingroup, AMEC now has c. 1,300 
people, including joint ventures, working in Australia.
 Customers    People    Growth    The AMEC Way    Sustainability    Financial 8 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
We believe that each of the sectors in which we operate 
is growing (see table on page 6). By careful positioning 
and by rigorous attention to customer relationships 
and project delivery, we see opportunities to outperform 
the general market.
2010 achievements
Underlying revenue growth in 2010 was 8 per cent,  
with growth in each of the three divisions. 
Delivering the AMEC Way  
Even the best of employees will struggle to deliver high 
quality work if they are not provided with the right tools 
and support. 
Our Operational Excellence programme has delivered 
significant improvements, by providing a framework for 
the implementation of best practice and continuous 
improvement. For example, in engineering and project 
management, tools, processes and quality assurance 
systems have been standardised, so improving 
flexibility and increasing the quality of the output. 
The AMEC Way is now how we work together across 
the company to deliver successful projects for our 
customers, supporting our 2010 achievements and our 
future growth.
2010 achievements
O O
 "One AMEC" approach reinforced by the 
appointments of Neil Bruce as Chief Operating 
Officer and the business unit leaders to the Group 
Management Team
O O
  The successful integration of acquisitions made  
in 2009 and 2010, including GRD Minproc and  
Entec Holdings Limited.
Improving financial metrics  
Vision 2015 also looks at financial metrics, recognising 
that AMEC needs a more efficient capital structure and 
that the tax rate can be reduced without prejudicing 
AMEC’s position as a responsible corporate citizen.
2010 achievements
O O
 A total of £85 million was spent on acquisitions 
during the year
O O
 The dividend declared and proposed increased by 
50 per cent to 26.5 pence
O O
 The tax charge (for continuing businesses before 
amortisation, impairment and exceptional items and 
including joint venture tax) reduced from 27.5 per 
cent in 2009 to 25.9 per cent in 2010.
Global market trends
AMEC has considerable experience and capability in  
the world’s main energy sectors. The group is well 
placed to respond to the increasing demand for clean 
energy, and the need to improve the efficiency  
of mature assets and add flexibility across the  
whole sector .
Each of the areas in which AMEC operates is  
forecast to grow over the long term, supported by 
global fundamentals. AMEC is carefully and 
deliberately positioned across sectors so as to benefit 
whatever the relative weighting in the energy mix.
The International Energy Agency’s ‘World Energy 
Outlook 2010’ acknowledges that the medium term  
is hard to predict because of the uncertain economic 
outlook but suggests it will be the response of 
governments to the challenges of climate change and 
energy security that will shape the future of energy  
in the long term. 
If there is no change in government policy (their Current 
Policies scenario), they believe world primary energy 
demand will increase by 1.4 per cent per annum over 
the period from 2008 to 2035. If governments take 
action (New Policies scenario), the growth is predicted 
to slow to 1.2 per cent per annum, with a greater 
proportion of the whole coming from nuclear and 
renewables. This shift to low carbon solutions is 
expected to be greatest in OECD countries, though 
Our strategy for growth – Vision 2015 continued 9 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
fossil fuels will remain the dominant energy source  
in both scenarios. Indeed, even in the New Policies 
scenario, oil demand increases from 84 million 
barrels per day (mb/d) in 2009 to 99 mb/d in 2035.
Regardless of individual market fluctuations,  
political events and the ever-changing global  
economy, population growth continues. The world’s 
population is estimated to increase from around  
6.7 billion in 2008 to 8.5 billion in 2035. People need 
energy and as the population grows and urbanisation 
increases, the demand for energy and commodities 
increases.
The balance and mix of energy type may change both 
locally and globally but the pressure for more is an 
ever-upward trend. 
This growth in the markets in which AMEC operates 
will inevitably put further pressure on the availability 
of suitably qualified engineers, consultants and 
project managers. Continuing to attract and retain 
those with experience in successfully delivering 
complex projects will remain important as we look to 
satisfy our Vision 2015 growth aspirations.  
We will continue to supplement our external 
resourcing activities with internal development 
activities. These are discussed in more detail on 
page 7 and in our sustainability report. They include: 
O O
  AMEC Academy: improving the technical and 
managerial skills of our people
O O
 Increasing the existing resource pool: graduate and 
trainee recruitment and development programmes
O O
 Improving the future supply pool: educating 
schoolchildren about careers in engineering
O O
 Accessing the best skills anywhere: using our 
global mobility programmes.
Further details on market trends, where applicable, 
can be found by sector in the performance section.
2011 outlook
The priority in 2011 will be to deliver growth while 
maintaining margins at around 9 per cent. This will  
be achieved by continuing to deliver to customers and 
invest in employees. 
Although the pace of economic recovery is uncertain, 
2011 is expected to be another year of gradual 
recovery. There is a long-term requirement for 
industry investment in AMEC’s core markets and  
this is expected to drive an increase in demand for 
AMEC services. 
AMEC’s balance sheet remains exceptionally strong 
with operating cash flow set to continue to grow. 
Management remains focused on the delivery of 
Vision 2015, which includes maximising shareholder 
returns via further selective value-enhancing 
acquisitions. If over the course of the next twelve 
months major transactions are not forthcoming and 
the balance sheet remains strong, consideration will 
be given to using the existing buyback authority or 
considering other one-off returns of capital. 10 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Business threats and opportunities 
AMEC operates in around 40 countries globally, serving a broad range of markets and customers. As such, the 
group is subject to certain general and industry-specific risks. Where practicable, the group seeks to mitigate 
exposure to all forms of risk through effective risk management and risk transfer practices. 
Specific risks faced by AMEC are as set out below.
Business and strategic risk Mitigation
Geopolitical and economic conditions   
AMEC operates predominately in the  
UK and North America and is therefore 
particularly affected by political and 
economic conditions in those markets. 
Changes in general economic conditions 
may influence customers’ decisions on 
capital investment and/or asset 
maintenance, which could lead to volatility in 
the development of AMEC’s order intake. 
In addition a sustained and significant 
reduction in oil and gas or commodity 
prices could have an adverse impact on the 
level of customer spending in  
AMEC’s markets.
 
The group is not dependent on any one area of economic activity. 
 
 
 
The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn and 
affecting the demand for AMEC’s services has been addressed, as far as 
practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business portfolio. 
 
 
In light of the current global economic downturn, steps have been taken in 
order to assess and monitor any potential impact on AMEC’s project 
opportunities and address potential increased supply chain risk. 
Environmental and social risk  
AMEC’s operations are subject to numerous 
local, national and international 
environmental regulations and human 
rights conventions. 
 
Breaches of, or changes in environmental 
or social standards, laws or regulations 
could expose AMEC to claims for financial 
compensation and adverse regulatory 
consequences, as well as damaging 
corporate reputation.
 
AMEC has continued to monitor and review environmental and social risks 
both to AMEC’s businesses and those that may be created by their operations. 
AMEC has taken steps to ensure that climate change related risks are 
appropriately highlighted in the corporate risk management process. 
AMEC takes a pragmatic, integrated approach to managing environmental 
and social risks utilising existing business management systems to identify 
and mitigate such risks. For example, employment processes protect the 
human rights of the workforce, and the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) 
Management system defines a standard for environmental management.
AMEC tracks over 40 environmental and social KPIs, including environmental 
regulatory performance and community investment. Further details are 
available in the annual sustainability report  online at amec.com/aboutus/
sustainability.
Health and Safety  
AMEC is involved in activities which have the 
potential to cause injury to personnel or 
damage to property. 
 
In order to control risk and prevent harm AMEC is focused on achieving  
the highest standards of health and safety management. This is achieved 
through the setting of an effective health and safety policy and ensuring  
effective leadership and organisational arrangements are in place to deliver  
this policy. AMEC is committed to continuous improvement and performance  
is regularly reviewed against agreed targets with the objective of facilitating 
continuous improvement and there are robust programmes in place to  
facilitate lateral learning.
Managing risk 11 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Business and strategic risk continued Mitigation continued
Security of employees   
The personal security and the safety  
of employees and contractors can  
be compromised due to their either  
being based, or travelling extensively  
on business, in potentially  
hazardous locations. 
 
AMEC regards the safety and security of its personnel as being of paramount 
importance, and this risk is mitigated by keeping security in relevant locations 
under continual review and utilising local specialist security companies where 
appropriate. AMEC specifically agrees security plans for designated high-risk 
countries for named personnel. Contingency arrangements are also in place 
to respond to any adverse security incidents affecting AMEC’s operations 
across the globe.
Business continuity   
Given the broad spread and scope of its 
operations, AMEC’s risk from natural 
catastrophe and terrorist action is varied, 
and considerable disruption could be 
caused to AMEC’s operations as a result of 
the associated business interruption. 
 
It is intended that these risks are mitigated through business continuity 
planning, which is being implemented progressively throughout the group  
and is being verified through testing and an ongoing audit process. In addition, 
the risk of increased cost of working in relation to UK and North America 
properties as a result of business disruption is transferred via business 
interruption insurance.
Customer concentration  
Were dependence on key customers to 
increase significantly, this could have direct 
consequences on AMEC’s financial 
development. 
 
AMEC serves a broad range of markets and customers and undertakes a wide 
variety of different projects. Examples are shown on pages 17, 23 and 28. 
Further details can be found on the AMEC website, amec.com. AMEC is not 
reliant on any particular contract.
AMEC’s largest customer accounted for around 22 per cent of continuing 
revenues in 2010. 
Bidding risk   
AMEC addresses the risk associated with bidding via a stringent tender review 
process which addresses the threats and opportunities associated with each 
tender submitted. The implementation of a web-based workflow tender 
approval process across AMEC has resulted in improved visibility of the threats 
and opportunities associated with tender submission as well as providing a 
consistent and auditable approach to the management of tendering risk and 
provides clear control over approval authorities.
Project execution risk  
One of AMEC’s significant risks is the risk of 
losses arising during the execution phase of 
projects. 
 
Various measures are in place in order to address the project execution risk, 
including the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit of 
projects, and the implementation of peer reviews. Project execution risk has 
also been a key focus of the Operational Excellence programme particularly 
from a project management perspective.
Litigation   
The outcome of legal action is at times 
uncertain and there is a risk that it may 
prove more costly and time consuming than 
expected. 
 
AMEC is subject to litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of  
business and makes provision for the expected costs based on appropriate 
professional advice.
There is a risk that additional litigation could be instigated in the future which 
could have a material impact on AMEC, although full risk management 
controls remain in place to deal with such matters, together with controlled 
instruction rights with external lawyers/experts.
Information technology (IT)  
AMEC is exposed to the risk that the  
IT systems upon which it relies fail. 
 
AMEC has appropriate controls in place in order to mitigate the risk of 
systems failure, including systems back-up procedures and disaster recovery 
plans, and also has appropriate virus protection and network security controls. 12 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Managing risk continued
Financial risks Mitigation
Credit   
AMEC is exposed to credit risk particularly 
in relation to customers.
 
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender 
review process and is addressed initially via contract payment terms, and, 
where appropriate, payment security is sought. Credit control practices are 
applied thereafter during the project execution phase. A right to interest and 
suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
Pensions 
AMEC operates a number of defined benefit 
pension schemes, where careful judgement 
is required in determining the assumptions 
for future salary and pension increases, 
discount rate, inflation, investment returns 
and member longevity. There is a risk of 
underestimating this liability and the 
pension schemes falling into deficit.
 
This risk is mitigated by: 
O O
 Maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time 
O O
  Taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other  
professional advisers 
O O
 Agreeing appropriate investment policies with the Trustees 
O O
  Close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory 
action agreed with the Trustees in the event that a sustained deficit 
emerges.
Treasury risks 
The group’s treasury department manages 
funding, liquidity and risks arising from 
movements in interest and foreign currency 
rates within a framework of policies and 
guidelines approved by the board.
 
The treasury department does not operate as a profit centre and the 
undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Funding and liquidity risk 
The group’s policy aims to ensure the 
constant availability of an appropriate 
amount of funding to meet both current and 
future forecast requirements consistent 
with the group’s budget and strategic plans.
 
The group will finance operations and growth from its significant existing  
cash resources.
Given the group’s significant cash resources, no additional facilities are in 
place. This decision has been kept under review during 2010. 
However, appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing 
requirements for performance related bonding and letters of credit.
Counterparty risk management 
The group holds significant net cash 
balances following the disposal of a number 
of businesses during 2006, 2007 and 2008. 
Cash deposits and financial transactions 
give rise to credit risk in the event that 
counterparties fail to perform under the 
contract.
 
AMEC manages these risks by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with 
counterparties up to a pre-approved limit. These limits are set at prudent 
levels by the board and are based primarily on credit ratings set by Moody’s,  
Standard & Poors and Fitch. Credit ratings are monitored continuously by the 
group treasury department.
The group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global 
basis to avoid an over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
Interest rate risk 
The group remained in a net cash position throughout the year . Long-term 
interest rate hedging (for periods beyond three to six months) is not 
considered appropriate as the surplus cash position is viewed as temporary. 
In 2010, the effective interest rate on the average cash balance of £660 million 
was one per cent (2009: one per cent). 13 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Financial risk continued Mitigation continued
Foreign exchange risk 
The group publishes its consolidated 
accounts in Sterling. It conducts business in 
a range of foreign currencies, including 
Canadian and US dollars and currencies 
linked to the US dollar . As a result, the 
group is exposed to foreign exchange risks, 
which will affect transaction costs and the 
translation of the results and value of 
underlying assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
 
Transaction exposures 
A significant proportion of the group’s trading income is denominated in the 
local currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge 
against the currency of its cost base. Where commercial contracts are 
undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the group seeks to 
mitigate the foreign exchange risk, when the cash flow giving rise to such 
exposure becomes certain or highly probable, through the use of forward 
currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options. 
Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that 
depend on the outcome of future events. This can give rise to exposures if cash 
flows are denominated in foreign currency. Hedging decisions are based on the 
latest available forecasts at the time the decision is taken, which are regularly 
monitored and updated. There are currently no material transaction exposures 
which have been identified and remain unhedged. AMEC recognises that, 
having taken out forward contracts in respect of underlying commercial 
transactions, an exposure would arise if the forward contracts had to be 
unwound as a consequence of the anticipated cash flows under such contacts 
being cancelled or otherwise not being received. The total gross nominal value 
of all outstanding forward contracts at 31 December 2010 is £187 million  
(2009: £132 million). At 31 December 2010 the mark-to-market value of 
contracts that were out of the money gave rise to a liability of £5.6 million  
(2009: liability of £5.5 million) and of these contracts that were in the money 
was an asset of £1.4 million (2009: asset of £1.8 million). AMEC has no reason 
to believe that any material outstanding forward contract will not be able to be 
settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
Translation exposures 
A portion of the group’s earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies.  
Such overseas profits are translated into Sterling at the average exchange  
rate prevailing throughout the year . There is currently no hedging in place for 
profits generated in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on group profits  
is monitored on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the group has various assets denominated in foreign currencies, 
principally US dollars and Canadian dollars. A proportion of these assets,  
including unamortised goodwill, have been hedged by using cross-currency 
instruments. At 31 December 2010, these net investment hedges amounted  
to £267 million (2009: £196 million) covering approximately 44 per cent of 
overseas assets (2009: 40 per cent). The policy was changed in 2009 to cease 
translation hedging for core assets of the business. The existing hedging 
contracts will not be replaced as they mature. In specific circumstances,  
for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the group may from 
time to time enter into new net investment hedges to manage foreign 
exchange risks.
Legacy risk 
One of AMEC’s risks remains the risk of a 
liability arising in connection with divested 
businesses. 
 
In order to address this risk, a legacy team has been established. This team 
deals with the defence of claims, or potential claims, against AMEC and 
monthly meetings are held in order to review the status of all legacy matters. 
AMEC has made provisions for the legacy issues which are believed to be 
adequate and AMEC is not aware of any current issues relating to disposed 
businesses which are likely to have a material impact.
Acquisitions   
AMEC is exposed to risk in connection with 
its acquisition activities.
 
This risk is managed through the corporate transactions committee process.  
In addition to addressing due diligence issues, the corporate transactions 
committee process requires that acquisition plans (including integration 
plans) are put in place for each acquisition. Plans are also established for the 
implementation of post-acquisition reviews in order to ensure the effective 
integration of the acquired entity.
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials  14 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Key Performance Indicators
Financial 
Non-financial
Revenue growth 
EPS growth 
Vision 2015  
We track a number of additional metrics to help 
us understand our progress towards Vision 2015.
Margin 
Cash conversion 
Employee-instigated turnover 
Safety (continuing operations) 
Number of fatalities at work
Lost time incident frequency rate 
Total recordable case frequency rate Carbon emission reduction 
 See pages 6 -9 for more details
 See pages 6 -9 for  
more details
 See Strategy section, pages 6-9, for more details
 See pages 22, 27 and 30 for  
more details
(EBITA as percentage of revenue)
 See page 33 for  
more details
(Operating cash flow as a
percentage of operating profit)
 See pages 7 and 15  
for more details
for the past 3 years (2008 – 2010)
We have the same target for 2011
 See page 15 for more details
(reduction since 2008 baseline in 
carbon emissions per employee)
0
2008 2009 2010
0
17
10.6%
16.2%
-2.6%
2008 2009 2010
0
58
33.3%
57.1%
6.6%
0
10
2008 2009 2010
target
9.2%
8.2%
7.1%
2008 2009 2010
0
125
83%
128%
61%
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2008 2009 2010
9
10
10% 10%
6%
0.00
0.06
2009 2010 Target
0.04
0.06
0
15
2010 2013
Target
15%
5%
(per 200,000 exposure hours)
(per 200,000 exposure hours)
0.00
0.44
2009 2010 Target
0.40
0.42
0.44
zero 15 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
Sustainability
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Sustainability and AMEC 
At AMEC, we believe that sustainable development  
is a core part of our everyday business life, through the 
services we provide and the way in which we provide 
them. We want to achieve economic success in ways 
which uphold our values and Guiding Principles, 
meeting today’s needs without compromising the 
needs of future generations. We aim to ensure 
sustainable business principles filter into every level  
of our business and culture.
We believe this makes good business sense. Not only 
does it allow us to reduce overhead costs, increase 
skills and achieve resource efficiencies, but it also 
provides a business opportunity. 
Our customers are looking for sustainability solutions: 
sustainability consulting services such as carbon 
footprinting, economic analysis and community 
consultations; sustainable engineering projects such 
as wind farms or biodiesel facilities; and applied 
sustainability, incorporating key aspects of 
sustainability into a project as a value-added service.  
In each of these areas, we can help assess what our 
customers need and match it with AMEC’s technical 
and scientific expertise.
In our measurement and reporting on sustainability  
we focus on those areas which are most important for 
us to manage, those which are important to our 
stakeholders, and those which are critical for AMEC’s 
long-term success. We set targets for, and check on 
the progress of, over 40 sustainability indicators, which 
are grouped together into four areas:
O O
 Our workplace
O O
 Our environment
O O
 Our community
O O
 Our marketplace.
The 2010 Annual Sustainability Performance report, our 
tenth, is available at amec.com/aboutus/sustainability . 
It provides full details on each of these indicators, some 
of which are also incorporated into this report. 
In particular, see pages 6-9 and 14. 
Other highlights of 2010 include:
O O
 Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for  
the seventh year in succession: sector leader in  
Oil Equipment and Services sector for the second  
year running
O O
 Launched My Compass, an online, interactive 
onboarding/induction programme for new 
employees 
O O
 Published first Communication on Progress  
(COP) to United Nations Global Compact
O O
 Started to track time invested in community 
investment activities, using a tool supplied by LBG 
O O
 Provided £553, 000 of support to charities, including  
matching funds raised by our employees
O O
 Low carbon management programme continued. 
Since 2008 we have seen a five per cent reduction in 
carbon emissions per employee. Our target for 2013 
is a 15 per cent reduction.
O O
 Employee-instigated turnover returned to more 
normal levels in 2010, at 10 per cent, 2009 having 
been affected by the general economic climate
O O
 Continued to deliver sustainability services to 
customers, including for Thompson Creek Metals 
Company Inc (see page 29). 
For 2011, our priorities include:
O O
 Further develop and market AMEC’s sustainability 
services, focusing on clean energy solutions and 
adapting to climate change
O O
 Continue to reduce our carbon footprint by setting 
local carbon reduction targets and by learning  
from best practice within the company
O O
 Review how the company’s water usage is  
measured and agree a baseline from which to  
work going forward
O O
 Further embed the Global Compact principles within 
our business policies and processes, re-issuing our 
Code of Business Conduct to incorporate these 
changes and take account of the UK Bribery Act. 16 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Introduction
This business and financial review sets out descriptions 
of each of the group’s business segments, their 
markets, strategy and significant factors affecting 
performance for the year ended 31 December 2010. 
It includes comments on movements in the income 
statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement  
and on matters that may have an impact on the group’s 
future financial performance. The review provides a 
broader perspective of AMEC’s businesses to enable  
a more informed judgement to be made of the group’s 
financial performance and prospects. Certain 
forward-looking statements with respect to the 
financial condition, operations and results of AMEC’s 
businesses are contained in the review. These 
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they 
relate to events and depend upon circumstances that 
will occur in the future. There are a number of factors 
that could cause actual performance or developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied  
by these forward-looking statements. The review is 
provided solely to provide additional information to 
assist in the assessment of the group’s strategy and 
future prospects. It should not be relied on for any 
other purpose.
Basis of presentation and discontinued 
operations
The following analysis is based on the results for 
continuing operations before intangible amortisation, 
goodwill impairment and pre-tax exceptional items but 
including joint venture profit before tax. 
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of 
discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the 
consolidated income statement.
The cash flows of discontinued businesses are fully 
consolidated within AMEC up to the date of sale and  
the assets and liabilities of discontinued businesses 
that have not been sold at the year end are shown 
separately on the consolidated balance sheet.
Business and financial review
Segmental analysis
Segmental analysis is provided for the group’s core 
activities in the Natural Resources, Power & Process 
and Earth & Environmental divisions, as well as for 
non-core Investments and other activities.
Amounts and percentage movements relating to 
continuing segmental earnings before net financing 
income, tax, goodwill impairment and intangible 
amortisation (EBITA) are stated before corporate  
costs of £35.9 million (2009: £38.1 million) and  
pre-tax exceptional income of £10.7 million  
(2009: £8.9 million). 
The average number of employees for the years ended 
31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 stated in 
this review includes agency staff.  17 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Natural Resources
Description of business
Principal activities: Oil & Gas services, Unconventional 
Oil & Gas and Minerals & Metals. Total life of asset 
services ranging from engineering design through to 
asset support and decommissioning. 74 per cent of 
2010 revenues generated by asset development (capex) 
services, with the remainder in asset support (opex). 
Activities are concentrated mainly in the upstream 
sector (over 90 per cent of 2010 revenues), with the 
balance being in midstream and downstream. 
Principal locations: AMEC has operations in  
mature markets and frontier regions, with major 
offices in Aberdeen, London, Great Y armouth, 
Darlington (UK); Atyrau (Kazakhstan);  
Baku (Azerbaijan); Calgary, Toronto, Saskatoon, 
Vancouver (Canada); Houston, TX (US); Kuala  
Lumpur (Malaysia); Kuwait City (Kuwait); Perth, 
Brisbane (Australia); Shanghai (China); Santiago 
(Chile); Belo Horizonte (Brazil); Lima (Peru);  
Singapore; Johannesburg (South Africa). 
Revenue split: By geography: 20 per cent UK/Europe; 
59 per cent Americas; 21 per cent Rest of World. 
Revenue split by sector:
  Oil & Gas  
  Unconventional Oil  
& Gas  
  Minerals & Metals
45%
36%
19%
Customers include:  Apache, Azerbaijan International 
Oil Company (AIOC), BG, BP, Britannia Operator 
Limited, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Fairfield 
Energy, INPEX, Kinross, KOC, KPO, Ma'aden 
Phosphate, Maersk, Northgate, PotashCorp, QUIP SA, 
Shell, Teck Resources.
Significant new contracts in 2010 included:  
BP: one of two global providers of engineering and 
project management services (EPMS) for BP's global 
onshore facilities developments; BP: five-year Master 
Services Agreement plus first contract, Azerbaijan; 
Chevron: front-end engineering and design (FEED) for 
Mafumerira Sul project, offshore Angola; South Hook 
LNG Terminal Co: three-year (engineering, design) 
services contract, South Wales, UK; Providence 
Resources Plc: conceptual study for Ulysses salt 
cavern gas storage, offshore eastern Ireland.  
Mining – Northgate Minerals Corporation: EPCm for 
Y oung-Davidson Gold Project, Canada; Terrane Metals 
Corp: EPCm services for Mt. Milligan copper-gold 
project (in joint venture with Fluor), Canada; PanAust 
Limited: detailed engineering and procurement 
services for Ban Houayxai gold and silver project, Laos. 
In the North Sea – Maersk FPSOs: FEED for 
modifications to the Curlew floating production storage 
and offloading vessel; Bluewater: engineering and 
maintenance services for two FPSO vessels; Shell: 
three-year contract extension for Shell ONEgas joint 
venture contract; ConocoPhillips: detailed engineering, 
procurement, hook-up and commissioning Judy 
platform and Jasmine facilities; Apache: design and 
implementation of brownfield modifications to Forties 
Alpha platform.
£ million 2010 2009
  Change 
 (%)
 Underlying 1
 (%)
Revenue 
EBITA
EBITA margin (%)
Order book (£bn)
Average number  
of employees
2
1,520.5
174.7
11.5
1.81
 
 9,729
1,300.9
154.3
1 1.9
1.71
 
 9,577
 +17
 +13
 -40bps
 +6 
 +2
 +6
 +4
 
1  Growth measured against 2009 as restated for material acquisitions 
and movements in material currencies. 
2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff. 
Notes
Engineering Procurement and Construction (EPC) 
Engineering Procurement and Construction management (EPCm) 
Programme Management Consultancy (PMC) 18 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Business overview
The Natural Resources division, comprising Oil & Gas, 
Unconventional Oil & Gas and Minerals & Metals 
businesses, provides services to an increasingly broad 
range of customers around the world. The business 
has strong, long-term relationships with customers 
and is today recognised as a world leader in the 
provision of engineering, project management and 
asset support services, with particular expertise in 
large and complex projects in growth regions and in 
extending the life of assets in the mid-late stages of 
their life cycle. 
The business portfolio is well balanced by geography, 
by end market, and in terms of the nature of services 
provided. This minimises exposure to any one specific 
demand cycle. The majority of the division’s 
engineering and project management staff have skills 
which are transferable between market sectors.
AMEC is differentiated in its ability to offer customers 
services and tools including training and development, 
and a sustainable approach to business in frontier 
regions. Through the Earth & Environmental division, 
AMEC is able to offer specialist environmental services 
at every stage of the project life cycle. In the initial 
stages, AMEC advises clients on how to minimise  
the environmental impacts of a development.  
For operating facilities, AMEC has developed software 
that monitors existing assets and identifies areas to 
reduce both energy and emissions. 
The business is focused on the provision of services to 
a balanced portfolio of customers. Contract types are 
varied, both by region and by nature of service, ranging 
from capex multiplier contracts with rewards to 
reimbursable opex contracts with performance 
incentives. The revenue profile of the division spans 
short-term (less than 12 months) consultancy services, 
to long-term (five years or more) engineering asset 
support contracts. EBITA margins range from 7.3 per 
cent on average in 2010 (2009: 8.8 per cent) for opex 
services to 12.9 per cent on average for capex contracts 
(2009:13.3 per cent). 
Natural Resources continued
Oil & Gas 
AMEC offers a wide range of capex and opex services 
to an increasingly broad range of customers, which 
includes International Oil Companies (IOCs), National 
Oil Companies (NOCs) and independent operators in 
Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, the Caspian, 
South East Asia and China. It does not operate in early 
cycle exploration or drilling, but is involved in every part 
of the project delivery phase.
Services Facilities
O O
 Asset optimisation
O O
 Brownfield 
engineering and 
project management
O O
 Construction 
management
O O
 Consultancy
O O
 Decommissioning and 
cessation of 
production
O O
 Design engineering
O O
 Duty holder 
O O
 Facilities engineering
O O
 Front-end 
engineering
O O
 Hook up and 
commissioning
O O
 Installation
O O
 Offshore fixed 
platforms
O O
 Offshore floating 
production units
O O
 Onshore booster 
stations, gathering 
centres, tank  
farms, gas-oil 
separation plants
O O
 Onshore oil and  
gas fields
O O
 Pipelines
O O
 Operations and 
maintenance support
O O
 Production 
operations
Oil and gas services contracts are cost reimbursable  
or cost plus and increasingly performance-based;  
no lump-sum fabrication is performed. Being services-
based, capital employed reflects mainly current  
trading assets.  19 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Revenues in 2010 were generated primarily from 
activities with IOCs, with some 15 per cent of 
conventional oil and gas revenue from NOCs. 
Demand for AMEC’s services is linked to the level  
of spending on new production facilities, and on 
operations, maintenance, extending the life and 
increasing production from existing infrastructure. 
The centres of excellence in Aberdeen and London (UK); 
Calgary (Canada); Houston, TX (US); and Kuala Lumpur 
(Malaysia) are supported by a growing network of 
engineering centres around the world. Recent strategic 
investment and joint ventures in Qatar, Australia, South 
Africa, China and South America provide improved 
access to customers in those regions. 
AMEC has global experience of delivering large and 
complex projects, with capabilities in deepwater and 
hostile conditions including Arctic environments and 
earthquake-prone regions. It has developed a strong 
position in frontier regions including the Caspian,  
South East Asia and West Africa. 
In the opex arena, AMEC is a leading international 
asset support provider, servicing more than 200 
facilities daily. It is the market leader in UK North Sea 
brownfield services and is also a provider of duty 
holder services and more integrated solutions to new 
entrant operators in the region.
AMEC provides independent business consultancy 
services through Rider Hunt International (RHi),  
a leading project services consultancy. The acquisitions 
of Currie & Brown (Australia) Pty Ltd in January 2010 
and BurmanGriffiths in November 2010 (both now 
trading as Aquenta) strengthened these capabilities  
as well as AMEC’s Australian presence. A strategic 
partnership with S2V Consulting, also in Australia,  
was announced in December and expands AMEC’s 
service offering to include subsea and field 
development services.
During 2010, there has been a resurgence of 
brownfield activity in the North Sea, with AMEC 
winning or extending a number of contracts.  
The strategic relationship with BP has been further 
strengthened by recent awards, including: the five-year 
master services agreement in Azerbaijan; work on the 
next, 'define', phase of the Clair Ridge project; and 
AMEC’s appointment as one of two strategic partners 
to provide Engineering and Project Management 
Services for BP’s onshore facilities developments 
around the world. 
Historically, AMEC has not had a major presence in  
the Gulf of Mexico; the region generated less than  
£10 million of revenues in 2009 and AMEC saw no 
direct impact on its business from the Macondo oil 
spill. The global deepwater segment remains a core 
focus of AMEC's Vision 2015.
Markets 
The International Energy Agency (IEA) latest World 
Energy Outlook forecasts primary oil demand in their 
‘New Policies Scenario’ to increase from 84.0mb/d in 
2009 to 89.2mb/d in 2015 and 99.0mb/d by 2035.  
A decline in OECD countries is expected, offset by 
growth elsewhere, particularly in China and India. 
Satisfying this demand will require an average annual 
development of nine billion barrels of new discoveries 
from 2015 onwards. The IEA forecasts an upstream  
oil and gas capital spending requirement between  
2010 and 2035 of about $440 billion per annum.
In the near term, the Deutsche Bank/Wood Mackenzie 
annual survey of global capex forecasts growth of six 
per cent across 2010 to 2012 and expects US$440 billion 
of Engineering and Construction capex in 2011 (of which 
NOCs represent 40 per cent). By 2013, they expect that 
levels of spend should surpass the 2008 peak. 
There is a continued trend of resources being more 
difficult to extract, and AMEC’s experience of Arctic, 
deepwater and complex projects gives the group a 
good position. At the same time, environmental 
pressures have increased and this is another area 
where AMEC can demonstrate a strong track record  
in helping its customers. 
The mature oil and gas sector has ageing 
infrastructure and increasingly depleting reserves 
which AMEC is well positioned to service, both in  
terms of asset support services, performance and 
efficiency improvements, and decommissioning and 
cessation of production.  20 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Opex activity is set to grow in part because globally  
the number of complex facilities continues to increase. 
These facilities are at different, and ever increasing, 
stages of maturity and therefore require a growing 
amount of maintenance input. More importantly,  
AMEC is increasingly providing more sophisticated 
solutions which adapt existing facilities to handle new 
reservoirs, for example by using tie-backs.
With leading market positions in mature markets  
and frontier regions, early life cycle visibility, a balanced 
portfolio of services and a carefully selected yet 
diversified customer base, AMEC is well positioned  
to grow.
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow 
by between 8 and 10 per cent per annum in the period 
to 2015.
Unconventional Oil & Gas
AMEC is the market leader in the provision of project 
management and engineering services to the 
upstream surface mining Canadian oil sands sector . 
From helping to build the world’s first oil sands plant in 
1967 to the world’s largest plant in 1978, AMEC’s 
operations have matured along with the industry, with 
participation in most recent oil sands developments. 
In this sector, AMEC provides environmental consulting, 
FEED, engineering, selective EPC, EPCm, project 
management and PMC services. Historically the focus 
has been on mineable oil sands, though the acquisition 
of BDR in 2008 brought in-situ expertise. This positions 
AMEC for the anticipated shift as the new technology is 
increasingly being used, and on larger projects. 
In particular during 2010, AMEC has continued to work 
on the Kearl oil sands project in Canada, for Imperial 
Oil Limited. This project has involved AMEC employees 
from all three divisions and across offices, working 
together to meet the needs of our customer . 
Markets 
According to the IEA World Energy Outlook 2010, 
production from Canadian oil sands will increase from 
1.5mb/d in 2009 to 2.8mb/d by 2020 under the New 
Policies scenario. The capital required to achieve this 
increase is estimated at around US $11 billion per 
annum. The same report suggests that most new oil 
Natural Resources continued
sands projects are thought to be profitable at oil prices 
above US$65 – US$75 per barrel.
Two main extraction techniques are used in the oil 
sands: surface mining, which currently accounts for 
around one half of production, and in-situ, which is 
expected to increase its share of the market over the 
next 10 years. In-situ methods, used to extract deeper 
reserves, utilise steam injected into reservoirs to 
mobilise the oil. Of the total 170 billion barrels of 
established Canadian oil sands reserves, around  
20 per cent is recoverable by mining.
AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns raised by 
activities in the oil sands. The full capability of the Earth 
& Environmental division (see page 29 for specific 
services) can be used to ensure that customers meet 
and, where possible, exceed local legislation, providing 
them with solutions to environmental challenges.
AMEC's oil sands activity in 2011 is expected to be 
below 2010's record levels, due to the phasing of work 
on the Kearl project. The overall market remains 
strong and AMEC estimates that its accessible markets 
will grow by between five and seven per cent per 
annum in the period to 2015.
Minerals & Metals 
AMEC offers mining consultancy (including ore resource 
estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies), design 
and project and construction management services to 
global mining customers producing commodities 
including potash, gold, diamonds, base metals, coal, iron 
ore and uranium. The business operates from strategic 
mining locations including Perth and Brisbane 
(Australia); Belo Horizonte (Brazil); Saskatoon, T oronto 
and Vancouver (Canada); Johannesburg (South Africa); 
Santiago (Chile) and Lima (Peru). 
The business is a recognised leader in environments 
where projects have significant logistical challenges 
associated with remote location and difficult access. 
AMEC occupies a top-tier position in international 
consulting and a leading position in the North and 
South American EPCm markets, where it has  
provided services for many of the world’s leading 
mining companies.  21 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The acquisition of GRD Minproc in November 2009 
added world class technical capabilities in a number of 
key commodities, including copper, gold, nickel, 
uranium and iron. It also delivered critical mass in 
Australasia and enhanced AMEC’s presence in Africa 
and South America. Integration is now well advanced 
and the acquired business started to contribute to 
profits in the second half of 2010. Recent contract wins 
included the appointment as study managers and 
process plant consultants for Crazy Horse Resources 
on the Taysan Copper Gold project in the Philippines. 
AMEC’s historic focus has been largely on surface 
mining. In line with Vision 2015, this expertise has now 
also been applied to underground mining, starting  
with the award of a feasibility study for Lift 1 of the 
underground Hugo North block cave operation of Oyu 
Tolgoi LLC’s copper and gold mining project in Mongolia.
Markets 
The underlying drivers supporting continued growth in 
commodity markets are strong. 
Following the financial crisis in 2008, increased caution 
from mining companies manifested itself in reduced 
expansionary capacity. The Deutsche Bank (DB) note of 
11 January 2011 “ A bold 2011 for the miners” suggests 
that although global growth in 2011 will be lower than 
2010, this will require still more output from a 
commodity supply chain which is already stretched and 
under-capitalised. Hence they expect strong 
commodity price performance in 2011 and beyond.
China has been the major driver of commodity demand 
over the last couple of years. DB expects a modest 
reduction in Chinese GDP growth rates to 2012 but still 
is forecasting solid growth in Chinese commodity 
demand off an ever-increasing base. 
AMEC has long sought to mitigate the impact of 
economic volatility by positioning itself to support a 
diverse range of commodities and service markets. 
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow by 
between six and eight per cent per annum in the period  
to 2015. 
Vision 2015 strategy 
The Vision 2015 strategy for Natural Resources 
reinforced its well embedded customer-focused 
philosophy. Going forward, we will continue to expand 
our geographical coverage and our capabilities to 
support our customers’ requirements. 
 As shown in more detail on page 17, in 2010 we;
O O
 Increased our scope of work with existing customers 
such as BP and added a number of new customers
O O
 Were commissioned to undertake a feasibility study 
on an underground mine in Mongolia
O O
 Created a strategic partnership with S2V Consulting 
which means we can now offer in-house subsea and 
field development services
O O
 Expanded our position in Australia and enhanced  
our business consulting offering with the acquisition 
of Currie & Brown (Australia) Limited and  
Burman Griffiths. 
Since the year end, we have also acquired Zektingroup, 
an Australian-based specialist engineering consultancy 
and qedi, a UK-based project delivery company. Zektin 
provides front-end engineering design (FEED) and 
engineering services to the oil and gas market, in 
particular coal seam methane (CSM), and the 
controlled-environment market, which includes the 
bioprocess, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors. 
Qedi has 350 people focused on delivering completion 
and commissioning services for major projects in the oil 
and gas industry.
AMEC continues to see acquisition opportunities in 
Natural Resources’ end markets which would further 
improve its competitive position.
O
 Further details on Vision 2015 can be found on  
page 6 and at amec.com/vision2015. 22 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Financial performance 
Overall revenue in the Natural Resources division 
improved 17 per cent to £1,520.5 million through a mix  
of organic growth, acquisitions and positive currency 
movements. The division saw good performance, 
particularly in Canadian oil sands, as work progressed 
on the initial development of Imperial Oil’s Kearl project. 
Minerals & Metals also performed well on the back of 
improving commodities markets and North Sea activity 
picked up in the latter part of the year .
Improvements in EBITA (£174.7 million, up 13 per cent) 
were driven by revenue growth, the favourable impact 
of currency movements and acquisitions. The EBITA 
margin of 11.5 per cent was down 40 basis points, 
affected by the first year’s trading from GRD Minproc, 
as well as continuing customer pricing pressures.  
As anticipated, GRD is now trading profitably.
Capex activities increased to 74 per cent of total 
divisional revenues, and opex activities represented  
26 per cent (2009: capex 65 per cent; opex 35 per cent). 
Margins in capex and opex declined to 12.9 per cent 
and 7.3 per cent respectively (2009: capex 13.3 per cent; 
opex 8.8 per cent).
Natural Resources order book at 31 December 2010 was 
up six per cent at £1.8 billion, with North Sea brownfield 
and mining activity driving the increase. Capex activity 
represents 42 per cent of the order book (2009: 55 per 
cent), with opex up at 58 per cent (2009: 45 per cent).
AMEC’s oil sands activity in 2011 is expected to be 
below 2010 record levels, due to the phasing of work on 
Imperial Oil’s Kearl project. This short term decline is 
expected to be offset by an increase in mining and 
North Sea activity. 
Although AMEC has ceased operations in Libya and 
safely evacuated all expatriate staff, the impact on the 
group will be insignificant.
O
 Major agreements or contracts during 2010 are 
shown on page 17.
O
 Further details on these, and other contract awards, 
may be found at amec.com/media. 
Natural Resources continued Description of business 
Principal activities: Total life of asset services  
provided, particularly in the areas of clean energy  
and carbon efficiency, in Europe and the Americas. 
40 per cent of 2010 revenues generated by capex 
services with the rest in opex.
Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature 
markets and frontier regions, with major offices in 
Atlanta, GA, Greenville, SC (US); Darlington, Knutsford 
(UK); Santiago (Chile); Toronto and Vancouver (Canada).
Revenue split: 60 per cent UK/Europe;  
40 per cent Americas. 
Revenue split by sector: 
29%
29%
27%
15%
 Nuclear  
   Renewables /
Bioprocess
  Power  
  Transmission  
& Distribution
 
Customers include:  AIM Harrow, AWE, BC Hydro, 
Bruce Power, Dominion Power, EDF Energy,  
ExxonMobil, INEOS, Kruger Chatham, Magnox,  
Milford Energy, National Grid, NDA, Ontario Power 
Generation, PCA Valdosta, SABIC, Sellafield Limited, 
Shell, Southern Company, Scottish Power,  
Wales and West Utilities.
Significant new contracts in 2010 included:  
EDF Energy: major 11-year contract to support  
the architect engineer operation for the proposed 
delivery of four new EPR (European Pressurised  
Water Reactor) nuclear reactors at Hinkley Point and 
Sizewell, UK; Sellafield Limited: two-year contract  
for the early phase (project definition, design and cost) 
programme of the Highly Active Effluent Facility 
project, UK; CEZ: five-year contract for the 
management of radioactive waste at their nuclear 
power plant in Dukovany, Czech Republic; Kruger 
Energy: engineering, procurement, construction 
contract for the Chatham Wind Power project,  
23 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Power & Process
£ million 2010 2009
  Change 
 (%)
 Underlying 1
 (%)
Revenue 
EBITA
EBITA margin (%)
Order book (£bn)
Average number  
of employees
2
884.4
75.3
8.5
1.05
 
 7 ,507
788.1
55.4
7.0
1.17
 
 7 ,061
 +12
 +36
 +150bps
 -10 
 
 +6
 +10
 +32
 
1  Growth measured against 2009 as restated for material 
acquisitions and movements in material currencies.
2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
in Ontario, Canada; EnergySource LLC:  engineering 
services for a 49-megawatt, $350 million geothermal 
power generating facility at Salton Sea, California,  
US; National Grid: FEED for carbon capture and 
storage (CCS) project at Longannet power station in 
Fife, Scotland, UK; INEOS New Planet BioEnergy: 
delivery of the first commercial-scale advanced 
bio-energy facility using the INEOS Bio technology, 
Florida, US; EDF Energy: extension of Hill Top Farm 
gas storage facility, to include the design, installation 
and commissioning of the filtration and compression 
facilities, after-cooling, de-hydration, metering and 
utility equipment, UK.
Business overview
The Power & Process division provides a balanced 
portfolio of consulting, EPC (Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction) and asset support services across the life 
cycle of projects and investments to a broad range of 
public, private and utility customers principally located 
in the UK, Europe and Americas. 
Over the last four years the business mix has been 
deliberately migrated towards higher value services 
and projects which provide an attractive mix of risk  
and return. Contract types and lives vary by region  
and nature of service, from cost reimbursable to  
target price. Lump sum contracts make up some  
18 per cent of the division’s revenue. 24 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
As in Natural Resources, the majority of the division’s 
engineering and project management staff have skills 
which are transferable between market sectors.
Vision 2015 has established a clear strategic focus on 
clean energy and carbon efficiency, with the intent to 
grow existing markets and selectively pursue growth 
into new markets and geographies.
Nuclear
AMEC’s nuclear capability has been developed over  
50 years. AMEC is experienced in supporting the full 
life cycle of nuclear energy, with expertise covering a 
large range of nuclear technologies. 
Principal offices are in Knutsford (UK) and Toronto 
(Canada) with locations in Eastern Europe and  
South Africa and some 2,000 employees in this sector . 
Customers include major utilities, governments, 
national regulators and other significant stakeholders.
Services are provided across the full asset life cycle, 
from new build to reactor support (including life time 
extension) and finally to nuclear decommissioning and 
waste management. These services include 
programme management, major project management, 
engineering, outage management, safety design and 
assessment, research and development, radiochemical 
analysis, radiological, environmental and other 
specialist technical services. 
AMEC’s nuclear business remains ‘technology 
independent’ and its experience ranges across all four 
generations of nuclear technology. 
The business works with its customers in long-term 
relationships based on partnering to support their 
major assets, and has significant experience in 
effectively managing complex stakeholder 
relationships across the industry, governments, 
regulators, supply chain and communities.
Power & Process continued
Principal activities include:
O O
 Providing pre-licensing and architect and owner 
engineer services ensuring support for project 
construction management on new build 
programmes worldwide. During 2010, AMEC was 
appointed by EDF to support its architect engineer 
operations on its UK nuclear new build programme
O O
 Supporting major reactor re-start programmes  
such as Bruce Power in Ontario, Canada 
O O
 Providing key technical and project management 
services to support the continued operation, 
enhancement and life time extension of existing 
reactor fleets 
O O
 Managing UK decommissioning and waste 
management programmes. Importantly, AMEC 
holds a key position within Nuclear Management 
Partners (NMP) for the management of the 
Sellafield complex on behalf of the NDA
O O
 Providing project management, engineering  
and safety assurance services to nuclear 
decommissioning programmes across Europe 
O O
 Providing licensing and regulatory support for  
the complete asset life cycle from engineering,  
through commissioning and operation  
to decommissioning 
O O
 Active in research and naval reactor plant 
programmes and the UK’s strategic  
deterrent programme.
Markets 
The nuclear industry has been experiencing a 
worldwide renaissance which is driven by:
O O
 Increasing worldwide energy demand 
O O
 Need for reduced greenhouse gas emissions and 
environmentally clean technology to replace an aged 
asset base and help minimise climate change
O O
 Security of supply concerns, as it is less subject  
to economic or political uncertainty.  25 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The longevity of the nuclear market is a key attribute 
and AMEC is positioning itself to be a major player in  
its current and target regions for the long term. 
Globally, there are currently some 30 countries with 
nuclear power and a further 20 countries considering 
it. Worldwide electricity production from nuclear power 
is projected to climb from 2,731 TWh in 2008 to 4,900 
TWh by 2035 (IEA). AMEC estimates the global market 
for its services in nuclear to be around £59 billion 
currently, growing to greater than £95 billion by 2020.
The UK Government is supporting the replacement  
of the existing UK fleet of nuclear power stations.  
Over at least the next 11 years, AMEC will be actively 
supporting EDF’s nuclear new build programme. 
With its role at Sellafield and history at Dounreay, 
Power & Process is a major player in UK 
decommissioning, a sector valued at £73 billion (UK 
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority figures). 
In Canada, nuclear power is used to generate 
approximately 15 per cent of electricity requirements. 
Refurbishment projects which are either in progress  
or have been announced amount to some Cdn$9 billion, 
of which Cdn$6 billion is in Ontario and the balance 
split between New Brunswick and Quebec. A further 
nine plants are potentially planned by 2020. 
Other key geographies for AMEC include Central  
and Eastern Europe and South Africa. 
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow 
by between five and seven per cent per annum in the 
period to 2015.
Renewables/Bioprocess 
This sector has a strong North American focus,  
in part due to the clean air legislation and tax incentives 
provided to encourage growth.
 AMEC provides consulting, engineering, construction 
management and selected EPC/EPCm services to 
customers including power utilities, financial 
institutions, government agencies, technology 
developers, OEMs (original Equipment Manufacturers) 
and specialist consultants. Projects may range from 
consultancy support during technology development 
for Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) and marine 
energy in the UK to wind EPC and construction  
services in Canada.
AMEC is able to draw on its considerable experience 
and expertise in areas such as the power and pulp  
and paper sectors to assist its customers in 
implementing new technologies. For example,  
AMEC has considerable expertise and experience  
in wood handling, storage and conveyance, boiler 
technologies and co-firing of biomass in industrial 
boilers within the conventional power sector which  
is readily transferable to biomass.
Biofuels are driven by clean fuels legislation. AMEC is  
a leader in the development of cellulosic ethanol, and 
has contributed to high-profile demonstration plants. 
The pulp and paper sector covers grades of printing 
and writing paper, tissue, boxboard, container board, 
and other speciality products. AMEC is a market leader 
in the Americas as a full-service provider .
Contracts worked on during 2010 included the 
Chatham Wind Power project in Canada for Kruger 
Energy, the first commercial scale advance bio-enegry 
facility for INEOS New Planet BioEnergy in Florida, US 
and FEED work for National Grid for a carbon capture 
and storage project at Longannet Power Station in 
Scotland, UK. 
Markets 
The renewables sector is driven by the requirement  
to meet national and international emissions control 
and pollution control legislation, and incentive 
mechanisms including short-term stimulus packages 
and improving technology.
Under the IEA new policies scenario, overall 
renewables are projected to increase from 19 per cent 
of the global electricity generation mix in 2009 to 24 per 
cent in 2020 and 32 per cent in 2035.
In absolute terms, this is equivalent to an increase from 
3,772 TWh to nearly 11,200 TWh by 2035. To achieve 
this, an investment of some US$5.7 trillion is forecast, 
of which over US$1.8 trillion is invested in wind,  
US$1.4 trillion in solar and US$688 billion in biomass. 26 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
BP’s Energy Outlook 2010 expects renewables 
(including biofuels) to be the fastest growing sector in 
the fuel mix, growing by 8.2 per cent per annum from 
2010 to 2030.
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow 
by between 8 and 10 per cent per annum in the period 
to 2015.
Power
This sector comprises generation of electricity  
from conventional sources other than nuclear,  
and also air quality control systems (AQCS) for 
emissions control work. 
The majority of services are performed for regulated 
utilities and independent power producers, primarily  
in Europe and the Americas. The services provided 
include consultancy and feasibility studies, 
engineering, EPCm and construction.
During 2010, work on EDF Energy’s new 1,300MW 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) power station  
at West Burton, UK has continued. 
Markets 
Over 400 GW of operational coal, gas, and oil- fired 
capacity is more than 40 years old and a further  
585 GW is between 30 and 40 years old. This means 
that around one third of the installed fossil fuel capacity 
in 2008 will reach the end of its operational life in the 
next 10 to 15 years, with the effect disproportionately 
weighted towards OECD countries. The IEA suggests 
that nearly 35 per cent of the US$9.6 trillion of 
worldwide investment to 2035 will be needed to  
replace existing plants. 
Investment in conventional power in North America 
and the UK is expected to remain stable,  
while environmental projects (such as flue gas 
desulphurisation and selective catalytic reduction)  
are expected to grow, as emission targets increase.
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will  
grow by between three and five per cent per annum  
in the period to 2015.
Power & Process continued
Transmission & Distribution (T&D)
This sector covers power transmission and distribution 
for medium, high, and extra high voltage transmission 
lines and cables, substations and interconnectors.  
It also includes gas transmission and distribution, 
encompassing AMEC’s activities in high pressure gas 
import terminals, storage and transmission, and low 
pressure gas distribution. 
AMEC provides consulting and feasibility studies 
through to detailed engineering, project management, 
programme management, construction, EPCm and 
commissioning services.
Major customers are T&D system owners with  
which AMEC has had long-standing relationships.  
They include National Grid (including involvement in 
the Electricity Alliance West and in the M1 Gas Alliance, 
both in the UK), EDF and Wales and West Utilities. 
During 2010, AMEC won a new contract worth over  
£60 million for the extension of the Hill Top Farm gas 
storage facility in the UK for EDF . AMEC will design, 
install and commission the filtration and compression 
facilities, after-cooling, de-hydration, metering and 
utility equipment. 
Markets 
The sector is characterised by medium-term, 
sustainable growth which will be resistant to major 
cyclical swings. 
O O
 Increasing global power demand creates the 
requirement for increased interconnection
O O
 Shifts in supply and demand points, with the 
transition to low carbon generation and renewable 
energy in remote locations, drive system 
configuration changes
O O
 T&D networks in AMEC current and future 
territories require major asset renewal to  
replace life-expired assets following many years  
of underinvestment.
Gas investment will continue to grow in the short term, 
driven primarily by the issues of security of supply and 
the need to increase storage capacity in Europe and 
North America. 27 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
IEA World Economic Outlook 2010 supports this 
requirement for investment in T&D infrastructure, 
identifying US$1.2 trillion of investment being required 
in the OECD countries alone between 2010 and 2020. 
AMEC estimates that its accessible markets will grow 
by between four and six per cent per annum in the 
period to 2015.
Vision 2015 strategy 
The Power & Process division’s Vision 2015 strategy is 
to focus on clean energy and carbon efficiency as a 
sustainable platform for future growth post economic 
recovery. The group will maintain a balanced portfolio 
of services focusing on both EBIT growth through 
higher value services and volume growth from project 
delivery services. A technology neutral position will be 
maintained with the group positioned as expert partner 
of choice, aligned with technology providers as required 
to access clients, sector and market opportunities.
Key achievements in 2010 included growth in 
underlying revenue of 10 per cent, achieved through  
a focus on higher value services. Confirmation of the 
tier one role with EDF on the UK nuclear new build 
programme provides a strong base for future growth  
in the nuclear sector and the award of several leading 
edge contracts in renewables/bioprocess provides 
recognition of AMEC’s expertise in this area.
O
 Further details on Vision 2015 can be found on  
page 6 and at amec.com/vision2015.
Financial performance 2010
The Power & Process division achieved a strong set of 
results in 2010, reflecting the extensive measures 
taken to refocus the business model and core services 
over the last four years.
Revenue was up 12 per cent, to £884.4 million in 2010 
(2009: £788.1 million) driven by a strong performance 
in the UK nuclear sector as well as the ramping up of  
a power project in the UK.
EBITA increased 36 per cent, to £75.3 million  
(2009: £55.4 million), benefiting from improvements  
in operational efficiency. The major Sellafield joint 
venture contract contributed £16 million in 2010  
(2009: £15 million). The overall EBITA margin improved 
by 150 basis points, to 8.5 per cent. 
The order book at 31 December was £1.05 billion  
(31 December 2009: £1.17 billion), down on the 
previous year, due to adjustments made relating to 
National Grid in the US, where the scope of future work 
on the infrastructure replacement programme has 
been reduced. This was offset in part by increased 
activity in the Renewables and Nuclear sectors.  
Capex activity represents 57 per cent of the order  
book (2009: 39 per cent), with opex at 43 per cent  
(2009: 61 per cent). The tier one Sellafield 
decommissioning contract, as an equity accounted  
joint venture, is not included in these figures.
Good progress continues to be made on the resolution 
of the ‘older contracts’ which, as previously referenced, 
do not meet the revised criteria of low-risk services 
with high value add.
In 2011 continued growth is expected to result from 
ongoing customer focus and the growing market for 
AMEC’s consultancy, engineering and project 
management services in the clean energy arena.
O
 Major agreements or contracts during 2010 are 
shown on page 23.
O
 Further details on these, and other contract awards, 
may be found at amec.com/media.  28 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Earth & Environmental
£ million 2010 2009
  Change 
 (%)
 Underlying 1
 (%)
Revenue 
EBITA
EBITA margin (%)
Order book
Average number  
of employees
2
592.6
54.7
9.2
0.27
4,457
470.8
36.5
7.8
 0.29
3,905
 +26
 +50
 +140bps
 -7
 +14
 +14
 +24
 
 
1  Growth measured against 2009 as restated for material acquisitions 
and movements in material currencies .
2  Full time equivalents, including agency staff, 2009 restated to bring 
definition of full time equivalents in line with other divisions.
Description of business
Principal activities: Specialist environmental, 
geotechnical, programme management, engineering 
and consultancy services provided to a broad range  
of customers in the public and private sectors, 
including many common to the other divisions. 
Typically characterised by a large number of small 
value contracts. 
Locations: Operates from a regional network of around 
170 offices, mainly across North America but also in 
Europe, the Middle East and South America. 
Revenue split by geography: 9 per cent Europe,  
90 per cent Americas, 1 per cent Rest of World. 
Revenue split by sector:
 
Water 13%  
 
Government  
Services 29% 
 
Industrial/ 
Commercial 16%  
 
Transport/ 
Infrastructure 15% 
Environment and Water
Oil & Gas 9% 
Unconventional  
Oil & Gas 7%
Oil & Gas
Nuclear 1% 
Renewables/ 
Bioprocess 1%
Clean Energy
Minerals &  
Metals 9% 
Customers include:  Alberta Transportation, Arizona 
Dept of Transportation, Atlantic Richfield, CSX 
Transportation, ExxonMobil, Newmont Mining, Pacific 
Gas and Electric Company, Province of New Brunswick, 
Public Works and Government Services Canada, State 
of North Carolina, Suncor, Ultra Resources Inc, US Air 
Force, US Army, US Navy, Vale Inco, Works Services 
and Transportation, Newfoundland. 
Significant contracts include:  US Navy: AMEC-led 
joint venture among the winners of a five-year,  
US$4 billion framework contract for design and 
construction work to support the US Defense Policy 
Review Initiative in the Pacific region; US Government: 
among those selected for the major energy 
sustainability agreement or blanket purchase 
agreements (BPAs) totalling US$500 million in services 
on a broad spectrum of energy conservation projects; 
Southwestern Illinois Flood Prevention District Council: 
managing the redesign and repair of 64 miles of levees 
in three counties along the Mississippi River, Illinois, 
US; Town of Miami, Arizona, US: engineering services 
contract to design the replacement of the town’s 
wastewater collection systems; US Air Force: 
installation of a one-acre solar photovoltaic field, a new 
condenser water system, energy-efficient lighting and 
lighting-control system at Tyndall Air Force Base in 
Florida, US; Natural Resources Conservation Service 
(NRCS), an arm of the US Department of Agriculture; 
Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) projects involving 
the collection of elevation data in various watersheds 
across six states. In addition, very many smaller value 
contracts were won and executed in the year .
Business overview
Earth & Environmental is a leading international 
environmental and engineering consulting organisation 
with full service capabilities covering a wide range of 
disciplines, including environmental engineering and 
science, geotechnical engineering, water resources, 
materials testing and engineering, engineering and 
surveying, and programme management. 
With the vast majority of its activities falling outside the 
scope of engineering and project management 
services provided by the other divisions, Earth & 
Environmental enables AMEC to provide a broader 
range of services across the asset life cycle than many 
competitor companies. This “halo” effect can lead to 
AMEC becoming involved in major projects at the time 
of the environmental impact assessment, before they 
even get off the ground.
Services are provided for a broad spread of public and 
private sector customers across the life cycle of their 
operations, including for customers common to the 
Natural Resources and Power & Process divisions.  29 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The environmental services industry is large and 
fragmented, providing opportunities for growth through 
bolt-on acquisitions. In recent years, Earth & 
Environmental has added to its geographic footprint 
and capabilities through acquisitions and intends  
to make further investments in the future.
The Earth & Environmental business portfolio is well 
balanced both by end market, and in terms of the 
nature of services provided, with the vast majority of 
the division’s employees being transferable between 
market sectors. The business is characterised by a 
high number of small value contracts. 
The division has some fixed price commitments in 
respect of certain federal activities and other  
consulting projects.
Services
Earth & Environmental operates a ‘seller-doer’ 
business model employing specialist consultants 
based in a branch network of regional offices.
The following are examples of services provided by 
Earth & Environmental:
O O
Archaeology
O O
Architecture
O O
Climate change 
consulting
O O
Ecological studies
O O
Engineering design
O O
Environmental site 
characterisation
O O
Environmental impact  
studies and permitting
O O
Geotechnical design  
and analysis
O O
Infrastructure design
O O
Materials engineering, 
construction 
monitoring and testing
O O
Oceanography and 
meteorology
O O
Programme management
O O
Remediation planning  
and execution
O O
Socio-economic studies
O O
Tailings/waste dump 
design and construction 
monitoring
O O
Waste management
O O
Water and air quality
O O
Water management, 
development and 
protection.
The division works for resource, government  
and commercial customers, providing services  
from environmental impact assessments at the 
earliest stages of the project life cycle right through  
to advising on and project managing clean up  
following decommissioning. 
In addition, a broad range of services are provided to the 
US Federal Government, which is the largest procurer 
of environmental services in the world. Here, customers 
include the US Air Force, US Army and US Navy, where 
services are as diverse as remediation programmes,  
to fixed price design and delivery of airfield facilities at 
bases in the US and around the world. 
In the water sector, AMEC offers a range of services 
such as water supply, stormwater management, 
hazard mitigation, dam safety, water/wastewater 
treatment, water quality protection and reclamation, 
and watershed management. Revenue from water 
related services increased by 46 per cent year on year . 
Increasingly, the division is using its technical and 
scientific capabilities to provide sustainability solutions 
to its customers. One example is the sustainable 
approach taken on the Mount Milligan Mine project in 
Canada, which recently received approval to proceed 
from the federal government.  
O
 Further details on each of these services can be 
found at amec.com/media.
Markets 
Earth & Environmental operates in a large and highly 
fragmented market. Precise figures for its size are 
hard to establish, though AMEC believes the North 
American environmental consulting and engineering 
market segment to be valued in excess of US$50 
billion. Whilst AMEC’s overall market share of this 
market is small, the business has strong positions in 
certain end market sectors, notably natural resources, 
water and defence. AMEC also maintains strong local 
market share in a number of the communities in which 
it operates, and also with select nationally operating 
commercial customers. 30 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The European market for environmental services is 
smaller than in North America, and is also fragmented. 
Underlying long-term growth drivers are stronger than 
the more mature market in North America, being 
driven by increasing regulatory pressures.
Earth & Environmental provides consulting services in 
other regions of the world outside North America and 
Europe, primarily meeting the global needs of existing 
internationally operating customers.
Market drivers for this division include an increasing 
recognition of the need to manage water resources, 
including by customers in mining and oil sands 
sectors; growth in environmental legislation; 
increasing corporate social responsibility; increasing 
use of brownfield sites and increasing exploration of 
environmentally sensitive regions by natural  
resources companies.
AMEC’s view of the market growth potential of each  
of the sectors in which Earth & Environmental 
operates is shown on page 6.
Vision 2015 strategy
The acquisition of Entec Holdings Limited, an 
environmental consultancy business, in March 2010 
greatly strengthened the division’s position in Europe 
and enhanced its capabilities in water . 
Employing some 700 people in the UK, Entec has  
a leading position in the water services and  
wastewater sector as well as providing renewable, 
nuclear and other energy services, industrial 
engineering, contaminated land and regeneration 
services, environmental planning and project 
management services. 
On 2 February 2011, BCI Engineers and Scientists  
Inc was acquired. BCI is a 200-person, Florida US 
based, consulting firm concentrating on the water  
and mining sectors. 
AMEC continues to see acquisition opportunities  
in the unconsolidated environmental services  
markets in North America and Europe, and expects  
to make further selective acquisitions which  
improve its competitive position by way of increased  
capability, particularly in the water sector, and/or 
geographic footprint. 
Earth & Environmental continued
Many customers of Natural Resources and Power & 
Process value the complementary services that Earth 
& Environmental can provide. For example, in 2010 
cross-divisional teams worked for EDF on UK nuclear 
new build and on Kearl oil sands for Imperial Oil, 
among many other projects. Vision 2015 deliberately 
positions AMEC across the asset lifecycle and we will 
continue to promote this “One AMEC” approach to 
servicing our customers. 
O
 Further details on Vision 2015 can be found on  
page 6 and at amec.com/vision2015.
Financial performance
Revenue increased by 26 per cent to £592.6 million in 
2010 (2009: £470.8 million), benefiting from organic 
growth, the Entec acquisition and positive currency 
movement. Government services had a strong year in 
2010, as did unconventional oil and gas and mining, 
underpinning the organic growth. The water sector 
benefited from a strengthened position in the UK and 
revenue from water services increased by 46 per cent 
in the year .
EBITA increased 50 per cent in 2010 to £54.7 million 
(2009: £36.5 million), driven by a strong performance in 
Western Canada and the acquisition in the UK. Overall 
EBITA margin increased 140 basis points to 9.2 per 
cent (2009: 7.8 per cent). 
The peak level of activity in AMEC’s federal business is 
expected to reduce in 2011. This is expected to be offset 
by increased activity in the Mining, Oil and Gas and 
Water sectors.
O
 Major agreements or contracts during 2010 are 
shown on page 28.
O
 Further details on these, and other contract awards, 
may be found at amec.com/media. 31 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Financial review
Investments and other activities
This principally comprises the Incheon Bridge PPP 
project in Korea, now in the operational phase,  
the Lancashire Waste PPP project (under construction) 
and the run-down of AMEC’s non-core North American 
construction activities. Revenue in this segment 
declined by 46 per cent to £7.4 million (2009:  
£13.7 million) as the construction projects in both 
Korea and North America were substantially 
completed in 2009. EBITA increased to £3.0 million 
(2009: £0.2 million) as a result of settlements on 
non-core activities.
Changes arising from corporate activity
Acquisitions 
AMEC continues to make selective acquisitions 
consistent with its strategy of improving capabilities  
and geographic footprint, and will continue to exercise 
financial discipline in targeting future acquisitions.  
All acquisitions made to date are targeted to achieve 
post-tax returns ahead of deal-specific cost of capital  
in the first or second full year post acquisition. 
During 2010 AMEC announced four acquisitions with 
an aggregate cash consideration of £88.4 million.  
£85.1 million was paid during 2010 (net of cash 
acquired) with the balance payable in future years.  
In addition, £8.7 million was paid in respect of deferred 
consideration on prior year acquisitions.
On 2 February 2011, AMEC announced the acquisition 
of BCI Engineers and Scientists Inc, a Florida-based 
consulting firm focused on the water and mining 
sectors. The total consideration was US$20 million,  
of which US$15 million was paid on closing.
The acquisition of Zektingroup was announced on  
7 February 2011 (see page 21). Of the total 
consideration of Au$48 million, Au$37 million was paid 
at closing.
On 21 February 2011, AMEC announced the acquisition 
of qedi (see page 21). The total consideration was  
£33 million, of which £29 million was paid at closing.
Natural Resources
O O
 In January 2010, Currie & Brown (Australia) Pty  
Ltd was acquired for a cash consideration of  
Au$36.4 million. Currie & Brown is a leading cost 
and commercial management consultancy 
O O
 In November 2010, the Australian estimating 
consultancy BurmanGriffiths was acquired for 
Au$4.5 million
O O
 In December 2010 AMEC acquired a majority 
shareholding in S2V Consulting Pty Ltd.
Earth & Environmental 
In March 2010, Entec Holdings Limited was acquired 
(see page 30) for an initial consideration of 
£61.2 million. Further payments may be made,  
subject to retention and performance.
Basis of preparation of the accounts
The 2010 annual report and accounts have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted for use in the 
EU (adopted IFRS) as at 31 December 2010. 
The directors have identified the policies for accounting 
for long-term contracts, retirement benefits and 
provisions for litigation matters and liabilities related  
to the sale of businesses, as the most critical because 
they involve high levels of judgement and estimation.
Retirement benefits
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for  
in accordance with the advice of independent qualified 
actuaries but significant judgements are required  
in relation to the assumptions for future salary and 
pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment 
returns and member life expectancy that underpin 
their valuations. For AMEC, these assumptions are 
important given the relative size of the schemes that 
remain open.
Long-term contracts
A significant amount of the group’s activities is 
undertaken via long-term contracts. These contracts 
are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 
‘Construction contracts’ which require estimates to be 
made for contract costs and revenues. 32 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Management base their judgements of contract costs 
and revenues on the latest available information, which 
includes detailed contract valuations. In many cases 
the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term 
contractual obligations which span more than one 
reporting period. 
Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety  
of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future 
events and often need to be revised as events unfold 
and uncertainties are resolved. The estimates of 
contract costs and revenues are updated regularly  
and significant changes are highlighted through 
established internal review procedures. In particular, 
the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition 
of incentive payments and the age and recoverability  
of any unagreed income from variations to the  
contract scope or claims. The impact of the changes  
in these accounting estimates is then reflected in  
the ongoing results.
Provisions for litigation matters and liabilities  
related to the sale of businesses 
When accounting for provisions for litigation and other 
items, the group has taken internal and external advice 
in considering known legal claims and actions made by 
or against the group. It carefully assesses the likelihood 
of success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions 
are made for legal claims or actions against the group 
on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are 
made for those which, in the view of management,  
are unlikely to succeed.
Results
Overall revenue for the year increased by 16 per cent to 
£2,950.6 million (2009: £2,539.1 million). The underlying 
revenue increased by 8 per cent, with improvements  
in all three divisions. Favourable currency movements 
added 4 per cent (+£111.4 million) and acquisitions 
4 per cent (+£105.9 million).
EBITA increased 30 per cent to £271.8 million (2009: 
£208.3 million). Underlying growth was 18 per cent and 
acquisitions (+£9.7 million) and currency movements 
(+£15.0 million) also had a positive effect. EBITA 
margins improved by 100 basis points to 9.2 per cent 
(2009: 8.2 per cent). 
Financial review continued
Adjusted profit before tax of £279.7 million in 2010  
was ahead of the previous year (£215.6 million) and 
reflected volume growth and the EBITA margin 
improvements. A reconciliation of the movement  
from adjusted profit before tax to profit before tax of 
£258.2 million (2009: £203.5 million) is shown in note 2 
on page 71. The tax charge for the year was  
£21.6 million (2009: £46.8 million), the post-tax loss 
from discontinued operations was £6.7 million (2009: 
profit of £15.9 million), resulting in a total profit for the 
year of £229.9 million (2009: £172.6 million).
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations were 62.5 pence (2009: 46.9 pence), an 
increase of 33 per cent.
Operating cash flow for the period was £227.0 million, 
down £39.0 million from last year, reflecting the 
working capital outflow resulting from the growth in 
the year and the exceptional performance in 2009, and 
subsequent working capital reversal. Cash flow 
conversion was 83 per cent (2009: 128 per cent), which 
compares with a normalised target of 90 per cent.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 19.2 
pence per share (2009: 11.6 pence), which together 
with the interim dividend of 7.3 pence per share (2009: 
6.1 pence) results in a total dividend of 26.5 pence per 
share (2009: 17.7 pence), an increase of 50 per cent. 
Going forward the board intends to maintain a 
progressive dividend policy with dividend cover in the 
range of 2.0 to 2.5 times. This reflects the improving 
quality of earnings and cash flow, the de-risked 
business model, and the board's confidence in the 
company's prospects. The interim dividend is expected 
to revert to being one-third of the annual total in 2011. 
Since 2005, the annual dividend has more than doubled 
(2005: 11.5 pence).
Geographical analysis
Some 71 per cent of 2010 revenues (2009: 69 per cent) 
were generated outside the UK, with the group’s 
largest overseas market being Canada, driven by  
Oil Sands and Minerals & Metals. 33 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses increased by £14.5 million to 
£200.3 million (2009: £185.8 million) largely as a result 
of currency movements and acquisitions.
Net financing income
In 2010, the average interest rate received was 
approximately 0.9 per cent compared to one per cent in 
2009. The net financing income for the year increased 
by £0.6 million to £7.9 million (2009: £7.3 million).
Taxation
Continuing operations
The group’s effective tax rate in 2010 for the continuing 
businesses (including tax attributable to joint venture 
interests) before exceptional items and excluding 
intangible amortisation was 25.9 per cent (2009:  
27.0 per cent). The reduction principally reflects 
decreases in statutory tax rates, the agreement of 
historical items with various tax authorities and more 
active management.
The tax rate in 2011 is expected to reduce further due 
to decreases in statutory tax rates and from further 
management and planning.
A tax credit of £36.2 million (2009: credit of £1.5 million) 
relates to total exceptional income of £10.7 million 
(2009: £8.9 million) and to the release of a provision of 
£35.9 million resulting from the disposal of UK Wind 
Developments business in 2008.
Deferred tax
At 31 December 2010, the group had deferred tax 
assets of £59.3 million (2009: net assets of  
£70.0 million) arising primarily from short-term  
timing differences relating to provisions, property, plant 
and equipment and tax losses, offset by liabilities in 
respect of intangible assets. 
Financial position and net cash
The group remains in an exceptionally strong financial 
position, with net cash as at 31 December 2010 of 
£740.1 million (2009: £742.7 million).
Cash generated from operations in 2010 was  
£171.8 million (2009: £242.3 million). After adjusting  
for exceptional items and discontinued operations, 
legacy settlements, pension payments in excess of 
amounts recognised in the income statement and 
dividends received from joint ventures, operating cash 
flow was £227 million (2009: £266 million).
Intangible amortisation and impairment  
of goodwill
Intangible amortisation relates to capitalised software 
and intangible assets acquired as part of the group’s 
expansion programme. The 2010 charge of £25.0 
million is £9.3 million higher than 2009 with the 
increase due to the acquisitions in the year and a full 
year impact of acquisitions made during 2009.
In line with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, annual 
impairment reviews have been performed on the 
goodwill carried on the balance sheet. There was no 
impairment charge in 2010 (2009: £1.3 million).
Exceptional items
Divestments
One small business was divested during the first half  
of 2010. In addition, there were various adjustments to 
existing provisions in respect of prior year disposals 
resulting in an aggregate post-tax exceptional gain of 
£49.4 million (2009: £15.5 million). 
Legacy issues
No new significant contingent liabilities were added  
in 2010.
Provisions currently held for future costs of litigation 
total £50.3 million (2009: £53.8 million).
Balance sheet highlights
Key movements in the balance sheet are discussed 
below:
Property, plant and equipment
The reduction in the net book value of fixed assets as at 
31 December 2010 to £31.9 million (2009: £44.1 million) 
reflects additions of £6.4 million, acquisitions of 
£2.6 million, depreciation provided during the year of 
£12.8 million and disposals of £10.6 million. 34 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Intangible assets
The net book value of intangible assets as at 
31 December 2010 was £621.3 million (2009: 
£507.4 million), comprising goodwill £557.1 million, 
software £11.9 million and other intangibles 
£52.3 million.
The increase in goodwill relates to the acquisitions in 
the year including Entec and Aquenta (formerly Currie 
& Brown Australia Pty Limited), which generated 
goodwill of £59.1 million. Other intangible assets 
include the value of customer relationships, brand 
names/trademarks, non-compete agreements and 
order backlogs of acquired businesses. Other 
intangible assets of £29.6 million arose on acquisitions 
during the year, including £26.6 million in respect of 
Entec. This was offset by amortisation of £22.4 million. 
There were additions of £7.3 million to software offset 
by amortisation of £2.6 million.
Working capital
Days’ sales in inventory/wip and receivables are as 
follows:
 
 2010 
 Days
 2009 
 Days
Group 79 66
The increase in days’ sales in inventory wip and 
receivables reflects the increase in activity during the 
second half of the year compared to the same period  
in 2009.
Derivative financial instruments
As at 31 December 2010, there were derivative 
financial instruments with a net liability of £36.6 million 
(2009: net liability £29.7 million) on the balance sheet. 
This net liability represents the fair value of foreign 
exchange contracts used to hedge the cash flows of 
foreign currency contracts and cross currency 
instruments used to hedge the net investment in 
overseas subsidiaries.
Distributable reserves
As at 31 December 2010, distributable reserves of 
AMEC plc stood at £696.0 million (2009: £729.9 million), 
a reduction of £33.9 million during the year . This is 
explained in more detail in note 1 to the accounts.  
The reduction in reserves mainly reflects dividends 
paid during the year .
Financial review continued
£ million
As at 1 January 2010 (restated) 729.9
Dividends approved during 2010 (58.1)
Other movements 24.2
As at 31 December 2010 696.0
A dividend of £19.3 million received from a subsidiary 
company in a prior period is not considered to be 
distributable.
Pensions
The IAS 19 surplus of the principal UK pension 
schemes at the end of 2010 of £63.0 million was higher 
than in 2009 (£26.8 million) reflecting principally gains 
in the asset values during the year . 
For the main UK pension plans, revised mortality 
assumptions, which incorporate an allowance for 
additional longevity improvements in future, were 
adopted for IAS 19 purposes in 2008. The revised 
assumptions, were chosen with regard to the latest 
available tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect 
the experience of the schemes’ membership. The 
tables adopted are part of the PA00 series of tables, 
taking into account each member’s year of birth 
adjusted by an age rating of +1 year, and allowing for 
‘medium cohort’ with an underpin of one per cent per 
annum improvements in longevity. For a male/female 
aged 65 in 2010, these tables show a life expectancy  
of 21.4/23.7 years. For a male/female aged 45 in 2010, 
the tables show a life expectancy from age 65 of 
23.3/25.5 years.
In association with the Trustees of the Schemes, AMEC 
will continue to monitor scheme mortality experience 
and will revise assumptions as appropriate.
Contributions of £22.2 million were paid to the 
company’s defined benefit schemes during the year 
(2009: £17.8 million). This included special 
contributions agreed with the Trustees of £5.1 million 
(2009: £5.1 million). 
Provisions
Provisions held at 31 December 2010 were 
£187.1 million (31 December 2009: £202.0 million). 
During 2010, £17.0 million of the brought forward 
provisions were utilised. As part of the ongoing review 
of the potential liabilities, £14.4 million of provisions  35 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
were released as they were no longer required but  
an additional £13.1 million of provisions were created. 
Provisions are analysed as follows:
As at 31 December 2010 £ million
Litigation provisions 50.3
Indemnities granted to buyers and retained 
obligations on disposed businesses 66.4
Insurance, onerous property contracts  
and provisions to fund joint ventures 70.4
Total 187 .1
Changes to reporting allocations 
From 2011 the allocation of certain items will  
be changed: 
O O
 The UK Asset Support business will be transferred 
from Power & Process to Natural Resources
O O
 The net interest on pension assets and liabilities,  
and the net interest within equity accounted joint 
ventures will be transferred from EBITA to net 
financing income.
These are reallocations only and there will be no 
overall impact to profit before tax or earnings. The 
effect of the half and full year positions is shown below.
Six months ended 30 June 2010 impact
As reported As restated
 Revenue 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 %
 Revenue 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 %
Natural Resources 730.9 81.1 1 1.1 782.5 83.9 10.7
Power & Process 448.0 31.4 7 .0 396.4 25.6 6.5
Earth & Environmental 275.3 21.4 7 .8 275.3 21.4 7 .8
Investments and other 1.8 (3.0) – 1.8 (1.5) –
Corporate costs – (17 .4) – – (17 .4) –
Inter-company eliminations (26.5) – – (26.5) – –
1,429.5 113.5 7 .9 1,429.5 112.0 7 .8
Interest 2.2 3.7
Adjusted profit before tax 115.7 115.7
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 25.5p 25.5p
Y ear ended 31 December 2010 impact
As reported As restated
 Revenue 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 %
 Revenue 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 £ million
 EBITA 
 %
Natural Resources 1,520.5 174.7 11.5 1,602.8 178.6 1 1.1
Power & Process 884.4 75.3 8.5 802.1 64.8 8.1
Earth & Environmental 592.6 54.7 9.2 592.6 54.7 9.2
Investments and other 7 .4 3.0 – 7 .4 6.1 –
Corporate costs – (35.9) – – (35.9) –
Inter-company eliminations (54.3) – – (54.3) – –
2,950.6 271.8 9.2 2,950.6 268.3 9.1
Interest 7 .9 11.4
Adjusted profit before tax 279.7 279.7
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 62.5p 62.5p 36 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Our group management team
Samir Brikho  
Chief Executive 
Samir Brikho was appointed Chief Executive in 2006.  
In addition to being Chair of Offshore Europe 2011,  
he is a director of the United Kingdom-Japan 21st 
Century Group. He also chaired the World Economic 
Forum's Engineering and Construction Board in 2009 
and, from May 2008 to May 2010, held the position of 
Chair of UK Energy Excellence, a strategy board tasked 
by the UK Government with demonstrating the UK’s 
world-leading position in energy. In February 2010 
Samir was appointed a UK Business Ambassador by 
the Prime Minister . He was previously a member of the 
Group Executive Committee of ABB Ltd., Switzerland 
and Chairman of ABB Lummus Global.
Ian McHoul  
Chief Financial Officer
Ian McHoul joined AMEC and was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer in September 2008. A Chartered 
Accountant, he was previously Group Finance Director 
of Scottish and Newcastle plc.
Neil Bruce 
Chief Operating Officer
Neil Bruce became Chief Operating Officer for AMEC in 
August 2010, having been Chief Operating Officer for 
the Natural Resources division since 2006, and Power 
& Process since December 2009. He was appointed as 
an executive director for AMEC plc in January 2009. 
Since March 2009 he has been Chairman of the UK Oil 
& Gas advisory board of UK Trade & Investment. He is 
an Honorary Professor at Aberdeen Business School at 
the Robert Gordon University. He was previously 
Managing Director of AMEC Oil and Gas, having joined 
AMEC in 1997.
Michael Blacker  
General Counsel and Company Secretary
As General Counsel, Michael Blacker is responsible for 
the provision of legal and risk management services 
across the organisation. Michael has been with AMEC 
since 1997 and will retire at the end of March 201 1. 
 
Keith Bradford  
Group Human Resources Director
Keith Bradford is Group Human Resources Director 
and is also responsible for sustainability. He was 
previously Senior Vice President of HR Global 
Operations at GlaxoSmithKline. He will leave AMEC  
on 1 May 2011 for family reasons and is succeeded by 
William Serle, currently HR Operations Director .
François-Philippe Champagne 
Strategic Development Director
François-Philippe Champagne is Strategic 
Development Director, with responsibility for mergers 
and acquisitions activity and strategy. He is a non-
executive director of TakingItGlobal, a non-profit 
organisation and was selected by the World Economic 
Forum as a Y oung Global Leader 2009. He joined  
AMEC in 2008.
Tony Cruddas 
President, Growth Regions
Tony Cruddas is President, Growth Regions and is 
responsible for the oversight and direction of business 
in China, Commonwealth of Independent States, 
Middle East and North Africa, Australia and South East 
Asia. A Chartered Engineer and European Engineer,  
he was previously Director of Global Upstream Projects 
for AMEC Oil & Gas, having joined AMEC in 2001.
Eleanor Evans 
General Counsel and Company Secretary elect
Eleanor Evans will join AMEC on 15 March 2011.  
She was previously Chief Legal Officer and Company 
Secretary at Cobham PLC.
Timothy Gelbar 
President, Power & Process Americas
Tim Gelbar has been President of Power & Process 
Americas since 2006. He has more than 30 years of 
experience leading and managing engineering and 
construction operations in the power, process and 
industrial markets. He is on the Advisory Board of the 
Construction Industry Institute (CII), and is a member 
of the Construction Users Roundtable (CURT). 37 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Governance Financials 
Dr Hisham Mahmoud  
President, Earth & Environmental
Dr Hisham Mahmoud joined AMEC in October 2010  
as President, Earth & Environmental. Prior to joining 
AMEC, Dr Hisham Mahmoud worked for URS 
Corporation and its predecessor companies for the  
last 19 years, most recently as East/Midwest Group 
General Manager, Infrastructure and Environment. 
Dr Mahmoud has a Bachelor of Science degree in  
Civil Engineering from the University of Qatar and a 
Master’s and a PhD, both in Civil Engineering, from 
Arizona State University in the US, and is a registered 
professional engineer in multiple US states.
Simon Naylor 
President Natural Resources Americas
Simon Naylor has been President of the Natural 
Resources Americas business since 2007 and has led 
the growth and successful development of positions in 
the core market sectors of Mining, Oil & Gas and Oil 
Sands. Since joining AMEC in 1993 he has worked 
across the project life cycle; from consulting to 
engineering and project management and his 
experience includes project development, asset 
support, strategy, customer relationship management 
and operations leadership.
John Pearson 
Managing Director, Natural Resources 
Europe and West Africa
John Pearson was appointed to his current role  
in 2007. He joined AMEC from Chevron in 1990 and  
has worked in a variety of engineering and project 
management roles in Aberdeen, San Francisco,  
Baku and London. He is currently Chairman of the 
Offshore Contractors Association and a board member 
of Oil & Gas UK.
Mike Saunders 
President, Power & Process Europe
Mike Saunders joined AMEC in 2007 to head up its 
global nuclear business. He was previously Senior Vice 
President of the Global Nuclear Fuel business at 
Westinghouse Electric Company. He has more than 30 
years' experience in the nuclear power industry having 
held a number of senior positions including managing 
nuclear licensed sites in the UK, Europe and the US. He 
is a member of the board of the Sellafield parent 
company (Nuclear Management Partners) and sits on 
the board of the National Skills Academy for Nuclear 
and the Government’s Nuclear Development Forum.
Sue Scholes 
Director of Communications
Sue Scholes has been Director of Communications 
since joining AMEC in 2007. She was previously Head of 
Investor Relations at Brambles Industries plc. Sue is a 
Chartered Management Accountant and sits on the 
Investor Relations Society’s Education Committee.
 Everything we do is about servicing our customers, delivering excellent work for 
our customers, developing long-term relationships with our customers and securing 
repeat work from our customers.
”
Neil Bruce Chief Operating Officer 38 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Jock Green–Armytage  n  
Chairman
Age 65, was appointed a non-executive director in June 
1996 and became Non-Executive Chairman in January 
2004. He is Chairman of the nominations committee. 
He is Chairman of JZ International Limited and Star 
Capital Partners Limited and a director of REA 
Holdings PLC and several other companies. He will 
retire as chairman and director of AMEC following the 
annual general meeting on 5 May 2011.
Samir Brikho  n 
Chief Executive
Age 52, was appointed Chief Executive in October 2006. 
He was previously a member of the ABB Executive 
Committee, heading the Power Systems division and 
Chairman of ABB Lummus Global, ABB’s international 
projects and services business. Samir is member of 
the Advisory Board of Stena AB. He is Chairman of 
Offshore Europe 2011, a member of the steering 
committee of the UK-Korea Forum for the Future, a 
director of UK-Japan 21st Century Group and a UK 
Business Ambassador .
Ian McHoul 
Chief Financial Officer
Age 51, was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 
September 2008. He was previously Group Finance 
Director of Scottish and Newcastle plc and is a 
non-executive director and Chairman of the audit 
committee of Premier Foods plc.
Neil Bruce  
Executive Director
Age 50, is AMEC’s Chief Operating Officer, has over  
30 years’ experience in Energy & Process industries, 
and joined AMEC in 1997. Neil was construction and 
field development director with Arco British prior to 
joining AMEC. He is a chartered marine architect,  
and has a MBA from Newcastle Business School.  
He is Chairman of UKTI Oil and Gas advisory group, 
and a Trustee of Engineers Against Poverty.
Tim Faithfull  n    n  n  n 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 66, was appointed a non-executive director in 
February 2005 and became the Senior Independent 
Director following the annual general meeting on  
13 May 2009. He is Chairman of the remuneration 
committee. He is a non-executive director of Canadian 
Pacific Railway, TransAlta Corporation, and Canadian 
Natural Resources Limited, and a director of Shell 
Pensions Trust Limited. He was President and Chief 
Executive of Shell Canada Limited from 1999 to 2003.
Simon Thompson  n  n  n  n 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 51, was appointed a non-executive director in 
January 2009. He was previously an executive director 
of Anglo American plc, Chairman of the Tarmac Group 
and held positions with S G Warburg and N M 
Rothschild. He is currently Non-Executive Director  
of Newmont Mining Corporation (US) and Sandvik  
AB (Sweden).
Neil Carson  n  n  n  n  Non-Executive Director 
Age 53, was appointed a non-executive director on  
31 August 2010. He has been Chief Executive of 
Johnson Matthey Plc, the FTSE100 speciality chemical 
company, since 2004, a company he joined in 1980 after 
completing an engineering degree, and he has held a 
number of senior management positions in both the 
UK and the US. He is currently a member of the 
advisory board of the Cambridge Programme for 
Sustainability Learning.
Colin Day  n  n  n  n 
Non-Executive Director
Age 56, was appointed a non-executive director on  
14 October 2010. He is Chairman of the audit 
committee. He is currently an Executive Director and 
Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
but will stand down from this position on 31 March prior 
to his appointment as Executive Director and CEO of 
Filtrona plc on 1 April 2011. He is also a non-executive 
director of WPP Group plc. A Fellow of the Association 
of Chartered Certified Accountants, he has an MBA 
from Cranfield School of Management, UK. 
Our board of directors
Key to principal committee membership:  
n
 
  Audit  
n
 
  Remuneration  
n
 
  Nominations  
n
 
  Compliance and ethics 39 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The directors present their annual report and accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Principal activities and business review 
Principal activities of the group can be found on  
pages 16 to 30 and are incorporated by reference  
in this report.
Information fulfilling the requirements of the business 
review is contained in the business and financial review 
on pages 16 to 35. This includes details of AMEC’s 
development and performance during the year, the 
principal business acquisitions and disposals, AMEC’s 
position at the year end and the outlook for the future. 
All these matters are incorporated by reference  
in this report. 
Key events 
Key events are also included in the business and 
financial review on pages 16 to 35.
Statement of Compliance with the 
Provisions of the Combined Code 
As its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, 
in accordance with the requirements of the UKLA 
Listing Rules, AMEC confirms that throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2010, and up to the date of this 
report, it was compliant with the provisions of the 
Combined Code, in particular with the Main Principles 
set out in section 1 thereof. AMEC also confirms that it 
intends to comply with the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Dividends 
The directors are recommending a final ordinary 
dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2010 of 19.2 pence per share. This final dividend will be 
payable on 1 July 2011 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 27 May 2011. An interim 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of  
7.3 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2011.
Dividends paid during 2010 comprised an interim 
dividend of 6.1 pence per share, and a final dividend of 
11.6 pence per share both in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2009.
Share capital 
The issued share capital of the company as at 31 
December 2010, movements during the year and the 
rights attaching to the shares are set out in note 22  
on pages 95 to 98 and the rights and obligations 
attaching to the shares are more fully set out in the 
articles of association of the company. Each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
company and no right to a fixed income. There are no 
restrictions on voting rights.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, 1,000,000 
shares (representing 0.30% of the total called up share 
capital of the company) were purchased at a total cost 
of £8,172,098 and 468,814 shares were utilised in 
satisfying awards made under the UK and International 
SAYE share option plans. As at 31 December 2010, 
6,658,059 shares remained in treasury, all of which 
have been allocated to the group’s SAYE scheme 
awards to date. Given the likelihood of further share 
scheme awards in 2011 and in the future, AMEC 
intends to purchase in the market sufficient shares to 
meet the needs of the schemes in anticipation of future 
payouts. The purchases will be made throughout the 
year outside close periods and any shares purchased 
will be held as treasury shares.
A resolution will be proposed at the annual general 
meeting to extend the authority of the directors to 
make market purchases of up to 10 per cent of the 
company’s shares within prescribed limits. 
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2010 
annual general meeting to allot shares or grant rights 
to subscribe for or to convert any security to shares up 
to a nominal amount of £55,330,800 (“Section 551 
Amount”) of which up to £8,299,620 could be allotted 
for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive 
offer (“Section 561 Amount”). Resolutions will be 
proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting 
to extend this authority to May 2012. The revised 
Section 551 Amount will be £54,891,707 and the revised 
Section 561 amount will be £8,316,925.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any 
shares other than in respect of the exercise of share 
options. No issue will be made which will effectively 
alter the control of the company without the prior 
approval of shareholders in general meeting. 
Report of the directors 40 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Substantial interests 
On the basis of notifications received pursuant to  
the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR) 5 
and other notifications received by AMEC from 
shareholders, the company has been notified of 
shareholdings of three per cent or more of the voting 
rights of the company as at 3 March 2011 as follows: 
 Number Per cent
BlackRock, Inc 36,551,646 11.03
Legal & General Assurance 13,197,514 3.98
The shareholding percentages have been adjusted 
from those notified to reflect the current issued share 
capital net of treasury shares.
There are no shareholdings which carry special rights 
relating to control of the company.
Directors 
Details of the directors of the company as at the date of 
this report, together with membership of the principal 
board committees, are set out on page 38. 
Ms M O Hesse stood down as a non-executive director  
on 13 May 2010 at the end of a nine year term of office.  
Mr P J Byrom stood down as a non-executive director 
on 9 February 2011 after having completed a six year 
term of office.
Messrs N A P Carson and C R Day were appointed to 
the board as non-executive directors on 31 August and 
14 October 2010 respectively. Neither has an 
employment contract with the Company. In accordance 
with article 81 of the articles of association of the 
company, Messrs Carson and Day will retire from office 
at the forthcoming annual general meeting and offer 
themselves for election. See page 38 for further 
biographical information.
Mr J M Green-Armytage intends to stand down as 
Chairman and director of the company at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting. Mr Green-Armytage joined 
the AMEC board in 1996 as a non-executive director 
and was appointed Chairman in 2004. The recruitment 
process to identify his successor is well under way and 
further announcements will be made when a decision 
has been made. In the event that his successor has not 
been identified by the time of the forthcoming annual 
general meeting, Mr Green-Armytage has agreed to 
remain as Chairman until such time as his successor  
is appointed.
Although not required by the company’s articles, in the 
interests of good corporate governance all the other 
directors, other than the Chairman, will retire and offer 
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting. As noted above, the Chairman 
intends to stand down at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting but has agreed to remain as 
Chairman in the event that his successor has not been 
appointed at that time.
The beneficial interests in the share capital of the 
company of the directors holding office as at  
31 December 2010 were as follows: 
 As at  
 31 December  
 2010
As at 
31 December 
2009
J M Green-Armytage 15,000 15,000
S Y Brikho 1,137,416 890,729
P J Byrom – –
T W Faithfull 10,000 10,000
I P McHoul 82,794 73,658
N A Bruce 74,267 72,697
S R Thompson 4,744 4,744
N A P Carson – n/a
C R Day 10,000 n/a
Except for interests under share option schemes,  
the Performance Share Plan and the Transformation 
Incentive Plan, details of which are contained in the 
directors’ remuneration report on pages 48 to 58,  
no director as at 31 December 2010 had any other 
interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital  
of the company or any of its subsidiaries. 
On 4 January 2011, Mr Bruce acquired 335 shares 
under the dividend re-investment plan (DRIP) scheme, 
in lieu of the interim dividend paid on that date. On 
10 January 2011, Messrs Bruce and McHoul acquired 
122 and 192 shares respectively in lieu of the interim 
dividend paid on 4 January 2011. On 1 March 2011, Mr 
Brikho exercised options in respect of 1,624 shares 
arising on the maturity of the Savings Related Share 
Report of the directors continued 41 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Options granted on 1 March 2008 at an option price of 
591 pence. There were no other changes in the 
directors’ interests in the share capital of the company 
between 31 December 2010 and 3 March 2011. 
No director was materially interested in any contract  
of significance to AMEC’s businesses.
As at the date of this report, individual indemnities  
have been provided to the directors, under which the 
company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the 
extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to 
third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the 
execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities  
as directors of the company, any of its associated 
companies or any other company that the director 
serves as a director at the request of the company. 
Equivalent indemnities remain in force for the benefit 
of those directors who stood down during the year 
ended 31 December 2010. These indemnities are 
Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as defined 
in Sections 232-234 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
copies are available for inspection at the registered 
office of the company during business hours on any 
weekday except public holidays.
Employees 
In 2010 AMEC employed on average 21,907 people 
worldwide including agency staff. 
AMEC gives high priority to the development of its 
employees to ensure that it has the necessary skills 
and behaviours to deliver its strategic business 
objectives and to provide for management succession. 
Processes are in place across the group for the regular 
and consistent review of employee performance, 
development and management succession. Common 
training needs are delivered through the AMEC 
Academy (see page 7 for further information).
It is of key importance to AMEC that it engages with 
employees to ensure they understand the direction in 
which the company is going, are committed to AMEC’s 
values, and are empowered to propose and make 
changes to improve how AMEC operates. AMEC 
employees embody its knowledge, brand and reputation 
and it is through their activities, day by day, that AMEC 
delivers on its business objectives and commitments  
to shareholders, clients and the wider community.  
A regular survey of employee opinion is conducted  
and AMEC is committed to sharing and acting on the 
outcomes (see page 7). AMEC provides a wide range of 
mechanisms for employees to share knowledge, to be 
kept informed of developments within AMEC and to 
raise issues and discuss matters of concern.
Respect for cultural diversity and commitment to  
equal opportunities are included among AMEC’s 
Guiding Principles, which are incorporated into 
management policies and processes worldwide. AMEC 
policy is to recruit from the widest labour market, to 
determine the careers of all employees solely on merit 
and to make judgements about employees without  
bias or prejudice. 
As part of AMEC’s equal opportunities policy, 
procedures are in place that are designed to provide for 
fair consideration and selection of disabled applicants, 
to ensure they are properly trained to perform safely 
and effectively, and to provide career opportunities that 
allow them to fulfil their potential. When an employee 
becomes disabled in the course of their employment, 
AMEC will actively seek to retain them wherever 
possible by making adjustments to their work content 
and environment or by retraining them to undertake 
new roles.
AMEC operates a savings related share option plan 
that allows employees to participate in AMEC’s share 
price growth. This is open to employees in all major 
countries of operation who meet a minimum service 
qualification. Offers to participate are currently being 
made on a regular basis. 
Corporate governance
The board is responsible for AMEC’s systems of 
internal control and for their review. These reviews 
cover the effectiveness and adequacy of financial, 
operational, compliance and risk management 
systems and are undertaken at least annually, in 
compliance with the requirements of the Combined 
Code. These systems can only provide reasonable 
assurance against material misstatement or loss, as 
they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
failure to achieve business objectives. 42 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The board and its committees have a continuous 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy, 
major projects to be undertaken, significant 
acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry into and exit 
from different markets. Where appropriate, business 
decisions are reached following a structured and 
documented review of potential opportunities and 
threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate 
any risk exposure. Principal business risks are set  
out in the risk section on pages 10 to 13 and are 
incorporated into this report by reference. 
The threats and opportunities associated with major 
tender submissions are reviewed by the tender review 
committee and as part of Operational Excellence, a set 
of AMEC contracting principles were introduced in 
order to provide greater control over operational 
activities. Under these principles, specified key 
contractual risks are required to be referred to the 
tender review committee, representing an ongoing 
reinforcement of corporate governance in this area.  
AMEC uses a risk management process which is 
incorporated into the AMEC Mandatory Procedures 
described below. The process involves the identification 
of risks at the gross and current level by projects and 
businesses. The risks are recorded in risk registers to 
enable the net positions to be proactively managed. 
Regular risk review meetings comprising 
representatives from the businesses and functions 
discuss business and functional risks. The highest 
risks in terms of probability and impact are then 
elevated to the AMEC plc risk register . The plans for 
mitigation of such risks are also reviewed. AMEC’s risk 
committee considers all such risk issues relating to 
AMEC plc and issues risk reports and makes 
recommendations to the board, including 
recommendations on risk appetite.
The risk management and internal control processes 
are complemented by an annual control risk self-
assessment exercise carried out by the principal 
businesses. This covers major risks, particularly safety, 
health and environment, legal, commercial and 
contractual, financial, information technology and 
human resources. The results are reviewed by the 
board, through both the audit and risk committees,  
and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
Printed copies of both the Combined Code on  
Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (applicable for financial years 
commencing on or after 29 June 2010) can be obtained 
free of charge from the Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC Publications), by email customerservices@cch.
co.uk or telephone +44 (0)20 8247 1264 or online at 
frcpublications.com. 
AMEC Mandatory Procedures and 
Delegated Authorities
AMEC’s businesses are managed on a decentralised 
basis. While the board has retained reserve powers,  
the day-to-day management has been passed to  
the business leaders within defined authority limits.  
The management philosophy is to empower the 
business leaders to take the actions necessary to 
deliver the company’s operational business objectives 
within the defined Mandatory Procedures and 
Delegated Authorities, which set out the standards 
AMEC employees and agency staff are to achieve  
and adhere to. The board regularly reviews these 
procedures and delegated authorities to take account of 
the changing requirements of the business, changes in 
governance requirements and overall risk appetite.
This framework provides for an effective control 
structure and there continues to be a clear link between 
the levels of risk associated with tenders and the 
delegated authority limits.
AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures  
and joint arrangements. Controls within these entities 
may not be reviewed as part of AMEC’s formal 
corporate governance process because of the joint 
management responsibilities but are reviewed by the 
joint venture boards and as part of AMEC’s normal 
internal audit process. Details of significant joint 
ventures can be found on page 114.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
Mr Green-Armytage, Chairman, wrote to all major 
shareholders in April 2010 reminding them that he  
and the senior independent director, Mr Faithfull,  
were available for meetings or telephone calls with 
them if required. The Chairman attends preliminary 
results presentations. 
Report of the directors continued 43 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The Chairman and Mr Faithfull are also available to 
attend, if requested, one-on-one meetings with major 
shareholders. The Chairman had a number of such 
meetings with major shareholders during 2010 and  
Mr Faithfull also communicated with and met major 
shareholders in his capacity as chairman of the 
remuneration committee.
An in-depth annual perception study of investors’ 
views, prepared by an independent third party, is 
presented to all board members, who also receive 
unedited feedback reports following shareholder 
meetings or events together with all material brokers’ 
research notes on the company.
The board 
The board comprises the Chairman, three executive 
directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The company does not combine the role of Chairman 
and Chief Executive. The Chairman is responsible for 
the leadership of the board and for ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its activities. The Chief 
Executive is responsible for running the group and 
implementing board strategy and policy. This ensures  
a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the 
company, so that no individual has unfettered powers 
of decision. The independent non-executive directors 
review the relationship between the Chairman and 
Chief Executive each year to ensure that the 
relationship is working effectively. 
The non-executive directors are all considered to be 
independent by the board and their external 
commitments are reviewed to ensure that they are able 
to commit sufficient time to meet what is expected of 
them. They are not employed by the company in any 
capacity, nor have they been in the past. Mr Faithfull 
has acted as the board’s senior independent director 
since 13 May 2009.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring 
that board procedures are followed and all directors 
have access to his advice and services. 
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its 
approval covering areas such as company strategy,  
the appointment of key executives, approval of group 
accounts, approval of the business plan, budget and 
financial policies, review of operating results, risk 
management strategy, assessment of risk appetite, 
ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices, 
succession planning and significant capital 
expenditure. The board is supplied with appropriate 
information in a timely manner, which enables it to 
discharge its duties. 
In addition to matters reserved for the board, certain 
items are considered at every scheduled board meeting. 
These include health, safety and environmental matters 
and updates on the financial status of the company, 
business development and strategy.
A review of the effectiveness of the board was carried 
out throughout the year by the Chairman involving 
discussions with directors and with the board as a 
whole. Issues were considered regularly by the board 
as part of a continuous review of its effectiveness. 
There have been a material number of changes in 
board membership over the past year and the 
appointment of a new Chairman will shortly be 
concluded. While the board has had two externally 
facilitated reviews of board effectiveness since the 
appointment of the current Chairman in 2004, it has 
been decided that an external review will not be 
undertaken until 2012, in order to allow time for the 
integration of the Chairman and the recently appointed 
board members.
The independent non-executive directors met  
privately both with and without the Chairman present 
and also with both the Chairman and Chief Executive 
together to consider management performance and 
succession issues. A formal process exists for the 
directors to take independent professional advice and 
receive appropriate training in the course of their 
duties, at the company’s expense, organised by the  
Company Secretary.
Potential conflicts of interest are considered at  
the start of each board meeting and there is an 
effective procedure in place to deal with any conflicts, 
should they arise, in accordance with AMEC’s articles 
of association. 44 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Board committees 
Under AMEC’s Management and Policy Framework, 
the board has formally delegated specific 
responsibilities to various board committees, all of 
which have written terms of reference.
The remit of each committee is set out below.  
The quorum is three directors, save for the audit and 
remuneration committees where the quorum is two 
directors. Full details of the constitution and remit of 
the audit, nominations, remuneration and compliance 
and ethics committees can be found at amec.com/
aboutus/culture/corporategovernance.
The committees chaired by non-executive directors are 
as follows:
O O
 Audit committee — Chaired by Mr Day, who 
succeeded Mr Byrom in February 2011, its 
membership comprises all the independent 
non-executive directors. Mr Day has significant 
relevant competence in auditing and accounting  
(see biography on page 38).
The audit committee monitors the integrity of 
AMEC’s financial statements, including the annual 
and interim results, the related report and accounts 
and Stock Exchange announcements and any other 
formal announcements in connection with the 
company’s financial performance, and recommends 
their approval to the board.
It also reviews the company’s internal financial 
controls and, in conjunction with the risk committee, 
the internal control and risk management systems.
It oversees AMEC’s relations with the external 
auditors, including considering and making 
recommendations on their appointment,  
re-appointment, removal, remuneration and terms 
of engagement. It assesses the qualifications, 
expertise, effectiveness and independence of the 
external auditors at least annually and discusses  
the nature and scope of the audit, together with any 
issues arising from the audit process. It also reviews 
the auditors’ management letter, management’s 
responses thereto and the audit representation 
letters prior to consideration by the board. In 2010, 
the committee participated in a rigorous exercise 
that resulted in the appointment of Ernst & Y oung 
LLP as auditors of the company. This process 
included an in-depth review to benchmark the 
current level of service, fees and value being 
delivered and to make appropriate recommendations 
to the board.
In 2010, the review of the effectiveness of the 
external auditors was carried out on behalf of the 
committee by the head of internal audit.
The audit committee also monitors the 
implementation of the policy on the engagement  
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services. 
This policy follows the guidelines set out by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England  
and Wales and clearly defines what work can and 
cannot be performed by any group company’s 
statutory auditor . It also sets out the necessary 
approval process for those non-audit services  
that are acceptable.
All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax 
services provided by the auditor are reported to  
the audit committee. During 2010, the fees paid  
to the company’s auditor, Ernst & Y oung LLP and its 
associates for non-audit work were £0.6 million 
(2009: £0.6 million paid to KPMG Audit Plc), which 
comprised £0.5 million relating to taxation and  
£0.1 million for other work (2009: £0.6 million  
and £nil).
All additional Ernst & Y oung fees were approved in 
accordance with AMEC’s policy covering non-audit 
services. As a result of the application of this policy 
and additional discussions with them, the directors 
do not believe that Ernst & Y oung’s independence 
has been compromised because of their additional 
work on behalf of the company.
The audit committee reviews the Head of Internal 
Audit’s regular reports and carries out an annual 
assessment of the internal audit function’s 
effectiveness. In 2010, this exercise was carried out 
on behalf of the committee by the Head of Internal 
Audit. No material changes were identified as being 
necessary as a result of this exercise.
Report of the directors continued 45 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The audit committee has unrestricted access to 
company documents and meets with the internal 
and external auditors, and any other relevant 
member of staff, without the executive directors 
being present, as necessary. The head of internal 
audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
Given the number of changes in the membership  
of the audit committee since the beginning of 2010, 
including the recent appointment Mr Day as its 
chairman, it has been decided to defer the planned 
formal review of the committee’s effectiveness  
until 2012.
O O
 Nominations committee — chaired by the  
Chairman, it leads the process for identifying and 
makes recommendations to the board concerning 
the appointment of any new director or the Company 
Secretary and, in the case of non-executive directors 
and the Chairman, the extension of existing 
appointments. It also makes recommendations to the 
board on the appointments to the board committees.
The committee also reviews board succession 
planning, in conjunction with reports from the Chief 
Executive and Group Human Resources Director on 
senior management succession planning, so as to 
ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is 
maintained both within AMEC and on the board. 
During 2010, the committee, with the assistance of 
external search consultants, conducted or oversaw 
the rigorous recruitment processes that led to the 
appointments of the two new non-executive 
directors and commenced the process that will  
lead to the appointment of a new chairman. 
O O
 Remuneration committee — Chaired by Mr Faithfull 
and attended by three other independent non-
executive directors, it sets, and reviews the overall 
remuneration policy framework for the Chairman, 
the executive directors and the Company Secretary 
and other designated executives, including a risk 
assessment of the policy, in conjunction with the 
audit committee, relating to such matters as 
financial performance setting and measurement for 
both bonus and long-term incentives.
It considers and determines the individual 
remuneration packages and contracts for the Chief 
Executive Officer, other executive directors and the 
Company Secretary on appointment and reviews 
these as required and agrees the performance 
targets of the executive directors and the levels of 
bonus paid to them under the bonus and long-term 
incentive schemes. It also agrees with the board the 
remuneration structure, including annual bonus, for 
other designated executives.
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new 
Chairman and reviews these terms as required. 
It approves the structure, performance targets, 
participation and level of awards for any executive 
share-based incentive scheme. 
O O
 Compliance and ethics committee — Chaired by  
Mr Thompson and comprising all the independent 
non-executive directors, it upholds AMEC’s core 
values of honesty, integrity and respect and reviews 
and monitors compliance with all relevant 
legislation, regulation and current best practice 
regarding such matters as the prevention of bribery 
and corruption and conflicts of interest. It also 
considers reviews and approves AMEC’s Code of 
Business Conduct at least annually to ensure that  
it addresses the above issues.
 It considers and reviews the scope and planning  
of all compliance activity within AMEC and reviews 
the extent and effectiveness of AMEC’s internal 
training and external reporting of compliance and 
ethics matters.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach 
of AMEC’s Code of Business Conduct or any relevant 
legislation, a member of the committee will take 
responsibility for and manage any investigation into 
the relevant matters. The committee may use internal 
resources and is also authorised to employ external 
consultants to carry out any such investigation. The following table is a record of the directors’ attendance at board and principal board committee meetings 
during the year ended 31 December 2010. 
Committee
AMEC plc  
board
Audit  
committee
Remu neration  
committee
Nomi nations  
committee
Compliance  
and ethics  
committee
Number of meetings 10 4 5 1 2
J M Green-Armytage
S Y Brikho
I P McHoul
N A Bruce
M O Hesse (up to 13 May)
P J Byrom
T W Faithfull
S R Thompson
N A P Carson (from 31 August)
C R Day (from 14 October)
10
10
10
10
3
9
10
9
4
3
–
–
–
–
1
4
3
4
1
–
1
–
–
–
1
–
4
5
2
–
1
1
–
–
–
1
1
1
–
–
–
–
–
–
1
2
2
2
–
–
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 46 46 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Report of the directors continued
Board committees continued
O O
 Charities committee — Makes commitments  
and donations in support of charitable, 
educational and cultural causes.
O O
 Share transaction committee — Considers 
requests from relevant employees to deal in 
AMEC plc shares. 
The committees chaired by executive directors are 
as follows:
O O
 Corporate transactions committee
O O
 Risk committee 
O O
 Tender review committee
O O
 Pensions and retirement benefits committee 
O O
 Share allotment committee 
Going concern 
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that 
the group has adequate resources to operate for the 
foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts. Further details of this 
review can be found on page 66.
Creditor payment policy 
Individual group businesses are responsible for 
agreeing terms and conditions under which 
transactions with their suppliers are conducted.  
It is AMEC policy that payments to suppliers are 
generally made in accordance with these terms and 
conditions, provided that the supplier complies with 
all of its obligations in this regard. 
The company had 41 days’ purchases outstanding 
as at 31 December 2010 (2009: 42 days) based on 
the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers 
during the year .
Donations
Total donations worldwide amounted to £553,000 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: 
£540,000). Of these, donations to UK charities 
amounted to £295,000 for the year ended 
31 December 2010 (2009 £313,000). 
AMEC’s policy is not to make political donations and 
none were made during 2010. (2009 – £nil). 47 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who held office at the date of approval  
of this directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are 
each aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the company’s auditor is unaware; and each 
director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the 
company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
The above statement is made in accordance with 
section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors
Ernst & Y oung LLP were appointed as AMEC’s auditors 
at the 2010 annual general meeting and a resolution 
will be proposed at the annual general meeting for 
their re-appointment as auditor of the company. 
Annual general meeting – special business 
Resolutions are being proposed at the annual general 
meeting to be held on 5 May 2011 to authorise the 
company to make market purchases of shares in the 
company within prescribed limits, to authorise the 
directors to allot shares in the company for a further 
period of one year and to allot a proportion of those 
shares for cash.
A resolution is also being proposed to amend the rules 
of the AMEC Performance Share Plan 2002, further 
details of which are included in the notice of meeting. 
A resolution relating to the calling of general meetings, 
other than annual general meetings, on 14 days’ notice 
will also again be proposed at the meeting.
By order of the board 
Michael Blacker 
Company Secretary, 3 March 2011 
Note
On 15 March 2011, Eleanor Evans was appointed as General Counsel 
and Company Secretary in place of Michael Blacker, who is retiring  
at the end of March 2011. 48 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders  
of the company’s policy and practice on executive 
remuneration and the associated governance 
arrangements. As well as the required statutory 
disclosures, we aim to give a forward-looking 
statement of approach within the bounds of 
commercial confidentiality. Following a review of how 
the existing remuneration policy and practice 
supported our Vision 2015 strategy, various changes 
are proposed to incentive arrangements. These are 
summarised below and those which will require 
shareholder approval are described more fully in the 
shareholder circular setting out the resolutions to be 
put to the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration committee structure  
and processes
During the year, the members of the remuneration 
committee were Mr T W Faithfull (Chairman),  
Ms M O Hesse (up to May), Mr S R Thompson,  
Mr N Carson (from August) and Mr C Day (from 
October). The Chairman of the board, Mr J Green-
Armytage, was a member of the committee up to  
June when the committee’s terms of reference were 
updated to clarify that although he will normally  
attend meetings, he is no longer a member .  
The committee’s terms of reference can be found at  
amec.com/aboutus/culture/corporategovernance  
or on request from the Company Secretary. 
In considering the matters within its remit, the 
committee takes account of recommendations from 
the Chairman in respect of the Chief Executive and 
from the Chief Executive in respect of other executive 
directors. It is advised both by the company’s Human 
Resources department and independently by Hewitt 
New Bridge Street (HNBS). The terms of engagement 
between the company and HNBS are available from 
the Company Secretary. Neither HNBS nor its parent, 
Hewitt Associates, undertakes any material additional 
work for the company. Hewitt Associates is now  
wholly owned by Aon Corporation and while other 
companies within the Aon group do undertake  
material non-remuneration work for the company,  
the committee does not believe that the independence 
of its adviser is compromised in any way.
The committee has an established annual agenda of 
items that it considers at regular meetings normally 
held in February/March, June/August and November/
December, the major elements of which are 
summarised below:
November/ 
December
Overall remuneration policy and 
practices, incorporating risk 
review; review of individual base 
salaries and total remuneration
February/ 
March
Confirmation of annual bonus and 
long-term incentive outcomes and 
new awards; appointment of 
consultants
June/August Committee processes; incentive 
plan structures
In 2010 meetings were held in both June and August 
when a major additional item for discussion was the 
alignment of remuneration policy and practice to 
support the delivery of our Vision 2015 strategic 
objectives. 
Remuneration risk
In 2009 the committee established a process to 
conduct on an annual basis a formal risk review of  
its remuneration policy and practice. As part of this 
process, the committee receives input from its 
independent remuneration consultant. This process 
was described more fully in last year’s report.  
This year’s review also informed the strategic review  
of the remuneration policy as set out below.
Overall, and following the changes which will be made 
to the remuneration policy in 2011 (as set out below), 
the committee remains satisfied that the structure of 
executive remuneration supports the needs of the 
business in that the elements of fixed pay and benefits, 
annual bonus and long-term incentives provide 
sufficient flexibility to address the objectives of 
alignment, motivation and retention. In particular,  
the making of rolling three-year share awards on an 
annual basis, with revisions to targets as appropriate, 
encourages a culture of continuous performance 
improvement with a longer-term focus. The strong 
emphasis on executives investing and holding shares  
in the company helps build consistent alignment with 
shareholder value.
Directors’ remuneration report 49 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Remuneration policy
The objective of the remuneration policy, in respect of 
the executive directors and other senior executives, is to 
offer remuneration packages that are competitive in the 
markets in which the executives are based and which: 
O O
 allow AMEC to attract and retain senior executives  
of high calibre; and
O O
 incentivise senior executives to achieve superior 
short-term performance and increase the medium 
and long-term value of AMEC for its shareholders 
and encourage executives to build and retain a 
significant shareholding in AMEC. 
More specifically the policy is to set: 
O O
 base salaries which broadly equate to the mid-
market salary practices of a relevant group of oil 
equipment and services and other engineering and 
business support services companies and other 
companies regarded as comparable by virtue of, 
amongst other factors, revenue, employee numbers, 
market capitalisation and/or geographic coverage
O O
 annual bonuses which incentivise the achievement 
of stretching business and individual performance 
targets and offer the opportunity to achieve upper 
quartile annual cash earnings if these targets  
are achieved
O O
 longer term incentives which align the interests of 
shareholders and senior executives by offering the 
latter the opportunity to accumulate significant 
capital over a period but only if stretching financial 
and shareholder value targets are met
whilst accepting that within this policy there will be 
occasions when higher and/or lower levels of 
remuneration will be appropriate in particular 
circumstances. 
Following a review of the policy in the light of our  
Vision 2015 strategy and objectives (see page 6) and  
the vesting of the one-off Transformation Incentive 
Plan during 2011, the committee concluded that  
a greater relative emphasis should be placed on 
incentive pay and executive investment in order to drive 
even higher levels of earnings growth on a progressive 
basis without encouraging inappropriate risk taking. 
Accordingly and following consultation with major 
shareholders a number of changes are being made as 
set out more fully in the relevant sections following. 
In summary, the changes are:
O O
  No increases in base pay (other than for a significant 
role change) in 2011 for executive directors
O O
 An increase in annual bonus opportunity for 
executive directors, payable only if additional stretch 
EBITA is achieved, beyond the Maximum target that 
applies to other executives below board level 
O O
 The introduction of bonus deferral and  
claw-back arrangements
O O
 An increase in the co-investment/matching element 
of long-term incentives coupled with tougher 
earnings per share performance requirements 
(subject, where required, to shareholder approval  
as described in the shareholder circular)
O O
 An increase to share ownership requirements. 
The policy means that an increased proportion of 
executive directors’ remuneration is performance 
related. The chart below shows the balance between 
fixed and incentive based payments for the Chief 
Executive at threshold and maximum performance 
levels. Maximum assumes achievement of maximum 
bonus and full vesting of shares under the 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) and assumes that the 
full investment/matching opportunity has been taken. 
Threshold values are 25 per cent of maximum bonus 
excluding the deferred element and 25 per cent vesting 
of the Performance Share Plan award.
Threshold
Percentage of base salary      
Maximum
Deferred bonus Bonus Benefits Salary PSP
0 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600%
The chart below shows the same information for the 
other executive directors.
Threshold
Percentage of base salary      
Maximum
Deferred bonus Bonus Benefits Salary PSP
0 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 50 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Executive directors’ base salaries 
The base salaries of executive directors are reviewed 
annually, having regard to personal performance, 
company performance, competitive market practice  
as determined by external research and pay levels 
more broadly within the company. The following annual 
salaries have been approved from 1 January 2011: 
S Y Brikho £875,500 No change
I P McHoul £486,675 No change
N A Bruce £450,000 + 15.4 per cent
Mr Bruce’s increase reflects his appointment as  
Group Chief Operating Officer in August 2010, when  
he became additionally responsible for the Earth & 
Environmental business. He received an interim 
increase from £340,000 to £390,000 from 1 July 2010  
to reflect the previous increase in his responsibilities  
to include Power & Process.
In the senior management group, no executive has a 
base salary higher than any executive director . 
Annual bonuses 
The executive directors and other senior executives 
participate in the AMEC Executive Annual Bonus Plan 
which generates bonus payments calculated by 
reference to a mix of EBITA, cash flow and personal 
targets that vary from year to year and between 
individuals to reflect the business priorities associated 
with each role. 
Business performance targets are set so that a target 
level of bonus is paid normally for achieving the 
company’s short-range plan. To achieve maximum 
bonus, a higher target has to be met. This takes 
account of the general business circumstances 
including the perceived difficulty inherent in the 
short-range plan and the need to balance stretch 
against risk. A threshold target is also set normally 
higher than the previous year’s actual result, so that no 
bonus is paid unless there is year on year profit growth.
Business performance in 2010 exceeded the maximum 
targets set for this element. Accordingly total bonus 
payments for the year are near maximum. Further 
information on individual payments is set out in the 
notes to the table of directors’ remuneration on  
page 56. 
As part of the changes referred to on page 49, the 
annual bonus opportunity for 2011 is being increased 
(for executive directors only) by 25 per cent of base 
salary for additional stretch EBITA performance, with 
any such additional bonus being deferred in AMEC 
shares for three years during which it would be subject 
to forfeiture and claw-back. The additional bonus would 
only begin to be earned for performance that exceeds 
the maximum target that applies to other executives 
below board level.
The breakdown of bonus potential (as a percentage of 
base salary) against targets for each executive director 
is as follows:
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 Chief Executive COO and CFO
 2010 2011 2010 2011
Threshold EBITA 17 .5% 17 .5% 13.75% 13.75%
 Cash flow 6.25% 6.25% 5% 5%
Target EBITA 46.67% 46.67% 36.67% 36.67%
 Cash flow 16.67% 16.67% 13.33% 13.33%
Maximum EBITA 70% 70% 55% 55%
Cash flow 25% 25% 20% 20%
Additional stretch EBITA 0% 25%* 0% 25%*
Other strategic objectives 30% 30% 25% 25%
Overall maximum 125% 150%* 100% 125%*
*Additional bonus opportunity paid as deferred shares  51 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Executive directors’ long-term incentives
Transformation Incentive Plan
A one-off incentive plan was approved in 2008 covering 
a three-year period up to 2010. It was designed to give 
additional impetus to the transformation of the 
company and to aid the retention of selected key top 
executives through this critical period. The plan required 
participants to invest and hold AMEC shares for a 
three-year period, with these investment shares then 
matched on an up to four-to-one basis. Mr Brikho 
participated in the plan with investment shares equal  
to 150 per cent of his annual salary at the time of 
invitation. Mr Bruce and Mr McHoul participated at  
an investment of 100 per cent of salary. 
Vesting of matched shares is based on achievement in 
2010 of operating margins on a sliding scale beginning 
at nil for a margin of 8 per cent and increasing on  
a straight line basis to full vesting for a margin of  
10 per cent. Margin calculation for this purpose is 
subject to the same earnings adjustments as apply in 
the Performance Share Plan (see below) other than  
a charge for one third of the total costs of the Plan.  
The awards were also subject to an earnings per share 
underpin of 53 pence and a review by the committee  
of the quality of the operating margin achieved: in this 
context, the committee had previously indicated that  
it would expect 2010 earnings per share of at least  
60 pence for full payout.
The committee considers that the Transformation 
Incentive Plan has achieved its objectives and has 
played an important role in supporting and rewarding 
the margin improvement over the three-year period. 
The committee has determined that the matching ratio 
on vesting will be 3.12 times the participant’s original 
investment. The following numbers of shares will 
therefore vest for each of the executive directors on  
the dates shown:
Mr Brikho 426,488 shares on 15 May 2011
Mr Bruce 101,219 shares on 30 May 2011
Mr McHoul 160, 181 shares on 22 September 2011
There is a claw-back provision if the 2010 accounts 
have to be restated.
The plan has now ended and no further awards will be 
made under it.
Description of Performance Share Plan
Ongoing long-term incentives are provided through  
the Performance Share Plan under which annual 
awards are made of restricted shares that will vest 
after three years only to the extent that pre-determined 
performance targets are met. There are two 
performance conditions – total shareholder return 
(TSR) and earnings per share growth – each of  
which operates independently on different portions  
of the awards. 
Awards are made in two parts: a basic award and a 
matching award which requires participants to invest 
on a post-tax basis in AMEC shares that are held on 
their behalf as investment shares for the three-year 
performance period. If investment shares are 
withdrawn before the end of the performance period, 
the matching shares lapse. The policy for executive 
directors has been a basic award with a value at the 
time of award of up to 175 per cent of base salary plus 
a matching award up to a maximum of 25 per cent of 
base salary. Awards are also made to a wider group of 
executives, with lower levels of face value to reflect 
seniority and contribution. Awards are normally made 
in April following the publication of the annual results.
For the total shareholder return portion, the 
requirement for full vesting is for AMEC to be ranked  
in the top quartile of the chosen comparator group.  
No awards will vest if AMEC’s performance is below 
median. If AMEC’s performance is at the median,  
25 per cent of the award will vest. Between the median 
and the upper quartile, the award will vest on a 
straight-line basis. In addition, to ensure that AMEC’s 
underlying performance is properly reflected,  
no awards will vest unless there has been sustained 
financial growth of the company to the satisfaction of 
the committee. 
For the earnings per share growth portion of the 
awards, threshold (25 per cent of that part of the award 
vests) and maximum (100 per cent of that award vests) 
requirements are set with straight-line vesting 
between these. This is determined by comparing the 
earnings per share achieved in the final year of the 
three-year period with that in the year immediately 
before the start of the period and expressing the 
growth as an annualised rate in excess of the increase 
in the UK Retail Prices Index over the same period.  52 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Earnings per share are adjusted for certain defined 
items and calculated on a consistent basis between 
base and final years. The remuneration committee 
takes appropriate external advice on the method of 
calculation and any adjusting and potentially adjusting 
items. Performance against the total shareholder 
return targets is calculated independently and reviewed 
by the remuneration committee. In the event of a 
change of control, awards will normally vest to the 
extent that the performance conditions have been met 
at the date the change of control takes place.
Awards are made by the trustee of the AMEC  
Employee Share Trust, currently BWCI Trust Company 
Limited. Shares held by the trustee in connection  
with the Performance Share Plan may be voted at  
their discretion.
Changes to the plan
For the reasons outlined on page 49, the committee 
has made a number of changes to the operation of  
the plan for the awards to be made in 2011 and  
future years. 
O O
 The composition of the comparator group, which is 
reviewed at the time of each set of awards, has up to 
2010 comprised only UK-listed companies in relevant 
FTSE subsectors. For 2011, the group has been 
amended to include a number of non-UK listed 
companies who are direct business competitors of 
AMEC and to exclude UK companies where there is 
little or no overlap in activities – see table on page 53. 
Lists of the comparator companies for the 2008 
awards that vested during the year and the awards 
made in 2009 can be obtained on request from the 
Company Secretary 
O O
 The previous policy of requiring compound annual 
earnings per share growth (over inflation) of 3 to 
10 per cent has been increased to a vesting range  
of 5 to 12 per cent growth. For any set of annual 
awards, in line with previous practice, the committee 
has the discretion to set absolute targets that 
represent a higher stretch for that particular 
three-year performance period
O O
 The matching share part of the award will be solely 
dependent on the revised earnings per share target. 
As before, half of the basic part of the award will 
continue to be dependent on earnings per share and 
half on total shareholder return
O O
 The matching award policy for executive directors 
and selected other senior executives (members of 
the Group Management Team) will be increased 
from 25 per cent to 75 per cent. To permit this for 
those receiving maximum awards, a change is 
required in the Plan rules to increase the overall 
maximum award from the current 200 per cent to 
250 per cent and shareholder approval is being 
sought for this change. The intention is to make  
2011 awards up to the existing maximum at the 
normal time in April and, if approval is obtained at 
the 2011 Annual General Meeting, to make 
subsequent top-up matching awards
O O
 To achieve the maximum 75 per cent of salary 
matching awards, the investment required will 
increase from 15 per cent to 37.5 per cent of net  
pay enabled by a change in the matching ratio on 
investment shares to two for one (from five for three) 
O O
 As previously approved by shareholders and provided 
for in the existing Plan rules, the number of shares 
vesting from these awards will be increased to take 
account of reinvested dividends during the three-
year performance period.
Directors’ remuneration report continued 53 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
TSR comparator group
OO Indicates inclusion Country 2010 2011
Aggreko UK
O
Aker Solutions Norway
O
AMEC UK
O O
Atkins (WS) UK
O
Babcock Intl. UK
O O
Baker Hughes US
O
Balfour Beatty UK
O
Berendsen UK
O
Bunzl UK
O
Cameron Intl. US
O
Capita Group UK
O
Carillion UK
O O
Charter Intl. UK
O O
Chicago Bridge & Iron US
O
Connaught* UK
O
De La Rue UK
O
Experian UK
O
G4S UK
O
Fluor US
O
Foster Wheeler US
O
Halliburton US
O
Homeserve UK
O
Hunting UK
O
IMI UK
O O
Intertek Group UK
O
Jacobs US
O
KBR US
O
Lamprell UK
O
Melrose UK
O O
Mitie Group UK
O
Petrofac UK
O O
Regus UK
O
Rentokil Initial UK
O
Rotork UK
O O
Saipem Italy
O
Schlumberger US
O
Serco Group UK
O O
SNC-Lavalin Group Canada
O
Spirax-Sarco UK
O O
Technip France
O
URS US
O
VT Group UK
O
Weir Group UK
O O
Wellstream Holdings UK
O
Wood Group (John) UK
O O
Worley Parsons Australia
O
*share listings removed or suspended
Other share plans 
No awards have been made under the Executive Share 
Option Scheme since 2004. Authority for this plan is 
due to lapse in 2012.
In addition, executive directors may participate in 
relevant all-employee share plans which provide 
options, without performance conditions, related to 
savings contracts with an aggregate limit of £250 
savings per month. 
Share ownership guidelines
Guidelines are in place requiring executive directors 
and other senior executives (which include all such 
participants in the Transformation Incentive Plan) to 
build up over a three-year period and retain a holding  
of AMEC shares received from incentive plans or 
purchased by them. The current level of targeted 
shareholding is two times salary for executive directors 
and one times salary for other senior executives. 
Details of directors’ interests at the end of 2010 are 
listed on page 40 of the report of the directors.  
Based on the average share price and salaries during 
December 2010, these shareholdings represented the 
following percentages of base salary:
Mr Brikho 1,486 per cent
Mr Bruce 218 per cent
Mr McHoul 195 per cent
Mr McHoul joined in September 2008. 
Part of the proposal to increase the matching 
opportunity under the performance share plan is to 
raise the shareholding requirement to two and a half 
times salary for Executive Directors and one and a 
quarter times salary for other members of the Group 
Management Team. If this change is approved by 
shareholders, those affected would have until the end 
of 2013 to meet the higher target.
Up to date details of the interests and transactions of 
current directors are available on our website.  54 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Executive directors’ pension arrangements 
and other benefits
Executive directors are eligible for membership of the 
AMEC Staff Pension Scheme and to have top-up 
benefits provided through the AMEC Executive Pension 
Scheme. The schemes are both defined benefit 
schemes registered with the UK’s HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) and also provide for life assurance 
cover and dependants’ pensions. There are no 
unregistered pension arrangements.
Executive directors who participate in the pension 
schemes accrue pension rights which are linked to the 
length of pensionable service and to pensionable 
salary. Executive directors who remain in employment 
beyond normal pension age are able to continue to 
accrue further pension rights. Pensionable salary in 
respect of scheme membership up to the end of 2007 
is based on final salary and in respect of membership 
from 2008 onwards is based on career average 
revalued earnings. Benefits are restricted to a scheme 
earnings cap which was set at £135,000 for the 2010/11 
tax year (£141,250 for 2011/12). In recognition of this 
restriction of pension benefits, participating executive 
directors also receive a taxable supplement of 20 per 
cent of their base salaries above the cap. 
Executive directors are able to opt-out in which case 
they will receive a salary supplement of 20 per cent  
of basic salary in lieu of further pension accrual.  
If individuals do accrue benefits that exceed either the 
Annual or the Life Time Allowances, the payment of the 
associated tax liability will be the responsibility of the 
individual and not AMEC. 
Mr Brikho is a member of both pension schemes with 
a normal pension age of 60 and also has the benefit of 
additional life assurance in respect of earnings above 
the cap. Mr Bruce also participates and has a normal 
pension age of 62 with a historic right to draw accrued 
pension from age 57 onwards without actuarial 
reduction for early payment. Mr McHoul has not joined 
the schemes and therefore receives the 20 per cent 
supplement on his full salary and also has the benefit 
of life assurance of four times his basic salary.
Employment related benefits, principally the provision 
of a company car or car allowance, long-term disability 
and private medical expenses insurance, are also 
provided to executive directors. 
Executive directors’ employment contracts
AMEC’s policy is that on appointment, executive 
directors will normally be employed with a notice period 
of one year . In the event of employment being 
terminated with less notice than this, damages will be 
determined at the time taking account of the 
circumstances leading up to the termination and the 
individual’s duty to mitigate his loss. Executive directors 
are required to give six months’ notice of resignation. 
This policy is followed for all current executive directors. 
Service contracts for executive directors do not provide 
for extended notice periods, other enhancements or 
payments in the event of a change of control. It is not 
the remuneration committee’s intention to introduce 
such provisions.
The service contracts of the executive directors are 
available for review at the Company’s registered office 
in accordance with relevant legislation.
External directorships
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external 
directorships without the prior approval of the board. 
Mr McHoul is a director and chairman of the audit 
committee of Premier Foods plc for which he received 
remuneration of £70,000 during the year .
Directors’ remuneration report continued Chairman
The remuneration committee is responsible for 
determining the remuneration and other terms of 
appointment of the Chairman of the board. The 
agreement with the Chairman, Mr Green-Armytage, 
runs to 5 May 2011, which is the date of the 2011 Annual 
General Meeting and he intends to retire on that date. 
The search for his successor is well underway but as 
reported on page 40, Mr Green-Armytage has agreed to 
stay on as Chairman in the event that his successor has 
not been appointed by then. The chairman’s fee of 
£245,000 per annum has not been increased for 2011. 
He is provided with life assurance cover of four times  
the AMEC pension scheme earnings cap. He does not 
participate in other benefit schemes or in any of the 
incentive schemes of the group.
Non-executive directors 
The remuneration of non-executive directors is 
determined by the chairman and the executive 
directors under delegated authority from the board. 
The non-executive directors receive fees for their 
services and do not participate in any of the incentive  
or benefit schemes of the group. The policy with regard 
to fee structure is to reflect time commitment and 
responsibility of the various roles.
Fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2011. 
The current base fee was increased by around three 
per cent to £54,000 per annum. There is an additional 
fee of £8,125 per annum paid to the senior independent 
director . Additional fees are paid for chairing 
committees of the board as follows:
Audit committee £13,125 
Remuneration committee £8,125 
Compliance and ethics committee £5,400
The board’s policy is that non-executive director 
appointments are normally for three consecutive 
three-year terms, subject to review after the end of 
each term. The non-executive directors as at  
31 December 2010 have fixed-term contracts which 
run until the dates set out below: 
Date of contract Service review date
P J Byrom 10 February 2005 9 February 201 1
(stood down)
T W Faithfull 10 February 2005 2014 AGM
S R Thompson 21 January 2009 2012 AGM
N A P Carson 31 August 2010 2014 AGM*
C R Day 14 October 2010 2014 AGM*
*Subject to re-election at the 2011 AGM. In accordance with the articles 
of association of AMEC, all directors are required to seek re-election by 
shareholders at the AGM following initial appointment and every three 
years thereafter . As reported on page 40, the Board has recently agreed 
that all directors will submit themselves for re-election on an annual 
basis, in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
The contracts of non-executive directors may be 
terminated by the individual at any time and there are 
no specific provisions for compensation in the event of 
early termination by the company. 
Performance graph 
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2010,  
of £100 invested in AMEC plc on 31 December 2005 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
100 Index. The other points plotted are the values at 
intervening financial year-ends.
0
100
200
300
400
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Value (£)
 AMEC   FTSE 100 Index
Source: Thomson Reuters
55 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 56 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ remuneration and related matters 
The auditors are required to report on the following information on pages 56 to 58 of the directors’  
remuneration report.
Individual aspects of remuneration were as follows: 
Salary/fee 
£000
Pension 
supplement  
£000
Other  
(i)
 benefits 
£000
(ii)
 Bonus 
 £000
 2010 
(iii)
 Total 
 £000
 2009 
 Total  
 £000
Executive
S Y Brikho 875 148 45 1,059 2,127 1,719
I P McHoul 487 97 14 448 1,046 848
N A Bruce (from 21 Jan 2009) 365 46 43 354 808 537
Non-executive
J M Green-Armytage 245 – – – 245 225
M O Hesse (to 13 May 2010) 22 – – – 22 55
P J Byrom 66 – – – 66 63
T W Faithfull 68 – – – 68 62
S R Thompson (from 21 Jan 2009) 56 – – – 56 47
N A P Carson (from 31 Aug 2010) 18 – – – 18 –
C R Day (from 14 Oct 2010) 11 – – – 11 –
E P Airey (to 13 May 2009) – – – – – 21
Total board 2,213 291 102 1,86 1 4,467 3,577
Notes 
(i)  Mr Brikho and Mr Bruce received a taxable supplement of 20 per cent of salary above the pension earnings cap. Mr McHoul received a taxable 
supplement of 20 per cent of full salary in lieu of pension accrual. 
(ii)  The value of benefits received during the year relates principally to the provision of a company car or car allowance and private medical 
expenses insurance. 
(iii)  The bonuses for the executive directors represented the following percentages of base salary reflecting the maximum awards in respect  
of EBITA and cash flow and strong but below maximum scores on personal targets. 
 Mr Brikho  121 per cent
 Mr Bruce  97 per cent
 Mr McHoul  92 per cent 57 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
The numbers of restricted shares held by executive directors to whom awards had been made under the 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Transformation Incentive Plan (TIP) were as follows: 
 Plan
 As at  
 1 January  
 2010 or on 
date of 
appointment  
as a director 
 Number
 Awarded 
 during 
 the year 
 Number
 Date 
 awarded
 Market price 
 at date of 
 award 
 Pence 
 Vested 
 during 
 the year 
 Number
 Lapsed 
 during 
 the year 
 Number
 As at 
31 December 
 2010 
 Number
 End of 
 restricted 
 Period
S Y Brikho PSP 246,687 Apr 2007 532.25 246,687 – Mar 2010
PSP 208,912 Apr 2008 718.00 208,912 Mar 201 1
TIP 546,780 May 2008 890.00 546,780 May 201 1
PSP 318,300 Apr 2009 534.08 318,300 Mar 2012
PSP 219,148 Apr 2010 799.00 219,148 Mar 2013
N A Bruce PSP 92,812 Apr 2007 532.25 92,812 – Mar 2010
PSP 74,371 Apr 2008 718.00 74,371 Mar 201 1
TIP 129,768 May 2008 890.00 129,768 May 201 1
PSP 108,595 Apr 2009 534.08 108,595 Mar 2012
PSP 85,104 Apr 2010 799.00 85,104 Mar 2013
I P McHoul PSP 120,643 Sept 2008 746.00 120,643 Sep 201 1
TIP 205,360 Sept 2008 636.50 205,360 Sep 201 1
PSP 176,937 Apr 2009 534.08 176,937 Mar 2012
PSP 121,819 Apr 2010 799.00 121,819 Mar 2013
Notes 
(i)  For the PSP awards made in 2007, AMEC met the performance conditions for maximum vesting. The share price at the date of vesting  
was 799.0 pence. 
(ii) The terms and conditions of the PSP and TIP awards have not been varied during the year .
(iii)  The vesting date for awards under the TIP is three years from the date the individuals lodged their investment shares. The maximum number 
of shares that individuals could invest was based on salary and share price at the time of invitation. The award indicated represents the 
maximum four times match. Details of the expected vesting are included on page 51.
(iv)  The closing price of the shares at 31 December 2010 was 1150.0 pence (2009: 792.0 pence). Had the outstanding restricted shares detailed 
above vested in full on that date the approximate latent value before appropriate taxes for each of the current directors would have been:  
Mr Brikho £14,871,000, Mr Bruce £4,575,000 and Mr McHoul £7,185,000. These hypothetical figures assume that all relevant performance 
conditions would have been fully met, which in practice may not transpire.
(v) The range of the closing prices for the shares during the year was 733.5 pence to 1168.0 pence.
(vi)  The register of directors’ interests, which is open to inspection at the company’s registered office, contains full details of directors’ 
shareholdings, share options and awards under the performance share plans. 
The options over AMEC plc shares held by the directors under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme were  
as follows: 
Date of
grant
As at
1 January
2010
Number
Granted
during
the year
Number
Exercised
 during  
 the year
Number
Lapsed 
during 
the year
Number
As at 
31 December
2010
Number
Option 
price
Pence
Market price 
on date
of exercise
Pence
Exercise period
for options
outstanding on
31 December
2010
S Y Brikho Dec 2007 1,624 1,624 591.00
Mar–Aug 
2011
I P McHoul Oct 2009 1,512 1,512 600.00
Jan–June 
2013
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials  Pension entitlements and benefits
The following directors were members of defined benefit schemes provided by the company during the year . 
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year: 
Gross 
increase in 
accrued pension
£000
Increase in 
accrued pension 
net of inflation
£000
Total accrued 
pension at  
31 December 
2010
£000
Value of net 
increase in 
accrual over 
period
£000
Total change  
in value  
during 
period
£000
Value of accrued 
pension at  
31 December 
2010
£000
Value of accrued 
pension at  
31 December 
2009
£000
S Y Brikho 5 4 18 55 78 336 243
N A Bruce 4 2 39 22 70 676 591
Notes 
(i)  Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year . 
(ii)  Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Trustee’s transfer value basis.
(iii)  The value of net increase represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption  
service terminated at the year-end. It is based on the accrued pension increase after deducting the director’s contribution.
(iv)  The change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company  
and directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution. 
(v)  Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
T W Faithfull  
Chairman, remuneration committee  
On behalf of the board 
3 March 2011
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 58
Directors’ remuneration report continued 59 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
	 2010 	 2009
Note
	 Before
	amortisation	and
	 exceptional	items
	 £	million
	Amortisation	and
	 exceptional	items
	 (note	5) 	
	 £	million
	 Total 	
	 £	million
	 Before
	 amortisation,
	 impairment and
exceptional items 
	 £ million
	 Amortisation,
	 impairment and
	 exceptional items
	 (note 5) 
	 £ million
	 Total 
	 £ million
Continuing	operations
Revenue 2 & 3 2,950.6 – 2,950.6 2,539.1 – 2,539.1
Cost of sales (2,499.0) – (2,499.0) (2,162.4) 2.2 (2,160.2)
Gross	profit 451.6 – 451.6 376.7 2.2 378.9
Administrative expenses (200.3) (33.1) (233.4) (185.8) (19.4) (205.2)
Profit on business 
disposals and closures – 18.8 18.8 – 10.4 10.4
Profit/(loss)	before	net 	
financing	income 4 251.3 (14.3) 237.0 190.9 (6.8) 184.1
Financial income 10.9 – 10.9 12.4 – 12.4
Financial expense (3.0) – (3.0) (5.1) – (5.1)
Net financing income 7 7.9 – 7.9 7.3 – 7.3
Share of post-tax results 
of joint ventures 2 13.3 – 13.3 12.1 – 12.1
Profit/(loss)	before 	
income	tax 2 272.5 (14.3) 258.2 210.3 (6.8) 203.5
Income tax 8 (65.2) 43.6 1 (53.0) 6.2 (46.8)
Profit	for	the	year	from 	
continuing	operations 207.3 29.3 236.6 157.3 (0.6) 156.7
(Loss)/profit	for	the	year 	
from	discontinued 	
operations 9 (4.3) (2.4) (6.7) 2.0 13.9 15.9
Profit	for	the	year 203.0 26.9 229.9 159.3 13.3 172.6
Attributable	to:
Equity holders of the parent 231.0 171.7
Non-controlling interests (1.1) 0.9
229.9 172.6
Basic	earnings/(loss) 	 	
per	share: 	 10
Continuing operations 	 73.0p 47.6p
Discontinued operations 	 (2.1)p 4.9p
	 70.9p 52.5p
Diluted	earnings/(loss) 	 	
per	share: 	 10
Continuing operations 	 71.3p 46.7p
Discontinued operations 	 (2.0)p 4.8p
	 69.3p 51.5p
Consolidated	income	statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 60
Note
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Profit	for	the	year 229.9 172.6
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 14 21.4 (169.9)
Tax on actuarial gains/(losses) (7.4) 57.0
Exchange movements  
 On translation of foreign subsidiaries 69.8 (3.7)
 Net (loss)/gain on hedges of net investment  
 in foreign subsidiaries 19 (11.5) 11.6
Tax on exchange movements 0.9 –
Cumulative exchange movements recognised in profit on disposal (6.0) –
Cash flow hedges:
 Effective portion of changes in fair value 1.4 6.6
 Transferred to the income statement 19 0.7 0.3
Tax on effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.5) (2.2)
Other	comprehensive	income 68.8 (100.3)
Total	comprehensive	income 298.7 72.3
Attributable	to:
Equity holders of the parent 299.7 71.6
Non-controlling interests (1.0) 0.7
Total	comprehensive	income 298.7 72.3
Consolidated	statement	of	comprehensive	income
For the year ended 31 December 2010 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 61 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
Note
	 2010
	 £	million
	 2009
	 (restated)
 £ million
ASSETS
Non-current	assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 31.9 44.1
Intangible assets 12 621.3 507.4
Interests in joint ventures and other investments 13 42.9 36.4
Derivative financial instruments 19 1.4 1.4
Retirement benefit assets 14 63.0 26.8
Deferred tax assets 15 59.6 70.0
Total	non-current	assets 820.1 686.1
Current	assets
Inventories 16 1.4 5.4
Trade and other receivables 17 696.5 518.8
Derivative financial instruments 19 1.4 1.8
Current tax receivable 3.8 8.9
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 196.4 130.7
Cash and cash equivalents 23 543.7 612.0
Total	current	assets 1,443.2 1,277.6
Total	assets 2,263.3 1,963.7
LIABILITIES
Current	liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (685.5) (584.6)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (27.0) (10.6)
Current tax payable (33.7) (70.7)
Total	current	liabilities (746.2) (665.9)
Non-current	liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (6.7) (16.3)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (12.4) (22.3)
Retirement benefit liabilities 14 (35.9) (30.9)
Provisions 21 (187.1) (202.0)
Total	non-current	liabilities (242.1) (271.5)
Total	liabilities (988.3) (937.4)
Net	assets 1,275.0 1,026.3
EQUITY
Share capital 22 169.0 169.0
Share premium account 22 100.7 100.7
Hedging and translation reserves 22 127.2 72.5
Capital redemption reserve 22 17.2 17.2
Retained earnings 22 858.1 663.5
Total	equity	attributable	to	equity	holders	of	the	parent 1,272.2 1,022.9
Non-controlling interests 2.8 3.4
Total	equity 1,275.0 1,026.3
The accounts on pages 59 to 104 were approved by the board of directors on 3 March 2011 and were signed on its  
behalf by:
S	Y	Brikho,	Chief Executive
I	P	McHoul,	Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated	balance	sheet
As at 31 December 2010 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 62
Consolidated	statement	of	changes	in	equity
For the year ended 31 December 2010
 Share
 capital
 £ million
 Share
 premium
 £ million
 Hedging
 reserve
 £ million
 Translation
 reserve
 £ million
 Capital
 redemption
 reserve
 £ million
 Retained
 earnings
 £ million
	 Total
	 £	million
 Non-
 controlling
 interests
 £ million
	 Total
	 equity
	 £	million
As	at	1	January	2010 169.0 100.7 (4.5) 77.0 17.2 663.5 1,022.9 3.4 1,026.3
Profit/(loss)	for	the	year – – – – – 231.0 231.0 (1.1) 229.9
Actuarial gains on defined benefit  
pension schemes – – – – – 21.4 21.4 – 21.4
Tax on actuarial gains – – – – – (7.4) (7.4) – (7.4)
Exchange movements on translation  
of foreign subsidiaries – – – 69.7 – – 69.7 0.1 69.8
Net loss on hedges of net investment  
in foreign subsidiaries – – – (11.5) – – (11.5) – (11.5)
Tax on exchange movements – – – 0.9 – – 0.9 – 0.9
Cumulative exchange movements 
recognised in profit on disposal – – – (6.0) – – (6.0) – (6.0)
Effective portion of changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges – – 1.4 – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Transferred to the income statement – – 0.7 – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Tax on effective portion of changes in 
fair value of cash flow hedges – – (0.5) – – – (0.5) – (0.5)
Other	comprehensive	income	for	the	year – – 1.6 53.1 – 14.0 68.7 0.1 68.8
Total	comprehensive	income	for	the	year – – 1.6 53.1 – 245.0 299.7 (1.0) 298.7
Dividends – – – – – (58.1) (58.1) (0.2) (58.3)
Shares issued – – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Equity-settled share based payments – – – – – 13.6 13.6 – 13.6
Tax on equity–settled share based payments – – – – – 5.2 5.2 – 5.2
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the 
Performance Share Plan – – – – – (4.6) (4.6) – (4.6)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 1.7 1.7 – 1.7
Acquisition of treasury shares – – – – – (8.2) (8.2) – (8.2)
As	at	31	December	2010 169.0 100.7 (2.9) 130.1 17.2 858.1 1,272.2 2.8 1,275.0 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 63 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
Consolidated	statement	of	changes	in	equity	 continued
For the year ended 31 December 2009
 Share
 capital
 £ million
 Share
 premium
 £ million
 Hedging
 reserve
 £ million
 Translation
 reserve
 £ million
 Capital
 redemption
 reserve
 £ million
 Retained
 earnings
 £ million
	 Total
	 £	million
 Non-
 controlling
 interests
 £ million
	 Total
	 equity
	 £	million
As	at	1	January	2009 169.0 100.7 (9.2) 68.9 17.2 656.7 1,003.3 2.6 1,005.9
Profit	for	the	year – – – – – 171.7 171.7 0.9 172.6
Actuarial losses on defined benefit  
pension schemes – – – – – (169.9) (169.9) – (169.9)
Tax on actuarial losses – – – – – 57.0 57.0 – 57.0	
Exchange movements on translation  
of foreign subsidiaries – – – (3.5) – – (3.5) (0.2) (3.7)	
Net gain on hedges of net investment  
in foreign subsidiaries – – – 11.6 – – 11.6 – 11.6
Effective portion of changes in fair value  
of cash flow hedges – – 6.6 – – – 6.6 – 6.6
Transferred to the income statement – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Tax on effective portion of changes in  
fair value of cash flow hedges – – (2.2) – – – (2.2) – (2.2)
Other	comprehensive	income	for	the	year – – 4.7 8.1 – (112.9) (100.1) (0.2) (100.3)
Total	comprehensive	income	for	the	year – – 4.7 8.1 – 58.8 71.6	 0.7 72.3
Dividends – – – – – (50.3) (50.3) (0.2) (50.5)
Equity settled share-based payments – – – – – 10.7 10.7 – 	10.7
Tax on equity–settled share based payments – – – – – 2.6 2.6 – 2.6
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the 
Performance Share Plan – – – – – (9.8) (9.8) – (9.8)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 1.2 1.2 – 1.2	
Acquisition of treasury shares – – – – – (6.4) (6.4) – (6.4)
Acquisition of businesses – – – – – – – 0.3 0.3
As	at	31	December	2009 169.0 100.7 (4.5) 77.0 17.2 663.5 1,022.9 3.4 1,026.3	 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 64
Note
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Cash	flow	from	operating	activities
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 258.2 203.5
(Loss)/profit before income tax from discontinued operations 9 (18.0) 3.4
Profit before income tax 240.2 206.9
Financial income (10.6) (12.4)
Financial expense 3.0 5.1
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures (13.3) (12.1)
Intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment 25.0 15.7
Depreciation 12.8 13.9
Profit on disposal of businesses (4.3) (3.5)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.8
Difference between contributions to retirement benefit schemes  
and amounts recognised (10.3) (11.4)
Equity settled share-based payments 13.6 10.7
256.1 213.7
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (0.6) 6.3
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (165.2) 182.3
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables and provisions 81.5 (160.0)
Cash	generated	from	operations 171.8 242.3
Interest paid – (2.3)
Tax paid (37.9) (70.5)
Net	cash	flow	from	operating	activities 133.9 169.5
Cash	flow	from	investing	activities
Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) (93.8) (117.6)
Acquisition of joint ventures (15.7) (4.7)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6.2) (9.3)
Purchase of intangible assets (7.3) (5.7)
Investment in short-term bank deposits (65.7) (130.7)
Disposal of businesses (net of cash disposed of) 12.1 (6.2)
Disposal of joint ventures and other investments 0.3 –
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 2.6
Interest received 5.7 12.1
Dividends received from joint ventures 16.6 9.0
Net	cash	flow	from	investing	activities (153.3) (250.5)
Net	cash	flow	before	financing	activities (19.4) (81.0)
Cash	flow	from	financing	activities
Repayment of loans – (0.1)
Dividends paid (58.1) (50.3)
Acquisition of treasury shares (6.5) (5.2)
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the Performance Share Plan (4.6) (9.8)
Net	cash	flow	from	financing	activities (69.2) (65.4)
Decrease	in	cash	and	cash	equivalents (88.6) (146.4)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year 612.0 764.6
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 20.3 (6.2)
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	as	at	the	end	of	the	year 23 543.7 612.0
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	consist	of:
Cash at bank and in hand 177.1 219.6
Bank deposits (less than three months) 366.6 392.4
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	as	at	the	end	of	the	year 23 543.7 612.0
Bank deposits (more than three months) 196.4 130.7
Net	cash	as	at	the	end	of	the	year 740.1 742.7
Consolidated	cash	flow	statement
For the year ended 31 December 2010 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 65 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts
Following changes to IFRS 8 “Operating Segments” 
introduced by “Improvements to International Financial 
Reporting Standards (issued 2009)” which has been 
adopted during the year, segment assets and liabilities will 
no longer be reported as they are not included in the 
measures used by the chief operating decision maker . 
Restatements
The consolidated income statement for the year ended  
31 December 2009 has been restated to present deferred 
compensation on acquisitions within exceptional items 
rather than within administrative expenses before 
exceptional items. The purpose of this restatement is to 
align the presentation to that adopted in the current year . 
Administrative expenses before exceptional items have 
been reduced by £3.7 million for the year ended 
31 December 2009. Administrative expenses reported  
as exceptional items have been increased by the same 
amounts. These restatements have no impact on the 
group’s reported profit or net assets.
The acquisition of GRD Limited was accounted for on a 
provisional basis in the accounts for the year ended 31 
December 2009. The acquisition accounting was finalised 
in 2010 and the provisional fair values have been updated. 
As a result the consolidated balance as at 31 December 
2009 has been restated. This restatement has no impact 
on the group’s reported profit or net assets. Details of the 
restatement are provided in note 24 to the accounts.
Basis	of	preparation
The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the 
nearest hundred thousand. They are prepared on the 
historical cost basis except that derivative financial 
instruments and retirement benefit assets and liabilities 
are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect  
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience and various other factors that are believed to 
be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of 
which form the basis of making the judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is 
revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the 
period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods.
1	Significant	accounting	policies
AMEC plc is a company domiciled in the UK. 
Statement	of	compliance
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of  
AMEC plc (‘ AMEC’) and all of its subsidiaries made up to 
31 December each year, and the group’s share of the profit 
after interest and tax, and net assets of joint ventures and 
associates, based on the equity method of accounting.
In accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002), 
the consolidated accounts of the group have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRS’) adopted for use in the EU as at 
31 December 2010 (‘adopted IFRS’), International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations 
and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The company has elected 
to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance 
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles  
(‘UK GAAP’); these are presented on pages 107 to 112.
Accounting	standards	adopted	in	the	year
IFRS 3 “Business Combinations (Revised)” has been 
adopted during the year and applied prospectively to 
business combinations occurring on or after 1 January 
2010, and consequently its adoption has no impact on the 
group’s reported results for 2009 or its net financial 
position as at 31 December 2009. Adoption of IFRS 3 
results in a number of changes in accounting for business 
combinations, the most significant of which for AMEC are:
– contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the 
date of acquisition, and subsequent changes are 
recognised in profit or loss rather than adjusting the 
goodwill recognised on acquisition;
– acquisition-related costs in respect of business 
combinations occurring on or after 1 January 2010 are 
expensed through the income statement as incurred; and
– all contingent liabilities of the acquired business are 
recognised at their fair value if there is a present obligation 
that arises from a past event and its fair value can be 
measured reliably.
IAS 27 “Consolidated and separate Financial Statements 
(Amendment)” has also been adopted during the year and 
applied retrospectively, though with certain exemptions 
from retrospective application as follows. Under IAS 27 
losses incurred by a subsidiary will be allocated between 
controlling and non-controlling interests even if losses 
exceed the non-controlling equity investment in the 
subsidiary. Adoption of this standard has no impact on the 
group’s reported results for 2009 or its financial position 
as at 31 December 2009.
  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 66
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
and SPIE, which was sold in 2006. The cash flows of 
discontinued operations are fully consolidated within 
AMEC up to the date of sale. The results and other 
disclosures in respect of discontinued operations are 
shown in note 9.
Going	concern
The directors are satisfied that the group has adequate 
resources to operate for the foreseeable future.  
At 31 December 2010 the group held net cash of 
£740.1 million.
The group will finance operations and growth from its 
significant existing cash resources. The group’s policy 
aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate 
amount of funding to meet both current and future 
forecast requirements consistent with the group’s budget 
and strategic plans.
Given the group’s significant cash resources the decision 
was made during 2008 not to renew the group’s 
committed facilities. This decision has been kept under 
review since then. However, appropriate facilities will be 
maintained to meet ongoing requirements for 
performance related bonding and letters of credit.
Cash deposits and financial transactions give rise to credit 
risk in the event that counterparties fail to perform under  
the contract. AMEC manages these risks by ensuring that 
surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25-30  
mainstream banks and with each counterparty up to a  
pre-approved limit. These limits are set at prudent levels 
by the board, are based primarily on credit ratings set by 
Moody’s, Standard & Poors and Fitch and have been 
reviewed in light of the recent market turbulence.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless 
otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods 
presented in these consolidated accounts.
Basis	of	consolidation
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by AMEC. Control is 
achieved where AMEC has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries are 
included in the consolidated accounts from the date that 
control commences until the date that control ceases.
A joint venture entity is an entity over whose activities 
AMEC has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement. An associate is an entity in which AMEC has 
significant influence, but not control, over the financial and 
operating policies. The consolidated accounts include the 
group’s share of the total recognised gains and losses of 
associates and joint venture entities on an equity 
accounted basis. The results of joint venture entities and
1	Significant	accounting	policies	continued
Some of these policies require a high level of judgement, 
and AMEC believes that the most critical accounting 
policies and significant areas of judgement and estimation 
arise from the accounting for defined benefit pension 
schemes under IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’, for long-term 
contracts under IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ and IAS 18 
‘Revenue recognition’ and for provisions under IAS 37 
‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’.
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for  
in accordance with the advice of independent qualified 
actuaries but significant judgements are required in 
relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension 
increases, discount rate, inflation, investment returns and 
member life expectancy that underpin their valuations.  
For AMEC, these assumptions are important given the 
relative size of the schemes that remain open.
A significant amount of the group’s activities is undertaken 
via long-term contracts. These contracts are accounted for 
in accordance with IAS 11 which requires estimates to be 
made for contract costs and revenues.
Management base their judgements of contract costs and 
revenues on the latest available information, which includes 
detailed contract valuations. In many cases the results 
reflect the expected outcome of long-term contractual 
obligations which span more than one reporting period. 
Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of 
uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events 
and often need to be revised as events unfold and 
uncertainties are resolved. The estimates of contract costs 
and revenues are updated regularly and significant changes 
are highlighted through established internal review 
procedures. In particular, the internal reviews focus on the 
timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age 
and recoverability of any unagreed income from variations to 
the contract scope or claims. The impact of the changes in 
accounting estimates is then reflected in the ongoing results.
When accounting for provisions for litigation and other items 
the group has taken internal and external advice in 
considering known legal claims and actions made by or 
against the group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of 
success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions are 
made for legal claims or actions against the group on the 
basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those 
which in the view of management are unlikely to succeed. 
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued 
operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated 
income statement. 
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built 
Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007  67 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three 
months at inception are classified as short-term 
investments.
Discontinued	operations	and	assets	and	liabilities 	 	
held	for	sale
A discontinued operation is a separate major line of 
business or geographic area of operations that has either 
been disposed of or is held for sale, is a subsidiary acquired 
exclusively with a view to resale or is part of a plan to 
dispose of a major line of business or geographical area. 
An operation is classified as a discontinued operation in the 
year that the above criteria are met. The comparative 
income statement is restated to show the operation as 
discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
Non-current assets (or disposal groups comprising assets 
and liabilities) that are expected to be recovered primarily 
through sale rather than through continuing use are 
classified as held for sale. Immediately before 
classification as held for sale, the assets (or components 
of a disposal group) are remeasured in accordance with 
the group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the 
assets (or disposal group) are measured at the lower of 
their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Any 
impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to 
goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on 
pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to 
inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, and 
retirement benefit assets, which continue to be measured 
in accordance with the group’s accounting policies. 
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale 
and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are 
recognised in profit or loss. Gains are not recognised  
in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
Employee	benefits
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension 
plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit 
pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by 
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and 
prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its 
present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid 
price) is deducted. The liability discount rate is the yield at 
the balance sheet date on AA rated corporate bonds that 
have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the 
group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a 
qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity 
in the year in which they arise.
1	Significant	accounting	policies	continued
associates are included in the consolidated accounts from 
the date that joint control or significant influence 
commences until the date that it ceases.
Losses of a joint venture or an associate are recognised 
only to the extent of the group’s interest in the joint venture 
or associate, unless the group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of 
the joint venture or associate.
Jointly controlled operations and assets where each party 
has its own separate interest in particular risks and 
rewards, are accounted for by including the attributable 
share of the assets it controls, liabilities and cash flows it 
incurs and its share of the income measured according to 
the terms of the arrangement.
Bid	costs
Bid costs are expensed as incurred until the group is 
appointed as the preferred bidder . Subsequent to 
appointment as preferred bidder, bid costs are 
capitalised and held on the balance sheet provided the 
award of the contract is virtually certain and it is expected 
to generate sufficient net cash flow to allow recovery of the 
bid costs. Where bid costs are reimbursed at financial 
close, the proceeds are applied first against the balance of 
costs included in the balance sheet, with any additional 
amounts treated as deferred income and released to 
profit over the period of the contract.
Business	combinations	and	goodwill
The purchase method is used to account for all business 
combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the 
purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 is 
capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both 
annually and when there are indications that its carrying 
value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is not amortised.
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	and	short-term	investments
Cash comprises cash balances and deposits repayable  
on demand and available within one working day  
without penalty.
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity  
period of three months or less from date of acquisition; 
convertible without an undue period of notice and not 
subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 
an integral part of AMEC’s cash management are included 
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the 
purpose of the statement of cash flows. 68
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
reserve is transferred to the carrying amount of the  
asset when the asset is recognised. In other cases the 
cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve is 
transferred to profit or loss in the same period that  
the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Fair value hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as  
a hedge against the variability in fair value of a recognised 
asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, all 
changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The carrying value 
of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value 
that is attributable to the risk being hedged (even if it is 
normally carried at amortised cost) and any gains or 
losses on re-measurement are recognised immediately  
in the income statement. 
When hedge accounting ceases, any adjustment made  
to the carrying amount of the hedged item as a 
consequence of the fair value hedge relationship is 
recognised in the income statement over the remaining 
life of the hedged item.
Foreign	currencies
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency 
other than the functional currency of the entity are 
translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate 
ruling at the day of the transaction. Entities which have 
multiple foreign currency transactions apply the average 
rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange 
rate on the day of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated 
into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date and any foreign exchange differences arising 
are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities are measured in terms of historical 
cost and are translated using the exchange rate at the date 
of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional 
currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling 
using a monthly average exchange rate. The net assets  
of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing 
exchange rate with any gain or loss also reported in the 
translation reserve.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign 
currency net investments and any foreign currency 
borrowings, or forward contracts used to hedge those 
investments, are taken to a translation reserve. They are 
recycled and recognised as a profit or loss on the disposal 
or closure of a business. The cumulative translation 
difference for all foreign operations was deemed to be zero 
as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
1	Significant	accounting	policies	continued
Exceptional	items
As permitted by IAS1 “Presentation of Financial 
Statements”, certain items are presented separately as 
exceptional on the face of the consolidated income 
statement. In the opinion of the directors, these 
exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue  
of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear 
and consistent presentation of the group’s underlying 
performance and to provide consistency with internal 
management reporting. Exceptional items may include, 
but are not restricted to: profits or losses arising on 
disposal of businesses or on closure of businesses; 
business restructuring charges; profits or losses arising 
on the disposal of fixed assets; the amount of acquisition-
related costs; and elements of deferred consideration.
Financial	instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. 
Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the 
instrument.
Cash, deposits and short-term investments are held at 
amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially 
and subsequently at fair value. The gain or loss on 
re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss 
depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is 
determined by reference to market values for similar 
financial instruments or by discounting the expected 
future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments 
are non-speculative.
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a 
hedge against the variability in cash flows of a recognised 
asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, 
any gain or loss on the effective part of the derivative 
financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging 
reserve. The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the 
hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised. 
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in  
the hedging reserve remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs. Where the hedged item is a non-
financial asset, the cumulative gain or loss in the hedging  69 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work 
performed. When the outcome of a contract cannot be 
estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent 
of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be 
recoverable, and contract costs are expensed as incurred. 
An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately 
in the income statement.
Revenue in respect of variations to the contract scope and 
claims is recognised when it is probable that it will be 
received and is capable of being reliably measured. 
Incentive payments are recognised when a contract is 
sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the 
required conditions will be met and the amount of the 
payment can be reliably measured.
The gross amounts due from customers under long-term 
contracts are stated at cost plus recognised profits, less 
provision for recognised losses and progress billings. These 
amounts are reported in trade and other receivables.
Payments on account in excess of the gross amounts due 
from customers are included in trade and other payables.
Net	financing	income
Net financing income comprises interest receivable on 
funds invested, interest payable, the unwinding of 
discounted balances and foreign exchange gains and 
losses. Interest income and interest payable are 
recognised in profit or loss as they accrue, using the 
effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the 
cost of purchased and constructed property, plant and 
equipment, until the relevant assets are brought into 
operational use. The only material projects where this  
has occurred are those held in the group’s investments  
in joint ventures which are involved in PPP projects to 
finance, design and build assets and operate them on 
behalf of the customer .
Property,	plant	and	equipment
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost 
of property, plant and equipment as at 1 January 2004, the 
date of transition to adopted IFRS, was determined by 
reference to its fair value at that date.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and 
equipment, with the exception of freehold land, at rates 
calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual 
value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its 
estimated useful life. Reviews are made annually of  
the estimated remaining lives and residual values of 
individual assets.
1	Significant	accounting	policies	continued
Impairment
The carrying values of all of the group’s assets other than 
inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred 
tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment.  
If there are indications of an impairment in the carrying 
value then the recoverable amount is estimated and 
compared to the carrying amount. For goodwill and assets 
not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is 
estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the 
carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Intangible	assets	other	than	goodwill
Intangible assets acquired by the group, which include 
software, customer relationships, trademarks and order 
backlogs are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and impairment losses. The cost of an intangible asset 
acquired in a business combination is fair value at date  
of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a 
straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of 
intangible assets, from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 
31 December 2010 are as follows:
Software Three to five years 
Customer relationships Two to ten years 
Brand/trademarks Up to five years 
Other Up to six years
Inventories
Inventories, including land held for and in the course  
of development, are stated at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included at cost 
less any losses foreseen in completing and disposing of 
the development. Cost includes cost of acquisition and 
development to date, including directly attributable fees 
and expenses net of rental and other income attributable 
to the development.
Leases	
Operating lease costs are charged to the income statement 
on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Long-term	contracts
As soon as the outcome of a long-term contract can be 
estimated reliably, contract revenue and expenses are 
recognised in the income statement in proportion to the 
stage of completion of the contract. The stage of  70
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
the actual number of shares that vest except where 
non-vesting is due to share prices or total shareholder 
return not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises the sum of current tax 
charge and the movement in deferred tax. 
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable 
profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of 
previous years. Tax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in 
other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is 
recognised in other comprehensive income or equity  
as appropriate.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases 
used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax 
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences with deferred tax assets being 
recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits 
will be available against which the asset can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed  
at each balance sheet date and adjustments made to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient profits 
will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the  
temporary differences arise from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting 
nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable 
temporary differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where 
the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply when 
the deferred tax asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority and it is intended that they will be settled on  
a net basis.
1	Significant	accounting	policies	continued
The estimated lives used are:
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years 
Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the lease  
 term or 50 years 
Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years
Provisions	for	liabilities	and	charges
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation 
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of  
the obligation.
The group has taken internal and external advice in 
considering known legal claims and actions made by or 
against the group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of 
success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions are 
made for legal claims or actions against the group on the  
basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for 
those, which in the view of management are unlikely  
to succeed.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration 
received or receivable, excluding value added tax, for 
goods and services supplied to external customers. It 
includes the group’s share of revenue from work carried 
out under jointly controlled operations.
Revenue from services and construction contracts is 
recognised by reference to the stage of completion  
of the contract, as set out in the accounting policy for 
long-term contracts.
Revenue from developments activities is recognised on 
completion of a signed sale agreement after all material 
conditions have been met.
Share-based	payments
There are various share-based payment arrangements 
which allow AMEC employees to acquire AMEC shares; 
these awards are granted by AMEC. The fair value of 
awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is 
measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to 
the award. The fair value of the award is measured using  
a valuation model, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the awards were granted. The 
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect  71 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
2	Segmental	analysis	of	continuing	operations 	
AMEC has three divisions that offer high-value consultancy, engineering and project management services to different 
end markets in the world’s oil and gas, minerals and metals, clean energy, water and environmental sectors. Each of 
these divisions is considered to be a reportable segment. AMEC’s Chief Executive together with the senior management 
team constitute the chief operating decision maker and they regularly review the performance of these three divisions, 
as well as the Investments and other activities segment. The Investments and other activities segment principally 
comprises the Incheon Bridge PPP project in Korea now in the operational phase, the Lancashire Waste PPP project 
under construction and the run-down of AMEC’s non-core North American construction activities. Details of the services 
offered by each division and the end markets in which they operate are given in the business and financial review on 
pages 16 to 30.
Revenue	and	results
 Revenue Profit/(loss)
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Class	of	business:
Natural Resources 1,520.5 1,300.9 174.7 154.3 
Power & Process 884.4 788.1 75.3 55.4 
Earth & Environmental 592.6 470.8 54.7 36.5 
Investments and other activities 7.4 13.7 3.0 0.2 
3,004.9 2,573.5 307.7 246.4 
Internal revenue (54.3) (34.4)
– –
External revenue 2,950.6 2,539.1 
– –
Corporate costs
1
(35.9) (38.1)
EBITA
2
271.8 208.3 
Net financing income 7.9 7.3 
Adjusted profit before tax 279.7 215.6
Tax on results of joint ventures (7.2) (5.3)
272.5 210.3
Intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment (25.0) (15.7)
Exceptional items 10.7 8.9 
Profit before income tax 258.2 203.5 
Notes
1  Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads.
2   EBITA is earnings of continuing operations before net financing income, tax, intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment and pre-tax 
exceptional items, but including joint venture profit before tax of £20.5 million (2009: £17.4 million).
Transactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis. Internal revenue arises in the 
segments as follows:
	 2010	
	 £	million
 2009 
 £ million
Natural Resources 23.2 21.1
Power & Process 9.4 3.6
Earth & Environmental 20.0 9.7
Investments and other activities 1.7 –
54.3 34.4 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 72
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
2	Segmental	analysis	of	continuing	operations	continued
Other	information
	 Share	of	post-tax	results 	 	
	 of	joint	ventures 	 Depreciation 	 Intangible	amortisation 	
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Class	of	business:
Natural Resources (0.2) 2.8 5.2 6.0 10.8 8.2
Power & Process 12.7 11.8 3.8 3.9 3.5 1.9
Earth & Environmental – (0.2) 3.6 3.7 10.5 4.3
Investments and other activities 0.8 (2.3) 0.2 0.3 0.2 – 
13.3 12.1 12.8 13.9 25.0 14.4
In 2009, in addition to the intangible amortisation of £14.4 million, goodwill was impaired by £1.3 million.
	 Capital	expenditure
	 Interests	in	joint	ventures 	 Property,	plant	and	equipment 	 Intangible	assets
	 2010
	 	
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated)  
 £ million
	 2010
	 	
	 £	million
 2009 
 £ million
	 2010
	 	
	 £	million
 2009 
 £ million
Class	of	business:
Natural Resources 16.7 6.1 1.7 5.6 1.7 0.9
Power & Process 7.7 6.8 1.6 3.0 1.7 1.0
Earth & Environmental – 0.1 2.8 0.7 3.3 3.8
Investments and other activities 18.5 23.1 0.3 – 0.6 –
42.9 36.1 6.4 9.3 7.3 5.7 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 73 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
2	Segmental	analysis	of	continuing	operations	continued
Geographical	origin
	 Revenue 	 Non-current	assets
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
United Kingdom 852.3 780.2 135.9 120.4
Canada 1,086.8 839.3 231.1 232.3
United States 603.5 601.3 99.2 97.5
Rest of the world 408.0 318.3 229.9 109.6
2,950.6 2,539.1 696.1	 559.8
The non-current assets analysed by geography include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and interests  
in joint ventures and other investments.
3	Revenue
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Construction contracts 324.7 262.4
Services 2,625.9 2,276.7
2,950.6 2,539.1
The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included  
in IAS 11 and includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if AMEC’s role is  
as a service provider, for example project management.
4	Profit	before	net	financing	income	–	continuing	operations
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12.8 13.9
Minimum payments under operating leases 68.2 56.2
There are no material receipts from subleases.
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Fees paid to auditors and their associates:
 Audit of these financial statements 0.3 0.3
 The audit of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures pursuant to legislation 0.9 1.3
 Other services relating to taxation 0.5 0.6
 All other services 0.1 0.1
1.8 2.3 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 74
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
5	Amortisation,	impairment	and	exceptional	items
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Continuing operations:
Cost of sales – exceptional items – 2.2
Administrative expenses – exceptional items (8.1) (3.7)
Administrative expenses – intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment
(25.0) (15.7)
(33.1) (19.4)
Profit on business disposals and closures 18.8 10.4
(14.3) (6.8)
Taxation credit on exceptional items of continuing operations 36.2 1.5
Taxation credit on intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment 7.4 4.7
43.6 6.2
Post-tax amortisation, impairment and exceptional items of continuing operations 29.3 (0.6)
Exceptional items of discontinued operations (post–tax) (2.4) 13.9
Post–tax amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 26.9 13.3
Post-tax exceptional profits are further analysed as follows:
	 2010
	 Profit	on
	 disposals
	 £	million
	 Profit	in
	 respect	of
	 business
	 closures
	 £	million
	 Profit	on
	 business
	 disposals
	 and	closures
	 £	million
	 Other
	 exceptional
	 items
	 £	million
	 Total
	 £	million
Continuing operations 12.8 6.0 18.8 (8.1) 10.7
Discontinued operations (8.5) (0.1) (8.6) (5.6) (14.2)
Profit/(loss) before tax 4.3 5.9 10.2 (13.7) (3.5)
Tax 45.1 (0.1) 45.0 3.0 48.0
Profit/(loss)	after	tax 49.4 5.8 55.2 (10.7) 44.5
 2009
 Profit on
 disposals
 £ million
 Profit in
 respect of
 business
 closures
 £ million
 Profit on
 business
 disposals
 and closures
 £ million
 Other
 exceptional
 items
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Continuing operations 0.4 10.0 10.4 (1.5) 8.9
Discontinued operations 3.1 (0.3) 2.8 – 2.8
Profit/(loss) before tax 3.5 9.7 13.2 (1.5) 11.7
Tax 12.0 1.2 13.2 (0.6) 12.6
Profit/(loss) after tax 15.5 10.9 26.4 (2.1) 24.3
The disposal of Agra Foundations Limited in 2010, together with adjustments to provisions held in respect of businesses 
sold in prior years and foreign exchange movements on provisions established on the disposal of SPIE, resulted in the 
pre-tax profit on business disposals and closure of £10.2 million.
Other exceptional losses of £13.7 million include transaction costs of £4.1 million (2009: £nil), elements of deferred 
consideration on acquisitions of £4.0 million (2009: £3.7 million), and certain legacy settlements of £5.6 million (2009: £nil).
The tax credit of £45.1 million in respect of profit on disposals includes the release of a provision of £35.9 million relating 
to the disposal of AMEC’s UK Wind Developments business in 2008. 
During 2009, two small businesses were divested and, together with adjustments to provisions held in respect of 
businesses sold in prior years and foreign exchange movements on provisions established on the disposal of SPIE, 
resulted in an exceptional pre-tax gain on disposal of £3.5 million.
The pre-tax profit in respect of business closures of £9.7 million in 2009 arose on the net release of provisions following 
positive developments on various legacy projects. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 75 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
5	Amortisation,	impairment	and	exceptional	items	continued
Other exceptional items comprised a favourable outcome to a legacy dispute resulting in a pre-tax gain of £2.2 million 
offset by a charge of £3.7 million relating to elements of deferred consideration on acquisitions in the Earth & 
Environmental division.
6	Staff	costs	and	employee	numbers	–	continuing	operations
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Wages and salaries 1,100.6 908.5
Social security costs 70.0 62.5
Equity settled share-based payments (note 22) 13.6 10.7
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 25.8 22.2
Defined benefit pension scheme expense (note 14) 11.9 6.6
1,221.9 1,010.5
The average number of people employed was as follows:
	 2010
	 Number
	 2009
	 Number
Natural Resources 7,532 7,613
Power & Process 6,460 5,927
Earth & Environmental* 4,412 3,868
Investments and other activities 206 215
18,610 17,623
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 48 to 58.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
 *The number of Earth & Environmental employees for 2009 has been restated to bring the definition of full time equivalents in line with the  
other divisions 
7	Net	financing	income	–	continuing	operations
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Financial	income:
Interest income on bank deposits 5.8 7.6
Other interest income 0.3 1.5
Foreign exchange gains 4.8 3.3
10.9 12.4
Financial	expense:
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost – (1.3)
Unwind of discount on deferred consideration (0.8) (2.8)
Foreign exchange losses (2.2) (1.0)
(3.0) (5.1)
Net financing income 7.9 7.3
The above financial income and expenses include the following in respect of assets/(liabilities) not at fair value through 
profit or loss:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Total interest income on financial assets 6.1 9.1
Total interest expense on financial liabilities – (1.3)
Net financing income includes a net loss of £0.3 million on derivatives not designated as hedges. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 76
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
8	Income	tax	–	continuing	operations
Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Income tax expense on continuing operations before exceptionals,  
intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment 65.2 53.0
Income tax credit on intangible amortisation (7.4) (4.7)
Income tax credit in respect of exceptional items (36.2) (1.5)
Total income tax expense from continuing operations in the income statement 21.6 46.8
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Current	tax:
UK corporation tax at 28.0 per cent (2009: 28.0 per cent) 17.7 3.9
Double tax relief – (1.4)
Overseas tax 47.7 47.7
Adjustments in respect of prior years (48.1) (0.5)
17.3 49.7
Deferred	tax:
UK deferred tax at 27 per cent (2009: 28.0 per cent), pension surplus at 35.0 per cent 
(2009: 35.0 per cent) – origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.2 2.8
Overseas deferred tax – (1.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 (4.4)
4.3 (2.9)
Total income tax expense for continuing operations 21.6 46.8
On 22 June 2010, in his Budget Speech, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a scheduled reduction in the rate 
of corporation tax from 28 per cent to 24 per cent by reducing the rate by one per cent annually from 1 April 2011 to 2014. 
As at 31 December 2010, the reduction in the rate to 27 per cent on 1 April 2011 has been substantively enacted. 
However, the remaining reductions in the rate have not yet been substantively enacted and therefore the proposed 
changes are not reflected in the figures reported.
The decrease in the rate from 27 per cent to 24 per cent would reduce the balance sheet deferred tax asset by 
approximately £2.5 million and would reduce unrecognised deferred tax assets by approximately £1.5 million. During the 
period to 2014, AMEC estimates that the effect of the proposed changes to income and equity would be a charge of 
£2.5 million to the income statement. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 77 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
8	Income	tax	–	continuing	operations	continued
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 258.2 203.5
Expected income tax expense 72.3 57.0
Non-deductible expenses – pre-exceptional 3.9 8.2
Non-deductible expenses – exceptional 1.1 1.3
Non-taxable income – pre-exceptional (8.3) (4.1)
Non-taxable income – exceptional (3.9) (2.6)
Impact of providing deferred tax on pension surplus at 35.0 per cent 0.6 0.8
Impact of change in UK tax rate to 27.0 per cent on deferred tax 1.5 –
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than 28.0 per cent (2009: 28.0 per cent) 8.4 10.3
Change in recognition of deferred tax assets (2.3) (15.9)
Adjustments in respect of prior year – release of tax provision on disposal of business (35.9) –
Other adjustments in respect of prior years (12.1) (4.9)
Effects of results of joint ventures (3.7) (3.3)
Total income tax expense for the year for continuing operations 21.6 46.8
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Tax	recognised	directly	in	equity:
Current tax (2.2) (2.1)
Deferred tax (note 15) 4.1 (55.3)
Tax charge/(credit) recognised directly in equity 1.9 (57.4)
9	(Loss)/profit	for	the	year	from	discontinued	operations
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built Environment businesses and SPIE.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated  
income statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Cost of sales and net operating expenses (3.8) 0.6
(Loss)/profit before exceptional items and income tax (3.8) 0.6
Attributable tax (0.5) 1.4
(4.3) 2.0
(Loss)/profit on disposal (8.5) 3.1
Attributable tax on profit on disposal 10.2 11.2
Other exceptional items (5.7) (0.3)
Attributable tax on exceptional items 1.6 (0.1)
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations (6.7) 15.9 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 78
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
10	Earnings	per	share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement. The calculation of the average 
number of shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Performance Share 
Plan and Transformation Incentive Plan, those held by the qualifying employee share ownership trust and those held in 
treasury by the company.
	 2010 2009
	 Earnings 	
	 £	million
	 Weighted
	 average 	
	 shares
	 number
	 million
	 Earnings
	 per	share
	 pence
 Earnings 
 £ million
 Weighted
 average 
 shares
 number
 million
 Earnings
 per share
 pence
Basic	earnings	from	continuing 	
operations	 237.7 325.8 73.0 155.8 327.0 47.6
Share options – 2.1 (0.5) – 1.2 (0.1)
Employee share and incentive 
schemes – 5.5 (1.2) – 5.3 (0.8)
Diluted	earnings	from 	 	
continuing	operations 237.7 333.4 71.3 155.8 333.5 46.7
Basic	(loss)/earnings	from 	
discontinued	operations 	 (6.7) 325.8 (2.1) 15.9 327.0 4.9
Share options – 2.1 0.1 – 1.2 –
Employee share and incentive 
schemes – 5.5 – – 5.3 (0.1)
Diluted	(loss)/earnings	from 	
discontinued	operations (6.7) 333.4 (2.0) 15.9 333.5 4.8
Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Profit for the year from continuing operations 236.6 156.7
Loss/(profit) attributable to non-controlling interests 1.1 (0.9)
Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations 237.7 155.8 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 79 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
10	Earnings	per	share	continued
In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional items on reported performance, additional calculations of earnings per share are presented.
	 2010 2009
	 Earnings 	
	 £	million
	 Weighted
	 average 	
	 shares
	 number
	 million
	 Earnings
	 per	share
	 pence
 Earnings 
 £ million
 Weighted
 average 
 shares
 number
 million
 Earnings
 per share
 pence
Basic	earnings	from 	 	
continuing	operations 237.7 325.8 73.0 155.8 327.0 47.6
Exceptional items (post-tax) (46.9) – (14.4) (10.4) – (3.2)
Amortisation and impairment 
(post-tax) 17.6 – 5.4 11.0 – 3.4
Basic	earnings	from 	 	
continuing	operations	before 	
amortisation,	impairment 	 	
and	exceptional	items 208.4 325.8 64.0 156.4 327.0 47.8
Share options – 2.1 (0.4) – 1.2 (0.1)
Employee share and incentive 
schemes – 5.5 (1.1) – 5.3 (0.8)
Diluted	earnings	from 	 	
continuing	operations	before 	
amortisation,	impairment	and 	
exceptional	items 208.4 333.4 62.5 156.4 333.5 46.9 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 80
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
11	Property,	plant	and	equipment
 Land and
 buildings
 £ million
 Plant and
 equipment
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Cost:
As at 1 January 2010 23.3 124.3 147.6
Exchange and other movements 1.6 5.1 6.7
Acquired through business combinations 0.8 1.8 2.6
Additions 2.1 4.3 6.4
Disposals – (3.6) (3.6)
Disposal of businesses – (28.0) (28.0)
As	at	31	December	2010 27.8 103.9 131.7
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2010 11.9 91.6 103.5
Exchange and other movements 1.0 3.6 4.6
Provided during the year 2.2 10.6 12.8
Disposals – (2.9) (2.9)
Disposal of businesses – (18.2) (18.2)
As	at	31	December	2010 15.1 84.7 99.8
Cost:
As at 1 January 2009 23.5 130.8 154.3 
Exchange and other movements (0.3) (2.7) (3.0)
Acquired through business combinations – 3.1 3.1
Additions 3.2 6.1 9.3
Disposals (3.8) (7.2) (11.0)
Disposal of businesses (0.1) (0.4) (0.5)
Reclassification 0.8 (5.4) (4.6)
As at 31 December 2009 23.3 124.3 147.6
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2009 11.2 92.5 103.7 
Exchange and other movements (0.3) (1.5) (1.8)
Provided during the year 2.1 11.8 13.9
Disposals (1.2) (6.4) (7.6)
Disposal of businesses – (0.2) (0.2)
Reclassification 0.1 (4.6) (4.5)
As at 31 December 2009 11.9 91.6 103.5
Net book value:
As	at	31	December	2010 12.7 19.2 31.9
As at 31 December 2009 11.4 32.7 44.1
As at 1 January 2009 12.3 38.3 50.6 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 81 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
11	Property,	plant	and	equipment	continued
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freehold 5.9 5.7
Long leasehold 0.1 0.2
Short leasehold 6.7 5.5
12.7 11.4
12	Intangible	assets
 Goodwill
 £ million
 Software
 £ million
 Other
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Cost:
As at 1 January 2010 (restated) 494.6 17.9 72.0 584.5
Exchange and other movements 45.8 1.4 3.4 50.6
Acquired through business combinations 59.1 – 29.6 88.7
Additions – 7.3 – 7.3
Disposal of businesses (2.5) – – (2.5)
As	at	31	December	2010 597.0 26.6 105.0 728.6
Amortisation:
As at 1 January 2010 37.2 11.0 28.9 77.1
Exchange and other movements 3.1 1.1 1.4 5.6
Provided during the year – 2.6 22.4 25.0
Disposal of businesses (0.4) – – (0.4)
As	at	31	December	2010 39.9 14.7 52.7 107.3
Cost:
As at 1 January 2009 380.2 7.9 57.6 445.7
Exchange and other movements 1.2 – (2.8) (1.6)
Acquired through business combinations (restated) 113.2 0.2 17.2 130.6
Additions – 5.6 0.1 5.7
Disposals – (0.3) (0.1) (0.4)
Disposals of business – – (0.1) (0.1)
Reclassification – 4.5 0.1 4.6
As at 31 December 2009 (restated) 494.6 17.9 72.0 584.5
Amortisation:
As at 1 January 2009 34.7 5.3 17.6 57.6
Exchange and other movements 1.2 0.1 (1.6) (0.3)
Provided during the year 1.3 1.3 13.1 15.7
Disposals – (0.3) (0.1) (0.4)
Reclassification – 4.6 (0.1) 4.5
As at 31 December 2009 37.2 11.0 28.9 77.1
Net book value:
As	at	31	December	2010 557.1 11.9 52.3 621.3
As at 31 December 2009 (restated) 457.4 6.9 43.1 507.4
As at 1 January 2009 345.5 2.6 40.0 388.1 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 82
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
12	Intangible	assets	continued
The net book value of other intangible assets is analysed as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Brand/trademarks 10.5 13.0
Order backlog 1.1 2.3
Non-compete agreement 1.7 1.7
Customer relationships 35.6 22.6
Licences 3.1 5.6
Other 0.3 0.5
52.3 45.7
The group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently  
if indicators of impairment exist. 
At the time of announcing the group’s interim results in August 2010 a number of management team changes were 
made to emphasise the on-going focus on delivery across the three reportable segments, Natural Resources,  
Power & Process and Earth & Environmental. The review of unamortised goodwill for indications of impairment by 
management is now performed against the three core segments being the lowest level of cash generating units  
(‘CGU’) monitored for goodwill purposes. This is consistent with the integration of acquisitions into the three segments  
in order to generate synergies. Goodwill has been allocated between segments on a relative fair value basis.
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow 
projections included in the financial budgets approved by management covering a two-year period and pre-tax discount 
rates as set out in the table below. Given the current market conditions, management believe that the discount rates 
chosen are conservative. For the purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond 
the two-year period include two per cent growth per annum (2009: two per cent), which is in line with long-term average 
growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate. The value-in-use has been compared to the carrying value for 
each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged in respect of any of the CGUs.
The financial budgets are developed using an assumed workload and margin for the following year . Workload is 
underpinned by a secured order book for each CGU, and order book remains strong at £3.1 billion (2009: £3.2 billion) as 
at 31 December 2010. The margin selected is based on management’s review of the margins on orders received and 
from the results of Operational Excellence. 
A sensitivity analysis has been performed, at the individual CGU level, in order to review the impact of changes in key 
assumptions. For example, a 10 per cent decrease in volume, with all other assumptions held constant, or a one per cent 
decrease in margin, with all other assumptions held constant, did not identify any further impairments. Similarly, zero 
growth after the initial two year period, with all other assumptions held constant or a one per cent increase in discount 
rate, did not identify any further material impairments. 
Unamortised goodwill as at 31 December 2010 is as follows:
	
	
	
	
	 Unamortised
	 goodwill
	 2010
	 £	million
	 Pre-tax 	
	 discount	rate
	 2010
	 per	cent
Natural Resources 358.7 12.0
Power & Process 85.8 12.0
Earth & Environmental 112.6 12.0 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 83 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
12	Intangible	assets	continued
Unamortised goodwill by acquired CGU as of 31 December 2009 was as follows:
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 Unamortised
 goodwill
 2009
 £ million
 Pre-tax 
 discount rate
 2009
 per cent
AGRA Inc 178.4 14.5
Bower Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited 25.6 12.5
Geomatrix Consultants Inc 31.0 14.3
GRD Limited (restated) 108.9 n/a
NNC Holdings Limited 35.3 12.3
Rider Hunt International Limited 13.6 12.0
13	Interests	in	joint	ventures	and	other	investments
 Joint
 ventures
 £ million
 Other
 investments
 £ million
 
 Total
 £ million
Net book value:
As at 1 January 2010 (restated) 36.1 0.3 36.4
Exchange and other movements 1.0 – 1.0
Additions 10.5 – 10.5
Disposals (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Reclassifications (1.4) – (1.4)
Total comprehensive income 13.3 – 13.3
Dividends received (16.6) – (16.6)
As	at	31	December	2010 42.8 0.1 42.9
As at 1 January 2009 29.4 1.0 30.4 
Exchange and other movements (1.1) – (1.1)
Additions 4.7 – 4.7
Disposals – (0.7) (0.7)
Total comprehensive income 12.1 – 12.1
Dividends received (9.0) – (9.0)
As at 31 December 2009 (restated) 36.1 0.3 36.4
Total comprehensive income of £13.3 million is net of provisions of £1.9 million taken against the profits of one joint 
venture entity, where the corresponding increase in the carrying value of the joint venture is not recoverable.
Principal group companies are listed on page 114.
Other investments are all classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
An analysis of the group’s interests in the assets and liabilities of joint ventures is as follows:
	 2010	
	
	 £	million
 2009 
 (restated) 
 £ million
Current assets 318.4 56.6
Non-current assets 254.1 356.7
Current liabilities (73.8) (53.3)
Non-current liabilities (433.8) (301.8)
Group share of net assets 64.9 58.2
Fair value adjustment (22.1) (22.1)
Interests in joint ventures 42.8 36.1 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 84
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
13	Interests	in	joint	ventures	and	other	investments	continued
The net book value of joint ventures of £42.8 million as at 31 December 2010 includes a fair value adjustment on 
acquisition of £22.1 million in addition to the group share of joint ventures’ net assets of £64.9 million.
An analysis of the group’s share of the revenue and expenses of joint ventures is as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Revenue 127.5 104.6
Expenses (107.0) (87.2)
Share of profit before tax 20.5 17.4
Tax (7.2) (5.3)
Share of post-tax results 13.3 12.1
Guarantees and commitments in respect of joint ventures are set out in note 27.
PPP	service	concessions
Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows:
 Financial
 close
 Equity
 stake
 Concession
 period
 Net equity
 invested
Transport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years –
Incheon Bridge, Korea 2005 23% 30 years £18.1m
Waste 
Management
 
Lancashire Waste Project 2007 50% 25 years –
14	Retirement	benefit	assets	and	liabilities
The group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees. Substantially all UK members  
are in funded defined benefit schemes, with the main schemes being the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme and the AMEC 
Executive Pension Scheme. The majority of overseas members are in defined contribution schemes. Contributions by 
the group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed in note 6.
Defined	benefit	schemes
The valuations used have been based on the most recent valuation of the two major UK schemes as at 1 April 2008  
and updated by the schemes’ actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes 
as at 31 December 2010. The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December 2010.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries in relation to the main UK schemes are as follows:
	 31	December 	
	 2010
	 Per	cent
 31 December 
 2009
 Per cent
Rate of discount 5.4 5.7
Rate of inflation 3.4 3.6
Rate of increase in salaries 4.4 4.6
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (service before/after 1 January 2008) 3.4/2.4 3.6/2.4
Expected rate of return on scheme assets:
Equities 7.7 7.9
Bonds 5.4 5.7
Gilts 4.2 4.4
Property 6.2 6.4 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 85 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
14	Retirement	benefit	assets	and	liabilities	continued
For the main UK pension schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows:
	 Male
	 years
	 Female
	 years
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 21.4 23.7
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 23.3 25.5
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, 
which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the company considered the current level of 
expected returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated 
with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. 
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected 
long-term rate of return on assets for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 5.89 per cent assumption as at 
31 December 2010.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
	 31	December 	
	 2010
	 £	million
 31 December 
 2009 
 £ million
Retirement benefit assets 63.0 26.8
Retirement benefit liabilities (35.9) (30.9)
Retirement benefit net assets/(liability) 27.1 (4.1)
The retirement benefit liabilities of £35.9 million (2009: £30.9 million) reflect primarily the deficits on the overseas schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows:
	 31	December 	
	 2010
	 Per	cent
 31 December 
 2009
 Per cent
Equities 39.7 37.4
Bonds (including gilts) 53.7 56.5
Property 6.4 5.8
Other 0.2 0.3
100.0 100.0
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Current service cost 17.5 11.5
Interest cost 76.0 64.1
Expected return on scheme assets (81.6) (69.0)
Total amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs (note 6) 11.9 6.6
The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 9.5 7.4
Administrative expenses 2.4 (0.8)
Total amount recognised in the income statement 11.9 6.6 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 86
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
14	Retirement	benefit	assets	and	liabilities	continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
As at 1 January 1,327.7 1,064.9
Exchange movements 6.4 2.6
Current service cost 17.5 11.5
Interest cost 76.0 64.1
Plan participants’ contributions 9.5 7.2
Actuarial losses 28.5 228.3
Transfer from trade and other payables 0.9 1.3
Benefits paid (59.1) (52.2)
As	at	31	December 	 1,407.4 1,327.7
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
As at 1 January 1,323.6 1,221.1
Exchange and other movements 6.6 2.1
Expected return on plan assets 81.6 69.0
Actuarial gains 49.9 58.4
Employer contributions 22.2 17.8
Plan participants’ contributions 9.5 7.2
Benefits paid (58.9) (52.0)
As	at	31	December 	 1,434.5 1,323.6
The movement in the scheme net asset/(liability) during the year is as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Scheme net asset as at 1 January (4.1) 156.2
Exchange movements (0.7) (1.8)
Total charge as above (11.9) (6.6)
Employer contributions 22.2 17.8
Benefits paid 0.2 0.2
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in reserves 21.4 (169.9)
Scheme	net	asset/(liability)	as	at	31	December 27.1 (4.1)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
As at 1 January (260.8) (90.9)
Net actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the year 21.4 (169.9)
As	at	31	December 	 (239.4) (260.8)
The actual return on scheme assets is as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Actual return on scheme assets 131.2 127.4 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 87 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
14	Retirement	benefit	assets	and	liabilities	continued
The history of experience gains and losses has been as follows:
	 2010
	£ million
 2009 
	 £ million
	 2008 
	 £ million
	 2007 
	 £ million
	 2006 
	 £ million
Defined benefit obligation as at 31 December (1,407.4) (1,327.7) (1,064.9) (1,090.9) (1,150.5)
Fair value of assets as at 31 December 1,434.5 1,323.6 1,221.1 1,327.6 1,243.1
Surplus/(deficit) 27.1 (4.1) 156.2 236.7 92.6
Difference between expected and actual  
return on scheme assets 49.6 58.4 (170.1) (4.6) 3.9
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 3.5 4.4 (13.9) (0.3) 0.3
Experience gains and losses on scheme 
liabilities – 8.3 5.6 3.5 –
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) – 0.6 0.5 0.3 –
Contributions
The group expects to contribute £25 million to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2011. This includes special 
contributions of £5.1 million.
15	Deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Recognised	deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities 	 Assets 	 Liabilities
	 31	December 	
	 2010	
	 £	million
 31 December 
 2009 
 (restated) 
 £ million
	 31	December 	
	 2010	
	 £	million
 31 December 
 2009 
 (restated)
 £ million
Property, plant and equipment 15.7 16.4 (1.0) (1.8)
Intangible assets – – (12.8) (11.0)
Retirement benefits 9.8 6.8 (22.3) (8.3)
Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.5 (1.3) (1.0)
Provisions 47.9 54.5 – –
Employee share schemes 11.5 5.5 – –
Other items 4.1 2.2 (7.9) (7.6)
Tax losses carried forward 13.8 11.8 – –
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 104.9 99.7 (45.3) (29.7)
Offset of deferred tax assets  
and liabilities relating to income tax levied by the same 
taxation authority (45.3) (29.7) 45.3 29.7
Net deferred tax assets 59.6 70.0 – – AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 88
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
15	Deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	continued
Recognised	deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities
	
Net
31	December 	
2010
£	million
31 December 
2009
£ million
Property, plant and equipment 14.7 14.6
Intangible assets (12.8) (11.0)
Retirement benefits (12.5) (1.5)
Derivative financial instruments 0.8 1.5
Provisions 47.9 54.5
Employee share schemes 11.5 5.5
Other items (3.8) (5.4)
Tax losses carried forward 13.8 11.8
Net deferred tax assets 59.6 70.0
Movements	in	deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	during	the	year
	 As at
	 1 January
	 2010
	 £ million
	 Exchange
	 and other
	 movements
	 £ million
	 Acquisitions
	 £ million
	 Disposals
	 £ million
	 Recognised
	 in income
	 £ million
	 Recognised
	 in equity
	 £ million
	 As	at
	 31	December
	 2010
	 £	million
Property, plant and 
equipment 14.6 0.2 0.2 1.0 (1.3) – 14.7
Intangible assets (11.0) (0.5) (10.2) – 8.9 – (12.8)
Retirement benefits (1.5) 0.9 (0.2) – (3.7) (8.0) (12.5)
Derivative financial 
instruments 1.5 (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.5) 0.8
Provisions 54.5 3.3 (3.1) (0.3) (6.5) – 47.9
Employee share schemes 5.5 0.1 – – 1.5 4.4 11.5
Other items (5.4) (0.5) 6.0 2.3 (6.2) – (3.8)
Tax losses carried forward 11.8 – – 0.2 1.8 – 13.8
70.0 3.4 (7.3) 3.2 (5.6) (4.1) 59.6
	 As at
	 1 January
	 2009
	 £ million
	 Exchange
	 and other
	 movements
	 £ million
	 Acquisitions
	 £ million
	 Disposals
	 £ million
	 Recognised
	 in income
	 £ million
	 Recognised
	 in equity
	 £ million
 As at
 31 December
 2009
 £ million
Property, plant and 
equipment 16.0 0.1 0.4 – (1.9) – 14.6
Intangible assets (12.8) 0.6 (3.0) – 4.2 – (11.0)
Retirement benefits (55.9) 0.3 1.1 – (4.0) 57.0 (1.5)
Derivative financial 
instruments 4.6 – – – (0.9) (2.2) 1.5
Provisions 42.6 (0.6) 7.3 – 5.2 – 54.5
Employee share schemes 3.9 – – – 1.1 0.5 5.5
Other items (8.6) (0.3) 0.2 – 3.3 – (5.4)
Tax losses carried forward 3.8 (0.3) – – 8.3 – 11.8
(6.4) (0.2) 6.0 – 15.3 55.3 70.0
The deferred tax charge of £5.6 million (2009: credit of £15.3 million) recognised in income consists of a charge of 
£4.3 million (2009: credit of £2.9 million) relating to continuing operations and a charge of £1.3 million (2009: credit  
of £12.4 million) in respect of discontinued operations. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 89 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
15	Deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	continued
Factors	affecting	the	tax	charge	in	future	years
There are a number of factors that may affect the group’s future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with 
tax authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation  
and tax rates. 
Unrecognised	deferred	tax	assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
	 31	December 	
	 2010
	 £	million
 31 December 
 2009
 £ million
Deductible temporary differences 20.2 17.0
Tax losses 47.7 72.5
67.9 89.5
There are tax losses of £2.3 million arising in the US, all of which expire in 2024.
The other tax losses and deductible temporary differences not recognised by the group do not expire under current tax 
legislation. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future 
taxable profits will be available against which the group can utilise these assets. 
In addition, claims have been made to HMRC to offset tax losses of up to £79.4 million against the group’s UK taxable  
profits. These losses were generated in a legacy German business in accounting periods up to 31 December 2002.  
If successful, the claims will result in a refund of UK Corporation tax. The amount of the refund depends on a number  
of factors which are currently being discussed with HMRC.
This potential refund is not included within unrecognised deferred tax assets in 2010 as the amount represents a 
potential refund of current tax.
Unrecognised	deferred	tax	liabilities
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of £381.5 million of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures because the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be 
£19.0 million.
16	Inventories
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Development land and work in progress – 4.8
Raw materials and consumables 1.4 0.6
1.4 5.4 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 90
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
17	Current	trade	and	other	receivables
	 2010	
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated) 
 £ million
Amounts	expected	to	be	recovered	within	one	year:
Gross amounts due from customers 328.0 187.6
Trade receivables 316.2 268.9
Amounts owed by joint ventures 0.9 13.5
Other receivables 14.7 11.8
Prepayments and accrued income 32.5 26.8
692.3 508.6
Amounts	expected	to	be	recovered	after	more	than	one	year:
Trade receivables 2.4 9.6
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1.4 0.3
Other receivables 0.4 0.3
4.2 10.2
696.5 518.8
Trade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of £16.7 million (2009: £12.8 million) 
relating to contracts in progress. Trade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions 
of £2.3 million (2009: £8.9 million) relating to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all long-term contracts in 
progress for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was £4,899.1 million (2009: £4,129.0 million).
Trade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
18	Current	trade	and	other	payables
	 31	December
	 2010	
	 £	million
 31 December
 2009 
(restated) 
 £ million
Amounts	expected	to	be	settled	within	one	year:
Trade payables 403.7 313.5
Gross amounts due to customers 49.3 44.1
Other taxation and social security costs 38.1 30.7
Other payables 124.0 96.5
Accruals and deferred income 66.5 94.3
Dividends 0.2 0.2
681.8 579.3
Amounts	expected	to	be	settled	after	more	than	one	year:
Trade payables 0.1 0.9
Other payables 2.5 3.7
Accruals and deferred income 1.1 0.7
3.7 5.3
685.5 584.6
Gross amounts due to customers includes advances received of £20.7 million (2009: £12.0 million).
Trade payables, amounts owed to joint ventures, other taxation and social security costs, other payables and dividends 
are classified as other financial liabilities. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 91 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
19	Financial	instruments
Details of the group’s financial risk management objectives and policies, together with its policies for hedging are 
provided in the managing risk section on pages 12 and 13.
Hedging	of	interest	rate	risk
The group remained in a net cash position throughout the year . As a result, long-term interest rate hedging (for periods 
beyond three to six months) is not considered appropriate.
Hedging	of	foreign	currency	risk	–	cash	flow	hedges
The group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk typically arising where contracts are awarded in, or involve costs,  
in non-local currency. Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose and 
are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts  
and swaps designated as cash flow hedges are as follows:
	 2010
	 Notional
	 contract
	 amount
	 £	million
 2009
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
	 2010
	 Carrying
	 amount	and
	 fair	value
	 £	million
 2009
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
Current assets 12.8 22.3 0.1 0.8
Current liabilities 17.0 39.9 (3.3) (5.3)
29.9 62.2 (3.2) (4.5)
The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the forward foreign exchange contracts 
designated as cash flow hedges are expected to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss:
2010
	 Carrying
	 amount
	 £	million
	 Expected
	 cash	flows
	 £	million
	 6	months
	 or	less
	 £	million
	 6-12
	 months
	 £	million
	 1-2
	 years
	 £	million
	 2-5
	 years
	 £	million
Forward exchange contracts
Assets 0.1 12.8 9.6 0.8 2.4 –
	 Liabilities (3.3) 17.0 4.2 2.9 9.0 0.9
(3.2) 29.8 13.8 3.7 11.4 0.9
2009
 Carrying
 amount
 £ million
 Expected
 cash flows
 £ million
 6 months
 or less
 £ million
 6-12
 months
 £ million
 1-2
 years
 £ million
 2-5
 years
 £ million
Forward exchange contracts
Assets 0.8 22.3 13.3 6.7 1.1 1.2
	 Liabilities (5.3) 39.9 16.5 4.6 9.7 9.1
(4.5) 62.2 29.8 11.3 10.8 10.3
In 2010, £0.7 million (2009: charge of £0.3 million) was transferred from the hedging reserve to cost of sales in the 
income statement. 
Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and 
changes in their fair value are recognised through the income statement. The notional contract amount, carrying amount 
and fair values of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows:
	 2010
	 Notional
	 contract
	 amount
	 £	million
 2009
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
	 2010
	 Carrying
	 amount	and
	 fair	value
	 £	million
 2009
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
Current assets 120.4 58.8 1.3 1.0
Current liabilities 36.3 11.2 (2.3) (0.2)
156.7 70.0 (1.0) 0.8 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 92
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
19	Financial	instruments	continued
Hedging	of	foreign	currency	risk	–	net	investment	hedges
The group uses forward foreign exchange contracts and currency interest rate swaps which have been designated as 
hedges of the net investments in subsidiaries in Canada and the US. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and 
fair values of swaps designated as net investment hedges are as follows:
	 2010
	 Notional
	 contract
	 amount
	 £	million
 2009
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
	 2010
	 Carrying
	 amount	and
	 fair	value
	 £	million
 2009
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
Non-current assets 22.3 22.3 1.4 1.4
Current liabilities 101.3 25.4 (21.4) (5.1)
Non-current liabilities 142.9 148.6 (12.4) (22.3)
266.5 196.3 (32.4) (26.0)
A net foreign exchange loss for the year of £11.5 million (2009: gain of £11.6 million) was recognised in the translation 
reserve in respect of these forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps.
The investment hedging policy was changed in 2009 to cease translation hedging for core assets of the business. As a 
result of this change in policy, existing hedging contracts will not be replaced as they mature. In specific circumstances, 
for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the group may from time to time enter into new net investment 
hedges to manage foreign exchange risk.
Interest	rate	risk	–	contractual	maturity	and	effective	interest	rates
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their 
effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature:
	 2010
	 Effective
	 interest	rate
	 Per	cent
	 Total
	 £	million
	 6	months
	 or	less
	 £	million
Short-term investments 1.08 196.4 196.4
Cash and cash equivalents 0.55 543.7 543.7
740.1 740.1
 2009
 Effective
 interest rate
 Per cent
 Total
 £ million
 6 months
 or less
 £ million
Short-term investments 0.59 130.7 130.7
Cash and cash equivalents 0.38 612.0 612.0
742.7 742.7
Currency	risk
The group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling. It conducts business in a range of currencies, including 
Canadian and US dollars and currencies linked to the US dollar . As a result, the group is exposed to foreign exchange 
risks, which will affect transaction costs and the translation results and value of underlying assets of its foreign 
subsidiaries. 
The group hedges its material transaction related exposures and hence has no material transactional profit or loss 
sensitivity. With respect to translation exposure, the group does not hedge the profits generated in non-Sterling 
currencies but does hedge a proportion of assets denominated in foreign currencies.
A ten percent movement in Sterling/Canadian dollar and Sterling/US dollar rates results in a £25.2 million credit/charge 
to other comprehensive income arising on net investment hedges.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 93 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
19	Financial	instruments	continued
Credit	risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative 
financial instruments recorded in the balance sheet.
The ageing of trade receivables at the year end was:
	 Gross
	 receivables
	 2010
	 £	million
	 Impairment
	 2010
	 £	million
 Gross
 receivables
 2009
 £ million
 Impairment
 2009
 £ million
Not past due 182.2 (0.6) 177.6 (1.0)
Past due 0-30 days 78.2 (0.3) 45.7 (0.2)
Past due 31-120 days 29.3 (1.4) 23.7 (1.2)
Past due 121-365 days 13.0 (3.1) 12.5 (6.5)
More than one year 18.1 (15.9) 18.6 (11.0)
320.8 (21.3) 278.1 (19.9)
The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of £16.7 million (2009: £12.8 million) expected  
to be recovered within one year and £2.3 million (2009: £ 8.9 million) expected to be recovered after one year . Net 
receivables as at 31 December 2010 include £ 2.2 million (2009: £7.6 million) in respect of amounts overdue by more  
than one year . The group believes there is no material exposure in respect of these balances.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
As at 1 January (19.9) (26.6)
Exchange movements (1.7) 0.4
Net impairment allowance credited 0.3 6.3
As at 31 December (21.3) (19.9)
Based on past experience, the group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade 
receivables not past due.
Trade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government backed organisations, and the credit 
ratings of these organisations are monitored. Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent 
company guarantees, insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The group’s most significant customer in 2010 accounted for around 22 per cent (2009: 15 per cent) of continuing 
revenues, and the same percentage of current trade and other receivables.
Cash deposits and financial transactions give rise to credit risk in the event that counterparties fail to perform under  
the contract. AMEC manages these risks by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25-30 
mainstream banks and with each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit. These limits are set at prudent levels by the 
board, are based primarily on credit ratings set by Moody’s, Standard & Poors and Fitch and have been reviewed in light 
of the recent market turbulence.
The group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid over concentration of 
exposure to any one counterparty.
Fair	values
The carrying values of all financial instruments held at 31 December 2009 and 2010 equate to their fair values.
Fair values are determined using observable market prices (level 2 as defined by IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures”) as follows:
Trade and other receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are valued at their 
amortised cost, which are deemed to reflect fair value. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 94
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
19	Financial	instruments	continued
The fair value of interest rate swaps is estimated by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and 
maturity of each contract and using market interest rates.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual 
forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest rate.
Capital	management 	
Capital includes convertible preference shares and equity attributable to the equity holders of the market. The objective 
of the group’s capital management is to ensure that it has strong financial policies, the ability to grow the business to 
exceed its Vision 2015 targets and is able to maximise shareholder value.
The appropriate capital structure for the group would comprise of a mix of debt and equity. The mix will be determined by 
considering business profile and strategy, financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
Policies state that total borrowings should be less than two times adjusted capital and reserves. However, the group is 
currently in a net cash position. If debt is subsequently required, the long term net debt is expected to be less than two 
times EBITDA. The company may exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it. However, it is 
expected that any increases would be temporary given the net operational cash flows of the group.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended  
31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
20	Non-current	trade	and	other	payables
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Other payables 6.7 16.3
Other payables represents the amount of deferred consideration on acquisitions payable in more than one year .
21	Provisions 	
 Litigation
 settlement
 and future
 legal costs
 £ million
 Indemnities
 granted and
 retained
 obligations
 on disposed
 businesses
 £ million
 Insurance
 £ million
 Onerous
 property
 contracts and
 provisions to
 fund joint
 ventures
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
As at 1 January 2010 (restated) 53.8 74.9 42.3 31.0 202.0
Exchange movements 1.3 (1.4) – (0.3) (0.4)
Transfer from trade and other payables 1.3 – – 2.5 3.8
Utilised (3.9) (6.1) (0.4) (6.6) (17.0)
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
 Additional provisions 6.2 5.0 1.8 0.1 13.1
 Unused amounts reversed (8.4) (6.0) – – (14.4)
As	at	31	December	2010 50.3 66.4 43.7 26.7 187.1
Provision was made during 2006 and prior for the estimated litigation, settlement and future legal costs in connection 
with the group’s ongoing major litigation. Major contingent liabilities are discussed in more detail in note 27.
The provision for indemnities relates to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, purchasers of the Built 
Environment businesses and other peripheral businesses in 2007, and to the Wind Developments business which was 
sold in 2008. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 95 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
21	Provisions	continued
The insurance provision relates to the potential liabilities in the group’s captive insurance entity and provisions in relation 
to risks associated with insurance claims. These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease 
of former employees.
Future outflows in respect of the onerous property contracts are expected to occur over the next several years. Due to the 
nature of the other liabilities, the timing of any potential future outflows is uncertain. 
Provision has been made for AMEC’s potential liability to fund loss-making joint venture entities.
22	Share	capital	and	reserves
Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 62  
and 63.
Reserves
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments 
that hedge the company’s net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
The group has acquired 1,000,000 shares (2009: 855,349) during the year which are held in treasury. During the year 
468,814 shares (2009: 350,228) were transferred to share scheme participants leaving a balance held in treasury as at 
31 December 2010 of 6,658,059 shares (2009: 6,126,873). £50.6 million (2009: £48.5 million) has been deducted from 
equity in respect of these shares.
A qualifying share ownership trust (‘the Quest’) was established on 26 August 1999. The Quest holds shares issued by the 
company in connection with the savings related share option scheme. There was no activity in the Quest during 2010 or 2009.
As at 31 December 2010 the Quest held 259 (2009: 259) shares.
Share	capital
The authorised share capital of the company is £350.0 million (2009: £350.0 million). This comprises 700 million  
(2009: 700 million) ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank parri passu in all respects. To the 
company’s knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting rights 
between holders of shares.
As at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010 the company had in issue 337,965,871 ordinary shares of 50 pence each. 
The allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary share capital at these dates was £169.0 million.
Share-based	payments
Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings Related Share Option Schemes 
which are open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria. Grants of share options are 
made to participating employees that entitle them to buy shares in the company normally after three years at up to 20 
per cent discount to the market price of the shares at the time of offer . In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, 
options are granted at a maximum discount of 15 per cent to the share price at the time of grant and are normally 
exercisable after two years. In certain countries, awards take the form of cash-settled stock appreciation rights.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted 
shares that are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period. During 
2008, one-off awards were made under the Transformation Incentive Plan that are subject to non-market based 
conditions related to 2010 performance. Detailed terms of these plans are included in the remuneration report on  
pages 48 to 58. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 96
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
22	Share	capital	and	reserves	continued
The Company has a further scheme in place, the Executive Share Option Scheme. AMEC’s policy is to grant share options 
under this scheme only selectively and in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment. No awards have been made 
under this scheme since 2004.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the group are predominantly equity-settled and, other than in 
defined good leaver circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the group at the time of vesting.
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and 
the Executive Share Option Scheme are as follows:
	 Weighted
	 average
	 exercise	price
	 2010
	 pence
	 Number
	 of	options
	 2010
 Weighted
 average
 exercise price
 2009
 pence
 Number
 of options
 2009
Outstanding on 1 January 553 6,176,174 526 5,823,721
Lapsed/cancelled 540 (401,097) 560 (679,848)
Exercised 523 (524,631) 317 (352,387)
Granted 808 1,110,681 610 1,384,688
Outstanding on 31 December 601 6,361,127 553 6,176,174
Exercisable on 31 December 397 173,569 549 84,535
Options were exercised on a regular basis during the year, and the average share price for the year was 902 pence  
(2009: 678 pence).
Options outstanding on 31 December 2010 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
	 Weighted
	 average
	 remaining
	 contractual	life
	 2010	(years)
	 Number
	 of	options
	 2010
 Weighted
 average
 remaining
 contractual life
 2009 (years)
 Number
 of options
 2009
300.00 pence to 399.99 pence – 140,554 0.1 414,726
500.00 pence to 599.99 pence 0.4 3,855,756 1.1 4,226,026
600.00 pence to 699.99 pence 0.4 1,148,108 0.6 1,248,736
Over 700.00 pence 0.5 1,216,709 – 286,686
6,361,127 6,176,174 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 97 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
22	Share	capital	and	reserves	continued
Share awards granted during the year under the Performance Share Plan were as follows:
	 Weighted
	 average
	 fair	value
	 2010
	 pence
	 Number
	 of	shares
	 2010
 Weighted
 average
 fair value
 2009
 pence
 Number
 of shares
 2009
Share awards granted during the year 571 1,269,230 377 1,774,607
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to 
the fair value of those instruments. For grants in either the current or preceding year, the pricing models used and inputs 
(on a weighted average basis where appropriate) into those models are as follows:
 Savings Related
 Share Option Scheme
 (Black-Scholes model)
 Performance Share Plan
 (Monte Carlo model) 
	 2010 2009 	 2010 2009
Weighted average fair value  
at measurement date 316p 301p 571p 377p
Share price 994p 864p 799p 534p
Exercise price 795p 610p n/a n/a
Expected share price volatility 40% 35% 35% 35%
Option life 3.3	years 3.3 years n/a n/a
Expected dividend yield 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 1.6% n/a n/a
Comparator share price volatility n/a n/a 34% 31%
Correlation between two companies  
in comparator group n/a n/a 40% 40%
The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison of the total shareholder 
return of the company with that of its comparators and achievement of targeted earnings per share growth. The former 
is a market based test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award.
Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2010 of 19.2 pence  
per share, which will absorb an estimated £63.0 million of equity. Subject to approval, it will be paid on 1 July 2011  
to shareholders on the register of members on 27 May 2011. The dividend has not been provided for and there are  
no income tax consequences for the company. This final dividend together with the interim dividend of 7.3 pence  
(2009: 6.1 pence) per share results in a total dividend of 26.5 pence per share (2009: 17.7 pence). AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 98
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
22	Share	capital	and	reserves	continued
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Dividends	charged	to	reserves
Interim dividend in respect of 2009 of 6.1 pence (2009: interim dividend in respect of 2008  
of 5.3 pence) per share 19.9 17.3
Final dividend in respect of 2009 of 11.6 pence (2009: final dividend in respect of 2008 of  
10.1 pence) per share 37.9 32.9
Adjustment to accrual in respect of previous years – 0.1
Charge in respect of 2010 dividend 0.3 –
58.1 50.3
Dividends	paid
Interim dividend in respect of 2009 of 6.1 pence (2009: interim dividend in respect of 2008  
of 5.3 pence) per share 19.9 17.3
Final dividend in respect of 2009 of 11.6 pence (2009: final dividend in respect of 2008 of  
10.1 pence) per share 37.9 32.9
Payments in respect of prior year dividends – 0.1
Payment in respect of 2010 dividend 0.3 –
58.1 50.3
The amounts waived by Trustees of the Performance Share Plan in respect of the interim and final dividends was 
£0.9 million (2009: £1.0 million).
23	Analysis	of	cash,	cash	equivalents	and	net	cash
 As at
 1 January
 2010
 £ million
 Cash flow
 £ million
 Exchange and
 other non-cash 
 movements 
 £ million
	 As	at
	 31	December
	 2010
	 £	million
Cash at bank and in hand 219.6 (56.0) 13.5 177.1
Short-term investments (less than three months) 392.4 (32.6) 6.8 366.6
Cash and cash equivalents 612.0 (88.6) 20.3 543.7
Short-term investments (more than three months) 130.7 65.7 – 196.4
Net cash as at the end of the year 742.7 (22.9) 20.3 740.1
Short-term investments comprise short-term bank deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2010 includes £7.3 million (2009: £8.3 million) that is held in countries 
from which prior approval is required to transfer funds abroad. There are restrictions on the use of a further £21.3 million 
(2009: £20.6 million) of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the group’s captive insurance subsidiary 
to certain insurers. Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2009 included US$8.0 million which had been frozen 
by the courts; this restriction is no longer in place. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 99 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
24	Acquisitions	and	disposals
Acquisitions	in	2010
The following purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions. None of the businesses acquired made a material 
contribution to consolidated revenue and profit in the period from their acquisition to 31 December 2010, nor would they 
have done in the year ended 31 December 2010 if they had been acquired on 1 January 2010. 
Intangible assets recognised at fair value on the acquisition of these businesses included brands, trade names, customer 
relationships, order backlogs and non-compete agreements. 
Currie	&	Brown	(Australia)	Pty	Ltd
On 29 January 2010, the group acquired all of the shares in Currie & Brown (Australia) Pty Ltd. The name of this company 
was subsequently changed to Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd (Aquenta). Aquenta trades almost entirely in Australia and is a 
provider of independent cost, contract and consulting services to the oil and gas, mining, building, transport, utilities and 
infrastructure sectors. The business provides similar services to the existing AMEC subsidiary Rider Hunt International 
Ltd and was acquired to increase the size of the consultancy services business. This is fully aligned with AMEC’s Vision 
2015 strategy of assured growth, through a strengthened geographic footprint in key regions and enhanced capabilities 
in chosen sectors. It builds on AMEC’s recent acquisition of GRD Minproc.
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of Aquenta were  
as follows:
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Property, plant and equipment 0.8
Intangible assets 2.1
Current tax receivable 0.2
Trade and other receivables 4.9
Cash and cash equivalents 1.7
Trade and other payables (7.3)
Deferred tax liability (0.4)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 2.0
Goodwill on acquisition 15.6
17.6
Consideration
Paid in cash on completion 17.6
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of Aquenta primarily due to its skilled workforce positioned within the strong 
Australian market which did not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets as at the dates of acquisition.
Entec	Holdings	Limited	(Entec)
On 29 March 2010, the group acquired all of the shares in Entec. Entec is a UK-based environmental and engineering 
consultancy, and was acquired to provide opportunity for leadership positioning in the UK geographical area, particularly 
in the water services sector .  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 100
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
24	Acquisitions	and	disposals	continued
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of Entec were as follows:
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Property, plant and equipment 1.3
Intangible assets 26.6
Trade and other receivables 14.4
Current tax receivables 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents 1.0
Trade and other payables (11.2)
Deferred tax liability (7.4)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 25.0
Goodwill on acquisition 42.6
67.6
Consideration:
Cash – paid on completion (includes working capital
adjustment of £0.4 million paid in August 2010) 50.4
– paid to repay debt 11.2
– contingent 6.0
Costs of acquisition 67.6
In addition to the consideration set out above, up to a further £3.0 million is payable as deferred compensation depending 
upon continuing employment of three former shareholders for the one year following the acquisition date.
The contingent consideration of £6.0 million shown above is dependent upon achievement of a profit target for the  
year following the acquisition date. The probability weighted outcome for deferred consideration is considered to be  
£6.0 million.
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of Entec primarily through the acquisition of Entec’s expertise in various 
environmental fields, primarily water services, as well as expected synergies. 
Other	acquisitions
A number of smaller acquisitions were made in the year for £9.2 million in cash paid on completion. The aggregate fair 
value of identifiable net assets was £0.3 million (including cash acquired of £0.6 million) and goodwill arising on the 
acquisitions was £9.3 million. The initial accounting for these acquisitions has been determined only provisionally.
Goodwill has been recognised on these acquisitions as a result of their skilled workforces which did not meet the criteria 
for recognition as intangible assets at the dates of acquisition.
A further £8.7 million was paid in the year in respect of businesses acquired in 2009 and prior . The aggregate goodwill on 
these acquisitions was reduced by £8.4 million as the conditions for payment of elements of the deferred consideration 
were not met.
Disposal	in	2010
AGRA Foundations Limited
AGRA Foundations Limited was sold to Freysinnet Menard Canada Inc (FMC) on 25 June 2010. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 101 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
24	Acquisitions	and	disposals	continued
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities sold and the profit on disposal were as follows:
 £ million
Cash consideration received 18.9
Goodwill 2.1
Property, plant and equipment 9.8
Inventories 0.4
Current tax receivable 1.9
Trade and other receivables 8.3
Trade and other payables (3.2)
Cash and cash equivalents 2.1
Deferred tax liability (3.1)
Net assets sold 18.3
Cumulative foreign exchange gains recycled from the hedging reserve 6.0
Profit on disposal 6.6
In addition to the disposal of AGRA Foundations, there were various cash payments in respect of businesses sold in prior 
years and adjustments to provisions held in respect of prior year disposals resulting in a net loss of £2.3 million and a net 
cash outflow of £4.7 million.
Net	cash	flows	attributable	to	discontinued	operations
The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Net cash flow from operating activities (8.2) (1.9)
Net cash flow from investing activities (3.5) (7.0)
(11.7) (8.9)
Acquisitions	in	2009
The following purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions. Intangible assets recognised at fair value on the acquisition of 
these businesses included brands, trade names, customer relationships, order backlogs and non-compete agreements. 
Performance	Improvements	Group	Limited	(PI)
On 26 January 2009, the group acquired all of the shares in PI. PI is based in the UK and is an asset optimisation 
consultancy services company. 
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of PI were as follows:
 Book value
 £ million 
 Fair value
 adjustments
 £ million
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 (0.2) 0.1
Intangible assets – 7.5 7.5
Trade and other receivables 4.8 – 4.8
Cash and cash equivalents (0.7) – (0.7)
Trade and other payables (2.4) – (2.4)
Deferred tax liability – (2.1) (2.1)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 2.0 5.2 7.2
Goodwill on acquisition 7.7
14.9
Consideration
Cash – paid on completion 12.8
 – deferred 1.7
 Costs of acquisition 0.4
14.9 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 102
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
24	Acquisitions	and	disposals	continued
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of PI primarily through the benefits gained from combining PI’s performance 
improvement skills with AMEC’s project management and engineering expertise to enhance value for customers.
GRD	Limited	(GRD)
On 17 November 2009, the group acquired all of the shares in GRD, an engineering and project development company 
based in Perth, Australia.
The initial amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities at the time of acquisition and the respective 
fair value adjustments relating to these were provisionally reported in the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009. 
The acquisition accounting has been finalised in 2010 and the fair values have been updated as follows:
 Book value
 £ million 
 Provisional 
  fair value
 adjustments 
 £ million
 Fair value 
  adjustments
 identified in 
 current year 
 £ million
 Recognised
 value
 (restated)
 £ million
Property, plant and equipment 3.4 (1.0) – 2.4
Intangible assets 7.8 3.2 (2.6) 8.4
Interests in joint ventures 22.1 2.7 (24.8) –
Deferred tax asset 15.3 (8.6) 1.6 8.3
Trade and other receivables 24.0 (3.8) (1.4) 18.8
Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 – – 0.5
Trade and other payables (15.9) (6.3) (5.4) (27.6)
Current tax liability – (3.0) (1.4) (4.4)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (1.8) – (21.6) (23.4)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 55.4 (16.8) (55.6) (17.0)
Goodwill on acquisition 108.3
91.3
Cash consideration paid on completion 58.3
Repayment of debt on acquisition 30.4
88.7
Costs of acquisition 2.6
91.3
Finalisation of the acquisition accounting has resulted in a £55.6 million reduction in the fair values of the acquired net 
identifiable assets and liabilities and a corresponding increase in goodwill.
This reduction in the fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities in the most part relates to the joint venture 
investments held by GRD at the time of acquisition. This arises because the technical solutions associated with achieving 
service commencement of the associated project took longer than first anticipated; this delay was caused by circumstances 
which existed at the date of acquisition. The time and cost impact of this delay is fully reflected in the reduction in fair value. 
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of GRD because of synergies expected to be obtained through the complementary 
fit of existing AMEC and GRD operations in Australasia, and GRD’s skilled workforce and intellectual property which did 
not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset as at the date of acquisition.
Other	acquisitions
A number of other smaller acquisitions were made in the year for £5.5 million in cash paid on completion. A further 
£1.6 million of conditional consideration may be paid in respect of these acquisitions. The aggregate fair value of 
identifiable net assets was £1.7 million (including cash acquired of £0.2 million) and goodwill arising on acquisitions  
was £5.4 million. The aggregate book value of net assets acquired was £0.4 million.
Goodwill has been recognised on these acquisitions as a result of their skilled workforces which did not meet the criteria 
for recognition as intangible assets as at the dates of acquisition.
A further £10.0 million was paid in the period in respect of 2008 acquisitions, and the aggregate goodwill on these acquisitions 
was reduced by £7.9 million as the conditions for payment of elements of the deferred consideration were not met. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 103 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
24	Acquisitions	and	disposals	continued
Disposals	in	2009
During the year, two small businesses were sold. In addition there were various cash payments in respect of businesses 
sold in prior years and adjustments to provisions held in respect of prior year disposals resulting in a net gain of 
£3.5 million and a net cash outflow of £6.2 million.
25	Capital	commitments
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Contracted but not provided for in the accounts – –
As at 31 December 2010, there was no commitment to invest in PPP concessions (2009: £0.2 million).
26	Operating	leases
The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
In one year or less 54.6 51.9
Between one and five years 128.2 113.5
Over five years 56.3 35.5
239.1 200.9
AMEC enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires; leases for motor vehicles and office equipment with 
lease periods of two to five years; and longer term property leases. None of the leases include any contingent rentals.
27	Contingent	liabilities
Guarantees	and	indemnities
The borrowings of joint ventures are generally without recourse to AMEC. 
Legal	claims	and	actions
AMEC has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known legal claims and actions made by or against the 
company. Consequently, it carefully assesses the likelihood of the success of a claim or action including those identified 
in this note. AMEC makes an appropriate provision for those legal claims or actions against the company on the basis of 
the likely outcome, but makes no provision for those which are, in its view, unlikely to succeed. Provisions of £50.3 million 
(2009: £53.8 million) are shown in note 21 in respect of these claims. It is not practicable to quantify the remaining 
contingent liability because of the range of possible outcomes and the progress of the litigation.
As the matters below involve actions by third parties against AMEC, the timing of settlement cannot be determined 
although AMEC is endeavouring to settle as soon as practicable. Due to the litigation, there is no work in progress or 
other receivable recognised in respect of these contracts. Whilst AMEC believes that certain claims may be covered by 
insurance, it is not currently practicable to assess the extent to which AMEC’s insurance policies will respond in the event 
of a settlement.
AMEC Group Limited (‘ AGL ’) is currently the subject of certain ongoing Health and Safety Executive investigations, in 
respect of separate incidents involving two separate fatalities to subcontractors at the Leftbank Apartments project in 
Manchester in April 2004 and April 2005. Summons have been received in both cases. AMEC has entered a not guilty 
plea in both cases. The first case will be heard at Liverpool Crown Court in June 2011 and the second case will be heard 
at Manchester Crown Court in September 2011. If AGL is found guilty and prosecuted for these cases, it could be liable to 
unlimited fines. A prosecution for AGL in relation to fatal accidents in relatively quick succession could have an impact on 
the amount of any penalty.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 104
Notes	to	the	consolidated	accounts	 continued
27	Contingent	liabilities	continued
AGL has also received two summons with regard to an incident involving a fatality at the Aberthaw Power Station.  
This accident occurred during work which was outside of AMEC’s undertaking and control and involved the death of  
a subcontractor of the client. AMEC has entered a guilty plea for one of the charges and sentencing will occur in June 2011. 
As the case will be heard in Crown Court, AGL are liable to unlimited fines.
It is considered improbable that any of these cases will result in a material liability for AGL.
28	Related	party	transactions
During the year there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and 
subsidiary companies.
Transactions	with	the	senior	management	group
Directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.40 per cent of the voting rights of the company as at 
31 December 2010.
In addition to their salaries, the group and company also provide non-cash benefits to directors and executive officers, 
and contribute to a post-employment defined benefit plan on their behalf. Directors and executive officers also receive 
share awards under the Performance Share Plan.
The senior management group includes AMEC plc board directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility. 
Details of the senior management group compensation are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Short-term employee benefits 4.8 4.5
Equity settled share-based payments 6.9 6.8
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
11.8 11.4
The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows:
	 Value	of	transactions 	
	 in	the	year
	 Outstanding	balance 	
	 as	at	31	December
	 2010	
	
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated)
 £ million
	 2010	
	
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated)
 £ million
Services rendered 90.5 62.6 20.8 12.2
Services received 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.1
Provision of finance 9.5 9.0 20.4 7.8
29	Post	balance	sheet	events
On 2 February 2011, AMEC announced the acquisition of BCI Engineers and Scientists, Inc., a Florida-based consulting 
firm focused on the water and mining sectors. The total cash consideration is US$20 million, of which US$15 million was 
paid at completion, with the balance to be paid over the next two years, subject to performance.
On 7 February 2011, AMEC announced the acquisition of Zektingroup, an Australian-based specialist engineering 
consultancy for the oil and gas and resources industries. The total cash consideration is Au$48 million, of which  
Au$37 million was paid at closing, with the balance subject to performance over the next two years.
On 21 February 2011, AMEC announced the acquisition of qedi, a company focused on delivering specialist completion 
and commissioning services for major projects in the oil and gas industry. Qedi is headquartered in Aberdeen, UK and 
provides project delivery services to international oil companies in the UK, Gulf of Mexico, Middle East, the Caspian and 
Australia. The total consideration is £33 million; £29 million was paid at closing, with the balance, subject to retention,  
to be paid over the next two years. 
Due to proximity of these acquisitions to the date of approval of these accounts, it is not practicable to disclose the 
information required by IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 105 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
Responsibility	statements	of	the	directors
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are 
also responsible for preparing a directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the company’s website. Legislation in the  
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
consolidated and parent company accounts may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility	statement	of	the	directors 	 	
in	respect	of	the	annual	financial	report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
O O
the accounts, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
O O
the directors report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and  
the position of the issuer and undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with  
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties  
that they face.
S	Y	Brikho 	
Chief Executive
I	P	McHoul 	
Chief Financial Officer 
3 March 2011
Statement	of	directors’	responsibilities 	 	
in	respect	of	the	annual	report	and 	 	
the	accounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual 
report and the consolidated and parent company accounts, 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
consolidated and parent company accounts for each 
financial year . Under that law the directors are required to 
prepare the consolidated accounts in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the parent company accounts in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable 
law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
consolidated and parent company accounts unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company 
accounts, the directors are required to: 
O O
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently 
O O
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent
O O
for the consolidated accounts, state whether they  
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the EU
O O
for the parent company accounts, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the parent company accounts and 
O O
prepare the consolidated and parent company accounts 
on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the consolidated and the parent company 
will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the parent company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the parent company and enable them to ensure that its 
accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
group and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 106
We have audited the consolidated accounts of AMEC plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated 
balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in 
equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the 
related notes 1 to 29. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective	responsibilities	of	directors 	 	
and	auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 105, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the consolidated 
accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the consolidated accounts in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
Scope	of	the	audit	of	the	consolidated 	
accounts
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the consolidated accounts sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
consolidated accounts.
Opinion	on	consolidated	accounts
In our opinion the consolidated accounts:
O O
Give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the 
year then ended;
O O
Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union; and 
O O
Have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion	on	other	matters	prescribed	by	the 	
Companies	Act	2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the consolidated 
accounts are prepared is consistent with the consolidated 
accounts.
Matters	on	which	we	are	required	to	report 	 	
by	exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion:
O O
Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
O O
We have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
O O
The directors’ statement, set out on page 105, in relation 
to going concern; and
O O
The part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified 
for our review; and
O O
Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the 
Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other	matter
We have reported separately on the parent company 
accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December 
2010 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having  
been audited.
Hywel	Ball (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP, 
Statutory Auditor 
London 
3 March 2011
Notes
1  The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the 
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors 
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly,  
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have 
occurred to the consolidated accounts since they were initially 
presented on the web site.
2  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of consolidated accounts may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
Independent	auditors’	report	to	the	members	of	AMEC	plc
Registered number 1675285 107 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Note
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated)
 £ million
Fixed	assets
Tangible assets 2 6.4 2.5
Investments: 3
Subsidiaries 1,646.9 1,803.1
Other – 0.1
1,646.9 1,803.2
1,653.3 1,805.7
Current	assets
Debtors: including amounts falling due after one year of £21.0 million  
(2009: £26.7 million) 4 81.3 56.9
Cash at bank and in hand 209.4 330.9
290.7 387.8
Current	liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (71.9) (47.7)
Net	current	assets 218.8 340.1
Total	assets	less	current	liabilities 1,872.1 2,145.8
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 6 (864.0) (1,090.3)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 7 – (1.0)
Net	assets 1,008.1 1,054.5
Capital	and	reserves
Called up share capital 8, 9 169.0 169.0
Share premium account 9 100.7 100.7
Capital redemption reserve 9 17.2 17.2
Profit and loss account 9 721.2 767.6
Equity	shareholders’	funds 1,008.1 1,054.5
The accounts on pages 107 to 112 were approved by the board of directors on 3 March 2011 and were signed on its  
behalf by:
S	Y	Brikho 	
Chief Executive
I	P	McHoul 	
Chief Financial Officer
Company	balance	sheet
As at 31 December 2010 108 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
1	Accounting	policies
Basis	of	accounting
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain 
land and buildings and in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The company has not presented its own profit and loss 
account, as permitted by section 408 of the Companies  
Act 2006. 
Accounting	standards	adopted	in	the	year
An amendment to FRS 20 “Share-based payments” has 
been adopted during the year . Consequently the company 
balance sheet as at 31 December 2009 has been restated 
in respect of equity-settled share-based payment rights 
granted by the company to employees of subsidiary 
companies. Following restatement the balance on 
investments in subsidiary undertakings and profit and loss 
reserve are both increased by the amount of the capital 
contribution arising on these rights. The effect of the 
restatement is to increase net assets by £18.4 million and 
increase equity by the same amount. The restatement  
has no impact on the company’s reported profit. 
Restatement
The company balance sheet as at 31 December 2009 has 
been restated to present on a gross basis the fair values  
of intra-group derivative financial instruments for which 
there is no legally enforceable right of set off. This 
restatement has no impact on the company’s reported 
profit or net assets.
Cash	flow	statement
The company is exempt from the requirement of FRS 1 
‘Cash flow statements’ to prepare a cash flow statement 
as its cash flows are included within the consolidated cash 
flow of the group.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all tangible assets, other than 
freehold land, at rates calculated to write-off the cost or 
valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on  
a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. For plant 
and equipment the estimated useful lives are mainly 
between three and five years. Depreciation is provided 
from the month in which the asset is available for use.
Financial	instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. 
Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the 
instruments. Cash, deposits and short-term investments 
are held at amortised cost. Derivative financial 
instruments are accounted for as described in note 1 to 
the consolidated accounts.
The company is exempt from the disclosure requirements 
of FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ as the 
financial instruments disclosures of IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
Instruments: disclosure’ are included in the notes to the 
consolidated accounts.
Financial	guarantee	contracts
Where the company enters into financial guarantee 
contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other 
companies within the group, the company considers these 
to be indemnity arrangements, and accounts for them as 
such. In this respect the company treats the guarantee 
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it 
becomes probable that the company will be required to 
make a payment under the guarantee.
Foreign	currencies
Transactions in a currency other than Sterling are 
translated to Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the  
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet 
date and exchange differences are taken to profit and loss 
accounts in the year . Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
are measured in terms of historical cost and are 
translated using the exchange rate at the date of  
the transaction.
Interest	
Interest income and payable is recognised in profit or loss 
on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Investments	
Investments are stated at cost less provision for permanent 
diminution in value.
Leases	
Operating lease costs are charged to the profit and loss 
account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Pensions
Contributions to defined benefit pension schemes in 
respect of employees of AMEC plc are charged in the profit 
and loss account as incurred.
Defined benefit pension schemes are operated by the 
group but the company is unable to separately identify its 
share of the assets and liabilities of those schemes or any 
details of the surplus or deficit in the scheme and the 
implications of that surplus or deficit for the company.
Details of the disclosures required under FRS 17 
‘Retirement Benefits’ can be found in the accounts of 
AMEC Group Limited, a subsidiary company.
Share-based	payments
There are share-based payment arrangements which 
allow AMEC employees to acquire AMEC shares; these 
awards are granted by AMEC. The fair value of awards 
granted is recognised as a cost of employment with a 
corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is 
measured at grant date and spread over the period during
Notes	to	the	company	balance	sheet AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 109 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
1	Accounting	policies	continued
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is measured using a 
valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due 
only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain 
items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as 
otherwise required by FRS 19 ‘Deferred tax’.
2	Tangible	assets
 Assets in 
 the course of 
 construction 
 £million
 Plant and
 equipment
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Cost or valuation:
As at 1 January 2010 – 6.2 6.2
Additions 3.7 0.3 4.0
Reclassification 2.0 (2.0) –
As	at	31	December	2010 5.7 4.5 10.2
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2010 – 3.7 3.7
Provided during the year – 0.1 0.1
As	at	31	December	2010 – 3.8 3.8
Net book value:
As	at	31	December	2010 5.7 0.7 6.4
As at 1 January 2010 – 2.5 2.5
3	Investments	(held	as	fixed	assets)
 Shares in
 subsidiaries
 £ million
 Amounts
 owed by
 subsidiaries
 £ million
 Total
 investment in
 subsidiaries
 £ million 
 Other
 investments
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Cost:
As at 1 January 2010 (restated) 1,497.6 386.5 1,884.1 0.1 1,884.1
Additions 31.5 3.9 35.4 – 35.4
Disposals (50.1) (141.5) (191.6) (0.1) (191.7)
As	at	31	December	2010 1,479.0 248.9 1,727.9 – 1,727.9
Provisions:
As at 1 January 2010 81.0 – 81.0 – 81.0
As	at	31	December	2010 81.0 – 81.0 – 81.0
Net book value:
As	at	31	December	2010 1,398.0 248.9 1,646.9 – 1,646.9
As at 1 January 2010 (restated) 1,416.6 386.5 1,803.1 0.1 1,803.2
Principal group companies are listed on page 114. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 110
4	Debtors
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated)
 £ million
Debtors:	amounts	falling	due	within	one	year
Trade debtors 4.1 4.5
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 24.4 12.9
Derivative financial instruments 19.3 5.7
Corporation tax 9.1 5.4
Other debtors – 0.2
Prepayments and accrued income 3.4 1.5
60.3 30.2
Debtors:	amounts	falling	due	after	one	year
Derivative financial instruments 12.7 19.2
Deferred tax 8.3 7.5
21.0 26.7
81.3 56.9
The deferred tax asset is analysed as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Difference between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances 0.2 0.7
Tax losses 3.7 –
Other timing differences 4.4 6.8
8.3 7.5
On 22 June 2010, in his Budget Speech, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a scheduled reduction in the rate 
of corporation tax from 28 per cent to 24 per cent by reducing the rate by one per cent annually from 1 April 2011 to 2014. 
As at 31 December 2010, the reduction in the rate to 27 per cent on 1 April 2011 has been substantively enacted. 
However, the remaining reductions in the rate have not yet been substantively enacted and therefore the proposed 
changes are not reflected in the figures reported.
The reduction in the rate from 27 per cent to 24 per cent is forecast to have an insignificant impact on the balance sheet 
deferred tax asset and future charges to the profit and loss account.
5	Creditors:	amounts	falling	due	within	one	year
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated)
 £ million
Bank and other loans and overdrafts 5.2 6.3
Trade creditors 5.4 5.8
Derivative financial instruments 31.3 12.9
Other taxation and social security costs 11.3 3.2
Other creditors 8.2 7.5
Accruals and deferred income 10.3 11.8
Dividends 0.2 0.2
71.9 47.7
Notes	to	the	company	balance	sheet	 continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 111 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
6	Creditors:	amounts	falling	due	after	one	year
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 (restated)
 £ million
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 847.8 1,058.7
Derivative financial instruments 16.2 31.6
864.0 1,090.3
7	Provisions	for	liabilities	and	charges
 Indemnities 
 granted
 on disposal
 of subsidiary
 £ million
As at 1 January 2010 1.0
Credited to profit and loss (1.0)
As	at	31	December	2010 –
8	Share	capital
The authorised share capital of the company is £350.0 million (2009: £350.0 million).
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 pence each 169.0 169.0
There was no movement in issued share capital during the year:
 Number £ million
As	at	1	January	and	31	December	2010 337,965,871 169.0
Share-based	payment
Details of share-based payment schemes operated by the company are provided in note 22 to the group accounts.
9	Reserves
 Share
 capital
 £ million
 Share
 premium
 account
 £ million
 Capital
 redemption
 reserve
 £ million
 Profit
 and loss
 account
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
As at 1 January 2010 (restated) 169.0 100.7 17.2 767.6 1,054.5
Equity settled share-based payments – – – 13.6 13.6
Dividends – – – (58.1) (58.1)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – 1.7 1.7
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the 
Performance Share Plan – – – (4.6) (4.6)
Acquisition of treasury shares – – – (8.2) (8.2)
Tax on income charged  
to reserves – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Profit for the year – – – 9.7 9.7
As	at	31	December	2010 169.0 100.7 17.2 721.2 1,008.1
Details of dividends paid by the company and proposed during the year are disclosed in note 22 to the group accounts.
The company’s profit for the year in 2009 was £12.1 million. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 112
10	Lease	commitments
The current annual commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows:
	 Land	and
	 buildings
	 2010
	 £	million
 Land and
 buildings
 2009
 £ million
Between one and five years 0.2 0.2
11	Contingent	liabilities
Guarantees	and	indemnities
Guarantees given by the company in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries amounted to £nil as at 31 December 2010 (2009: £nil).
12	Related	party	transactions
During the year the only related party transactions for which disclosure is required under FRS 8 “Related Party 
Disclosures” were with the senior management group. Transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings are  
not disclosed.
Transactions	with	the	senior	management	group
Directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.40 per cent of the voting rights of the company  
as at 31 December 2010.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to directors and contributes to a post-
employment defined benefit plan on behalf of certain directors. Directors also receive share awards under the 
Performance Share Plan. 
The senior management group consists of the AMEC plc board directors and details of their compensation are as follows:
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
Short-term employee benefits 4.5 3.6
Equity settled share-based payments 6.3 6.2
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
8.2 9.9
Notes	to	the	company	balance	sheet	 continued 113 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
We have audited the parent company accounts of AMEC 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise 
the company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 12. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective	responsibilities	of	directors 	 	
and	auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 105, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the parent company 
accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the parent company accounts in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope	of	the	audit	of	the	accounts
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the accounts.
Opinion	on	accounts
In our opinion the parent company accounts:
O O
Give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2010;
O O
Have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
O O
Have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion	on	other	matters	prescribed	by	the 	
Companies	Act	2006
In our opinion:
O O
The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and
O O
The information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the accounts are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company accounts.
Matters	on	which	we	are	required	to	report 	 	
by	exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
O O
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
O O
The parent company accounts and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
O O
Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
O O
We have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Other	matter
O O
We have reported separately on the group consolidated 
accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December 
2010. 
Hywel	Ball (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP, 
Statutory Auditor 
London 
3 March 2011
Notes
1  The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the 
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors 
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly,  
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have 
occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the 
web site.
2  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation  
and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions. 
Independent	auditors’	report	to	the	members	of	AMEC	plc
Registered number 1675285 114 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
Principal	group	companies
As at 31 December 2010
The subsidiaries and joint ventures which, in the opinion  
of the directors, principally affect group trading results  
and net assets are listed below. Except where indicated,  
all subsidiaries listed below are wholly owned, 
incorporated in Great Britain and carry on their activities 
principally in their countries of incorporation. Shares are 
held by subsidiary companies except where marked with 
an asterisk, where they are held directly by the company.  
All holdings are of ordinary shares, except where otherwise 
indicated. A full list of subsidiaries will be filed with the 
Registrar of Companies with the next annual return.
Subsidiaries
AMEC Americas Limited (Canada) 
AMEC Australia Pty Limited (Australia) (note 1)
AMEC BDR Limited (Canada)
AMEC (Bermuda) Limited (Bermuda) 
AMEC Cade Ingenieria y Desarrollo de Proyectos Ltda.  
 (Chile)
AMEC Cade Servicios de Ingenieria Ltda. (Chile)
AMEC Earth & Environmental, Inc. (US)
AMEC Earth & Environmental (UK) Limited
AMEC E&C Services, Inc. (US)
*AMEC Finance Limited
AMEC Geomatrix, Inc. (US)
*AMEC Group Limited
AMEC Holdings, Inc. (US)
AMEC Inc. (Canada)
AMEC International (Chile) S.A. (Chile)
AMEC Kamtech, Inc. (US)
AMEC Minproc Limited (Australia)
AMEC Nuclear UK Limited
AMEC NCL Limited (Canada)
AMEC NSS Limited (Canada)
AMEC Nuclear Holdings Limited
AMEC Paragon, Inc. (US)
AMEC Participacoes E Consultoria Para O Setor  
 De Mineracao Ltda. (Brazil)
AMEC (Peru) S.A. (Peru)
AMEC Project Investments Limited
*AMEC Property and Overseas Investments Limited
Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd
Atlantic Services Limited (Bermuda)
Entec UK Limited
GRD Limited (Australia)
GRD Minproc (Proprietary) Limited (South Africa)
National Ventures, Inc. (US)
Performance Improvements (PI) Limited
Performance Improvements (PI) Group Limited
Primat Recruitment Limited
Rider Hunt International Limited
Terra Nova Technologies, Inc. (US)
Joint	ventures
AMEC Black Cat LLC (Qatar) (49 per cent) (note 2)
Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd (23 per cent) (note 3)
*Northern Integrated Services Limited  
(50 per cent – “B” shares) (note 4)
Nuclear Management Partners Limited  
 (36 per cent) (note 5)
Petersbogen Immobilengesellschaft GmbH & Co. KG
 (50 per cent) (note 6)
Sellafield Limited (note 7)
Notes
1   The issued share capital of AMEC Australia Pty Limited is 62,930,001 
ordinary shares of Au$1 each, 12,500,000 class “ A ” redeemable 
preference shares of Au$1 each and 2,500 non-cumulative 
redeemable preference shares of Au$1 each
2   The issued share capital of AMEC Black Cat LLC is 10,000,000 
ordinary shares of QAR1 each
3   The issued share capital of Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd is 32,924,234 
ordinary shares of KRW 5,000 each
4   The issued share capital of Northern Integrated Services Limited  
is 12,500 “ A ” ordinary shares of £1 each and 12,500 “B” ordinary 
shares of £1 each
5   The issued share capital of Nuclear Management Partners Limited  
is 100 ordinary shares of £1 each and one preference share of £1
6   The issued share capital of Petersbogen Immobilengesellschaft 
GmbH & Co.KG is 25,000 ordinary shares of £1 each
7   Sellafield Limited is 100 per cent owned by Nuclear Management 
Partners Limited. 115 
Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 
AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010
	 2010
	 £	million
 2009
 £ million
 2008
 £ million
 2007
 £ million
 2006
 £ million
Summarised	consolidated	results
Continuing	operations
Revenue 2,950.6 2,539.1 2,606.4 2,356.2 2,121.6 
Adjusted profit before tax
1
279.7 215.6 210.3 126.5 79.7
Amortisation and impairment (25.0) (15.7) (9.2) (2.5) (3.6)
Joint ventures and associates tax (7.2) (5.3) (1.4) (0.6) (0.3)
247.5 194.6 199.7 123.4 75.8
Exceptional items 10.7 8.9 106.9 28.2 (102.8)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 258.2 203.5 306.6 151.6 (27.0)
Income tax (21.6) (46.8) (96.9) (30.1) (15.2)
Profit/(loss)	for	the	year	from	continuing 	
operations 236.6 156.7 209.7 121.5 (42.2)
(Loss)/profit	for	the	year	from	discontinued 	
operations	(net	of	income	tax) (6.7) 15.9 (10.7) 222.9 261.4 
Profit	for	the	year 229.9 172.6 199.0 344.4 219.2 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from  
continuing operations 73.0p 47.6p 64.5p 36.9p (13.3)p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations
2
62.5p 46.9p 44.0p 28.0p 16.6p 
Dividends per share 26.5p 17.7p 15.4p 13.4p 12.2p 
Dividend cover
2
2.4x 2.6x 2.8x 2.1x 1.4x 
Summarised	consolidated	balance	sheets
3
Non-current assets 820.1 686.1 659.7 573.7 479.0
Net working capital (43.1) (131.0) (111.0) (152.7) (165.8)
Net cash 740.1 742.7 764.5 733.2 354.9
Other non-current liabilities (242.1) (271.5) (307.3) (259.3) (197.1)
Net assets classified as held for sale – – – 13.6 37.6
Net	assets 1,275.0 1,026.3 1,005.9 908.5 508.6
Total attributable to equity holders  
of the parent 1,272.2 1,022.9 1,003.3 907.7 507.8
Minority interests 2.8 3.4 2.6 0.8 0.8
Total	equity 1,275.0 1,026.3 1,005.9 908.5 508.6
The five year record has been prepared under adopted IFRS and is stated in accordance with the accounting policies set 
out on pages 65 to 70.
Notes
1  Adjusted profit before intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment and pre-tax exceptional items, but including joint venture profit  
before tax
2  Before amortisation, impairment and exceptional items
3   The figures for 2006 through 2010 are presented on a continuing basis and therefore exclude the results of discontinued businesses.  
No adjustment has been made to reflect the financing income that would have been earned on the disposal proceeds.
Five	year	record AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2010 116
Shareholder	information
Our	website
AMEC’s website, amec.com, is the best source of useful, 
up-to-date information about AMEC and its activities, 
including annual reports, AGM documents and other 
shareholder communications. 
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange 
can be found at amec.com/rns and alerting services are 
available at amec.com/utilities/email_ alerts.
AMEC’s	registrars
AMEC’s registrars are Capita Registrars. They maintain 
the shareholder register on our behalf and handle all the 
administration related to it. They should be your first point 
of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding 
in AMEC. The best way to contact them depends on the 
type of query you may have. 
General	enquiries	 	
Email shareholder .services@capitaregistrars.com 
Website capitaregistrars.com  
Postal address Capita Registrars 
  The Registry 
  34 Beckenham Road 
  Beckenham 
  Kent, BR3 4TU 
  United Kingdom
Telephone
2
 UK  0871 664 0300
1
 
  Others +44 20 8639 3399
DRIP	enquiries	 	
Telephone
3
 UK  0871 664 03811
1
 
  Others +44 20 8639 3402
Payment	of	dividends	overseas	 	
Telephone +44 20 8639 3405 
Website capitaregistrars.com/international
Electronic	information	 	
Telephone
3
 UK  0871 664 03911
1
 
  Others +44 20 8639 3367
1 
Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras 
2 
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday 
3 
Lines open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday
 
Financial	calendar 	
AMEC’s year end is 31 December . The normal annual 
calendar is as follows;
Full year results issued Early March
Annual report published March
Annual General Meeting May
Half year results issued August
Interim Management Statements May and November
Full details are available at amec.com/investors/
financialcalendar/2011.
Dividends
AMEC’s interim dividend is usually announced with the 
half year results and paid in the following January; the 
final dividend is proposed with the full year results and 
paid in July.
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building 
society account and can also be paid in local currency in 
certain overseas territories. Contact our registrars for 
more details. 
We have a Dividend Reinvestment plan (DRIP) if you would 
prefer to buy more AMEC shares rather than receive cash 
dividends. This is only available to shareholders in certain 
countries. Y ou can find out more on our website  
amec.com/investors/shareholderinformation/dividends  
or by contacting our registrars.
Electronic	shareholder	communication
Around 80 per cent of AMEC’s shareholders now receive 
information from us electronically. If you have elected to do 
so and provided an email address, you will receive an 
email from our registrars whenever any new shareholder 
information is published. In the absence of an email 
address, you will be sent a letter which includes details of 
where the information can be found on our website.
Y ou can register for electronic shareholder communication 
and also manage your personal shareholding online at 
capitashareportal.com. Y ou will need your Investor Code 
(IVC) which can be found on your share certificate or 
dividend tax voucher .
Printed	copies	of	the	annual	report
Shareholders may receive a printed copy of AMEC’s  
latest annual report on request, within a reasonable  
time period, by writing to our registered office or by  
filling in the form on our website  
amec.com/investors/shareholderinformation/free_report.
AMEC’s	registered	office 	
AMEC plc 
Booths Park,  
Chelford Road,  
Knutsford, 
Cheshire WA16 8QZ 
United Kingdom 
Registered in England No 1675285
