 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012
Delivering excellence to our customers AMEC’ s vision is that by continually 
delivering excellence, we inspire trust 
and loyalty in our customers.
Our website is constantly updated with the 
latest company news, features and share 
price information. It also contains a library 
of key documents, such as annual and 
sustainability reports.
 m Y ou can read this report and  
more online at amec.com
We are a focused supplier of consultancy , engineering 
and project management services to our customers in 
the world’s oil and gas, mining, clean energy , environment 
and infrastructure markets.
Our values
Our customers include: Apache, Arizona Public Service, BG, BP , Bruce Power , Canadian Natural 
Resources Limited (CNRL), ConocoPhillips, EDF , ExxonMobil, Fairfield Energy , Fortescue Metals, 
Kuwait Oil Company (KOC), Kruger , Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC), National Grid, 
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA), Newmont Mining Corporation, PotashCorp, Shell, 
T eesside Gas and Liquid Processing, US Air Force.
* Any forward-looking statements made in this document represent management’s best judgement as to what may occur in the future.  
However , the group’s actual results for the current and future ﬁscal periods and corporate developments will depend on a number of economic, 
competitive and other factors, some of which will be outside the control of the group. Such factors could cause the group’s actual results for future 
periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this document
Sustainably delivering excellence 
Acting with integrity
Believing in people
Never compromising on safety
to our customers by: Strategy Performance Governance Financials Overview
1 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012
2 Our business model
3 Performance highlights
4 AMEC at a glance
6 Chairman’s statement
24 Sustainability
26 Business and financial review
 26 Divisional breakdown
 30 Geographic breakdown
 34 Financial review
8 Chief Executive’ s review
10 Implementing Vision 2015
12 Our markets
18 Our services
20 Key Performance Indicators
21 Managing risk
38 Effective corporate governance
40 Our board of directors
42 Our group management team
43 Corporate governance statement
52 Directors’ report
56 Directors ’ remuneration report
65 Consolidated income statement
66 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
67 Consolidated balance sheet
68 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
70 Consolidated cash flow statement
71 Notes to the consolidated accounts
111 Responsibility statements of 
the directors
112 Independent auditors ’ report to the 
members of AMEC plc
113 Company balance sheet
114 Notes to the company balance sheet
119 Independent auditors ’ report to the 
members of AMEC plc
120 Principal group companies
121 Five-year record
122 Shareholder information
Strategy
Looking in more detail at our market 
positioning and Vision 2015 strategy 
and showing, in the Chief Executive’ s 
review, the progress made in 2012.
Governance
Reviewing our approach to corporate 
governance and including reports 
from the directors and each of the 
board committees.
Financials
Presenting the accounts and their 
accompanying notes.
Overview
Providing an introduction to AMEC 
and including a summary of our 
2012 performance highlights and 
the Chairman’ s statement.
Performance
Discussing both our business and 
financial performance and providing 
detail for each of our three existing 
divisions as well as the three 
new geographies.
 Vision 2015
We are halfway through 
the implementation of our  
Vision 2015 strategy
 m Find out more on page 10 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 2
 Our business model
In each of our businesses What this means
Our employees are clever people – highly skilled engineers, project 
managers, consultants and scientists with the technical expertise 
and experience to deliver on our customers ’ requirements.
 m Read more on pages 10, 12 and 24
These skills are a scarce resource. Our future success relies on us 
attracting, developing and retaining the best people. 
We use common tools and processes, so we can share work 
between offices.
We provide high-value services – consulting, engineering, project 
and construction management, and supply chain management 
– across the lifecycle of our customers ’ assets.
 m Read more on pages 18 and 19
We sell expertise and solutions. This specialist capability drives 
higher margins.
We diversify our risk by working across the asset lifecycle, on our 
customers’ capital and operating expenditure projects. 
We have a low-risk contracting model. We sell our people’ s time 
and may get additional payments if pre-agreed measures are 
achieved (KPIs). 
We only take fixed price (lump sum) work under certain, 
controlled conditions. 
Our exposure to cost increases is limited. 
We have greater predictability of earnings from any project.
We want our customers to trust our ability to deliver . 
Our customer base is diverse. With each customer we seek 
to create a long-term relationship. 
We have a particularly strong reputation for our expertise in 
remote and harsh locations.
 m Read more on pages 26, 28 and 29
Our reputation for delivery is very important to our success.
We win business because of this trust and the strength of our 
long-term customer relationships.
Our diversified customer base limits our dependence on any one 
customer .
We have common systems, tools and processes. Our project 
delivery framework is flexible and scalable.
This consistent delivery facilitates workshare and the local 
provision of services to global clients.
We are deliberately technology-independent. Using our experience, we can recommend the most appropriate 
solution for our customers ’ issues.
We are asset-light, owning typically only cars and computers. We sell the knowledge and expertise of our people. 
We work in 40 countries and aspire to be increasingly global. 
Our new, geographic organisational structure allows the creation 
of more sustainable, localised positions.
 m Read more on pages 4, 5 and 30–33
Geographic diversification reduces risk and creates new 
growth opportunities.
We can serve our customers from a location that suits them, 
using distributed engineering when appropriate. 
We work in four markets – oil & gas, mining, clean energy and 
environment & infrastructure – with good growth fundamentals.
 m Read more on pages 12–17
Many skills are transferable across markets.
Our customers are looking for a wider range of solutions. 
We are not dependent on any one part of the energy mix.
Creating an asset-light, cash-generative business with a strong balance sheet  
and good growth prospects, diversified across markets and geographies.
Delivering excellence to our customers AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 3 
Strategy Performance Governance Financials Overview
Performance highlights
Good performance continued in 2012
Revenue £4,158 million, up 28 per cent on 2011
 Underlying
7
 revenue up 21 per cent; excluding £320 million of incremental 
procurement, up 12 per cent
EBIT A
1
 £331 million, up 11 per cent
Margin
2
 8.0 per cent (2011: 9.2 per cent)
 Excluding impact of incremental procurement, 8.6 per cent
Diluted EPS from continuing operations
4
 80.4 pence, up 14 per cent
Operating cash flow
5
 £309 million, up 16 per cent
Order intake strong and forward visibility good
 Order book £3.6 billion (31 December 2011: £3.7 billion)
Invested £159 million in acquisitions in 2012; pipeline remains good
Completed £400 million share buyback on 8 February 2013
Dividend per share up 20 per cent, to 36.5 pence
 m Read more about Vision 2015 on page 10
AMEC’s people design, deliver and maintain strategic assets for our customers, 
offering services which extend from environmental and front-end engineering 
design services before the start of a project, to decommissioning at the end of 
an asset’s life.
2012 
£ million
2011
£ million
Revenue 4,158 3,261
EBITA
1
331 299
Adjusted profit before tax
3
336 311
Profit before tax 263 259
Operating cash flow
5
309 267
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
4 
(EPS) 80.4p 70.5p
Diluted earnings per share  
from continuing operations 65.8p 61.9p
Dividend per share 36.5p 30.5p
1
  EBITA for continuing operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items but including joint 
venture EBIT A
2
 EBITA as defined above as a percentage of revenue 
3
 EBIT A, as defined above, plus net financing income (including joint ventures) of £5 million (2011: £12 million) 
4
 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items
5
  Cash generated from operations before exceptional items and discontinued operations, legacy settlements, 
the difference between pension payments and amounts recognised in the income statement and certain 
foreign exchange movements but including dividends received from joint ventures
6
  The average numbers of employees shown include agency staff, unless otherwise stated. Figures for 2009 
and prior have been restated to ensure employees are calculated on a consistent basis
7
  References to ‘underlying’ refer to growth adjusted for the impact of currency movements and acquisitions. 
‘Underlying excluding incremental procurement’ is underlying as previously defined and also adjusted for 
incremental procurement.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Revenue (£m)
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
336
311
280
216
210
Adjusted profit before tax
3
 (£m)
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Adjusted diluted EPS
4
 (p)
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
80.4
70.5
62.5
46.9
44.0 15.4
Dividend per share (p)
36.5
30.5
26.5
17.7
Average employees
6
28,405
25,757
21,973
20,762
22,516
4,158
3,261
2,951
2,539
2,606 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 4
Revenue by markets and sectors
1
 Oil & Gas
 Mining
 Clean Energy
 Environment & Infrastructure (E&I)
Our four markets
AMEC at a glance
With revenues of some £4.2 billion, we operate in around 40 countries, 
working for customers ranging from blue-chip companies to national and 
local governments. We support assets such as oil & gas production facilities, 
mines and nuclear power stations, from inception to decommissioning.
We are focused on the provision of similar services in each of our four markets 
 m Read more about our markets on page 12 and the services we provide on page 18
Offering high-value services 
to customers across the globe
We look to create growth by expanding our 
capabilities and enhancing our geographic 
footprint. Our new structure will promote 
opportunities to sell our services across all of 
our markets and in each of our geographies, 
filling in the gaps in our coverage.
Oil & Gas
Oil & Gas 30%
Unconventional 
Oil & Gas 16%
Environment & Infrastructure
Water   4% 
Transport / Infrastructure 3%
Industrial / Commercial 3%
Government Services 4%
Clean Energy
Nuclear 7%
Renewables / Bioprocess 9%
Power 4%
T ransmission & Distribution 4%
Mining  16%
1
 2012 figures, excluding Investments and other activities 
1
 2012 figures, excluding Investment Services 
Revenue by geography and market
1
 Americas    Europe    Growth Regions
Americas
Oil & Gas  
Mining  
Clean Energy  
Environment 
& Infrastructure  
Growth Regions
Oil & Gas  
Mining  
Environment 
& Infrastructure  
Europe
Oil & Gas  
Clean Energy  
Environment 
& Infrastructure  
AMEC offices AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 5 
Strategy Performance Governance Financials 
Natural Resources is recognised 
as a world leader in the provision of 
engineering, project management 
and asset support services, 
particularly in upstream oil and 
gas, unconventional oil and in mining. 
It has particular expertise in large and 
complex projects and in extending 
the life of assets.
Power & Process is principally based 
in the UK and Americas and provides 
engineering, project management 
and asset support services in the 
clean energy market. It has a leading 
position in the nuclear sector , 
particularly in the UK, where its 
services are well-balanced across 
the asset lifecycle. 
Environment & Infrastructure 
is a leading international 
environmental, engineering and 
consulting organisation. It works 
across all AMEC's markets and 
provides a complementary offering 
to many customers common to 
the Natural Resources or  
Power & Process divisions. 
Our three divisions
Historically , up until 31 December 2012, our company was structured into three divisions. 2012 reporting has been 
prepared on this basis.
Revenues
1
EBITA
1
 Average employees
1
23%
57%
20%
22%
54%
24%
26%
49%
25%
 Natural Resources    Power & Process    Environment & Infrastructure
From 2013 – new structure supports additional growth
From 2013, reporting will be on a geographic rather than divisional basis. This reflects our new structure, introduced 
to strengthen our customer focus and so maximise potential growth opportunities. The 2012 figures on this basis are 
shown below. Restated 2010 and 2011 comparatives can be found on page 34 and on our website. 
Overview
Americas Our largest geography , with 
the best balance across our markets. 
Our oil & gas position is growing, with 
recent investment in Brazil; we are the 
market leader in mineable oil sands; 
a leader in consulting and EPCM in 
mining; have good positions in solar 
and bioprocess; and are a major 
player in the diverse E&I market. See 
page 30.
Europe Principally UK-based with 
some smaller activities elsewhere. 
Strong position in oil & gas, with 
market-leading position in North Sea 
brownfield activities. Leading position 
in the nuclear market, where services 
range from new build right through 
to decommissioning.  See page 31.
Growth Regions We expect each 
of our geographies to grow, but see 
Growth Regions as the area with 
the greatest potential. We want to 
apply our global skills base to create 
a sustainable, localised presence in 
these regions.  See page 32.
Revenues
2
EBITA
2
 Average employees
2
 Americas    Europe    Growth Regions
27% 60%
13%
26%
65%
9%
37% 53%
10%
1
 2012 figures, excluding Investments and other activities. For basis of preparation, see page 26
2
 2012 figures, excluding Investment Services. For basis of preparation, see page 26 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 6
Chairman’ s statement
This time last year , I wrote about what I had found since 
joining AMEC some months beforehand. My knowledge 
of the company – its governance procedures, strategy , 
customers, people and markets – has increased 
dramatically since that time, but my fundamental opinion 
has not changed. We have a highly energised and 
extremely able team at AMEC, who demonstrate their 
sheer professionalism and expertise every day . Our 
customers rely on our ability to deliver their projects on 
time, on budget, and without causing harm. We take this 
responsibility seriously and it is this proven ability to deliver 
excellence that will underpin our future growth. 
During 2012 we made progress on each of the priorities 
I identified at the start of the year . In particular I would 
like to highlight the work we have been doing on board 
effectiveness and composition, on AMEC’s strategy beyond 
2015, on succession planning and on improving our 
governance framework.
The board
Let me start by commenting on our board. One of our 
key priorities for 2012 was to conduct an independent 
evaluation of board effectiveness, an exercise which had 
last been undertaken in 2008. This took place in the first 
half and, I am delighted to say , concluded that your 
company has in place a strong, highly competent, board 
that performs well. There were some relatively minor 
suggestions for improvements and these are explained 
further on page 46. 
The ultimate goal of your board is to collectively and 
effectively lead the company in delivering long-term 
sustainable success for the benefit of all of our shareholders. 
If it is to achieve this, the board needs to contain the right 
mix of individuals, each with the relevant experience, 
skills and determination to take the company forward. 
Importantly , the board should reflect the diversity of 
the organisation. 
We all recognise that increasing diversity is vital for our 
future success. We need greater diversity of thought to 
inform our decisions, whether represented by the gender 
mix, nationality , ethnic background or any other measure. 
Simplistically , AMEC is an engineering company with its 
roots in the UK, Canada and the US and our employee 
base reflects this history . We are looking to widen the pool 
of talent from which we select our most senior leaders. 
I am delighted that AMEC’s management team is now 
30 per cent female and that during 2012, a rigorous 
external search resulted in the appointment of Linda 
Adamany as a non-executive director . These are important 
signals to the organisation about our objectives.
Linda joined the board in 1 October 2012 and has already 
made a valuable contribution to our discussions. A qualified 
accountant and US citizen, she has more than 30 years ’ 
experience of the global energy sector and significant 
knowledge of the operations of AMEC’s major customers. 
On a wider point, the board objectives for 2013 include 
agreeing our policy on diversity and the measurable 
objectives we wish to set to track progress. 
I will discuss AMEC’s new organisational structure and 
its impact on our strategy in a moment. One immediate 
impact was that Neil Bruce left the company and the board 
on 5 October 2012. I would like to thank him for his 
contribution to the board and to AMEC over the years. 
In Colin Day and Neil Carson, the AMEC board contains 
two non-executive directors who are highly respected, 
serving chief executives at other companies. I am 
sometimes challenged on whether they have sufficient 
 Y our company has in place 
a strong, highly competent, board 
that performs well.”
John Connolly 
Chairman 
Key highlights
 Independent evaluation of board effectiveness 
concluded positively with only minor improvement 
recommendations
 As a result of the board review process, board 
diversity has improved
 New operational structure better supports future 
growth strategy and facilitates greater board 
interaction with senior management
 Final dividend of 24.8 pence recommended, which 
would make a total of 36.5 pence, 20 per cent 
above 2011. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 7 
Strategy Performance Governance Financials Overview
time to allocate to AMEC, given the commitments of their 
executive roles. I firmly believe the board gains enormous 
benefit from the up-to-date and highly relevant experience 
they bring to discussions and each has demonstrated that 
they dedicate the amount of time needed to meet what 
is expected of them in their roles as directors of AMEC. 
T ogether with our other non-executive directors I believe 
we have in place the appropriate mix of skills and 
experiences which make this an effective board.
Board priorities
I believe there are three key elements to the role the board 
should take in supporting successful, sustainable growth.
The first is to debate and agree the strategy the company 
is to follow – and then monitor performance against the 
strategic goals. AMEC is now halfway through its Vision 
2015 growth strategy and is delivering ahead of schedule. 
Hence board discussions in the latter part of 2012 turned 
to how we achieve success beyond 2015. We agreed that 
strategic fundamentals remain broadly unchanged but 
felt that a new structure could better maximise future 
growth opportunities. The company’s operations are now 
managed by three presidents, one in each geography , each 
reporting to the Chief Executive and responsible for our 
business in their region with a specific focus on our four 
markets – oil & gas, mining, clean energy and environment 
& infrastructure. 
The second element is ensuring the company has the 
right people in place to deliver its targets. This means not 
only assessing the management skills currently in place 
but also ensuring that mechanisms exist to develop future 
talent and plan for succession. The board now has more 
regular , and deeper , interaction with the leaders of the 
company’ s three geographies. I see this as a positive result 
of the new organisational structure. Remuneration is a 
key part of our people plan and that of directors remains 
very much in the public eye. We have redesigned our 
remuneration report to show more clearly how we link 
short and long-term incentives to hard measures of 
improvement in the company’s performance, in line 
with the strategy – see page 56. 
The final element is ensuring there is an appropriate 
level of governance in place, a topic I elaborate on 
later, on page 38. During 2012 we updated our Code of 
Business Conduct training and made it compulsory for 
all employees. We have been working to simplify our global 
mandatory policies and procedures, making them easier 
to understand and so comply with. The revisions will be 
launched in early 2013. But good governance needs to be 
more than just a set of policies and procedures; it should 
inform the decisions our employees take every day . I have 
the pleasure of talking to our employees on a regular basis 
and so see how seriously we take our commitment to 
safety , how involved we are with our communities and how 
hard we work to win repeat business from our customers. 
Others recognise this too: in 2012 we were yet again sector 
leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability index and judged to 
be one of Canada’ s top 100 employers. 
Performance and shareholder returns
The company’ s performance in 2012 remained good, 
particularly when viewed against a backdrop of economic 
uncertainty . As reported in more detail in the Chief Executive’ s 
review and elsewhere, our company achieved revenue 
growth in 2012 of 28 per cent and growth in earnings per 
share
1
 of 14 per cent. We expect continued growth in 2013.
As a result of our confidence in the future, the board 
is recommending a final dividend of 24.8 per share. 
This makes a total of 36.5 pence per share for the year , 
a 20 per cent increase over 2011 and a dividend cover 
of 2.2 times (2011: 2.3 times). If approved, it will be paid 
on 1 July 2013 to those shareholders on the register at 
31 May 2013. It is the board’s intention to continue with 
a progressive dividend policy .
Given the strength of the balance sheet, a £400 million share 
buyback programme was instigated in February 2012 and 
has now been completed. 
Looking ahead
On your behalf, I would like to thank Samir Brikho, 
his management team and all of AMEC’ s 29,000 people 
for their hard work and valuable contribution in 2012.
We at AMEC understand what we do well, have built solid, 
long-term customer relationships, and are well positioned 
across the energy market. The economic outlook remains 
challenging but we remain firmly focused on delivering our 
Vision 2015 goals.
John Connolly 
Chairman 
14 February 2013
1
  Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
before intangible amortisation and exceptional items AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 8
Chief Executive’ s review
2012 marked the halfway point in the implementation 
of our Vision 2015 growth strategy . We can be proud 
of what we have achieved so far . Despite uncertain 
macro-economic conditions, we have made significant 
progress on many of our goals. 
Looking forward, it is clear that we cannot afford 
complacency . We have already started to consider 
what the company needs to look like beyond 2015. 
John F Kennedy said: “Change is the law of life and 
those who look only to the past or present are certain 
to miss the future.” This is a philosophy we will continue 
to adopt on our journey to success.
Let me talk in turn about our 2012 performance, our 
progress towards Vision 2015 and how we are positioning 
AMEC for a successful future.
2012 results
Our performance in 2012 remained good. Revenues were 
up 28 per cent, or 12 per cent if currency , acquisitions 
and incremental procurement are excluded. Margins 
at 8.0
1
 per cent were down, influenced in particular by 
increased levels of procurement. Further detail can 
be found on pages 27, 28 and 29. Our targeted EPS
2
 of 
greater than 100 pence is now expected to be achieved 
before 2015: in 2012 we were up 14 per cent at 80.4 pence
2
, 
71 per cent higher than when the target was set in 2009. 
I would to thank AMEC’s employees for their hard work 
and commitment in achieving the successes shown here 
and elsewhere in this report. 
Vision 2015 – the halfway point
Ours is a straightforward business. We operate in 
four markets – oil & gas, mining, clean energy , and 
environment & infrastructure. In each we provide people 
with the technical expertise to support our customers 
as they build, operate or decommission their assets. 
We win work because of our reputation for consistent 
and successful delivery – and we do this by employing, 
training and retaining high-quality people.
Vision 2015 is explained on page 10. Shown there is what 
we have done to develop our customer relationships; 
how we have developed our people; how our project 
delivery framework provides a flexible, scalable method 
of delivering consistently to our customers across the 
world; and how we have been achieving growth, organically 
and by acquisition. Importantly , we are achieving our 
financial targets ahead of our original plans. Let me pick 
out a few examples which typify our approach:
 our vision is that by continually delivering excellence, 
we inspire trust and loyalty in our customers. We have 
worked with many of our customers for many years 
and continue to build on these long-term relationships. 
For example, the strength of our relationship with 
Kuwait Oil Company (KOC) helped us win a 16-month 
project management consultancy (PMC) project, 
remediating and disposing of highly contaminated 
material resulting from the Gulf War . New customers 
won in 2012 include T alisman, TAQA and Centrica 
 No company can take success 
for granted: we need to adapt 
if we are to survive and prosper 
in a changing world.”
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive
Key highlights
 Another good performance in 2012, marking the 
halfway point of our Vision 2015 growth strategy
 With our continued focus on our customers and 
our people, we expect to deliver our targeted EPS
2
 
of greater than 100 pence before 2015
 Our new, simplified, geographic structure 
is designed to promote collaboration and so 
maximise growth opportunities. It positions 
us for 2015 and beyond.
1
 As defined on page 3
2
  Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
before intangible amortisation and exceptional items. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 9 
Governance Financials Performance Overview Strategy 
 we need to recruit and retain the best people and keep 
them safe at work. This has a direct impact on our 
reputation and financial results. We track a number of 
non-financial metrics in this area, some of which are 
shown on pages 10 and 24. Successfully resourcing 
for new projects is vital and in 2012 we recruited some 
800 people each month to join AMEC
 our safety focus remains crucial. Although our lost 
time injury frequency rate reduced from 0.04 per 
200,000 exposure hours to 0.03, our T otal Recordable 
Case Frequency Rate increased slightly , from 0.37 to 
0.38. We will continue to focus on improvements in 
2013 and will continue to seek to engineer safety into 
our designs
 the quality of submissions for our HSSE awards 
continues to climb. The 2012 winners included those 
who intervened to perform CPR and so save the life 
of a colleague; and the team working on the Chirag 
oil project in Azerbaijan. Here there are 16 different 
nationalities on a major fabrication site yet by improving 
two-way communication they have achieved over 
15 million exposure hours without a lost time incident
 we continue to focus on our carbon footprint. Sadly , 
greater transparency of North American activities has 
caused an apparent increase from 2.3 to 3.8 tonnes of 
carbon per employee, despite many good initiatives in 
other areas
 we have been taking an increasingly collaborative 
approach, providing consistent quality to our 
customers, despite projects being worked on across 
offices and countries. One example is the Oyu T olgoi 
project in Mongolia, where our project staff are drawn 
from locations as far apart as China and Canada
 we continue to promote a strong engagement with the 
communities in which we work. For example, in 2012 
we provided solar power and rainwater harvesting to 
an SOS Children’s Village in Nigeria and worked with 
the children at an elementary school in Georgia, US 
on similar issues
 our growth is both organic and by acquisition. In 2012 we 
expanded our position in the UK with the acquisition of 
600 nuclear specialists, positioned oursel ves in Australia 
for the provision of environmental and infrastructure 
services, and invested in Brazil. We also expanded 
future growth opportunities with the creation of a joint 
venture with Samsung and a collaboration agreement 
with Aibel. These and other similar examples are 
expanded on elsewhere in this report.
2015 and beyond
With a strong track record of success, it would be easy 
for us to be complacent. However , I firmly believe that no 
company can take success for granted: we need to adapt 
if we are to survive and prosper in a changing world. 
In October 2012 we introduced a new, geographic 
structure and promoted Simon Naylor , John Pearson and 
Hisham Mahmoud to the new roles of Group Presidents 
of Americas, Europe and Growth Regions respectively . 
We want to maximise growth opportunities in each of our 
four markets, providing consistent services across each 
of the geographies. This is not about changing our vision, 
mission, values or strategy – it is about our tactics and our 
sense of urgency . We now have a simplified, more agile 
structure with a greater focus on collaboration and 
fostering sustainable growth.
At the global conference in December 2012, some 
60 of AMEC’s senior managers discussed how the 
new structure will operate; what new opportunities it 
throws up; and how quickly these can be crystallised. 
We are clear that we expect growth to continue in 
both the Americas and in Europe, but see the greatest 
opportunities in Growth Regions, where we need to 
establish more – and stronger – localised positions.
Summary
In 2013, we expect ongoing economic uncertainty and 
more challenging conditions in certain areas. Overall 
we continue to expect growth, with our conventional 
oil & gas business forecast to grow strongly .
The next stage on our journey is ‘2015 and beyond’. Our 
focus on our customers and our people will continue but 
increasingly we will be promoting how – by collaborating, 
improving and growing – we can ensure we are achieving 
our targets. Our goal is to be a trusted partner: the 
supplier of choice for our customers; the employer of 
choice for our people; and the company of choice for 
our investors. 
The words may sound glib – our task is to turn these 
aspirations into reality as successfully as we have done 
previously . We will do this by focusing on what we are 
good at and what matters to our clients.
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive 
14 February 2013 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 10
Implementing Vision 2015
We are over halfway through our Vision 2015 growth strategy and expect to 
deliver our financial target ahead of schedule. Our areas of focus remain 
unchanged, as we look to sustainable growth beyond 2015.
2012 achievements included:
 Strengthened and diversified customer base: new customers included Centrica, 
T alisman and T AQA in the North Sea and an important new offshore customer 
in the Middle East, Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Company (ADMA OPCO)
 Developed existing customers: for example, we moved from providing front-end 
engineering and design (FEED) services for GDF SUEZ to the detailed design stage for 
the Cygnus field, currently the UK’s largest gas field development. We were awarded a 
contract to provide FEED services for the topside facilities for the second phase of BP’s 
Mad Dog field. This followed completion of the conceptual design development which 
we undertook during the select stage in 2011
 Continued momentum in nuclear: contracts awarded in 2012 included one in Slovakia 
for waste treatment at the Bohunice nuclear power plant, three at the Sellafield site in 
the UK and a project management support contract for the National Nuclear 
Laboratory in the UK
 Contract extensions were awarded by long-term customers National Grid and SABIC.
 
 m Further details on these and many other contract wins 
can be found on pages 27, 28 and 29 and on our website
2012 achievements included:
  Recruited successfully in resource-constrained markets, such as Aberdeen, London, 
Houston, Saskatoon, and Santiago
 Average number of employees increased 10 per cent to 28,400 people, including over 
10,000 gross new hires and 270 new graduates. Over 600 people were referred by our 
employees and more than 140 returned to AMEC because of our alumni programmes
 Continue to see about one-third of our people participating in share ownership 
schemes
 Strong HSSE performance continued: the All Injury Frequency Rate reduced to 2.40 
per 200,000 exposure hours, though our T otal Recordable Cases Frequency Rate was 
slightly worse than 2011 at 0.38 per 200,000 exposure hours
 Over 25,000 people have benefited from AMEC Academy development programmes 
and the e-cademy learning management system, launched in the summer , has already 
had 120,000 hits
 Sustainability commitment remains: over 100 employees from across the company 
took part in a structured sustainability debate as part of our stakeholder engagement 
programme. The results are helping to develop the focus for 2013 and beyond.
 m See also the Key Performance Indicators on page 20
 m Further details on each of these items can be found in the 2012 
sustainability report at amec.com/aboutus/sustainability
Our customers
We want our customers to recognise our 
engineering, project management and 
consultancy expertise and to trust us to 
deliver their projects successfully. Such a 
reputation does not come overnight, but is 
a key cornerstone of future growth.
Our history demonstrates the importance 
of the long-term relationships we have 
built with many of our customers. Only by 
understanding their business, their 
objectives and their values can we identify 
how best to use our expertise to help 
them deliver . 
Our people
Our success lies in the success of our 
employees and the way in which they 
deliver to our customers.
We do not own significant plant and 
equipment or proprietary technology . 
It is vital that we recruit, develop and 
retain the best people, ensuring they are 
engaged with AMEC and committed to the 
company’s success. We want to provide a 
safe working environment and encourage 
our people to take this same thinking home 
and into their communities – AMEC’s 
Beyond Zero approach.
Our financial goal for Vision 2015 was to achieve earnings per share
1
 of greater than 
100 pence in 2015, more than double the starting point in 2009. We now expect to achieve 
this target before 2015. We focus on a number of key areas, shown below, as we look to 
achieve sustainable growth.
Earnings per share
1
80.4p +14%
1
 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 11 
Performance Governance Financials Overview Strategy 
2012 achievements included:
 Grew through acquisition: including Serco’s 600-person nuclear ESRC business in 
the UK; Unidel, a 260-person energy , resources and infrastructure engineering and 
consultancy business in Australia; and a 50 per cent stake in Kromav Engenharia S.A. 
(KROMAV), a 200-person privately owned Brazilian offshore oil and gas and marine 
engineering company
 Created partnerships: a joint venture with Samsung Heavy Industries and Samsung 
Engineering (see page 14); a collaboration agreement with Aibel to jointly deliver 
projects for the oil and gas industry in the Norwegian Continental Shelf
 Expanded in the Middle East: awarded £330 million PMC contract by the Kuwait 
National Petroleum Company (KNPC) for a new oil refinery at Al Zour , Kuwait, 
which will be the largest refinery in the Middle East
 Promoted collaboration: a Dundee Precious Metals Inc subsidiary selected AMEC 
in Eastern Europe for the first time, to provide engineering services for a gold mine. 
Elsewhere, we combined our global mining capability with local South African delivery 
to support Vedanta Resources ’ major new zinc mine
 Underlying revenue growth, excluding incremental procurement
1
 was 12 per cent 
in 2012, with further growth expected in 2013.
2012 achievements included:
 Restructured organisation: simplifying decision-making and driving collaboration 
to maximise growth opportunities across markets 
 Increasingly providing integrated services to customers across group: 32 per cent 
of Environment & Infrastructure division’s revenues came from oil and gas, mining 
and clean energy customers 
 Relaunched Code of Business Conduct training for all employees.
2012 achievements included:
 Invested £159 million in three acquisitions
 T o 31 December 2012, purchased £358 million of shares under £400 million share 
buyback programme. The programme was completed on 8 February 2013
 Dividend declared and proposed increased by 20 per cent to 36.5 pence
 T ax charge
2
 reduced further , from 24.1 per cent in 2011 to 23.0 per cent in 2012
 Operating cash flow
1
 for the period was £309 million, with cash conversion of 93 per cent.
Achieving growth
We need to not only build on our existing 
market positions but also to enhance our 
capabilities and expand our geographic 
coverage. We see this expansion as 
coming from a combination of acquisition 
and organic growth.
As well as building our presence in our 
established geographies of the UK and 
North America, we are looking to expand 
in the Middle East, Australasia and 
South America. Our new organisation 
structure is designed to promote 
collaboration between markets and 
geographies, to deliver enhanced growth.
Delivering the AMEC way
Even the best of employees will struggle 
to deliver high-quality work if they are not 
provided with the right tools and support.
The AMEC way is how we work together 
across the company to deliver successful 
projects for our customers, supporting 
sustainable growth for the future.
Improving financial metrics
Vision 2015 also looks at financial metrics, 
recognising that AMEC needs a more 
efficient capital structure.
2013 outlook
The priority remains to grow the business, across all four markets and all three geographies, by continuing to deliver for customers 
while investing in AMEC’s people.
In 2013, AMEC expects low-to-mid single digit revenue growth for the group on an underlying basis, excluding procurement
1
. A strong 
conventional oil & gas performance across the board and more modest growth in the clean energy and environment & infrastructure 
markets in the Americas are expected to offset reduced oil sands revenue and softening demand in the mining market, and in Australia 
more generally . The full-year impact of acquisitions made in 2012 will further boost revenue growth. Procurement activity in 2013 is 
expected to be £200 million lower than in 2012.
Group margins
1
 are expected to improve gradually at the headline level in 2013, taking into account the reduced procurement. Cost efficiencies 
from the reorganisation are expected come through during the year and offset a dilutive mix effect from lower oil sands activity. 
The group remains on track to achieve earning per share
1
 of greater than 100 pence ahead of 2015.
Overall a further year of good progress is expected. Further details on outlook by geography can be found on pages 31, 32 and 33.
2015 and beyond
Further detail on how we expect to achieve continued growth beyond 2015 can be found on our website.
1
 See definition on page 3
2
  For continuing business before amortisation, impairment and exceptional items and including joint venture tax. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 12
Our markets
The services we provide (see pages 18 and 19) run 
across the lifecycle of our customers’ assets, from 
consulting, engineering and construction management 
to project management, operations and maintenance 
and decommissioning. 
AMEC has considerable experience and capability in 
the world’ s main energy sectors. We are well placed to 
respond to the increasing demand for clean energy , the 
need to improve the efficiency of mature assets and the 
requirement for increased flexibility . The areas in which 
AMEC operates are forecast to grow over the long term, 
supported by global fundamentals. AMEC is carefully and 
deliberately positioned across sectors so as to benefit 
whatever the relative weighting in the energy mix. 
Competitive environment
There is no one competitor operating in the same 
markets, with the same geographic footprint and with a 
similar approach to risk as AMEC.
 m Further details on the competitive landscape by market 
can be found in our introductory investor presentation 
on amec.com
Global market trends 
The International Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy 
Outlook 2012 predicts that world primary energy 
demand will increase from some 12,700 million tonnes 
of oil equivalent (Mtoe) in 2010 to 17,200 Mtoe in 2035, 
a 35 per cent increase. The forecast (New Policies 
Scenario) assumes that recent government policy 
commitments are implemented in a cautious manner . 
Fossil fuels continue to satisfy the bulk of the energy 
needs, though their share of the total is predicted to fall.
ExxonMobil’s report, ‘2013 The Outlook for Energy: A 
View to 2040’, identifies population growth and increasing 
urbanisation as key factors causing the increase. It sees 
35 per cent growth from 2010 to 2040, even with significant 
efficiency gains and expects the world’ s population to 
grow by more than 25 per cent between 2010 and 2040, 
to nearly nine billion people. BP (Energy Outlook 2030) 
suggests world income in 2030 will be double that of 2011 
in real terms. 
The growth in primary energy demand comes from 
non-OECD countries, with China, India and the Middle 
East accounting for 60 per cent of the increase. OECD 
countries are expected to see a shift away from oil and 
coal, towards natural gas and renewables. Statoil’s 
Energy Perspectives June 2012 suggests that global oil 
demand will peak in 2030, with natural gas still seen as 
the fuel of the future. 
T echnology is facilitating the development of resources 
such as tight oil and shale gas, which are expected to 
turn North America into a net exporter of oil by about 
2030. At the same time, developing new sources of 
energy is becoming more complex, with resources 
often in harsh or remote regions.
IEA believes a global investment in energy supply 
infrastructure of $37 trillion is required between 2012 
and 2035, with a disproportionately high share taken by 
OECD countries because of higher unit costs for capacity 
additions and the need to replace ageing infrastructure. 
Oil and gas collectively account for almost $19 trillion of the 
total investment, with most of the balance being power . 
 m A more detailed analysis is shown in each market 
section below
The skills challenge 
This growth will inevitably put further pressure on the 
availability of suitably qualified engineers, consultants and 
project managers. 
Evidence of a skills shortage abounds. In November 2012, the 
Western Australia Chamber of Minerals and Energy said 
that a shortage of skilled workers was the sector’ s biggest 
challenge. In the UK, the Royal Academy of Engineering 
warns that the current pool of science, technology and 
engineering experts is already ‘stretched thin’ and ageing 
rapidly . It estimates that the median age of chartered 
engineers rises by 10 years for every 14 that pass.
We provide similar services in each of our four markets – oil & gas, mining, 
clean energy , and environment & infrastructure – winning work through strong 
customer relationships and our proven ability to deliver successfully , even in 
harsh or remote environments.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 13 
Performance Governance Financials Overview Strategy 
It is vital that AMEC continues to attract, develop 
and retain skilled employees, particularly those with 
experience in successfully delivering complex projects. 
Our people strategy is a core enabler of our Vision 2015 
growth aspirations. Our 2012 achievements are shown 
on pages 10 and 11.
Our internal development activities are discussed in more 
detail on pages 10 and 24, in our sustainability report and 
on our website. They include: 
 AMEC Academy: improving the technical and 
managerial skills of our people 
 increasing the existing resource pool: graduate and 
trainee recruitment and development programmes 
 improving the future supply pool: educating 
schoolchildren about careers in engineering 
 accessing the best skills anywhere: using our global 
mobility programmes. 
AMEC’ s markets 
Oil & Gas 
Growth is driven by the long-term rise in energy 
demand. Resources are becoming increasingly 
difficult to access with a shift towards more frontier 
and deepwater developments. This plays to AMEC’ s 
expertise in complex and harsh locations.
The market 
The IEA forecasts primary oil demand increasing from 
87.4 million barrels per day (mb/d) in 2011 to 99.7 mb/d 
by 2035. This is driven by the transport sector in China, 
India and Middle East and occurs despite the dampening 
effect of efficiency measures, environmental policies and 
relatively high prices in OECD countries. Over the period 
to 2040, ExxonMobil expects natural gas to overtake coal 
as the number two global fuel. 
A change in the production mix is also expected, with 
crude oil falling and a greater share being tak en by natural 
gas liquids and unconventional sources. Non-OPEC 
output is forecast to rise until the mid-2020s and then 
fall back, the rise being driven by light tight oil, Canadian 
oil sands, natural gas liquids and increased deepwater 
production in Brazil. 
The IEA suggests that unconventional oil and liquids 
supply will grow from 3.9 mb/d in 2011 to 13.2 mb/d by 
2035. Within this, Canadian oil sands are expected to 
increase from 1.6 mb/d to 4.3 mb/d, assuming concerns 
about the environmental impact of development can be 
addressed. Surface mining currently accounts for around 
one-half of Canadian oil sands production, though in-situ 
is expected to increase its share of the market over the 
next 10 years. In Canada, Alberta has proven oil reserves 
of 170.8 billion barrels and estimates capital expenditure 
of some Cdn$218 billion over the next 25 years. 
The IEA forecasts an upstream oil and gas capital 
spending requirement between 2011 and 2035 of about 
$615 billion per annum on average, similar to that seen 
in 2012. 
JP Morgan’s latest global exploration and production 
spending analysis suggests that in 2013, organic 
upstream spending could be 8 per cent higher than 2012.
In general, oil and gas resources are increasingly difficult to 
extract. Projects have become larger and more complex 
and environmental pressures have increased. As existing 
infrastructure ages and reserves are being depleted, 
evermore sophisticated performance and efficiency 
improvement solutions are required, particularly in 
brownfield operations. Oil and gas producers want oil 
services companies, such as AMEC, to provide experts 
with proven experience in delivering projects on time, 
on budget, without harming people or the environment. 
AMEC’ s position 
AMEC offers a wide range of services to a broad range 
of customers, including international oil companies 
(IOCs), national oil companies (NOCs) and independent 
operators in Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, the 
Caspian, South East Asia and China. We do not operate in 
early cycle exploration or drilling, but are involved in every 
part of the project delivery phase. Offshore, we support 
fixed platforms and floating production units, largely 
‘above the water’. We also support onshore oil and gas 
fields, booster stations, gathering centres, tank farms, 
gas–oil separation plants, and pipelines. 
AMEC has global experience of delivering large and 
complex greenfield projects, with capabilities in deepwater 
and hostile conditions including Arctic environments and 
earthquake-prone regions. We have developed a strong 
position in frontier regions including the Caspian and have 
a good track record in proactively helping customers deal 
with environmental pressures. Recent examples include:
 BP Clair Ridge: engineering and project management 
services (EPMS) for the main platform design
 MWCC: designing and delivering components of the 
modular equipment for the marine well containment 
system (MWCS) AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 14
Oil & Gas continued
AMEC’ s position continued
 AIOC – BP , Chirag Oil Project – West Chirag (COP-WC): 
part of consortium project managing the fabrication of 
a new asset and providing construction management, 
hook-up support and brownfield integration
 GDF SUEZ, Cygnus gas field: following FEED work, 
now working on detailed design.
AMEC is also a leading international provider of asset 
support services. Recent activity includes:
 Chevr on, Wheatstone: Clough AMEC joint ventur e 
working on the operability , reliability and maintainability 
(ORM) component of this offshore facility .
We are a market leader in UK North Sea brownfield 
services and also provide duty holder services and 
more integrated solutions to new entrant operators 
in the region. AMEC is increasingly providing more 
sophisticated solutions: for example, adapting existing 
facilities to cope with both mature reservoir conditions 
and new ‘tie-backs’ developments. One example is:
 EnQuest Producer vessel: engineering design 
of topside modifications to this existing FPSO, 
together with procurement activities and project 
management services.
AMEC is the market leader in the provision of project 
management and engineering services to the upstream 
surface mining Canadian oil sands sector , with a history 
stretching back to the world’s first oil sands plant in 
1967. Historically our focus has been on mineable oil 
sands, though we also have in-situ expertise. This newer 
technology is increasingly being used and on larger 
projects. Recent projects include:
 Imperial Oil: Kearl initial development and 
expansion phase
 Southern Pacific’s McKay steam assisted gravity 
drainage (SAGD) facility: helped achieve an industry 
benchmark for lowest capital expenditure per 
flowing barrel. 
We also work on shale gas and coal bed methane 
projects, providing services such as environmental 
impact assessments and water table management. 
AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns raised 
by activities in many of these areas. The full range of our 
environmental and infrastructure services can be used 
to ensure that customers meet and, where possible, 
exceed local legislation, providing them with solutions 
to environmental challenges. For example:
 Kuwait, Gulf War remediation: PMC contract to 
remediate/dispose of highly contaminated material 
arising from the first Gulf War , with the project 
managed by a long-standing AMEC customer , KOC.
AMEC’ s position was strengthened in 2012 by the 
creation of new opportunities for future growth:
 signing of a collaboration agreement with Aibel, one of 
the largest oil and gas services companies in Norway
 creation of a joint venture with Samsung to carry out 
detailed engineering for fixed and floating offshore 
platforms, FPSOs and subsea pipelines for Samsung’ s 
offshore oil and gas projects
 investment in Brazil thr ough AMEC KROMA V , allowing 
the development of fully integrated services capabilities 
in the country .
 m Further details on the customer base and recent 
project wins are on pages 27 and 29
 m Information on our recent projects can be found on 
our website amec.com. Our capital market event in 
October 2012 (also available on the website) provided 
a fuller explanation of AMEC’s position in this market
Mining 
General macro uncertainty is affecting the near-term 
outlook for the mining industry, increasing volatility. 
Long-term fundamentals remain robust, supported by 
increasing urbanisation in emerging markets. 
The market 
An additional 2 billion people in emerging markets are 
expected to become urbanised in the period to 2030, a key 
underlying driver of long-term growth in this industry . 
Short-term views are more cautious, with lower commodity 
prices and general economic uncertainty causing some 
softening of exploration spending and the postponement or 
cancellation of more marginal projects. At the same time, 
investors in major mining companies are looking for 
greater cash returns.
Supply issues are at the forefront as fewer easy-to-produce 
resources are leading to more challenging, complex and 
expensive developments, in more remote and riskier 
locations. Increasingly new mining projects are underground 
Our markets continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 15 
Performance Governance Financials Overview Strategy 
rather than surface mines and more logistical infrastructure 
and environmental controls are required. Rio Tinto also 
points to a scarcity of suitable, highly skilled labour . 
PwC suggested in June 2012 that capital programmes 
planned by the top 40 mining companies amount to more 
than $410 billion. 
As in oil & gas, the mining majors are looking for suppliers, 
such as AMEC, with proven ability in project delivery . 
Sources: Rio Tinto analyst presentation December 2012; PwC 2012 
review ‘Mine – the growing disconnect’; Bank of America Merrill 
L ynch ‘Mining capex: The long and the short of it (2)’
AMEC’ s position 
AMEC has long sought to mitigate the impact of economic 
volatility by positioning itself to support a diverse range 
of commodities and service markets. As well as potash, 
iron ore, copper and gold, our customers are producing 
commodities such as uranium, lead, zinc, nickel and 
diamonds. We offer mining consultancy (including ore 
resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies), 
design, project and construction management services; 
and believe the provision of consulting and environmental 
services provides a distinct competitive advantage. 
Our customer base is largely mid-sized mining companies, 
with around 40 per cent of revenues in this market in 
2012 coming from juniors (market capitalisation below 
$10 billion) and independents and some 7 per cent 
coming from companies with a market capitalisation 
greater than US$40 billion.
The business is a recognised leader in environments where 
projects have significant logistical challenges associated 
with remote location and difficult access. AMEC occupies 
a top-tier position in international consulting and a leading 
position in the North and South American engineering, 
procurement and construction management (EPCM) 
markets, where we have provided services for many of the 
world’s leading mining companies. We now have critical 
mass in Australia and a growing position in Africa.
AMEC’s historic focus has been largely on surface mining. 
In line with Vision 2015, this expertise has now also been 
applied to underground mining. Going forward, we are 
looking to increase our position with major mining firms 
and on large scale developments. 
Recent projects include: 
 Rio Tinto, Oyu T olgoi mine: over 100 AMEC people from 
various locations collaborating to provide underground 
services on this copper–gold project
 New Gold, New Afton mine: provision of a 5km 
conveyor infrastructure including all transfer stations 
and EPCM services for underground workshops. 
 m Further details on the customer base and recent project 
wins are on pages 27 and 29 and on our website
 m AMEC’ s position in the mining market was explained during 
a capital markets event in April 2012. See amec.com 
Clean Energy 
Clean energy provides an increasingly significant part 
of the global energy mix, its growth driven by increasing 
demand for power and environmental concerns. AMEC’ s 
proven expertise, depth of technology understanding 
and strong customer relationships provide further 
growth opportunities. 
The market 
The role of nuclear power has been impacted by the 
Fukushima Daiichi disaster in 2011, by continued 
economic turbulence and by the availability of cheap 
fossil fuels. The position is mixed, with some countries 
looking to dismantle and others reduce their nuclear 
position, yet in the US permission has been granted 
for four new 1,000MW reactors. Non-OECD countries, 
particularly China, are leading the investment in 
new nuclear . 
The UK currently has 16 nuclear reactors generating 
10 GWe, around one-sixth of the UK’s requirements, 
and plans to build up to 16 GWe of new nuclear power 
capability . EDF’ s development plans are the most 
advanced, with a final investment decision expected in the 
first half of 2013. At the other end of the asset life, the next 
major contract of the UK’ s decommissioning programme 
is due to be awarded in early 2014. 
Around 15 per cent of Canada’s electricity comes from 
nuclear power , with 19 reactors mostly in Ontario. Broad 
support remains for the further expansion of nuclear 
capacity , with the World Nuclear Association reporting 
plans for a further two reactors over the next decade.
Statoil expects a 2.2 per cent growth in nuclear each year 
between 2010 and 2040, while the IEA suggests nuclear 
will be used to generate around 12 per cent of electricity 
in 2035, a little lower than today .
Irr espective of decisions on new build, many of the world’ s 
nuclear facilities will be reaching the end of their active life 
over the next 20 years. The clean-up and management of 
the nuclear legacy is one of the most demanding 
challenges facing the industry .  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 16
Clean Energy continued
The market continued
Renewables ’ share of total primary energy demand 
will increase from 13.5 to almost 20 per cent by 2040 
(Statoil), driven by climate change and environmental 
policies, energy security concerns and by price and cost 
developments. Growth is linked to the growth in electricity 
as a source of final energy demand. The IEA also expects 
growth and points to falling technology costs, increased 
fossil fuel prices and carbon pricing in some areas, together 
with increased use of incentives. By 2035 renewables are 
expected to account for one-third of total electricity output, 
of which half comes from hydro and a quarter from wind. 
Biofuels use will more than triple over the period, while 
solar photovoltaics will grow 26-fold to some 7.5 per cent 
of the renewables mix. T o support this growth, IEA forecasts 
an investment of $6.4 trillion between 2011 and 2035. 
BP suggests the k ey factor limiting the growth of renewables 
is the affordability of subsidies and believes that continued 
rapid cost reductions are required to keep the subsidy 
burden at an acceptable level.
The conventional power market comprises generation 
of electricity from conventional sources such as natural 
gas, oil, hydro and coal. BP forecasts that the energy 
used for power generation will grow by 49 per cent 
between 2011 and 2030, with IEA predicting that fossil 
fuels’ share of total inputs will fall from 75 per cent in 
2010 to 63 per cent in 2035. At the same time, however , 
there is a need to replace ageing infrastructure.
Growth in the transmission and distribution (T&D) market 
is driven by the shifts in supply and demand points and 
the need to replace ageing infrastructure.
AMEC’ s position 
Our nuclear capability has been developed over 50 years, 
positioning us to support the full lifecycle of nuclear 
energy; from new build and reactor support (including 
lifetime extension), to nuclear decommissioning and 
waste management. We have experience of all types 
of nuclear technology . We work with our customers in 
long-term relationships based on partnering and have 
significant experience in effectively managing complex 
stakeholder relationships. 
Our customers include major utilities, governments, 
national regulators and other significant stakeholders. 
We have a particularly strong presence in the UK 
and Canada, a growing business in the US and a 
good presence in Central and Eastern Europe and 
South Africa. 
In 2012 we expanded our position in the UK with the 
acquisition of the 600-person ESRC business, providing 
consulting and project solutions for customers including 
the Ministry of Defence, EDF , Magnox and the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority (NDA). 
In renewables, our focus is on wind, solar , biomass and 
biofuels projects. Our customers include power utilities, 
financial institutions, government agencies, technology 
developers, original equipment manufacturers and 
specialist consultants. They appreciate the flexibility our 
technology neutrality brings, our focus and our ability 
to provide a full service engineering, procurement and 
construction (EPC) solution. 
In power, the majority of services are performed for 
major energy providers, governments, developers and 
independent power producers, primarily in Europe and 
the Americas. 
Our major customers in T&D are system owners with 
which we have had long-standing relationships. We have 
an existing position in the UK and a growing presence 
in Canada.
Recent activities include:
 Sellafield Limited, UK: various projects including a 
multi-discipline site works framework agreement
 EDF , UK: supporting EDF’s architect engineer 
operations on its UK nuclear new build programme; 
the operations of the existing nuclear fleet; and 
partnering on Lewis windfarm development
 NDA, UK: decommissioning of the Sellafield site as a 
part of Nuclear Management Partners (NMP)
 Sapphire Energy , US: construction of an integrated 
algal biorefinery in New Mexico 
 Arizona Public Service, US: EPC contract for our 
largest photovoltaic project to date, 52MW on a 400 
acre site
 BC Hydro, Canada: augmenting our customer’ s 
in-house engineering group and undertaking a 
range of projects
 National Grid, UK: five-year extension to the Electricity 
Alliance West contract announced in January 2012. 
 m Further details on the customer base and recent project 
wins can be found on pages 28 and 29 and on our website
Our markets continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 17 
Performance Governance Financials Overview Strategy 
Environment & Infrastructure (E&I) 
The overall environmental consulting and engineering 
mark et includes servic es pr ovided to all four of AMEC’ s 
mark ets. Our E&I mark et alone consists of four sectors: 
water , transportation/infrastructure, government 
services, and industrial/commercial. 
The market 
Estimates of the size of the global environmental 
consultancy market vary from £26.5 billion (Environment 
Analyst) to over $54 billion (Engineering News Record), 
with design and construction-specific revenue on top 
of this. The market has historically been both large and 
diverse though there has been recent consolidation as 
large private sector clients are increasingly looking for 
seamless global project delivery . 
A compound annual growth rate of 3.5 per cent is 
expected over the next five years, with services related 
to climate change, energy and contaminated land/
remediation expected to grow particularly strongly 
(Environmental Analyst).
Many believe that water scarcity and environmental 
concerns provide additional opportunities for growth. 
Growing water constraints are set to impose additional 
costs on the energy sector and in some cases threaten 
the viability of projects. The IEA suggests that the volume 
of water consumed to produce energy will increase by 
85 per cent from 2010 to 2035. This is more than twice 
the rate of growth of energy demand, driven by more 
water-intensive power generation and expanding output 
of water-thirsty biofuels.
AMEC’ s position 
We work predominately in the US, Canada and the UK, 
with an emerging presence in the Middle East, Africa and 
Australasia. In 2012 we acquired Unidel, a 260-person 
consulting, engineering and technical services company 
based in Australia.
Environment and infrastructure services are provided 
to all of AMEC’s four markets, with the skills highly 
transferable across customers. Indeed, 32 per cent 
of the division’s revenues come from oil & gas, mining, 
and clean energy and this percentage is growing. 
 m See page 29 for further details
AMEC’s Environment & Infrastructure market itself can 
be divided into four sectors. 
AMEC provides a multi-disciplinary approach to 
water projects at all stages of planning, study , design 
and construction, seeking to provide sustainable and 
environmentally sound solutions for our public and 
private sector customers. Our primary areas of focus 
are water resource management, water policy , coastal 
management, asset planning and management, and 
wastewater collection and treatment.
Water services are also commonly provided to customers 
in AMEC’s other markets, including mining and oil & gas. 
In transportation/infrastructure, AMEC has provided 
programme management, planning and design, project 
and construction management, asset development and 
long-term asset support to government transportation 
agencies, national and local customers and private 
developers in Canada and the US for over 50 years. 
A broad range of government services is provided, 
including to the US Federal Government, which is the 
largest procurer of environmental services in the world. 
Customers also include the various branches of the 
military and state/provincial agencies. Services range 
from remediation programmes to design and delivery 
of infrastructure facilities, including airfield facilities, 
housing and site improvements at installations globally . 
In industrial/commercial, compliance and due diligence 
services are provided, ranging from geotechnical and  
envir onmental to materials and water resour ces consulting. 
AMEC’s knowledge of regulatory environments is used 
to apply a risk-based approach to environmental liability 
assessment and management. 
Recent projects include:
 Northumbrian Water , UK: framework agreement 
for the provision of technical, commercial and 
environmental services
 US Army Corps of Engineers, Qatar: design and 
construction of facilities and warehousing, including 
demolition and site improvements at Al Udeid Air Base 
 McCain Foods, Canada: wastewater effluent  
reclaim/recycle design project
 Windsor Essex Parkway , Canada: design and 
environmental services, including geotechnical 
investigation, pavement design habitat studies and 
sustainability planning.
 m See amec.com for further detail on projects and 
strategy in this market AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 18
Our services
AMEC offers its customers engineering and project 
management services across the asset lifecycle, together 
with a highly complementary range of environmental 
and engineering consulting services which bring 
competitive advantage. 
Our core services include:
Consulting
Business consulting: provided to the oil, gas and mining 
industries, helping support our customers in achieving 
maximum value from their assets.
Commercial: provided by commercial consulting and 
cost management companies Rider Hunt International 
and Aquenta Consulting. 
Environmental: full service capabilities covering a wide 
range of disciplines, including environmental engineering 
and science, geotechnical engineering, water resources, 
materials testing and engineering, engineering and 
surveying, and programme management.
T echnical: delivering projects and solving problems. For 
example, in the mining market we are involved in ore 
resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies.
Recent examples include:
 Northumbrian Water , UK: multi-disciplinary 
engineering, contract supervision services and 
associated environmental support as well as 
contract and cost management services
 Sellafield Limited, UK: three-year environmental 
support framework agreement
 UNCC/KOC, Kuwait: PMC contract for the remediation 
of oilfield properties damaged in the first Gulf War . 
Engineering
Our engineering services are at the heart of our project 
delivery to our customers. We have a global network  
of engineering centres delivering high performance, 
cost-effective technical solutions to our customers. 
Our approach to engineering, the AMEC way (see next 
page), means a common user experience, independent 
of location. We can deploy the best mix of our capabilities 
through a well-integrated work share and technical 
performance management system. 
We have a particular expertise in undertaking large and 
complex projects in remote areas and in extending the 
life of assets in the mid-late stages of their lifecycle. 
Recent examples include:
 GDF SUEZ, UK: detailed design for the Cygnus gas 
field development in the North Sea
 BP , UK: engineering and project management 
services for the main platform design for Clair Ridge
 T alisman, UK: provision of brownfield engineering, 
procurement, construction and commissioning 
services under five-year call-off contract
 MWCC: designing and delivering components of 
MWCC’s expanded containment system in the Gulf 
of Mexico
 EDF : supporting their architect engineering operations 
on the UK nuclear new build programme.
Construction management
The services provided by AMEC are designed to 
enhance the quality and value of construction projects 
by focusing on the quality of materials, the construction 
practices, and the level of care and quality control 
in the construction process. We focus on project 
management, construction techniques, subcontractor 
management, health and safety , quality assurance and 
quality control. 
Recent examples include:
 Sapphire Energy, US: recently completed first 
stage of construction of integrated algal biorefinery 
in New Mexico
In whatever market or sector , the range of services provided to our customers 
is similar . We design, deliver and maintain their strategic and complex assets, 
offering total life of asset support from feasibility planning right through to 
decommissioning.
Our new organisational structure is designed to maximise growth opportunities, by ensuring the widest range of AMEC 
services is provided in each of our three geographies, and for each of our four markets. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 19 
Performance Governance Financials Overview Strategy 
 GDF SUEZ, Canada: with our JV partner , 
Black & McDonald, engineering, procurement, 
construction (EPC) contract for Brockville 
10 MW solar photovoltaic plant
 Sappi, South Africa: EPCM services for Go Cell 
project, modifications to enable the production 
of chemical cellulose.
Project management
This is one of our core services, helping to deliver our 
consulting, engineering excellence and construction 
services to our customers. We provide construction 
management advice and support, health, safety , 
sustainability , environmental and quality (HSSEQ) 
direction and support, and commissioning and start-up. 
We have developed and refined state-of-the-art systems, 
procedures and specifications for the management 
and control of engineering, procurement, construction 
and commissioning of process and industrial facilities 
worldwide. The AMEC way defines a common approach 
to executing projects within AMEC. It combines an 
assurance framework for project delivery with access to 
a comprehensive reference framework of guidance, tools 
such as Convero (our integrated project management 
system) and best practice examples. T ogether these 
processes provide a standard approach to complete, 
successful delivery of projects to our customers.
Recent examples include:
 BP , Azerbaijan: AMEC consortium has a master services 
agreement for the provision of project management, 
engineering services, construction management and 
commissioning and completions, including the Chirag 
Oil Project – West Chirag (COP-WC) project valued at 
US$340 million
 KNPC, Kuwait: PMC contract worth £330 million for a 
new oil refinery at Al Zour , due to be completed in 2018
 Over 100 AMEC employees based in Canada, 
Mongolia, Australia and the US are working on the 
Phase 2 underground expansion of the Oyu T olgoi 
mine site in Mongolia.
Operations and maintenance
Once built, we support the operation of our customers’ 
assets and seek to extend their life through enhanced 
production, recovery and reduced operating costs. 
Services include:
 Asset support: comprehensive specialist shutdown/
overhaul, maintenance, mechanical and electrical (M&E) 
construction, tankage and special engineering services 
 Production operations: including production 
optimisation services provided by Performance 
Improvements Ltd (PI)
 Duty holder: operating and maintaining infrastructure 
on behalf of our clients, such as Fairfield Energy .
Recent examples include:
 Sellafield Limited, UK: multi-discipline site works 
framework agreement, covering maintenance tasks, 
asset care and restoration projects
 Chevron, Australia: asset support contract for Clough 
AMEC JV on Wheatstone project, including specialist 
support from PI
 Centrica, UK: five-year contract for the provision 
of engineering, construction and project support 
services for East Irish Sea onshore and offshore 
gas production assets.
Decommissioning
We have substantial experience of nuclear 
decommissioning and waste management in the UK, 
Canada, Eastern and Western Europe and the former 
Soviet Union. We can be involved from initial concept 
through to hands-on decommissioning and clean-up, 
and also provide in-house specialist services, such as 
safety case and health physics support. These skills are 
highly transferable to mature oil and gas assets, such 
as those in the North Sea. 
Recent examples include:
 NDA, UK: AMEC plays a key role as part of 
Nuclear Management Partners in managing 
the decommissioning of the Sellafield complex
 BP , UK: decommissioning services provided by qedi 
on the Valhall platforms
 JAVYS, Slovakia: provision of waste treatment services 
to the Bohunice nuclear plant.
Other services
We also offer a range of other specialist and sustainability 
services.
 m See amec.com and our sustainability report AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 20
2012
8.0%
2011
9.2%
2010
9.1%
2012
93%
2011
89%
2010
81%
2012
28%
2011
11%
2010
16%
2012
14%
2011
13%
2010
33%
(tonnes per employee. 2012 figures are draft)
As defined on page 3, note 4
Operating cash flow as defined 
on page 35, note 1
As defined on page 3, note 2
Key Performance Indicators
Financial 
Non-financial
Revenue growth
EPS growth
Vision 2015 
We track a number of additional metrics to help us 
understand our progress towards Vision 2015.
Margin
Cash conversion
Growth in employee base
Safety (continuing operations)
Number of fatalities at work
Lost time incident frequency rate
T otal recordable case frequency rate Carbon emissions
for the past five years (2008–2012).
We have the same target for 2013
0
(per 200,000 exposure hours) Average employees, as defined in note 6 on page 3
(per 200,000 exposure hours)
 m See pages 26 to 33 for  
more details
 m See pages 10 and 12 for  
more details
 m See 2012 sustainability  
report and pages 24 to 25  
for more details
 m See pages 26 to 33 for  
more details
 m See pages 10 to 11 for more details
 m See pages 35 to 36 for  
more details
 m See page 35 for  
more details
2010
0.42
2011
0.37
2012
0.38
2013
target
0.33
2010
0.06
2011
0.04
2012
0.03
2013
target
zero
2012 2011 2010
2012
3.8
2011
2.4
2010
2.3
Americas
Europe
Growth Regions AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 21 
Performance Governance Financials Overview Strategy 
Managing risk
Risk management process
A consistently applied methodology is used at project, 
operating company and group levels to identify the key 
risks that could have a significant impact on the ability of 
AMEC to achieve its objectives. These are recorded in risk 
registers and evaluated to determine the likely impact and 
probability of occurring. 
Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate 
risks that are considered unacceptable. Risk owners are 
identified and given responsibility for ensuring actions 
are implemented with appropriate review dates.
The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least 
quarterly with the relevant risk owners.
Reporting and monitoring
Reporting directly to the board, the risk management 
committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets 
at least twice each year to:
 review risk management policies, procedures 
and processes
 review the AMEC plc risk register and make 
recommendations as appropriate
 review, approve and make recommendations 
in respect of those risks which AMEC is willing 
to accept or assume in the ordinary course of 
business ('risk appetite')
 review any issues raised by other committees of 
the board that impact on the risk profile of AMEC
 review any emerging risks and any potential impact 
they may have on risk appetite
 review and consider reports on key risk issues such 
as new business and geographical locations for 
operations or projects 
 issue risk reports and make recommendations 
to the board. 
Group  internal  audit
Plc
Business units
Operating units
Projects
Risk oversight
n ensure appropriate risk management 
processes are in place
n ensure management is positioned 
to identify and respond to risk
n ensure relevant information is raised 
to the appropriate level.
Risk owner/risk manager
n participate in the identification of risk
n participate in the identification of risk 
management action plans
n ensure action plans are implemented
n monitor and report on risk status.
Risk co-ordinator
n ensure risk management process 
is followed
n facilitate risk management reviews
n collate and issue risk management 
reports/registers
n promote learning and consistency .
Board
Chief Executive/
risk committee
Management teams/ 
functional heads 
Legacy
Business unit 
heads
Management teams/ 
functional heads
Operating unit 
heads
Management teams/ 
functional heads
Project manager
Project team
Head of Risk 
Management
Business Unit 
Head of 
Commercial
Operating Unit 
Head of 
Commercial
Project risk 
owners
Roles and responsibilities
AMEC operates in some 40 countries globally , serving a broad range of markets 
and customers. As such, the group is subject to certain general and industry-
specific risks. Where practicable, the group seeks to mitigate exposure to all 
forms of risk through effective risk management and risk transfer practices. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 22
Managing risk continued
Reporting and monitoring continued
The table shows AMEC’s principal business and strategic risks. Each is specific to the group and could have  
a material impact on it. Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Principal business and strategic risks
Risk Mitigation
Geopolitical and economic conditions 
AMEC operates predominately in the UK and North 
America and is therefore particularly affected by 
political and economic conditions in those markets.
Recent instability and heightened security concerns 
in North Africa may hinder growth opportunities in 
this region.
Changes in general economic conditions may influence 
customers’ decisions on capital investment and/or 
asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility in the 
development of AMEC’ s order intake. These may also 
lead to change in the customer base, competition 
and in the way customers procure the services 
we provide.
 
AMEC seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence and, through 
acquisitions and organic growth, will continue to increase its exposure to 
other attractive regions of the world.
The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn and 
affecting the demand for AMEC’s services has been addressed, as far as 
practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business portfolio in terms 
of geographies, markets, clients and service offering/business model.
In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have been taken to 
assess and monitor any potential impact on AMEC’s business opportunities and 
address potential increased supply chain and, more broadly , counterparty risk.
 m Further details on our markets and sectors can be found from page 12
Major third party environmental event 
A major third party event resulting in significant 
environmental damage may lead to adverse 
developments in one of AMEC’s key markets.
 
The impact of such an event would be mitigated by closely monitoring the 
developments of such an event, the concerns of stakeholders and other  
interested parties and by actively engaging with local regulators and 
maintaining close communication with customers.
Changes in commodity prices 
A sustained and significant reduction in oil and gas or 
commodity prices could have an adverse impact on the 
level of customer spending in AMEC’s markets and 
consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
 
This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio of 
geographies, markets, clients and service offering.
Restructure to focus on expansion of global footprint 
AMEC recently restructured the business to focus on 
delivering growth generally and expanding the global 
footprint specifically into Growth Regions. A failure of 
this strategy could result in failure to meet targeted 
growth levels. 
 
Closely defined roles and responsibilities have been identified across operations 
and functions with a formal review process initiated to monitor performance and 
ensure appropriate remedial actions are put in place without delay .
AMEC’ s Vision 2015 strategy identified, by geography , the opportunities and risks 
across the mark ets in which AMEC operates. The strategy is regularly reviewed for 
continued relevance and covers both organic growth and mergers and acquisitions.
Mergers and acquisitions 
A failure to identify , complete and successfully integrate 
target acquisitions represents a risk to growth.
 
The Vision 2015 strategic plan includes a structured internal review of identified 
target acquisitions, followed by an established and robust due diligence and 
integration planning process.
Project delivery 
Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer 
expectations on project delivery could result in damage 
to reputation, loss of repeat business and potentially 
lead to litigation and/or claims against AMEC.
 
AMEC operates a system of globally applied policies and procedures. These, 
combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management 
process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, 
mitigate the risk to successful project delivery .
Pensions 
AMEC operates a number of defined benefits pension 
schemes, where careful judgement is required in 
determining the assumptions for future salary and 
pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment 
returns and member longevity . There is a risk of 
underestimating this liability .
 
This risk to AMEC’s pension schemes is mitigated by:
 maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time 
 taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other  
professional advisers
 agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees 
 close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action 
agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges.
 m See note 14 on page 89 for further details on our pension schemes
 m Other financial risks are shown on page 95 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 23 
Performance Governance Financials Overview Strategy 
Risk continued Mitigation continued
Health, safety and security 
AMEC is involved in activities and environments  
that have the potential to cause serious injury  
to personnel or damage to property or the 
environment and damage to our reputation.
 
In order to control risk and prevent harm, AMEC is focused on achieving the 
highest standards of health and safety management. This is achieved through 
setting of an effective health and safety policy and ensuring effective leadership 
and organisational arrangements are in place to deliver this policy .
The personal security risk to AMEC employees while travelling or working 
in potentially hazardous locations is mitigated by providing professional advice  
and support, together with appropriate contingency planning.
Health and safety performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets 
to facilitate continual improvement.
 m The KPIs on page 20 show details of our recent performance
Legacy risk 
Litigation and business claims from divested 
and non-core businesses remain a risk to AMEC.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment 
may require skills that are not common to the 
rest of the company .
 
The established legacy team manages these claims with internal and external 
legal advice. The aim is to seek cost-effective management of litigation and 
promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
AMEC has made provisions for the legacy issues that are believed to be adequate 
and is not aware of any other current issues relating to disposed businesses 
which are likely to have a material impact. Specialist teams with the appropriate 
knowledge are brought in as required.
Information technology (IT) 
AMEC is exposed to the risks that the IT systems  
on which it relies fail and/or that sensitive data  
held by the group is lost. 
 
AMEC has appropriate controls in place in order to mitigate the risk of systems 
failure and data loss, including systems back-up procedures and disaster recovery 
plans and also has appropriate virus protection, network security controls and 
encryption of mobile devices.
Staff recruitment and retention 
An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre 
employees could become a barrier to the continued 
success and growth of AMEC.
 
This risk is mitigated with a clear Human Resources (HR) strategy , which is 
aligned to the business strategy and focused on attracting, developing and 
retaining the best people for AMEC. It is underpinned by an employee framework 
which describes how we manage our people consistently .
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and benefits to ensure 
sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment teams 
capable of recruiting large numbers into AMEC using common systems.
AMEC Academy delivers development activities to enhance delivery and prepare 
employees for more advanced roles.
Ethical breach 
A substantive ethical breach and/or non-compliance 
with laws or regulations could potentially lead to 
damage to AMEC’s reputation, fines, litigation and 
claims for compensation.
 
AMEC has a number of measures in place across the group to mitigate  
this risk, including:
 embedded policies and procedures
 Code of Business Conduct 
 segregation of duties
 management oversight
 financial and operational controls 
 independent whistle-blowing mechanism 
 appointment of ethics officers
 anti-fraud and other internal audits
 legal team advice
 ethics training programme
 oversight by the ethics committee of the board. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 24
Excellent project delivery
Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing on our customers and how we deliver to 
them safely and sustainably in line with our values. 
Our customers face increasing legislative and other pressures to operate in a sustainable way and 
we at AMEC are in an ideal place to support them, working with our partners and supply chain. 
They are looking for sustainability solutions: minimising resource use (water , materials, energy), 
considering long-term social requirements on our projects (utilising local workforce and suppliers, 
supporting the local communities in which we work) and ensuring the delivery of safe projects 
(inherent within the design, on site during delivery and onwards during the operation). 
In each of these areas, we utilise our internal programmes and tools, along with AMEC’s technical 
and scientific expertise, to ensure excellent customer delivery .
Living our values
Our values are integral to how we do business and how we deliver projects successfully for our 
customers. They create the cultural context in which we work and form the foundation to our 
sustainability strategy in four key areas: people; safety; environment; and integrity . 
Policies, processes and standards are in place globally to ensure we are able to manage these areas 
consistently wherever we work.
Highlights include:
 During 2012 we recruited over 10,000 people 
into the business (people)
 Our e-academy , a learning management 
system designed to help us improve our 
global reach to everyone at AMEC, was 
launched in June 2012. T o date we have had 
over 120,000 hits to the system (people)
 During 2012 we had a target to focus on high 
potential incidents. T o this end, all 36 high 
potential incidents recorded were reviewed 
at senior management level (in 2011 we had 
48 high potential incidents) (safety)
 During 2012 we achieved better than our 
All Injury Frequency Rate target and although 
we missed our overall T otal Recordable 
Frequency Rate target we improved on our 
2011 performance (safety)
 We had our fifth year supporting SOS 
Children’s Villages as our global strategic 
charity . During the year we partnered with 
SOS Children to support their village in 
Baku, Azerbaijan (integrity)
 New online Code of Business Conduct 
training rolled out to all employees – by 
2 January 2013 17,838 employees had 
completed the training (integrity) 
 Power management software is being 
implemented on our networked equipment 
in all our locations globally . T o date the system 
has saved nearly 15,000 kWh in energy use. 
Once fully rolled out we estimate the annual 
saving to be in the region of 1.49 GWh of 
electricity (environment)
 Water strategy has been developed in 
2012, along with baseline water usage. 
A programme in line with the strategy will 
be rolled out 2013 onwards (environment).
Sustainability
AMEC believes sustainable business is the balance of economic, environmental 
and social responsibilities, meeting the requirements of our stakeholders, 
consistently , in line with living our values. 
T o achieve this we have to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the very core of our business and within our 
decision-making processes. Our sustainability strategy is described using three interwoven elements – living our values, 
excellent project delivery and sustainable growth, each of which is described in more detail below and within our 
sustainability report. 
Living our 
values
Excellent 
project 
delivery AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 25 
OverviewStrategy Governance Financials Performance
Sustainable growth
This third element of our sustainability strategy – sustainable growth – provides the linkage from 
living our values and excellent project delivery to our Vision 2015 business strategy and delivery 
of the company vision and beyond. 
Highlights include:
 Roll out of our new global supplier registration 
and qualification system began to those 
suppliers viewed as critical to successful 
project delivery . This new process incorporates 
health, safety and environmental requirements, 
compliance with the supplier code of conduct 
and specific ethics questions 
 We are supporting EDF Energy Nuclear 
Generation as a strategic partner for the 
lifetime of the existing UK nuclear power 
station fleet, focused on efficient low carbon 
asset operation with minimal losses and 
maximising the generation lifetime of the 
fleet, while ensuring zero harm to personnel 
and the environment
 R oll out of the ‘Essentials of engineering safety 
and environmental protection thr ough the 
pr oject lifecycle’ training programme thr ough 
AMEC Academy , to 1,414 people during 2012
 In 2011, the Jabulani skills training 
centre was established as part of the Sappi 
GoCell project at Ngodwana in South Africa 
to maximise local community involvement 
and provide the project and local area with 
construction skills. During 2012 the training 
centre won two ‘achiever’ awards from 
BHP Billiton
 Our Environment & Infrastructure division 
held its innovation summit in October , 
showcasing best practice and innovative 
solutions from across the business. 
Highlights include:
 As part of our stakeholder engagement 
in 2012 we hosted a sustainability debate 
amongst our employees. Over 100 people 
from across the business actively took part, 
discussing their thoughts on what sustainability 
meant for AMEC, what we do well and what 
we could improve on. The results of this 
debate are helping us to shape our focus 
for 2013 and beyond 
 We were included in Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index for the ninth year in succession, continuing 
as industry leader within our sector .
Fit for the future 
Priorities include:
 Focus on communicating sustainability in practice as part 
of an employee awareness and engagement programme 
 Ensure our carbon reporting and data capture 
processes are in line with new mandatory carbon 
reporting requirements
 Full review of our carbon footprint with the aim of 
re-baselining during 2013 to take into account key 
changes within the organisation from 2008 
 Roll out of a project framework for sustainability – 
ensuring that sustainability is embedded within our 
projects in a consistent manner
 Articulate our Employee Value Proposition (EVP) 
to build employee engagement
 Continue to focus on roll out of the Code of Business 
Conduct training to ensure that all of our employees 
have completed it.
In our reporting on sustainability we focus on those areas that are most important for us and to our stakeholders and 
those that are critical for AMEC’s long-term success. We set targets for , and check on the progress of, over 40 
sustainability indicators, some of which are incorporated into this report. 
 m See also 2012 sustainability report
 m On reflection, our employee magazine, highlights these and similar achievements
 m Our KPIs are shown on page 20
Sustainable 
growth AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 26
Introduction
This business and financial review sets out descriptions 
of each of the group’s business segments, their markets, 
strategy and significant factors affecting performance for 
the year ended 31 December 2012. It should be read in 
conjunction with the information on our markets (page 12), 
our services (page 18), our KPIs (page 20) and our 
Vision 2015 strategy (page 10). It includes comments 
on movements in the income statement, balance sheet 
and cash flow statement and on matters that may have 
an impact on the group’s future financial performance. 
The review provides a broader perspective of AMEC’s 
businesses to enable a more informed judgement to be 
made of the group’s financial performance and prospects. 
Certain forward-looking statements with respect to the 
financial condition, operations and results of AMEC’s 
businesses are contained in the review. These statements 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events 
and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the 
future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual performance or developments to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements. The review is provided solely to provide 
additional information to assist in the assessment of the 
group’s strategy and future prospects. It should not be 
relied on for any other purpose.
Basis of presentation and 
discontinued operations
The following analysis is based on the results for 
continuing operations before intangible amortisation 
and exceptional items but including joint venture profit 
before interest, tax and intangible amortisation (EBITA). 
Results are presented to the nearest million. Calculated 
numbers, such as EPS and margin rates, are based on 
the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision. 
In accordance with IFRS 5*, the post-tax results of 
discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the 
consolidated income statement. The cash flows of 
discontinued businesses are fully consolidated within 
AMEC up to the date of sale.
Segmental analysis
Segmental analysis is provided for the group’s activities in 
the Natural Resources, Power & Process and Environment 
& Infrastructure divisions, as well as for non-core 
Investments and other activities. 
Amounts and percentage movements relating to continuing 
segmental earnings before net financing income, tax and 
intangible amortisation (EBITA) are stated before corporate 
costs of £33 million (2011: £34 million) and pre-tax 
exceptional costs of £24 million (2011: £6 million). 
The average number of employees for the years ended 
31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 stated in this 
review includes agency staff.
Change in basis of reporting
From 1 January 2013, the basis of reporting will be 
switched from a divisional to a geographic basis, in line 
with the management of the business. For information, 
following the analysis of performance by division, the key 
characteristics of each geography are shown.
 m Further prior year comparative data is available 
on page 34 and our website
Divisional breakdown
Natural Resources
2012 2011
Change 
%
Underlying 
%
1
Revenue (£m) 2,416 1,742 +39 +20
EBITA (£m) 192 192 in line in line
EBITA margin (%) 8.0 11.0 (300) bps
Order book (£bn) 2.3 2.2 +4
Average number 
of employees
2
13,849 12,239 +13
1
  Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions, 
movements in material currencies, and the impact of incremental 
procurement
2
 Full time equivalents, including agency staff. 
Description of business
Principal activities: operates in two markets: oil & gas 
(77 per cent of 2012 revenues) and mining. Further details 
on each are shown on pages 13 to 15.
T otal life of asset services provided, ranging from engineering 
design through to asset support and decommissioning. 
Examples can be found on page 18 and 19.
Key facts
 Approximately 68 per cent of 2012 revenues were 
generated by asset development (capex) services, 
with the remainder in asset support (opex)
Business and financial review
*  International Financial Reporting Standard 5 ‘Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations ’ AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 27 
OverviewStrategy Governance Financials Performance
 Oil and gas activities are concentrated mainly in the 
upstream sector (some 90 per cent of 2012 revenues) 
 63 per cent of revenue in 2012 came from Americas, 
25 per cent from Europe and 12 per cent from 
Growth Regions.
Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature 
markets and frontier regions, with major offices in 
Aberdeen, London, Great Yarmouth, Darlington (UK); 
Baku (Azerbaijan); Calgary , T oronto, Saskatoon, Vancouver 
(Canada); Houston, TX (US); Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia); 
Kuwait City (Kuwait); Abu Dhabi (UAE); Perth, Brisbane 
(Australia); Shanghai (China); Santiago (Chile); Belo 
Horizonte (Brazil); Lima (Peru); Singapore; Johannesburg 
(South Africa).
Business model: explained in more detail on page 2. 
Typical KPIs might include finishing on time, on budget 
and without causing harm to people or the environment.
Some limited lump sum or fixed price work is also 
undertaken, where the customer and type of work are 
well known to AMEC. This represented just 9 per cent 
of the division’ s revenues in 2012.
Customers include: Agip KCO, Apache, Arcelor Mittal, 
Azerbaijan International Operating Company (AIOC), 
BG Group, BP , Canadian Natural Resources Limited, 
ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Fairfield Energy , Fortescue 
Metals, Freeport-McMoran, GDF SUEZ, K&S Potash, 
Kuwait Oil Company , Marine Well Containment Company , 
Newmont Mining Corporation, PotashCorp, Shell, T eck 
Resources Ltd, T eesside Gas and Liquids Processing.
Significant new contracts in 2012 included:  
Oil & gas: KNPC: PMC for new oil refinery at Al Zour , 
Kuwait; ADGAS: PMC contract for FEED phase of flaring 
and emissions reduction project for LNG facilities, Das 
Island, UAE; ADMA OPCO: PMC for ‘execute phase’ of 
Nasr Phase 1 and Umm Lulu Phase 1 field development 
projects, Offshore Abu Dhabi, UAE; BP: decommissioning 
services for Valhall production and compression platform, 
Norway; T alisman: five-year call-off contract to provide 
brownfield engineering, UK North Sea; BP: £10 million 
contract to modify and extend its Kinneil T erminal, UK; 
GDF SUEZ: £60 million detail design contract for GDF 
SUEZ’s Cygnus field, UK North Sea; Centrica: five-year 
asset support contract for mixture of manned and 
unmanned offshore assets, as well as onshore gas 
terminals, East Irish Sea; SABIC: extension to two asset 
support contracts worth over £70 million over three years, 
UK; MWCC: designing and delivering components of the 
Marine Well Containment Company’s (MWCC) expanded 
containment system, US Gulf of Mexico; BP: FEED services 
for the second phase of Mad Dog field, US Gulf of Mexico; 
Chevron: asset support contract for the Wheatstone 
offshore facility , Australia; Chevron: contract extension to 
provide engineering services to oil production facilities at 
Barrow Island, Australia; ENI: ‘Blacktip’ contract to provide 
maintenance support to onshore gas treatment plant and 
offshore unmanned wellhead platform, Australia; Conoco 
Phillips: two-year contract extension to provide operations 
and maintenance services to the Bayu Undan facilities, 
East Timor Indonesia.
Mining: Swakop Uranium: AMEC joint venture awarded 
Husab EPCM project, with AMEC responsible for engineering 
and project management, Namibia; Balkans Minerals & 
Metals: engineering and procurement services for the 
Krumovgrad Gold project, Bulgaria.
Ongoing projects include detailed engineering and 
procurement for ConocoPhillips’ existing Judy platform 
and the hook-up and commissioning of the new Jasmine 
facilities in the North Sea; a long-term project management 
project for KOC in Kuwait; and ongoing oil sands work for 
Imperial Oil, Syncrude, T eck, Suncor and Connacher 
among others.
2012 performance
Revenue in the Natural Resources division improved 
39 per cent to £2,416 million with good growth in both oil 
& gas and mining. A strong performance in conventional 
oil & gas in the UK North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico and 
in mining throughout the Americas was further boosted 
by incremental procurement (£320 million) on three key 
projects. Excluding incremental procurement, underlying 
growth was 20 per cent. 
EBIT A (£192 million) was in line with 2011, and the 
EBIT A margin was 8.0 per cent, down 300 basis points. 
Incremental procurement contributed to this decline as 
did the shift in work mix to the more mature regions of the 
UK North Sea and Gulf of Mexico, as previously flagged. 
In addition, and as discussed in the half-year results, there 
were delays to the Kearl initial development in the oil 
sands, which resulted in first half profits being lower than 
anticipated. As a result, the group chose to adopt a more 
cautious approach to profit-recognition in the second half. 
Finally , market softening in Australia had an impact on 
margin that was accentuated by comparison with 2011, 
which saw successful claim settlements in the GRD Minproc 
business and a number of positive project close-outs.
Order intake improved with oil & gas activity driving the 
increase. The order book at 31 December 2012 was up 
4 per cent at £2.3 billion.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 28
Power & Process
2012 2011
Change 
%
Underlying 
%
1
Revenue (£m) 973 849 +15 +11
EBITA (£m) 78 72 +8 +4
EBITA margin (%) 8.0 8.5 (50) bps
Order book (£bn) 0.8 1.0 (22)
Average number 
of employees
2
7,426 7,042 +5
1
  Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions 
and movements in material currencies
2
 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business
Principal activities: focused entirely on clean energy 
mark et, operating in nuclear , renewables/bioprocess, power 
and transmission & distribution sectors (see pages 15 to 16 
for further details). Provide total life of asset services, 
particularly in Europe and the Americas. Examples are 
shown on page 18 to 19.
Key facts
Revenue split by geography: 55 per cent from 
Americas, 44 per cent from Europe and 1 per cent 
from Growth Regions.
Revenue split by sector: 41 per cent renewables/
bioprocess; 28 per cent nuclear (excluding the equity 
accounted joint venture undertaking decommissioning 
work at Sellafield); balance split evenly between power 
and T&D.
Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature 
markets and frontier regions, with major offices in Atlanta, 
GA, Greenville, SC (US); Darlington, Knutsford (UK); 
Santiago (Chile); T oronto and Vancouver (Canada).
Business model: The majority of services in this division 
are provided on a target price or cost plus basis. Lump 
sum work represented some 35 per cent of the division’ s 
revenues in 2012.
Customers include: Arizona Public Service, Atomic 
Weapons Establishment, BC Hydro, Boldt AMEC LLC, 
Bruce Power , EDF Energy , Georgia Pacific, INEOS, 
International Power , Kruger , Meadwestvaco, National Grid, 
NDA, Ontario Power Generation, Research Triangle 
Institute, Sapphire Energy , Sellafield Limited, Siemens, 
Smith Falls, Southern Company , Wales & West Utilities.
Significant new contracts in 2012 included:  
Sellafield Ltd: four-year extension to existing contract 
to provide maintenance, asset care and restoration across 
the Sellafield site; three-year framework contract to provide 
environmental services; and Axiom joint venture awarded 
a 15-year design and support framework contract, UK; 
National Nuclear Lab: five-year contract to provide project 
management support for the refurbishment of customer’s 
active handling facility , UK; JAVYS: three-year contract 
to provide waste treatment services to the Bohunice 
nuclear power plant, Slovakia; International Power 
Canada: EPC contract for the Brockville solar project, 
a 10-megawatt (MW) solar photovoltaic plant, Canada; 
National Grid: AMEC JV awarded five-year extension to 
the Electricity Alliance West contract worth £650 million, 
to upgrade overhead power lines and underground cables 
across the western half of England and all of Wales.
In the North American clean energy market, good progress 
is being made on the Sapphire Energy biofuels project in 
the US, and in Canada, the 99 MW Erieau wind project 
continues to advance. Work is also continuing on a number 
of other clean energy projects.
2012 performance
Revenue increased 15 per cent, to £973 million in 
2012 (2011: £849 million). This reflected the continued 
refocusing of the business, with a strong performance 
in the renewable/bioprocess sector in the Americas in 
particular and a six-month impact of the ESRC acquisition. 
This was offset by a decline in conventional power , driven 
by the phasing down of the West Burton combined-cycle 
gas turbine power station project. 
EBIT A was up 8 per cent, to £78 million (2011: £72 million), 
which reflected revenue growth and the ESRC acquisition, 
with the Sellafield decommissioning joint venture 
contributing £15 million (2011: £20 million). 
The overall EBIT A margin was down 50 basis points 
to 8.0 per cent. The margin decline was largely the result 
of a reduced contribution from the Sellafield joint venture, 
where results, though in line with original expectations, 
were below 2011.
The order book at 31 December 2012 was £0.8 billion 
(2011: £1.0 billion). The decline reflected a reduction in 
conventional power and transmission & distribution 
activity , consistent with the shift to cleaner energy sectors. 
The tier one Sellafield decommissioning contract, as it is 
an equity accounted joint venture, was not included in 
these figures.
Progress continued to be made on the resolution of 
the ‘older contracts’, which, as previously referenced, 
did not meet the revised criteria of low-risk services 
with high value-add. 
Business and financial review
Divisional breakdown continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 29 
OverviewStrategy Governance Financials Performance
Environment & Infrastructure
2012 2011
Change 
%
Underlying 
%
1
Revenue (£m) 820 722 +14 (3)
EBITA (£m) 87 66 +31 +21
EBITA margin (%) 10.6 9.2 +140 bps
Order book (£bn) 0.5 0.5 +9
Average number 
of employees
2
6,953 6,262 +11
1
  Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions 
and movements in material currencies
2
 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business
Principal activities: work ed in each of AMEC’ s four mark ets, 
including those common to the Natural Resources and 
Power & Process divisions. See pages 12 to 17 for the 
growth characteristics of each market and AMEC’ s position.
Specialist environmental, geotechnical, programme 
management, engineering and consultancy services are 
provided to a broad range of customers in the public and 
private sectors, including many common to the other 
divisions. See pages 18 and 19 for further details. 
T ypically characterised by a large number of small value 
contracts, with an average size of approximately $100,000.
Key facts
Revenue split by geography: 84 per cent from Americas, 
7 per cent from Europe and 9 per cent from Growth Regions.
R evenue split by mark et: 12 per cent oil & gas; 15 per cent 
mining; 5 per cent clean energy; 68 per cent environment 
& infrastructure.
Locations: operates from a regional network of around 
210 offices, mainly across North America but with an 
increasing presence in Europe, South America, the 
Middle East and Australasia.
Business model: the majority of the division’s revenue 
comes from smaller scale consultancy projects. Some 
lump sum or fixed price activity is carried out in the 
government sector .
Customers include: Alberta Transportation, Atlantic 
Richfield Company , Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines 
Ltd, CSX Transportation Inc., Enbridge Pipelines Inc., 
Honeywell International Inc., Imperial Oil, National Parks 
Service, Newmont Mining Corporation, Northumbrian 
Water Limited, Pacific Gas and Electric Company , Shaw 
Constructors Inc., State of Florida, Suncor Energy Inc, 
Syncrude Canada Ltd, US Air Force, US Army , US Coast 
Guard, US Navy , US Environmental Protection Agency .
Significant ongoing contracts include: Northumbrian 
Water Limited: technical and commercial services 
framework contracts to provide multi-disciplinary 
engineering, contract supervision services and associated 
environmental support as well as contract and cost 
management services, UK; Sydney Water: programme, 
cost and risk management (PCRM) role with the network 
and facilities renewals programme, Australia; KOC: 
PMC contract to provide environmental remediation of 
land damaged during 1990–91 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait; 
Government Procurement Services: three-year framework 
agreement to provide environmental and sustainability 
advice, support and delivery services across the UK public 
sector , UK; North London Waste Authority: four-year 
framework agreement to help deliver state-of-art new 
waste services infrastructure for North London, UK.
2012 performance
Revenue increased by 14 per cent to £820 million in 2012 
(2011: £722 million), driven by acquisitions; MACTEC in 
June 2011 and Unidel in Australia in May 2012. Underlying 
revenue was down, reflecting a good performance in the 
oil & gas, mining and clean energy markets but slower 
performance in other sectors, particularly government 
services. Some 32 per cent of revenues in this division 
came from markets common to Natural Resources and 
Power & Process (2011: 27 per cent).
EBIT A increased 31 per cent in 2012 to £87 million 
(2011: £66 million). The sector mix improved towards 
the higher margin energy markets, there were overhead 
synergies and pension benefits resulting from the 
integration of MACTEC, and increased Canadian 
government incentives were received for research 
and development. Overall EBIT A margin increased 
to 10.6 per cent (2011: 9.2 per cent).
The order book was up nine per cent at £0.5 billion, 
benefiting from contract awards during the year . 
Investments and other activities
This principally comprised the Incheon Bridge PPP project 
in Korea, now in operational phase, the group’s insurance 
captive, and AMEC’s residual UK wind development 
activities. Revenue was £9 million (2011: £7 million) 
with EBITA of £7 million (2011: £3 million). AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 30
Americas
2012 2011
Change 
%
Underlying 
%
1
Revenue (£m) 2,500 1,807 +38 +14
EBITA (£m) 233 200 +16 +14
EBITA margin (%) 9.3 11.1 (180) bps
Order book (£bn) 1.3 1.5 (15)
Average number 
of employees
2
14,828 13,286 +12
1
  Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions, 
movements in material currencies and the impact of incremental 
procurement
2
 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business
Americas generated 60 per cent of group revenues in 2012. 
The portfolio of activities is well-balanced across AMEC’ s 
four markets. 
 We have a growing conventional oil & gas position, 
strengthened by recent contract wins such as MWCS 
and BP Mad Dog; by the creation of AMEC KROMAV 
in Brazil; and by the signing of the joint venture 
agreement with Samsung
 AMEC is the market leader in the provision of 
project management and engineering services 
to the Canadian mineable oil sands (see page 14) 
and also has in-situ expertise
 We are a leading mining consultant and a tier 1 
EPCM player
 We have good solar and bioprocess positions in 
the US and are well positioned in nuclear and wind in 
Canada, particularly in Ontario
 We are a leading player in the provision of 
environmental services in North America.
 m The introductory investor presentation on our 
website carries further details on our market 
position, competitors and growth priorities
Key facts
 
Locations: There are major offices in Calgary , T oronto, 
Saskatoon, Vancouver in Canada; Atlanta, GA, Greenville, 
SC, Houston, TX, in the US; Santiago, Chile; Belo Horizonte, 
Brazil; and Lima, Peru. In addition, environmental and 
infrastructure services are provided through a large 
number of local offices throughout North America. 
Customers include: Arizona Public Service (APS), BP , 
Bruce Power , Canadian Natural Resources Limited, 
ExxonMobil, Kruger , MWCC, Newmont Mining Corporation, 
PotashCorp, US Air Force. See also pages 27, 28 and 29.
Recent projects include: Oil & gas: BP: conceptual 
design and then FEED services for topside facilities, 
second phase of Mad Dog field; CNRL: Horizon oil sands 
project expansion, Canada; Imperial Oil: Kearl programme, 
Canada; MWCC: marine well containment system, US; 
Petrobras: engineering services, Brazil; Quip: work on 
P63, Brazil; Sunshine Oilsands Limited: West Ells 
in-situ project. 
Mining: Cap Mineria: Cerro Negro Norte iron ore project, 
Chile; Detour Gold: Detour Lake gold project, Canada; 
New Gold: infrastructure and EPCM services at New Afton 
mine; Newmont Mining Corporation: Geology , resource 
and reserve audits, front-end studies and EPC services, 
Leeville T urf gold project, US; PotashCorp: expansion 
project, including EPCM work at Rocanville, Canada.
Clean energy: APS: 52MW photovoltaic solar project, US; 
BC Hydro: range of T&D projects, augmenting the client’ s 
in-house engineering group, Canada; OPG: owner’s 
support services, preliminary engineering design, safety 
review and site evaluation, client training programme for 
refurbishment and new build at Darlington plant, Canada; 
International Power Canada: Brockville solar project; 
Sapphire Energy: integrated algal biorefinery in New 
Mexico, US.
Business and financial review
Geographic breakdown
Clean Energy  23%
Environment & 
Infrastructure 19%
Oil & Gas  36%
Mining  22%
Revenue split by market AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 31 
OverviewStrategy Governance Financials Performance
Environment & infrastructure: Honeywell: alliance 
agreement, working on more than 80 environmental 
remediation and stewardship projects; McCain Foods: waste 
water effluent reclaim/recycle design project; Windsor Essex 
Parkway: design and environmental services. 
2012 performance
Revenue in Americas improved 38 per cent to £2.5 billion, 
with good growth across all mark ets, boosted by incremental 
procurement. Excluding this incremental procurement 
(£320 million), underlying growth was 14 per cent. 
EBIT A was up 16 per cent, to £233 million (2011: 
£200 million). The EBIT A margin was 9.3 per cent, 
down 180 basis points from 2011, largely as the result of 
the increased procurement activities on three Americas ’ 
projects. It was also impacted by a decline in profits from 
the Kearl project, as discussed on page 27. Excluding 
incremental procurement, margins were similar to last 
year at 10.7 per cent.
Order book was down 15 per cent at £1.3 billion (2011: 
£1.5 billion), reflecting softer conditions in some markets 
and a reduction in incremental procurement.
Americas outlook
Looking ahead to 2013, and on an underlying basis 
excluding procurement, revenue growth is expected 
to be in the low-to-mid single digit range, with growth 
in conventional oil & gas, clean energy and environment 
& infrastructure offset by a significant reduction in oil 
sands. Mining, whilst still robust, is expected to be 
relatively stable, excluding incremental procurement. 
Overall, incremental procurement in Americas is 
expected to be £200 million lower than in 2012. 
Headline margins are expected to improve in 2013 
as incremental procurement reduces. The negative 
impact from the shift in business mix away from oil 
sands will be offset in part by cost efficiencies from 
the organisational restructure. 
Europe
2012 2011
Change 
%
Underlying 
%
1
Revenue (£m) 1,150 1,027 +12 +8
EBITA (£m) 91 83 +10 +6
EBITA margin (%) 7.9 8.1 (20) bps
Order book (£bn) 1.6 1.6 (2)
Average number 
of employees
2
10,473 9,558 +10
1
  Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions 
and movements in material currencies
2
 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business
Europe generated 27 per cent of group revenue in 2012, 
largely from conventional oil & gas and nuclear . 
 We have a long-standing oil & gas business in 
the North Sea, with a market-leading position 
in brownfield activities. Our recent collaboration 
agreement with Aibel opens up opportunities 
in the Norwegian Continental shelf
 Our nuclear capability has developed over the last 
50 years and supports the full lifecycle of nuclear 
energy , from new build to reactor support and 
onto decommissioning. In 2012 we acquired the  
600–person ESRC business, so building our 
capabilities and footprint
 We are positioned for further growth in the 
environment & infrastructure market. 
 m The introductory investor presentation on our 
website carries further details on our market 
position, competitors and growth priorities
Key facts
 
Clean Energy  38%
Environment & 
Infrastructure 3%
Oil & Gas  58%
Mining  1%
Revenue split by market AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 32
Europe continued
Key facts continued
Locations: In the UK, there are major offices in Aberdeen, 
Darlington, Great Y armouth, London, Knutsford, Newcastle. 
We also have smaller offices elsewhere in the UK and 
in Europe.
Customers include: Apache, BG, BP , ConocoPhillips, 
EDF , Fairfield Energy , National Grid, NDA, Shell, T eesside 
Gas and Liquid Processing. See also pages 27, 28 and 29.
Recent projects include: Oil & gas: BG: engineering and 
construction (E&C) term contract for facilities including 
Armada, North Everest and Lomond platforms; BP: EPMS 
for the main platform design Clair Ridge; ConocoPhillips: 
brownfield detailed engineering and procurement for existing 
Judy platform and the hook-up and commissioning of the 
new Jasmine facilities; GDF SUEZ: detailed design, Cygnus 
gas field; Fairfield Energy: duty holder position, Dunlin; 
SABIC: asset support contracts; Shell: integrated services 
contract for Shell OneGas assets in Southern North Sea; 
T alisman: five-year frame agreement.
Mining: Balkans Minerals & Metals: engineering and 
procurement services for Krumovgrad gold project, Bulgaria. 
Clean energy: NDA: Sellafield site decommissioning as a 
part of NMP; Sellafield Limited: various projects, UK; EDF : 
supporting architect engineer operations on UK nuclear 
new build programme; National Grid: Electricity Alliance 
West contract, UK; JAVYS: waste management at Bonhince 
nuclear power plant, Slovakia.
Environment & infrastructure: Northumbrian Water: 
framework agreement, UK; North London Waste Authority: 
framework for waste management; Government 
Procurement Services: environmental and sustainability 
advice, support and delivery services, UK.
2012 performance
Revenue in Europe improved 12 per cent to £1,150 million 
through a mix of organic growth and acquisition. The oil 
and gas market was the primary driver , boosted by a 
six-month impact of the ESRC acquisition in clean energy . 
EBIT A was up 10 per cent, to £91 million (2011: £83 million) 
and the EBIT A margin was 7.9 per cent, down 20 basis 
points from 2011. The margin decline is largely the result of 
a reduced contribution from the Sellafield joint venture as 
discussed on page 28, offset by a stronger oil & gas mix.
The order book was stable at £1.6 billion, reflecting the 
decline in conventional power and transmission & 
distribution in the UK, offset by a strong position in oil & gas. 
Europe outlook
Underlying revenue growth in 2013 is expected in the 
low-to-mid single digit range, driven by oil & gas in the 
North Sea, while in clean energy , growth in the nuclear sector 
is expected to offset a reduction in conventional power .
Margins are expected to improve in 2013, as result of the 
shift in business mix and efficiencies from the integration 
of operations.
Growth Regions
2012 2011
Change 
%
Underlying 
%
1
Revenue (£m) 531 442 +20 +15
EBITA (£m) 32 46 (30) (32)
EBITA margin (%) 6.1 10.3 (420) bps
Order book (£bn) 0.8 0.6 +28
Average number 
of employees
2
2,874 2,655 +8
1
  Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions 
and movements in material currencies
2
 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Description of business
This is the smallest of AMEC’s geographies, contributing 
13 per cent of group revenue in 2012 driven by conventional 
oil & gas and mining. It is the geography with the greatest 
potential for growth.
 We have a strong engineering and PMC position 
in the oil & gas market in the Middle East and a 
long-standing position in Azerbaijan. The Clough 
AMEC joint venture is based in Australia
 Our mining position was developed with the 
acquisition of GRD Minproc in 2009
 In clean energy , we have a presence in the nuclear 
sector in South Africa
 The acquisition of Unidel in Australia in 2012 provides 
additional growth opportunities.
 m The introductory investor presentation on our 
website carries further details on our market 
position, competitors and growth priorities
Business and financial review
Geographic breakdown continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 33 
OverviewStrategy Governance Financials Performance
Key facts
 
Locations: There are major offices in Baku (Azerbaijan); 
Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia); Kuwait City (Kuwait); Abu Dhabi 
(UAE); Perth, Brisbane (Australia); Shanghai (China); 
Singapore; Johannesburg (South Africa). 
Customers include: AIOC, Adgas, Adma Opco, BP , 
Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Fortescue Metals, 
KNPC, KOC, Rio Tinto, Sappi, Socar . See also pages 27, 
28 and 29.
Recent projects include: Oil & gas: Middle East – 
Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Company: 30-month PMC 
services contract; Adgas: PMC services for FEED phase 
of flaring and emission reduction project at LNG facilities 
on Das Island; KNPC: PMC contract for new oil refinery 
at Al Zour; KOC: PMC remediation project. 
Australia – Chevron: AMEC joint venture working on 
operability , reliability and maintainability of the Wheatstone 
offshore facility; ENI: Blacktip contract, providing 
maintenance support. 
Asia – ConocoPhillips: operations and maintenance 
services for Bayu Undan facilities. 
CIS – BP: Chirag oil project, Azerbaijan. 
Africa – ExxonMobil: Kizomba Satellites, Angola.
Mining: Swalcop Uranium: engineering and project 
management, Namibia; Rio Tinto: Oyu T olgoi underground 
mine; Fortescue Metals Group: with JV partner , completed 
EPC contract for the Cloudbreak ore handling plant wet 
front-end project.
Clean energy: Sappi: EPCM contractor for the GoCell 
project at Ngodwana in South Africa, modifying one of 
the mill’s production lines to enable the production of 
chemical cellulose.
Environment & infrastructure: Sydney Water: programme, 
cost and risk management role with the networks and 
facilities renewal programme, Australia; US Army Corps 
of Engineers: design and construction of facilities and 
warehousing, Qatar .
2012 performance
Revenue in Growth Regions improved 20 per cent to 
£531 million primarily driven by organic growth in the 
oil & gas and mining markets and boosted by the 
Unidel acquisition. 
EBIT A was down 30 per cent, to £32 million (2011: 
£46 million) and the EBIT A margin was 6.1 per cent, 
down 420 basis points from 2011. The margin decline is 
largely the result of general market softening in Australia 
in 2012, which was only partly offset by contract wins in the 
Middle East and which was accentuated by a particularly 
strong year in 2011, on the back of successful claim 
settlements arising in the GRD Minproc business and 
a number of positive project close-outs.
Order book was £0.8 billion in 2012 (2011: £0.6 billion), 
benefiting from a strong oil & gas performance in 
the Middle East including the award of the KNPC’s 
PMC contract.
Growth Regions outlook
Looking ahead, overall revenue in 2013 is expected 
to be stable, with good performance in most regions, 
but significant weakness in Australia where demand 
has softened. 
Margins are expected to improve gradually as a result of 
efficiencies from the integration of operations and as the 
business matures.
Clean Energy  1%
Environment & 
Infrastructure 13%
Oil & Gas  62%
Mining  24%
Revenue split by market AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 34
Business and financial review
Financial review
Restatement of prior years by geography
Revenue and EBIT A 
2012 2011 2010
£ million  Revenue EBITA Margin Revenue EBITA Margin Revenue EBITA Margin
Americas 2,500 233 9.3% 1,807 200 11.1% 1,691 185 10.9%
Europe 1,150 91 7.9% 1,027 83 8.1% 905 82 9.0%
Growth Regions 531 32 6.1% 442 46 10.3% 365 29 8.0%
Investment Services 98 64 89
Corporate costs – (33) – (34) – (36)
Internal revenue (32) – (21)– (18)– 
4,158 331 8.0% 3,261 299 9.2% 2,951 269 9.1%
Oil & Gas 1,918 1,375 1,290
Mining 682 507 342
Clean energy 1,015 860 896
Environment & 
Infrastructure 566 534 433
Investment Services 9 68
Internal revenue (32) (21) (18)
4,158 331 8.0% 3,261 299 9.2% 2,951 269 9.1%
Average employees
 2012 2011 2010
Americas 14,828 13,286 11,106
Europe 10,473 9,558 8,182
Growth Regions 2,874 2,655 2,425
Centre 230 258 260
28,405 25,757  21,973 
Order book
£ billion 2012 2011 2010
Americas 1.27 1.49 0.96
Europe 1.57 1.61 1.59
Growth Regions 0.78 0.61 0.58
Centre – – – 
3.62 3.71 3.13
Changes arising from corporate activity
Acquisitions
The group invested £159 million in three acquisitions 
in 2012 and integration is progressing well. 
The largest was Serco’ s 600-person nuclear business, 
Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants (ESRC), based in the 
UK, which was acquired in June 2012 with the acquisition 
cleared by the Office of Fair Trading in January 2013. 
The second was Unidel, a 260-person energy , resources 
and infrastructure engineering and consultancy business 
in Australia; and the group also acquired a 50 per cent 
stake in Kromav Engenharia S.A., a 200-person privately 
owned Brazilian offshore oil and gas and marine 
engineering company . 
In October , AMEC formed a joint venture with Samsung 
Heavy Industries and Samsung Engineering to carry 
out the design engineering for fixed and floating offshore 
platforms, FPSOs and subsea pipelines for Samsung’s 
future offshore oil and gas projects. In June the group 
signed a collaboration agreement with Aibel, one of the 
largest service companies in Norway , to jointly deliver 
projects for the oil and gas industry in the Norwegian 
Continental Shelf.
Basis of preparation of the accounts
The 2012 annual report and accounts has been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted for use in the EU (adopted 
IFRS) as at 31 December 2012. The directors have 
identified the policies for accounting for long-term 
contracts, provisions for litigation matters and liabilities 
related to the sale of businesses and retirement benefits, 
as the most critical because they involve high levels of 
judgement and estimation.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 35 
OverviewStrategy Governance Financials Performance
Long-term contracts
A significant amount of the group’s activities is undertaken 
via long-term contracts. These contracts are accounted for 
in accordance with IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ which 
require estimates to be made for contract costs and 
revenues. Management bases its judgements of contract 
costs and revenues on the latest available information, 
which includes detailed contract valuations. In many cases 
the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term 
contractual obligations which span more than one 
reporting period. Contract costs and revenues are affected 
by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of 
future events and often need to be revised as events unfold 
and uncertainties are resolved. The estimates of contract 
costs and revenues are updated regularly and significant 
changes are highlighted through established internal 
review procedures. In particular , the internal reviews focus 
on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and 
the age and recoverability of any unagreed income from 
variations to the contract scope or claims. The impact of 
the changes in these accounting estimates is then 
reflected in the ongoing results.
Provisions for litigation matters and liabilities 
related to the sale of businesses
When accounting for provisions for litigation and other 
items, the group has taken internal and external advice in 
considering known legal claims and actions made by or 
against the group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of 
success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions are 
made for legal claims or actions against the group on the 
basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for 
those which, in the view of management, are unlikely 
to succeed.
Retirement benefits
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in 
accordance with the advice of independent qualified 
actuaries but significant judgements are required in 
relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension 
increases, discount rate, inflation, investment returns and 
member life expectancy that underpin their valuations. 
For AMEC, these assumptions are important given the 
relative size of the schemes that remain open.
Results
Revenue for the year increased 28 per cent to £4,158 million 
(2011: £3,261 million). Underlying revenue, excluding 
incremental procurement, increased by 12 per cent, 
driven by a strong performance within the Natural 
Resources division.
EBIT A increased 11 per cent to £331 million 
(2011: £299 million) with margins at 8.0 per cent 
(2011: 9.2 per cent). 
Adjusted profit before tax of £336 million was 8 per cent 
ahead of the previous year (2011: £311 million) driven by 
volume growth and acquisitions. After joint venture tax of 
£5 million (2011: £7 million), amortisation of £44 million 
(2011: £39 million) and exceptional losses of £24 million 
(2011: £6 million), profit before tax was £263 million 
(2011: £259 million). The tax charge for the year , including 
tax on amortisation and exceptional items, was £51 million 
(2011: £52 million) resulting in a total profit for the year from 
continuing operations of £212 million (2011: £207 million). 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations were 80.4 pence (2011: 70.5 pence), an increase 
of 14 per cent. Diluted earnings per share were 67.3 pence 
(2011: 69.3 pence) reflecting the impact of the exceptional 
charges, increased amortisation and a lower contribution 
from discontinued operations.
Operating cash flow
1
 for the period was £309 million 
(2011: £267 million), up £42 million from last year , 
reflecting EBITA growth and the continued focus on 
cash management. Cash conversion was strong at 
93 per cent (2011: 89 per cent).
Dividend
The board is recommending a final dividend of 24.8 pence 
per share, which, together with the interim dividend of 
11.7 pence, results in a total dividend of 36.5 pence per 
share (2011: 30.5 pence), an increase of 20 per cent. 
The board expects to maintain a progressive policy with 
dividend cover in the range of 2.0 to 2.5 times. The final 
dividend will be payable on 1 July 2013 to shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on 31 May 2013.
Share buyback programme
At 31 December 2012, 33 million shares at a cost of 
£358 million had been purchased under the £400 million 
share buyback programme announced in February 2012. 
The group completed the buyback programme on 
8 February 2013 and in total 37.4 million shares were 
purchased at a total cost of £403 million. The average 
cost was £10.70 per share. 
1
  Compared with ‘cash generated from operations ’ per the statutory 
format cash flow, operating cash flow excludes exceptional items, 
discontinued operations and legacy settlements £(15) million 
(2011: £(34) million), the difference between pension payments and 
amounts recognised in the income statement £(6) million (2011: 
£(7) million) and certain foreign exchange movements £(6) million 
(2011: £nil), but includes dividends received from joint ventures 
£11 million (2011: £17 million) AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 36
Business and financial review
Financial review continued
Results continued
Geographical analysis
The group’s largest country of operation was Canada with 
30 per cent of revenue (2011: 28 per cent), driven by growth 
across all markets and increased procurement activity . 
The UK was the group’s largest revenue generating 
country in 2011.
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses increased by £16 million to 
£225 million (2011: £209 million) principally as a result 
of acquisitions and higher share-based payment charges.
Net financing income
Net financing income of £11 million was £5 million 
lower than last year (2011: £16 million) and included bank 
interest of £2 million (2011: £4 million) and net interest 
on pensions assets and liabilities of £9 million (2011: 
£9 million). 2011 also included foreign exchange gains 
and other items totalling £3 million. 
The average interest rate received was approximately 
0.6 per cent compared with 0.8 per cent in 2011.
In addition, AMEC’s share of interest payable of equity 
accounted joint ventures was £6 million (2011: £4 million).
T axation
Continuing operations
The group’s effective tax rate in 2012 for the continuing 
businesses (including tax attributable to joint venture 
interests) before exceptional items and excluding intangible 
amortisation was 23.0 per cent (2011: 24.1 per cent). The 
reduction principally reflects decreases in statutory tax rates, 
the benefit of previously unrecognised tax losses, and the 
agreement of historical items with various tax authorities.
The tax rate in 2013 and beyond is expected to be in the 
mid-20s.
Deferred tax
At 31 December 2012, the group had net deferred tax 
assets of £33 million (2011: £72 million) arising from 
short-term timing differences relating to provisions, 
property , plant and equipment, and tax losses, offset 
by liabilities in respect of intangible assets and 
retirement benefits. 
Financial position and net cash
The group remains in a strong financial position, with 
net cash as at 31 December 2012 of £99 million (2011: 
£521 million).
Cash generated from operations in 2012 was £271 million 
(2011: £209 million). After adjusting for exceptional items 
and discontinued operations and legacy settlements of 
£(15) million (2011: £(34) million); pension payments in 
excess of amounts recognised in the income statement 
of £(6) million (2011: £(7) million); certain foreign exchange 
movements of £(6) million (2011: nil) and dividends received 
from joint ventures of £11 million (2011: £17 million), 
operating cash flow was £309 million (2011: £267 million). 
Going concern
The directors are satisfied that the group has adequate 
resources to operate for the foreseeable future. 
Intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment
Intangible amortisation relates to capitalised software and 
intangible assets acquired as part of the group’ s expansion 
programme. The 2012 charge of £44 million is £5 million 
higher than the prior year (2011: £39 million) with the 
increase due to the acquisitions in the year and the 
full-year impact of acquisitions in 2011. 2011 also 
included a £2 million goodwill impairment charge.
In line with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets ’, annual 
impairment reviews have been performed on the goodwill 
carried on the balance sheet. There were no impairment 
charges required in 2012 (2011: £2 million).
Exceptional items 
T otal pre-tax exceptional losses of £18 million 
(2011: £8 million) include:
 a loss on business disposals and closures of 
£11 million arising from adjustments to existing 
provisions made in respect of prior year disposals 
and closures
 other exceptional costs of £7 million which include the 
transaction costs of acquisitions made in the period 
and certain deferred compensation costs on prior year 
acquisitions, along with the costs of funding a joint 
venture which was part of a recent acquisition and 
restructuring costs associated with the management 
reorganisation into geographic business units. These 
costs have been offset by the recognition, within 
discontinued operations, of an insurance receivable 
following the Supreme Court judgement on 
mesothelioma liability , a provision against which 
was established a number of years ago. 
In aggregate, there was a post-tax exceptional charge 
of £10 million (2011: gain of £25 million).  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 37 
OverviewStrategy Governance Financials Performance
Legacy issues
No new significant contingent liabilities were added in 
2012. Provisions currently held for future costs of litigation 
total £40 million (2011: £54 million).
Balance sheet highlights
Key movements in the balance sheet are discussed below:
Intangible assets
The net book value of intangible assets as at 31 December 
2012 was £969 million (2011: £848 million) comprising 
goodwill £791 million, software £32 million, customer 
relationships £130 million and other acquired intangible 
assets £16 million.
The increase in goodwill of £66 million primarily related 
to the acquisitions in the year of Unidel and ESRC. Other 
acquired intangible assets included the value of brand 
names and trademarks, non-compete agreements and 
order backlogs of acquired businesses. 
Derivative financial instruments
As at 31 December 2012, there were derivative financial 
instruments with a net liability of £3 million (2011: 
£14 million) on the balance sheet. This net liability 
represents the fair value of foreign exchange contracts 
used to hedge the cash flows of foreign currency contracts 
and cross-currency instruments used to hedge the net 
investment in overseas subsidiaries.
Distributable reserves
As at 31 December 2012, distributable reserves of 
AMEC plc stood at £620 million (2011: £820 million). 
 £ million 
As at 1 January 2012 820
Dividends approved during 2012 (98)
Dividends received from subsidiaries 66
Distributable reserves generated in the year 217
Share buyback (403)
Other movements 18
As at 31 December 2012 620
During the year , the group holding company , AMEC plc, 
generated a significant profit from an internal restructuring. 
This profit becomes distributable as qualifying consideration 
is passed to AMEC plc to settle the associated loan balance. 
Pensions
The IAS 19 surplus of the principal UK pension schemes at 
the end of 2012 of £86 million increased compared with 
2011 (£32 million) reflecting reductions in both the discount 
rate and price inflation, along with higher than expected 
asset returns. 
The UK schemes have operated on a career average salary 
basis since January 2008. During 2012, the UK defined 
benefit schemes were closed to new entrants but will 
remain open to future accrual for existing members. 
Ther e are a number of smaller schemes which are in a deficit 
position. The combined deficit as at 31 December 2012 was 
£93 million (2011: £81 million) with the increase in the year 
being due to actuarial losses. During 2012, some 30 per cent 
of the members of the scheme acquired with MACTEC 
accepted a lump sum settlement of their liabilities.
Contributions of £30 million were paid to the company’s 
defined benefit schemes during the year (2011: £28 million). 
This included special contributions agreed with the trustees 
of £5 million (2011: £5 million). 
Provisions
Provisions held at 31 December 2012 were £171 million 
(31 December 2011: £169 million). During 2012, £22 million 
of the brought-forward provisions were utilised. As part of 
the ongoing review of the potential liabilities, £5 million of 
provisions were released as they were no longer required 
but additional provisions were created in respect of 
indemnities granted on prior year disposals, which have 
been charged as an adjustment to the profit on disposal 
within discontinued operations; and the expected cost of 
funding a joint venture that was part of a recent acquisition, 
which has been charged as an exceptional item.
Provisions are analysed as follows:
As at 31 December 2012 £ million 
Litigation provisions 40
Indemnities granted to buyers and retained 
obligations on disposed businesses 69
Insurance, onerous property contracts and 
provisions to fund joint ventures 62
T otal 171 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 38
I firmly believe that strong corporate governance is about 
helping our company to run well and needs to be deeply 
embedded in the DNA of our organisation. It is about 
leadership, collaboration and constantly seeking 
improvement. We welcome the ongoing discussion in this 
area and continue to seek to incorporate improvements 
into our way of working. As a board, we need to ensure that 
we focus on those issues that are key to achieving our 
goals. Our board agenda is carefully planned to facilitate 
this and I am cognisant of my responsibility as Chairman 
in ensuring we deliver . 
We have made progress on a number of fronts during 2012. 
I said last year that we had strengthened the terms of 
reference of the ethics committee. During 2012, we updated 
our Code of Business Conduct training, compulsory for 
all employees. In addition, we have made our mandatory 
global policies and procedures simpler and clearer and 
these changes are due to be introduced in early 2013.
I touched on external board evaluation in my introductory 
statement. This took place in the first half of the year and 
concluded that the company has in place a strong, highly 
competent board that performs well. Key areas for 
improvement were relatively minor and included the 
further development of the board’s role in the development 
and stewardship of strategy , consideration of the efficacy 
of the group’s organisational structure and continued focus 
on succession management and improving board diversity . 
Following the review in October 2012, we appointed 
Linda Adamany to the board and implemented a revised 
organisational structure. In accordance with the terms 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (Code), the next 
externally facilitated review will be undertaken no later 
than 2015. Our priorities for 2013 include agreeing our 
policy on diversity and the measurable objectives we wish 
to set to track progress.
Y our board continues to place particular emphasis on 
monitoring risk and on the structured approach to the 
management of risk in the company . Our approach to 
risk management and a review of key risks are presented 
on pages 21 to 23. 
Executive remuneration is under increased scrutiny , with 
legislation planned around reporting and approval. Y our 
board continues to monitor and discuss proposals in this 
area and the conclusions reached inform the work of the 
remuneration committee. We welcome the moves to 
increase clarity , as can be seen in the report on page 56. 
We will continue to seek to attract and retain good 
management, incentivising them to increase the value 
of AMEC for its shareholders. 
AMEC has an extensive investor relations programme for 
executive management. The board is regularly updated on 
this interaction and supports it, with non-executive directors 
also happy to meet with shareholders when requested. 
During 2012, I hosted investor group lunches in London 
and Edinburgh and found the informal setting a good 
conduit to meaningful discussions on the company , its 
strategy , management and the approach of the board. I will 
continue to prioritise these and other similar interactions. 
We work hard to provide, in this report, the information you 
need to assess our strategy (see page 10) and performance 
(see pages 26 to 37) and to present this in such a way that it 
can be readily understood. I would also encourage you to 
make use of the additional information contained on our 
website amec.com and to attend our annual general 
meeting (AGM) on 4 April 2013. 
As a board, we support the Code and believe we have 
complied with the provisions of the June 2010 edition 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2012. Although 
it is not a formal requirement to comply with the new Code 
for this period, we have endeavoured as far as practicable 
to report in accordance with the provisions of the revised 
Code published in September 2012.
 m Further details on how we have applied the principles of 
the Code to our activities can be found in the corporate 
governance statement on pages 43 to 51 and in the 
remuneration report on pages 56 to 64
John Connolly 
Chairman 
14 February 2013
Printed copies of the Code can be obtained free of charge at 
frcpublications.com
Effective corporate governance
The ultimate goal of your board is to collectively and effectively lead the delivery 
of long-term, sustainable success. Maintaining strong corporate governance 
practices is a core board responsibility in support of this goal. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 39 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Attendance at meetings
The board holds regular meetings throughout the year , 
scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable and 
as otherwise required to ensure the effective discharge 
of its duties. Directors are expected to attend all board and 
relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented 
from doing so by unavoidable prior work commitments or 
other valid reasons. Where a director is unable to attend a 
meeting, they are provided with the papers scheduled for 
discussion and fully briefed as appropriate. The table 
below is a record of director attendance at the board and 
board committee meetings held during the year ended 
31 December 2012. All directors attended scheduled board 
and board committee meetings. Neil Carson, Colin Day 
and Simon Thompson were occasionally unable to attend 
unscheduled meetings due to prior work commitments. 
In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain 
items are considered at every scheduled board meeting, 
including financial results, health and safety reports, 
short-range plan progress and strategy performance 
reviews. The Chief Executive updates the board on market 
trends, developments and opportunities, the competitive 
positioning of the company and its current priorities. 
Business unit management is invited to present at 
board meetings from time to time.
T o ensure effective strategic planning, the board holds an 
additional meeting each year to perform a full strategic 
review of the group. In October 2012, the board spent a day 
focused, within the context of AMEC’s performance, on 
market strategies and growth opportunities, particularly 
those facilitated by the recently announced reorganisation. 
AMEC governance overview
Board
Audit
committee
Remuneration
committee
Nominations
committee
Ethics
committee
Number of meetings 12 3 5 4 2
John Connolly 12 – 5 4 –
Samir Brikho 12 – – – –
Ian McHoul 12 – – – –
Neil Bruce (resigned 5 October 2012) 8 – – – –
Linda Adamany (appointed 1 October 2012) 4 1 3 –* 1
Neil Carson 11 3 5 3 2
Colin Day 10 3 5 4 2
Tim Faithfull 12 3 5 4 2
Simon Thompson 11 3 5 3 2
Management
committees
Board committees
Audit 
Remuneration
Nomination
Ethics
Vision
Mission
Values
Code of Business Conduct 
Global  policies 
Global mandatory procedures 
Share allotment
Pensions and
retirement benefits
Risk
HSSE review
Corporate 
transactions
T ender review
Board
Chief Executive
Business Unit teams Functional teams
Chief Financial Officer
Delegated authority
is responsible for implementation
Group management team 
The board has ownership of the global policies
Business Unit leaders
Operating policies and procedures
Operating policies 
and procedures
Functional leaders
*  Linda Adamany’s appointment took place after the last nominations committee meeting held in 2012 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 40
Our board of directors
Our board members were selected to ensure a good mix of skills and 
experience. The recent board evaluation concluded that the company  
has a strong, highly competent board that performs well.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, all directors are subject to re-election at each annual general meeting of the company
John Connolly (62)
Chairman of the board 
and Chairman of the 
nominations c ommittee
A chartered accountant, 
John spent his career until 
May 2011 with global 
professional services firm 
Deloitte, was Global 
Chairman between 2007 
and 2011, and prior to that, 
Global Managing Director 
between 2003 and 2007. He 
was Senior Partner and CEO 
of the UK Partnership from 
1999 until his retirement 
from the Partnership. 
John is the chairman of 
G4S plc and also of a 
number of private 
companies.
Beyond commercial 
business roles, John is on 
the Board of Governors of 
London Business School, 
a member of the CBI 
President’ s Advisory 
Council and of the British 
American Business 
International Advisory 
Board. He is also chairman 
of the appeal board for The 
Centre for Children’s Rare 
Disease Research at Great 
Ormond Street Hospital.
T erm of office
John was appointed as 
non-executive Chairman 
on 1 June 2011 for an initial 
term of three years, which 
will end at the 2015 annual 
general meeting. 
Committee 
membership
John is Chairman of the 
nominations committee 
and a member of the 
remuneration committee. 
He attends all audit 
committee and ethics 
committee meetings 
by invitation.
Samir Brikho (54)
Chief Executive
Prior to joining AMEC, Samir 
was a member of the group 
executive committee of 
ABB Ltd., Switzerland, Head 
of the Power Systems 
Division and Chairman of 
ABB Lummus Global, ABB’ s 
international projects and 
services business. Samir 
holds an engineering 
degree, a Master of Science 
in Thermal T echnology from 
the Royal Institute of 
T echnology in Stockholm, 
Sweden, and completed the 
YMP Program at INSEAD in 
France in 1991. In 2000 he 
also completed a senior 
executive programme in 
Stanford, US. 
T erm of office
Samir was appointed 
Chief Executive on 
1 October 2006 and has 
no fixed term of office. 
His service contract is 
terminable on six and 
twelve months’ notice by 
him and the company 
respectively .
External appointments
Samir is a member of the 
advisory board of Stena AB. 
He is co-chair of the 
UK-UAE CEO Forum, a 
member of the steering 
committee of the UK-Korea 
Forum for the Future, a 
director of the United 
Kingdom –Japan 21st 
Century Group, has an 
advisory board role on the 
School of Oriental and 
African Studies and is a 
UK Business Ambassador . 
He is Chairman of the 
Step Change Charity . 
Ian McHoul (53)
Chief Financial Officer
Ian qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with KPMG in 
1985. His early career was 
spent in the brewing 
industry where he spent 
10 years with Foster’s 
Brewing Group in a variety 
of roles. He was Finance 
and Strategy Director of the 
Inntrepreneur Pub Group 
Ltd from 1995 to 1998 and 
then served at Scottish & 
Newcastle plc between 
1998 and 2008, holding the 
position of Finance Director 
from 2001.
T erm of office
Ian was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer 
on 8 September 2008 and 
has no fixed term of office. 
His service contract is 
terminable on six and 
twelve months’ notice by 
him and the company 
respectively .
External appointments
Ian is Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of 
the audit committee of 
Premier Foods plc.
Linda Adamany (60)
Non-executive Director
Between 1980 and 2007 
Linda held a number of 
senior executive positions 
at BP plc and from 2006 to 
2012, prior to joining AMEC, 
was a non-executive director 
of National Grid plc and a 
member of their audit, 
nominations and safety , 
environment and health 
committees. Linda is a 
qualified accountant (CPA) 
with a BSc in Business 
Administration from John 
Carroll University , Ohio, 
and has also undertaken 
post-graduate study at 
Harvard, Cambridge and 
T singhua universities. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 41 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
T erm of office
Linda was appointed a 
non-executive director on 
1 October 2012 for an initial 
term of three years, which 
will end at the 2016 annual 
general meeting.*
Committee 
membership
Linda is a member of 
the audit, remuneration, 
ethics and nominations 
committees.
Neil Carson (55)
Non-executive Director
Neil has held a number 
of senior management 
positions in both the UK 
and the US and since 2004 
has been Chief Executive of 
Johnson Matthey Plc, the 
FTSE100 speciality chemical 
company , which he joined 
in 1980 after completing 
an engineering degree. 
Neil was previously a 
member of the advisory 
board of the Cambridge 
Programme for 
Sustainability Learning 
and a founder member 
of the Prince of Wales’ 
Corporate Leaders Group 
on Climate Change.
T erm of office
Neil was appointed a 
non-executive director on 
31 August 2010 for an initial 
term of three years, which 
will end at the 2014 annual 
general meeting.
Committee 
membership
Neil is a member of the 
audit, remuneration, 
nominations and 
ethics committees.
Colin Day (57)
Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the 
audit committee
Colin was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of Filtrona 
plc on 1 April 2011, prior 
to which he was Chief 
Financial Officer of Reckitt 
Benckiser Group plc. 
A Fellow of the Association 
of Chartered Certified 
Accountants, Colin holds an 
MBA from Cranfield School 
of Management, UK. He 
is also a non-executive 
director of WPP Group plc.
T erm of office
Colin was appointed a 
non-executive director on 
14 October 2010 for an 
initial term of three years, 
which will end at the 2014 
annual general meeting.
Committee 
membership
Colin is Chairman of 
the audit committee 
and a member of the 
remuneration, nominations 
and ethics committees.
Tim Faithfull (68)
Senior Independent 
Director and  
Chairman of the 
remuneration 
committee
Tim was President and 
Chief Executive of Shell 
Canada Limited from 1999 
to 2003, having joined the 
Royal Dutch Shell Group in 
1967. He is a non-executive 
director of TransAlta 
Corporation and Canadian 
Natural Resources Limited, 
and a director of Shell 
Pensions Trust Limited.
T erm of office
Tim was appointed a 
non-executive director on 
10 February 2005 and 
became the Senior 
Independent Director in 
May 2009. Tim’s term of 
office was extended in 
February 2011 to the date 
of the 2014 annual 
general meeting.
Committee 
membership
Tim is Chairman of the 
remuneration committee 
and a member of the audit, 
nominations and ethics 
committees. 
Simon Thompson 
(53)
Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the 
ethics committee
Simon was previously an 
executive director of Anglo 
American plc and 
Chairman of the T armac 
Group, and has held 
positions with S G Warburg 
and N M Rothschild. Simon 
is Non-executive Chairman 
of Tullow Oil plc and a 
non-executive director of 
Newmont Mining 
Corporation (USA) and 
Sandvik AB (Sweden).
T erm of office
Simon was appointed a 
non-executive dir ector on 
21 January 2009. His term 
of office was extended 
in January 2012 to the 
date of the 2015 annual 
general meeting.
Committee 
membership
Simon is Chairman of the 
ethics committee and a 
member of the audit, 
remuneration and 
nominations committees.
*  In accordance with the company’s articles of association, Linda will 
retire from office at the forthcoming annual general meeting and 
offer herself for re-election AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 42
Our group management team
The team is comprised of senior operational and functional management, 
each of whom brings a depth of knowledge and experience to their role. 
 m Further details on each member of the team can be 
found on our website
In addition to the executive directors shown on pages 40 and 41, AMEC’ s group management team (GMT) consists of the 
following individuals:
Dr Hisham 
Mahmoud 
Group President, 
Growth Regions
Hisham joined AMEC in 
October 2010 as President, 
Environment & 
Infrastructure and was 
appointed to his current 
role in October 2012. He 
had previously worked for 
URS Corporation for 19 
years. He has a Bachelor 
of Science degree in Civil 
Engineering from the 
University of Qatar and a 
Masters and a PhD, both 
in Civil Engineering, from 
Arizona State University 
in the US.
Simon Naylor 
Group President, 
Americas 
Simon was appointed to 
this role in October 2012, 
having previously been 
President of the Natural 
Resources Americas 
business since 2007. Since 
joining AMEC in 1993 he 
has worked across the 
project lifecycle; from 
consulting to engineering 
and project management. 
His experience includes 
project development, asset 
support, strategy , customer 
relationship management 
and operations leadership.
John Pearson 
Group President, 
Europe 
Appointed to this position 
in October 2012, John had 
previously held the role of 
Managing Director , Natural 
Resources Europe and 
West Africa, since 2007. He 
joined AMEC from Chevron 
in 1990 and has worked in a 
variety of engineering and 
project management roles 
in Aberdeen, San Francisco, 
Baku and London. He is 
Contractor Vice-Chair of Oil 
& Gas UK and immediate 
past Chairman of the 
Offshore Contractors 
Association. 
Sue Scholes
Director of 
Communications 
Sue joined AMEC in 2007. 
She was previously Head 
of Investor Relations at 
Brambles Industries plc. 
Sue is a Chartered 
Management Accountant 
and sits on the Investor 
Relations Society’s board 
of directors.
Will Serle
Group Human 
Resources Director 
Will is also responsible 
for sustainability and first 
joined the company in 
2000 as Human Resources 
Director for the oil and gas 
business. He moved to the 
Natural Resources role in 
2006. In 2009 he assumed 
the role of Human 
Resources Director for 
Natural Resources and 
Power & Process; in 2010, 
after all three divisions 
merged, he became 
Human Resources 
Operations Director .
Mark Watson
Commercial Director
Mark’s background is in the 
oil & gas industry and he 
has spent most of his 
AMEC career working in 
this sector , since he joined 
in 1989. He is a Chartered 
Quantity Surveyor , holds an 
LLM in Construction Law 
and Arbitration and is a 
Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Arbitrators. 
Alison Y app
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Alison joined AMEC on 
1 December 2012, having 
most recently been 
Company Secretary and 
General Legal Counsel at 
Hays plc. She qualified as a 
solicitor in 1990 and has 
around 20 years ’ experience 
as a lawyer in industry .
Appointed to GMT 
28 January 2013 
Nina Schofield
Group Health, Safety , 
Security and 
Environment Director
Nina first joined AMEC in 
2003. She is a Chartered 
Health and Safety 
Practitioner and holds a 
Master of Arts Degree and 
a Bachelors in Law. Nina 
started out in the Offshore 
Drilling sector before 
joining AMEC as the Oil and 
Gas HSE Manager in 2003. 
In 2004, she became the 
HSE Director for the 
Natural Resources division 
before becoming the Group 
HSSE Director in 2007. She 
has worked in the UK, 
Azerbaijan, Canada and 
the US. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 43 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
AMEC supports the UK Corporate Governance Code and we believe we have 
complied with the provisions of the June 2010 edition throughout the year . 
This section explains in more detail how we have applied these provisions.
Corporate governance statement
The board
Board composition 
As at 31 December 2012, the board comprised the 
non-executive Chairman (John Connolly); two executive 
directors: the Chief Executive (Samir Brikho) and the Chief 
Financial Officer (Ian McHoul); and five non-executive dir ectors. 
Neil Bruce resigned from the board on 5 October 2012 and 
Linda Adamany was appointed a director on 1 October 2012. 
T aking into account the provisions of the Code, the board 
has determined the non-executive directors remain 
independent and free from any relationships or 
circumstances that could affect their independent 
judgement. The Chairman was considered to be 
independent on appointment at 1 June 2011. 
The directors consider the size, combination of skills and 
weight of industry experience on the board appropriate to 
the range and breadth of markets in which AMEC operates. 
The balance of executive and non-executive directors, 
reinforced by adherence to sound governance procedures 
and the fostering of mutual respect and individual director 
integrity , ensures no one individual, or group of individuals, 
dominates the board’s decision-making process. The 
varied backgrounds and commercial experience provided 
by the non-executive directors, and their independence 
from management, ensure rigorous debate at meetings 
and the constructive challenge of the executive directors in 
relation to both the strategic direction and performance of 
the group. The entire board receives a succession planning 
presentation each year and is mindful, when considering 
recommendations from the nominations committee, 
of the maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills 
and experience both at, and directly below, board level to 
ensure the delivery of the group’ s strategy and performance.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, and 
in accordance with article 81 of the articles of association 
of the company , Linda Adamany will retire from office at 
the 2013 AGM and offer herself for election. In compliance 
with the Code, all of the other directors wishing to 
continue serving, and considered eligible by the board, 
will offer themselves for re-election. Details of the 
directors, including their biographies, other significant 
commitments and committee memberships can be 
found on pages 40 and 41 and this will enable shareholders 
to make an informed decision on their re-election. 
 m Details of the directors ’ service contracts, emoluments 
and share interests are set out in the remuneration 
report on pages 56 to 64 
The Chairman and Chief Executive 
The company does not combine the roles of Chairman 
and Chief Executive. There is a clear and well established 
division of accountability and responsibility between the 
roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and these are 
set out in writing and have been agreed by the board. The 
consequence of this clear division of responsibility at the 
head of the company is such that no individual has 
unfettered powers of decision. 
The Chairman is principally responsible for the leadership 
and effectiveness of the board. At a high level, he is 
accountable for facilitating constructive relations between, 
and the participation of, all board members, so as to 
encourage a culture of openness and debate and enable 
the board to fulfil all aspects of its role. The Chairman has 
undertaken to ensure that the board discharges its duties 
to promote the success of the company , and to guide 
AMEC’ s business and conduct in accordance with the 
highest ethical standards. In setting the board’s agenda, 
the Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for 
discussion and meaningful challenge of all matters 
before the board, particularly strategy , performance, 
value creation and accountability . 
The Chief Executive’s principal responsibility is running 
AMEC’s businesses with the primary objective of creating 
shareholder value. Consistent with this objective, the Chief 
Executive has ultimate responsibility for the proposal, 
development and implementation of the group’s strategy . 
The building and maintenance of an effective executive 
management team, and the allocation of responsibility 
within it, are key components of, and essential to, the 
performance of the Chief Executive’s role. The Chief 
Executive takes the lead role in the promotion of AMEC, 
gives personal leadership to the preservation of AMEC’ s 
culture and values and encourages the highest standards 
of safety , health and environmental performance. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 44
The board continued
Senior Independent Director 
Tim Faithfull has acted as the board’s Senior Independent 
Director since 13 May 2009. He was selected for the role on 
account of his extensive experience of serving as both an 
executive and non-executive director . In this role, he is 
responsible for:
 providing additional support to, and acting as a sounding 
board for , the Chairman
 acting as an additional channel of communication 
between the Chairman and the other directors
 being available to shareholders for concerns they may 
have that have not been resolved through the normal 
channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other 
executive directors, or which are not appropriate to 
raise through these channels
 acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and 
concerns of AMEC’s shareholders through attendance 
at a sufficient number of meetings with the company’ s 
major shareholders and financial analysts
 at least annually establishing the views of the 
non-executive directors as to the performance 
of the Chairman
 following completion of the above evaluation exercise, 
providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance
 overseeing the recruitment of the Chairman.
Non-executive directors 
Our non-executive directors are crucial in bringing 
an external view and wide range of skills, experience, 
expertise and diversity of views to the board’s deliberations 
and development of strategy . They constructively challenge 
and scrutinise the performance of management against 
agreed objectives and provide an invaluable contribution 
to the work of the board’s committees. The board benefits 
greatly from the contribution and balance provided by the 
non-executive directors. T o ensure the preservation of 
this benefit, the Chairman holds regular meetings with 
the non-executive directors, without the executive directors 
present. Such meetings are scheduled to be held after 
each regular board meeting.
The board’ s policy is that non-executive director 
appointments are normally for three consecutive three-
year terms, subject to review after the end of each term. 
In accordance with the company’ s articles of association, 
all directors are required to seek re-election by 
shareholders at the AGM following initial appointment 
and every three years thereafter . However , our practice 
is that all directors submit themselves for re-election 
on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations 
of the Code. Prior to appointment and on any material 
changes, the external commitments of each non-executive 
director , including those of the Chairman, are reviewed. 
Any significant external commitments are disclosed to 
the board to ensure that the non-executive directors will 
be able to commit sufficient time to meet what AMEC 
expects of them. On 8 June 2012, the Chairman was 
appointed Chairman of G4S plc, a FTSE 100 company . 
The board concluded that given the relinquishment of his 
roles with Deloitte and the relatively small commitment 
to his other business interests, this would not have a 
detrimental effect on the fulfilment of his role as Chairman 
of AMEC. Each director’s undertaking as to their ongoing 
commitment to the role, together with an assessment of 
their continued independence, is reviewed as part of their 
performance evaluation. 
The non-executive directors are not employed by the 
company in any capacity , nor have they been in the past. 
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors 
are available for inspection at the company’s registered 
office by request to the Company Secretary and will be 
available for inspection at the company’ s forthcoming AGM. 
Role and responsibilities
The board is ultimately responsible for ensuring the 
long-term success of the company in accordance with 
the expectations of, and its obligations to, all stakeholders. 
In order to discharge its role the board must provide 
leadership of the company within an entrenched system 
of effective controls to ensure the assessment and 
management of risk. It is responsible for setting the 
company’s strategy and ensuring the security of the 
resources necessary to achieve the resulting objectives. 
Fundamentally the board must also set and guarantee the 
dissemination of, and adherence to, the company’s values 
and standards. The directors believe that the board leads 
and controls the group effectively and that all directors 
act in accordance with what they consider to be the best 
interests of the company , consistent with their statutory 
duties under the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation.
In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control 
of the group, the board maintains a schedule of matters 
reserved for its approval. The matters reserved include 
the following areas: 
 annual strategic and short-range plans
 financial and treasury policies
 risk identification, risk appetite, risk management and 
internal control systems
 major acquisitions and disposals
 Code of Business Conduct
Corporate governance statement continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 45 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
 annual and interim accounts
 dividend policy
 succession planning for directors and senior executives
 group-wide policy framework
 ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices.
The reserved powers of the board are complemented by 
the management of AMEC’ s businesses on a decentralised 
basis. Overall operational management has been passed 
to the Chief Executive who has in turn delegated authorities 
to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the business unit 
leads. The business unit leads have further delegated 
authorities to their respective teams. The management 
philosophy is to empower the business unit leads and their 
teams to take the actions necessary to deliver the company’ s 
operational business objectives. The board regularly reviews 
its operational structure and in October 2012 announced a 
new geographic structure, designed to more fully support 
the future needs of AMEC’s customers. During the year the 
board also reviewed the schedule of matters reserved for 
its approval and the delegations of authority to take account 
of the revised organisational structure.
T o ensure the operation of AMEC’s businesses in 
accordance with a cohesive policy framework, the board 
has issued a number of group-wide policies, including the 
Code of Business Conduct, which set out the standards all 
AMEC employees are expected to achieve and adhere to. 
During the year a team was set up to produce a global 
mandatory policies and procedures framework, which 
will support AMEC’ s vision and values and the Code of 
Business Conduct, and this will be an integral part of 
AMEC’s corporate governance process. The board also 
takes a significant interest in the group’s commitment 
to health, safety , security and the environment (HSSE). 
The board is supported in its work by four board committees 
(audit, remuneration, nominations and ethics), chaired 
solely by either the Chairman or another non-executive 
director , and a number of management committees, 
chaired by executive directors, to which specific 
responsibilities have been formally allotted. 
 m Details of the membership, duties and responsibilities 
of the committees are set out on pages 47 to 50
Conflicts of inter est
The board has procedures in place for the disclosure of 
conflicts of interest. Prior to appointment, director-elects 
provide information on any conflicts of interest, and 
thereafter potential conflicts of interest are considered 
at the start of each board meeting. An effective procedure 
is in place for the board to deal with any conflicts, should 
they arise, in accordance with the company’s articles of 
association. Accordingly , each director is aware of their 
responsibility , under the Companies Act 2006, to avoid 
a situation where they have an actual or potential conflict 
of interest, the requirement to keep the same under review 
and inform the Chairman and Company Secretary of 
any change in their situation. Executive directors are not 
permitted to accept external directorships without the prior 
approval of the board. Where applicable, details of any 
remuneration received by an executive director from an 
external directorship can be found on page 62. The 
Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate 
records, including the scope, of any authorisations granted 
by the board, and ensuring the board undertakes regular 
reviews of conflict authorisations. During the financial year 
under review, no conflicts have arisen.
Pr ofessional development 
A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all 
new directors which, taking into account their previous 
experience, background and role on the board, is designed 
to further their knowledge and understanding of the group 
and their associated role and responsibilities. The Chairman 
is responsible for ensuring, with the assistance of the 
Company Secretary , the provision and development of an 
effective programme in accordance with best practice and 
feedback received from members of the board. All new 
directors are provided with key board, corporate and 
financial information; attend meetings with other members 
of the board, group management and their extended teams; 
receive briefings on governance within AMEC; and, where 
possible, meet AMEC’s major shareholders. Where a 
new director is to serve on a board committee, induction 
material relevant to the committee is also provided.
Following induction, the Chairman is keen to continue 
regular reviews of each director’ s individual training and 
development needs to ensure the continued enhancement 
of their skills and knowledge, in order that they may 
best fulfil their role on the board and its committees. 
Internally facilitated training is arranged as necessary 
by the Company Secretary on topical issues. The board 
receives presentations from management on changes and 
developments in the business. It also receives regular 
updates on HSSE matters and changes in legislation 
from the HSSE Director and regular communications from 
the Company Secretary’s office on key developments in 
corporate governance. T o further develop the directors ’ 
understanding of the group’s operations and culture, the 
board undertakes visits to various places of AMEC 
business. During the year , the board visited a UK-based 
project site. A formal process also exists for the directors to 
receive, where appropriate, external training organised by 
the Company Secretary , at the company’s expense. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 46
The board continued
Evaluation 
The board has the benefit of an open and honest 
atmosphere on all matters and is cognisant of the value 
of continued self-assessment as a key component in its 
performance. Additionally , during the year , the Chairman 
asked the Inzito Partnership to undertake a rigorous 
independent external assessment of the effectiveness 
of the board and its main committees. Inzito have not 
undertaken any other work of any kind for the board 
or the company . The conclusion of this board evaluation 
review was that the company has in place a strong, 
highly competent board that performs well. Key areas 
for improvement were relatively minor and included the 
further development of the board’ s role in the development 
and stewardship of strategy , consideration of the efficacy 
of the group’s organisational structure and continued focus 
on succession management and improving board diversity . 
Following the review in October 2012, we appointed 
Linda Adamany to the board and implemented a revised 
organisational structure. In accordance with the terms 
of the Code the next externally facilitated review will be 
undertaken no later than 2015. The Chairman is confident 
in the continued commitment to the role and effective 
contribution of each director and is focused on the 
regular review of their developmental priorities and the 
improvement of the board’s behaviours, processes and 
effectiveness in line with the results of the 2012 
performance evaluation.
As required by the Code, during the year the Senior 
Independent Director , apprised of the views of the 
non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed the 
performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent 
Director met with the Chairman in February 2013, to 
review his performance during 2012. The Chief Executive 
conducts annual performance development reviews 
with his direct reports.
Information and support 
The Chairman’s responsibilities for ensuring that the 
directors receive accurate, timely and clear information 
are, in the main, discharged by the Company Secretary , 
who is fundamental in ensuring the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the board. 
The Company Secretary ensures that all board procedures 
are followed and that the board is informed of all legislative, 
regulatory and governance matters related to its operation. 
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring 
the flow of information to the board and its committees. 
Agendas and supporting papers are circulated 
approximately one week prior to all meetings to allow 
sufficient time for digestion and reflection and to ensure 
informed debate and challenge at meetings. Where the 
directors, particularly non-executive directors, require 
further insight on any issue, the Company Secretary will 
facilitate this from the business or relevant members 
of the senior management team. Members of senior 
management are also regularly invited to attend board 
meetings to present on specific projects and issues as 
required. In addition to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary , which are available to all of the 
directors, a formal process exists for the directors to 
take independent professional advice, at the company’ s 
expense, where they conclude it necessary to discharge 
their responsibilities. The Company Secretary is 
responsible for the organisation and co-ordination 
of access to such advice. 
The Company Secretary is also accountable for ensuring 
that an accurate record is taken of all meetings of the 
board and its committees. If a director had a concern 
about the running of the company or a proposed action 
that could not be resolved, this would be recorded in the 
minutes. Further , on resignation, should a director have 
any such concerns, they would be invited to provide the 
Chairman with a written statement for circulation to the 
board. No such statements were received during 2012. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary 
is one of the matters reserved for the board.
Board committees
As mentioned above, the board governs through, and has 
formally allotted specific responsibilities and duties to, 
various committees. The Chairman is responsible for 
ensuring the board committees have appropriate terms 
of reference, which are reviewed by the board against best 
practice on a regular basis. Full written terms of reference 
for the audit, nominations, remuneration and ethics 
committees can be found at amec.com/about us/culture/
corporate governance. The Chairman is also responsible 
for ensuring that the board committees are properly 
structured. All of the board’s independent non-executive 
directors are members of each of the board committees. 
The board considers that this structure and consistency 
of membership contributes to the effectiveness of the 
committees, such that no one member is unduly relied 
upon and the benefit of each member’ s independence 
and external viewpoint is extended to their work. The 
secretary to each board committee ensures that a proper 
and timely record of all meetings is made and circulated 
to each member . The chairman of each board committee 
provides regular updates on its proceedings, as 
appropriate, to the board. Details of each committee, 
including membership, duties and responsibilities, are 
set out on the following pages.
Corporate governance statement continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 47 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Audit committee
The purpose of the audit committee is to provide 
independent scrutiny of the company’ s financial and 
non-financial performance and of the adequacy of 
the risk management framework and the internal 
controls. There is a wide diversity of experience and 
knowledge on the committee to enable this purpose 
to be achieved effectively and provide constructive 
challenge and guidance to the executive team.
Members
The audit committee comprises all the independent 
non-executive directors. The quorum for the committee 
is two members.
 Colin Day – chair
 Linda Adamany
 Neil Carson
 Tim Faithfull
 Simon Thompson
Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing 
and accounting. Biographies of all committee members 
can be found on pages 40 to 41.
 m Details of the committee meetings during the year and 
of members ’ attendance can be found on page 39
Roles and responsibilities
The committee reviews the annual and half yearly results, 
the report and accounts and other formal announcements 
in connection with the company’ s financial performance 
and recommends their approval to the board. It also 
reviews the company’ s internal financial contr ols and 
internal contr ol and risk management systems.
It oversees AMEC’ s relations with the external auditor , 
including making recommendations on its appointment 
which is subject to review annually , re-appointment, 
removal, remuneration and terms of engagement. It 
assesses its qualifications, expertise, effectiveness and 
independence at least annually and discusses the nature 
and scope of the audit, together with any issues arising 
from the audit process. No significant issues were raised 
during the year . 
It also reviews the auditor’s management letter , 
management’ s responses to it and the audit 
representation letters and makes recommendations 
to the board. Ernst & Y oung LLP replaced the previous 
auditor incumbent in 2010 following a formal tender 
review by the committee to benchmark the level 
of service, fees and value being delivered. In 2012, the 
review of the effectiveness of the external auditor was 
carried out on behalf of the committee by the Head of 
Internal Audit. The committee concluded the outcome 
of the review was positive.
AMEC has a formal procedure for the provision of 
non-audit services to ensure that neither the nature of 
such services nor the level of r eliance placed on it by the 
company impair the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditor . The procedure clearly outlines the 
category of work the external auditor is permitted to 
carry out and the rules governing what is not permitted. 
The procedure follows the guidelines set out by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales 
and has an approval matrix for all non-audit services, 
and fees for ‘other services’ that total £100,000 or more 
require advance approval from both the Chief Financial 
Officer and the Chairman of the audit committee. This 
process is also continually monitored by the Head of 
Internal Audit. Details of all ‘other services’ performed 
are formally presented to the audit committee twice 
a year . It is the responsibility of the audit committee 
to monitor the overall level of non-audit fees in relation 
to audit fees from an independence point of view. 
During 2012, the fees paid to Ernst & Y oung LLP and 
its associates for non-audit work were £0.7 million, 
which comprised £0.4 million relating to taxation and 
£0.3 million for other work (2011: £0.4 million relating 
to taxation (including a minimal amount for other work)). 
All Ernst & Y oung fees for non-audit work were approved 
in accordance with AMEC’ s policy covering non-audit 
services. As a result of the application of this policy and 
additional discussions with them, the directors do not 
believe that Ernst & Y oung’s independence has been 
compromised because of this additional work on behalf 
of the company .
Continued on page 48  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 48
Nominations committee
The nominations committee leads the process for 
identifying, and makes recommendations to the 
board concerning the appointment or termination 
of, any new director or the Company Secretary 
and, in the case of non-executive directors and the 
Chairman, the extension of existing appointments. 
It make recommendations to the board on 
appointments to board committees.
Members
The nominations committee comprises all the 
non-executive directors including the Chairman.  
The quorum for the committee is three members.
 John Connolly – chair
 Linda Adamany
 Neil Carson
 Colin Day
 Tim Faithfull
 Simon Thompson
The number of meetings of the committee during the 
year and details of members’ attendance can be found 
on page 39.
Roles and responsibilities
The committee evaluates the structure, size and 
composition of the board, including the mix of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the directors. 
In considering recommendations to the board, with regard 
to any changes considered necessary to maintain the 
appropriate balance of skills and experiences to progress 
the group’ s strategy , the committee is cognisant of the 
benefits of diversity , including but not limited to gender . 
The committee also reviews board succession planning, 
in conjunction with reports from the Chief Executive and 
Group HR Director on senior management succession 
planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of 
skills is maintained both within AMEC and on the board. 
During 2012, the committee recommended to the board 
that Simon Thompson be appointed as non-executive 
director for a second term and, with the assistance of 
external search consultants the Zygos Partnership, 
conducted the rigorous recruitment processes that led to 
the appointment of Linda Adamany as a new non-executive 
director . Zygos had previously worked with AMEC to 
assist with the search for a new Chairman in 2011 but 
other than this have not undertaken any other work of 
any kind for the board or the company .
During 2013, the committee will consider and make 
recommendations to the board on its policy on diversity .
Corporate governance statement continued
Audit committee continued
Roles and responsibilities continued
The Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor are 
both given the opportunity to discuss matters with the 
committee, without the executive directors being present. 
There were no matters raised in this context during the 
year . The committee has unrestricted access to company 
documents and meets with any other relevant member 
of staff, without the executive directors being present, as 
necessary . The audit committee reviews the Head of 
Internal Audit’s regular reports and carries out an annual 
assessment of the internal audit function’s effectiveness. 
In 2012, this assessment was carried out on behalf of the 
committee by the Head of Internal Audit. No material 
changes were identified as being necessary as a result 
of this exercise. The Head of Internal Audit formally 
reports to the committee Chairman.
During the year , the committee reviewed certain policies 
relating to the external auditor including the policy regarding 
the provision by the auditor of non-statutory audit work 
and the terms of reference of both the committee and 
the internal audit department. In December 2012, the 
committee received a presentation on AMEC’s IT strategy . AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 49 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee ensures that its 
remuneration packages enable AMEC to fulfil its 
strategic aims by recruiting, motivating and retaining 
its key management team. 
Members
The remuneration committee comprises all the 
non-executive directors including the Chairman. 
The quorum for the committee is two members.
 Tim Faithfull – chair
 Linda Adamany
 Neil Carson
 John Connolly
 Colin Day
 Simon Thompson
Roles and responsibilities
The committee sets and reviews the overall 
remuneration policy framework for the Chairman, 
the executive directors and the Company Secretary 
and other designated executives, including a risk 
assessment of the policy , in conjunction with the 
audit committee, relating to such matters as financial 
performance setting and measurement for both bonus 
and long-term incentives. 
It considers and determines the individual remuneration 
packages and contracts for the Chief Executive, other 
executive directors and the Company Secretary on 
appointment and reviews these as required and agrees 
the performance targets of the executive directors and 
the levels of bonus paid to them under the bonus and 
long-term incentive schemes. It also agrees with the 
board the remuneration structure, including annual 
bonus, for other designated executives.
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new 
Chairman and reviews these terms as required. 
It also approves the structure, performance targets, 
participation and level of awards for any executive 
share-based incentive scheme.
 m For further information, see the remuneration report 
on pages 56 to 64
Ethics committee
The purpose of the ethics committee is to assist the 
board in upholding AMEC’ s core value of integrity. 
Members
The ethics committee comprises all the independent 
non-executive directors. The quorum for the committee 
is two members.
 Simon Thompson – chair
 Linda Adamany
 Neil Carson
 Colin Day
 Tim Faithfull
Roles and responsibilities
The committee reviews and monitors business ethics 
within AMEC, including compliance with relevant 
legislation, regulation and current best practice 
relating to such matters as the prevention of bribery 
and corruption, government contracting, competition 
and import/export restrictions, trade compliance 
and discrimination or inappropriate behaviour in the 
workplace. It also reviews and approves AMEC’ s Code 
of Business Conduct at least annually to ensure that it 
addresses the above issues.
It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all 
compliance activity within AMEC and reviews the extent 
and effectiveness of AMEC’s internal training and 
external reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
The company has in place arrangements with an 
independent third party provider for employees to raise 
concerns or report compliance issues in confidence. 
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach 
of AMEC’s Code of Business Conduct or any relevant 
legislation, a member of the committee will take 
responsibility for and manage any investigation into 
the relevant matter with the support of the General 
Counsel and Company Secretary . The committee may 
use internal resources and is also authorised to employ 
external consultants to carry out any such investigation.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 50
Corporate transactions
Members
Chief Executive (chair); Chief Financial Officer;  
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Responsibilities
T o consider mergers, acquisitions and disposals and 
to approve transactions where the consideration or 
assumption of liabilities, as appropriate, is £5 million or 
less, and above this level to submit recommendations 
to the board for approval. In addition, to determine 
transaction guidelines that are in line with group 
policies and procedures.
Risk
Members
Chief Executive (chair); Chief Financial Officer; 
General Counsel and Company Secretary;  
Head of Risk Management and Insurance
Responsibilities
T o perform an integral role in the governance of risk 
within AMEC. T o help the board fulfil its responsibility 
to determine the risk appetite of the group and ensure 
the soundness of the risk management and internal 
control systems that support it. T o keep under review, 
and mak e recommendations in respect of , the AMEC plc 
risk register and the potential impact of any issue 
on the risk appetite and the risk profile, of the group. 
T o report where necessary on key risk issues such as 
new business and geographical locations. Also to make 
recommendations on the insurance programme for 
the group.
Pensions and retirement benefits
Members
Chief Financial Officer (chair); Group HR Director; 
Corporate Pensions Manager
Responsibilities
T o review and recommend the establishment of any 
new or replacement pension arrangements, any 
significant amendments to existing pension schemes, 
and the discontinuance, winding up or merger of any 
existing arrangement. T o agree with the trustees of 
those pension arrangements appropriate funding 
plans to secure the benefits promised.
Share allotment
Members
All directors; General Counsel and Company Secretary; 
Deputy Company Secretary (the chair to be appointed 
from those directors present)
Responsibilities
The allotment of new shares or issue of existing shares 
held in treasury following the exercise of options under 
the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Health, safety , security and 
environmental review
Members
Chief Executive (chair); Group HR Director; 
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Responsibilities
T o assist the board in fulfilling its responsibilities to 
oversee the company’s management of risk in the 
areas of health, safety , security and the environment 
through particular focus on the safety management 
arrangements implemented by members of the 
executive management of the operating units. 
T o make recommendations on the group’ s annual 
HSSE objectives.
T ender review
Members
Chief Executive (chair); Chief Financial Officer; 
General Counsel and Company Secretary;  
Head of Risk Management and Insurance; Group 
Commercial Director; Head of Finance Operations
Responsibilities
Prior to submission and upon any material change, 
to review and approve proposed tender submissions 
for contracts to be undertaken by the business units 
that are outside the delegated authority of the business 
unit leads.
Management committees
Corporate governance statement continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 51 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Internal control
The board is responsible for reviewing AMEC’s systems of 
internal control. The reviews cover the effectiveness and 
adequacy of financial, operational, compliance and risk 
management systems and are undertaken regularly . 
These systems can, however , only provide reasonable 
assurance against material misstatement or loss, as 
they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The board and its committees have an ongoing process, 
that is reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the 
T urnbull guidance, for identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy , major 
projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and 
disposals, as well as entry into and exit from different 
markets. This process has been in place for the year 
under review and up to the date of approval of this report. 
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached 
following a structured and documented review of potential 
opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to 
manage or mitigate any risk exposure. 
The threats and opportunities associated with tender 
submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at 
various levels in the group, in line with delegated authorities. 
The highest value tenders are, in addition, reviewed by the 
tender review committee. AMEC applies a set of contracting 
principles, under which the level of approval required 
is dependent on the contractual provision in question. 
The most significant issues in terms of risk require the 
approval of the tender review committee. 
The internal control processes are complemented by 
an annual control self-assessment exercise carried out 
by the principal businesses. This covers health, safety and 
environment, legal, commercial and contractual, financial, 
information technology and human resources. The results 
are reviewed by the board, through the audit committee, 
as part of the ongoing internal control monitoring process.
AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures and joint 
arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part 
of AMEC’s formal corporate governance process because 
of the joint management responsibilities. Responsibility for 
such reviews rests with the joint venture boards and these 
are reviewed from time to time as part of AMEC’s normal 
internal audit process. 
 m Details of significant joint ventures can be found on 
page 120
Relations with shareholders
The executive directors and senior management undertake 
an extensive programme of meetings with institutional 
shareholders during each year . Events such as results 
presentations and other capital market events are webcast 
and made available on our website for those unable to 
attend in person.
Each year , the Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
write to all major shareholders, reminding them that they 
are available for meetings or telephone calls with them, as 
required. John Connolly wrote such a letter in March 2012.
Major UK-based shareholders were invited to join the 
Chairman for an informal lunch in London or Edinburgh, 
depending on their location. Eight institutions in total 
accepted the invitation and contributed to interesting and 
wide-ranging discussions. The Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director attend full-year results presentations.
Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with 
members of the board are facilitated by the investor 
relations team. In 2012, two such meetings were arranged.
An in-depth perception study of investors ’ views is prepared 
each year by an independent third party and presented to 
the board. In 2012, this took place in February at a meeting 
also attended by the company’s brokers. The board also 
receives unedited feedback reports following shareholder 
meetings and all material brokers ’ research notes on 
the company .  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 52
Directors’ report
Principal activities
The principal activities of the group can be found on pages 
26 to 33 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Business review 
Information fulfilling the requirements of the business 
review is also incorporated into this report by reference 
and can be found across pages 26 to 37. This includes 
a comprehensive review of AMEC’s development and 
performance during the year ended 31 December 2012, 
key events, principal business acquisitions and disposals, 
AMEC’s position at the year end and the outlook for the 
future. A description of AMEC’ s principal business and 
strategic risks are set out on pages 21 to 23. Additional 
information can also be found in AMEC at a glance (page 4), 
KPIs (page 20), markets (page 12), services (page 18) and 
Vision 2015 (page 10). 
Dividends
The directors are recommending a final ordinary dividend in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 of 24.8 pence 
per share. This final dividend will be payable on 1 July 2013 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 31 May 2013. An interim dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2012 of 11.7 pence per share was paid on 
2 January 2013.
Dividends paid during 2012 comprised an interim dividend of 
10.2 pence per share and a final dividend of 20.3 pence per 
share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
Changes to the board of directors
Details of the directors of the company as at the date of this 
report, together with brief biographical details and board 
committee memberships, are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Changes to the board since 1 January 2012 are as follows: 
Neil Bruce Executive director Resigned  
5 October 2012
Linda Adamany Non-executive 
director
Appointed  
1 October 2012
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The company maintains directors ’ and officers ’ liability 
insurance cover . In addition, throughout the financial 
year and at the date of this report, qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions within the meaning of Sections 
232–234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in place for all 
of the directors. Equivalent indemnities, in respect of their 
period of office, remain in force for the benefit of directors 
who stood down during the year ended 31 December 2012.
Directors’ interests 
None of the directors is or was materially interested in any 
contract of significance to AMEC’s businesses during or at 
the end of the financial year .
 m Details of directors’ share interests and of their 
rights to subscribe for shares are shown in the 
remuneration report on pages 56 to 64
Corporate governance statement
The company’s statement on corporate governance is set 
out on pages 43 to 51 and is incorporated into this report 
by reference.
Share capital 
The issued share capital of the company as at 
31 December 2012, movements during the year and 
the rights attaching to the shares are set out in note 22 
on pages 100 to 103. The rights and obligations attaching 
to the shares are more fully set out in the articles of 
association of the company . In summary , each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
company and no right to a fixed income. There are no 
restrictions on voting rights.
Given the strength of the balance sheet, on 21 February 2012 
the board commenced an on-market share buyback 
programme of £400 million. This was completed on 
8 February 2013. During the year ended 31 December 
2012, 33,218,301 shares of 50 pence each (representing 
10.79 per cent of the total called up share capital of the 
company) were purchased at a total cost of £357,500,993, 
including commission and stamp duty . The average 
purchase price, excluding commission and stamp duty , 
The directors present their annual report and the accounts  
of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 53 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
was 1,069.44 pence, the highest price being 1,188.00 pence 
and the lowest 923.00 pence. During the year , 29,968,301 
of the shares that had been purchased by the company 
(representing 9.73 per cent of the total called up share 
capital of the company) were cancelled. The maximum 
number of shares held in treasury by the company at 
any time during the year was 7,346,420 shares. As at 
31 December 2012, 7,291,522 shares (representing 
2.37 per cent of the total called up share capital of the 
company) remained in treasury , all of which have been 
allocated to the group’s Save As Y ou Earn (SAYE) scheme 
awards to date. During the year 1,694,284 shares 
(representing 0.55 per cent of the total called up share 
capital of the company) were utilised in satisfying awards 
made under the UK and International SAYE share option 
schemes. Between 1 January 2013 and the date of this 
report, the company has purchased 4,174,716 of its shares 
in the market for a total cost of £45,260,627.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2013 AGM to extend 
the authority of the directors to make market purchases 
of up to 10 per cent of the company’s shares within 
prescribed limits.
Authority to allot shares
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2012 AGM 
to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert 
any security to shares up to a nominal amount of £55,382,860 
(Section 551 amount) of which up to £8,307,429 could be 
allotted for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive 
offer (Section 561 amount). Resolutions will be proposed 
at the forthcoming AGM to extend this authority to the end 
of the AGM in 2014 or on 1 June 2014, whichever is the 
earlier . The revised Section 551 amount will be £49,018,515 
and the revised Section 561 amount will be £7,427,048.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any 
shares other than in respect of the exercise of share 
options. No issue will be made which will effectively alter 
the control of the company without the prior approval of 
shareholders in general meeting. 
Major interests in shares
On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules (DTR 5) and other notifications 
received by AMEC from shareholders, shareholdings of 
3 per cent or more of the voting rights of the company 
as at 31 December 2012 were as follows: 
Number %
BlackRock, Inc* 33,121,639 9.97
Legal & General Assurance 13,197,514 3.98
*  In response to a Section 793 disclosure request, BlackRock, Inc 
advised on 19 December 2012 that their holding had reduced to 
16,589,015 shares (5.52 per cent)
The shareholding percentages reflect the issued share 
capital at the time of the notifications. There were no 
other notifications received under DTR 5 between 
31 December 2012 and 14 February 2013.
There are no shareholdings that carry special rights 
relating to control of the company .
Financial instruments
Disclosures relating to the group’ s use of financial 
instruments can be found in note 19 on pages 95 to 99 
and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Significant arrangements – change of contr ol
The company is not party to any significant agreements 
that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change 
of control following a takeover bid.
Employees 
In 2012, AMEC employed on average 28,405 people 
worldwide, including agency staff. 
At AMEC, we give high priority to the development of our 
employees to ensure that we have the necessary skills and 
behaviours to deliver our strategic business objectives and 
to provide for management succession. Processes are in 
place across the group for the regular and consistent 
review of employee performance, development and 
management succession. Common training needs are 
delivered through the AMEC Academy (see page 10 for 
further information).
It is of key importance that we engage with employees 
to ensure they understand the direction in which the 
company is going, are committed to AMEC’s values, and 
are empowered to propose and make changes to improve 
how we operate. Our employees embody our knowledge, 
brand and reputation and it is through their activities, 
day by day , that we deliver on our business objectives 
and commitments to shareholders, clients and the 
wider community . 
Surveys of employee opinion are regularly conducted and 
we are committed to sharing and acting on the outcomes. 
AMEC provides a wide range of mechanisms for employees 
to share knowledge, to be kept informed of developments 
within AMEC and to raise issues and discuss matters 
of concern.
Respect for cultural diversity and commitment to equal 
opportunities are included in our values and Code of 
Business Conduct. Our policy is to recruit from the widest 
labour market, to determine the careers of all employees 
solely on merit and to make judgements about employees 
without bias or prejudice.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 54
Employees continued
As part of AMEC’s equal opportunities policy , procedures 
are in place that are designed to provide for full and fair 
consideration and selection of disabled applicants, to 
ensure they are properly trained to perform safely and 
effectively , and to provide career opportunities that allow 
them to fulfil their potential. Where an employee becomes 
disabled in the course of their employment, AMEC will 
actively seek to retain them wherever possible by making 
adjustments to their work content and environment or by 
retraining them to undertake new roles.
Our SAYE share option schemes allow employees to 
participate in AMEC’s share price growth. They are open 
to employees in all major countries of operation who meet 
a minimum service qualification. Offers to participate are 
currently being made on a regular basis. 
Sustainability 
Summary details about our commitment to sustainability 
and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set 
out on pages 24 to 25. Further detail is available in our 
sustainability report and on our website.
Donations
T otal donations worldwide amounted to £507,000 for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 (2011: £506,000). Of these, donations 
to UK charities amounted to £249,000 (2011: £240,000). 
Our policy is not to make political donations and none were 
made during 2012 (2011: £nil).
Creditor payment policy
Individual group businesses are responsible for agreeing 
terms and conditions under which transactions with their 
suppliers are conducted. 
It is our policy that payments to suppliers are generally 
made in accordance with these terms and conditions, 
provided that the supplier complies with all of its 
obligations in this regard. 
The company had 17 days’ purchases outstanding as at 
31 December 2012 (2011: 29 days’) based on the average 
daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year .
It is our intention to sign up to the UK’s Prompt Payment 
Code in 2013. 
Going concern 
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that 
the group has adequate resources to operate for the 
foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts. Further details of this review can be found 
on page 72.
Auditor
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the 
re-appointment of Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditor 
of the company . 
Disclosure of information to auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of 
this directors ’ report confirm that, so far as they are each 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
company’ s auditor is unaware; and the directors have 
taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as 
directors to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the company’ s 
auditor is aware of that information.
The above statement is made in accordance with 
Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibility statements
The statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of 
the annual report and accounts can be found on page 111. 
The statement by the company’s auditor relating to their 
reporting responsibilities can be found on page 112.
Reporting
In January 2013, the company received a letter from the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel (FRRP) in respect of the 
2011 accounts. This letter did not highlight any major 
concerns but did include some minor points whereby 
disclosures could be improved and these have been 
addressed in these accounts.
Annual general meeting
This year’ s AGM will be held at The Auditorium, Ground Floor , 
Deutsche Bank AG, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester 
Street, London EC2N 2DB (entrance on London Wall) 
on 4 April 2013 at 10.30am. The notice of meeting, which 
includes explanatory notes on the business to be transacted 
at the meeting, accompanies this report and is also available 
on our website.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to receive 
the annual report and accounts, to declare a final dividend, 
to approve the remuneration report and remuneration 
policy , to elect Linda Adamany following her retirement in 
accordance with the articles of association of the company , 
to re-elect all of the other current directors who will retire 
in accordance with the provisions of the Code, to re-elect 
Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditor and to authorise the 
directors to fix the auditor’s remuneration.
Directors’ report continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 55 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
As special business, shareholders will be asked to 
approve a resolution to increase the cap on the ordinary 
remuneration of the directors of the company specified 
in article 70.1 of the company’ s articles of association, 
from £300,000 to £600,000 per annum in aggregate. The 
proposed increase to the cap will provide the board with 
additional flexibility as to board composition. The cap does 
not apply to the remuneration of the executive directors, 
the Chairman, or to any additional fees paid to the Senior 
Independent Director or any other directors in respect of 
services that are outside the scope of the ordinary duties 
of a director .
Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general 
authority of the directors to allot shares in the company 
and to allot such shares without the application of statutory 
pre-emption rights. In addition, shareholders will be 
requested to authorise the company to make market 
purchases of its own shares within prescribed limits and 
approve the resolution, to be repeated at each AGM going 
forward, to authorise the calling of general meetings, other 
than annual general meetings, on 14 clear days’ notice.
The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly 
communicate the group’s progress and engage with 
shareholders. Where possible, the entire board will attend 
the AGM and will be available to answer questions from 
those shareholders present. The board encourages all 
shareholders to attend and participate where possible.
On behalf of the board
Alison Y app
General Counsel and Company Secretary
14 February 2013 
Note
On 19 February 2013, Samir Brikho was nominated as an independent 
non-executive director of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEB). 
This appointment is subject to a shareholder vote at SEB’ s AGM on 
21 March 2013. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 56
Directors’ remuneration report
This year’s report takes place against a backdrop of 
increased scrutiny of executive reward in general and 
impending legislation (taking effect for 2014) on how this 
is reported to and approved by shareholders. We welcome 
these moves to increase clarity and engagement and have 
sought to reflect elements of the changes in this year’s 
report. AMEC has for many years already had two separate 
shareholder votes; one for the forward-looking policy and 
one for the whole remuneration report. We intend to 
continue this practice for the 2013 AGM and the relevant 
resolutions are contained in the shareholder circular .
2012 was another year of record performance for AMEC 
despite some of our markets becoming more challenging. 
In line with the committee’s record over several years, 
we set stretching performance targets which were not 
fully met. Thus, overall levels of executive reward were 
lower than 2011. We will continue to take a robust 
approach to setting incentive targets at levels that will 
require significant out-performance against expectations 
in order to achieve the highest levels of reward. The first 
part of our report sets out in more detail the payments that 
relate to 2012 performance. Information on the termination 
arrangements for Neil Bruce, who stood down as an 
executive director and left AMEC in October following the 
restructuring of the business and the removal of his role 
as COO, is given on page 62.
As we do every year , we have reviewed our overall approach 
for the year ahead and concluded that the mix we have of 
fixed and variable pay (split between annual bonus and 
long-term share awards) remains broadly appropriate. 
We are therefore not proposing any substantive changes 
to policy . We are making a few minor changes to the 
operation of some of our plans and these are set out 
in the second part of the report.
I believe that the consistently good performance that we 
have achieved as a business over the last six years indicates 
that our approach to executive reward is doing its job. We 
will remain vigilant to ensure that it continues to support 
the growth of the business and that shareholders’ views 
are appropriately reflected.
Tim Faithfull
Chairman, remuneration committee
How we operate
The committee’ s membership comprises all the non-executive 
directors and the Chairman. Its terms of reference can be 
found at amec.com/aboutus/culture/corporategovernance 
or obtained on request from the Company Secretary . 
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee 
takes account of recommendations from the Chairman in 
respect of the Chief Executive and from the Chief Executive 
in respect of other executive directors and designated 
executives. It is advised both by the company’s Human 
Resources department and independently by New Bridge 
Street (NBS). The terms of engagement between the 
company and NBS are available from the Company 
Secretary . NBS does not undertake any material additional 
work for the company . NBS is wholly owned by Aon plc 
and, while other companies within the Aon group do 
undertake material non-remuneration work for the 
company , the committee does not believe that the 
independence of its adviser is compromised in any way . 
NBS was paid £62,000 during the year for the advice 
provided to the committee. New Bridge Street is a member 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory 
to its code of conduct.
The committee normally meets three times a year and has 
an established annual agenda of items that it considers at 
the various meetings, the major elements of which are 
summarised below:
August
 Shareholder feedback/consultation
 Overall remuneration policy and 
practices
 Committee processes and 
appointment of consultants.
December
 Review of individual base salaries 
and total remuneration
 Incentive plan targets.
February
 Confirmation of short and long-term 
incentive outcomes
 New L TI awards.
The committee had two additional meetings in October 
2012; one to approve the termination arrangements for 
Neil Bruce and one to consider the directors ’ remuneration 
reporting regulations.
The remuneration committee’ s principal aims are to attract and retain 
good management and to incentivise them to increase the value of 
AMEC for its shareholders.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 57 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Part 1 – 2012 performance and its reflection in pay levels
2012 performance
The main financial metrics that affect the level of incentive 
pay for directors and other senior executives are set out 
below, with a description of the outcomes. Overall 
performance was strong but in some areas fell below 
the demanding targets set for target and stretch reward:
EBITA Below target
Cash conversion Met stretch
Average cash Above target
Earnings per share (over three years) Met stretch
Further details of the EPS outcomes for the long-term 
incentive awards made in 2009 (vested in 2012) are set out 
under ‘Performance Share Plan’ and for those made in 2010 
(due to vest in 2013) are set out under ‘Overall remuneration’ .
Annual bonus
The bonus payments made to the two ongoing executive 
directors (expressed as a percentage of base salary earned 
during the year) are shown below reflecting the outcomes 
against the various performance elements described above:
Samir Brikho Ian McHoul
EBITA 95* 80*
Cash conversion 12.5* 10*
Average cash 12.5* 10*
Other strategic objectives 30* 25*
Maximum bonus 150 125
Actual bonus 85.4 68.5
* Maximum bonus opportunity for element 
‘Other strategic objectives’ for the Chief Executive included 
actions to grow the business through customer relationships, 
acquisition and geographic expansion; improving further 
our safety culture and performance; and succession 
management. For the CFO, they included better use of the 
balance sheet; accelerated reporting; extracting value from 
legacy work; and implementation of a major IT project.
None of the bonus earned for 2012 has been deferred 
into shares/options. 
The bonus amounts are shown in the table on page 62.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2009 
vested during the year . This was based primarily on 2011 
performance. The targets set and the results achieved 
were as set out below.
% vesting
EPS (real CAGR)
Threshold RPI +3% 25%
Maximum RPI +10% 100%
Result RPI +13% 100%
TSR* ranking
Threshold Median 25%
Maximum 75th percentile 100%
Result 56th percentile 43%
* TSR = T otal Shareholder Return 
New awards were made under the plan in April 2012 to 
executive directors in line with current policy , namely a 
basic award with a face value of 175 per cent of base salary 
and a matching award with a face value up to 75 per cent of 
base salary . The matching award depends on the individual 
investing up to 37.5 per cent of post-tax salary in AMEC 
shares to be held for at least the three-year performance 
period, matched two for one. All executive directors took up 
the maximum opportunity . The basic award is subject to 
two performance conditions as before: EPS growth, with 
targets of RPI+ 5 per cent p.a. for threshold (25 per cent 
vesting) and RPI+ 12 per cent p.a. for maximum vesting; 
and relative TSR, underpinned by a financial growth. 
The matched award is subject to the EPS condition only .
The 2012 TSR comparator group comprises 12 UK 
companies, including AMEC, listed as being within the 
FTSE Oil & Gas or Industrials industries, with a market 
capitalisation greater than £1 billion, and the following 
international companies that AMEC competes directly 
with: Aker Solutions, Baker Hughes, Cameron Intl., 
Chicago Bridge & Iron, Fluor , Foster Wheeler , Halliburton, 
Jacobs, KBR, Saipem, Schlumberger , SNC-Lavalin Group, 
T echnip, URS and Worley Parsons. Details of the companies 
in the TSR comparator groups for previous years’ awards 
are available from the Company Secretary on request.
Details of the numbers of shares vesting and awarded 
are included in the table on page 63. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 58
Part 1 – 2012 performance and its reflection in pay levels continued
Overall remuneration
The planned changes to the statutory reporting basis for 
future years include a requirement to show a single total 
remuneration figure for each director . The charts below 
illustrate the total remuneration paid to the two ongoing 
executive directors in respect of 2012 performance. 
This includes an estimate of the level of vesting of the 
award under the Performance Share Plan made in 2010 
which is not certain at the time of writing this report. This 
award, which is due to vest in April 2013, is subject to two 
performance conditions, each applying to half of the award. 
 The outcome of the earnings per share condition is 
dependent on the result achieved in 2012 compared 
to a base year of 2009. The EPS figure is adjusted for 
certain defined items and calculated on a consistent 
basis between base and final years. The remuneration 
committee takes appropriate advice on the method of 
calculation and any adjusting and potentially adjusting 
items. The actual growth achieved was 67.6 per cent 
compared to a required growth of 46.3 per cent for 
maximum payment (compound annual growth of 
12 per cent plus inflation measured by UK RPI). 
This half of the award will therefore vest in full
 The outcome of the total shareholder return condition 
is dependent on the average share price in the 
period 1 January to 31 March 2013 compared to the 
corresponding period in 2010. For the purposes of this 
illustration, we have assumed threshold vesting which 
equals 25 percent of this half of the award. The actual 
level of vesting may be higher or lower than this. 
For this illustration, the estimated number of shares has 
been valued at the share price on 31 December 2012.
Payments made to directors on the current statutory 
reporting basis are set out on page 62.
Performance graph 
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2012, 
of £100 invested in AMEC plc on 31 December 2007 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 
Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening 
financial year ends. 
Statement of shareholder voting 
At the annual general meeting held on 19 April 2012 votes 
were cast as follows:
Resolution
Shares for
(including
discretionary) Shares against Shares abstained
T o approve the 
remuneration 
report 194,974,278 13,891,337 297,544
T o approve the 
remuneration 
policy 203,657,335 2,336,362 3,139,462
The committee did not consider that the votes against 
either resolution were substantial and so requiring any 
explanation or action in response.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Samir Brikho
£000
Ian McHoul
Bonus Benefits Salary PSP
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000
Value (£)
0
40
80
100
120
140
60
20
160
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
AMEC FTSE 100 Index AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 59 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Part 2 – Remuneration policy and changes for 2013
Operation Opportunity Performance metrics 2013 changes 
Base salary
Attraction and 
retention
Reviewed annually from 
1 January . Interim reviews  
only in case of significant 
changes of responsibility . 
Reflects individual 
experience and 
performance. 
Overall remuneration 
is benchmarked 
against market.
None Salaries from  
1 January 2013:
Samir Brikho £927,000  
(3 per cent increase),
Ian McHoul £515,000  
(3 per cent increase).
Pension and 
related benefits 
Attraction and 
retention
Defined benefit (DB) pension 
plan closed to new entrants 
from 1 October 2012. Defined 
contribution plan available to 
new entrants thereafter . Both 
plans have cap on pensionable 
salary . Cash supplement is 
payable in respect of above 
cap salary or full salary if 
individual opts out of pension. 
Samir Brikho accrues 
DB pension at the rate of 
1/30th of pensionable salary 
for each year of service and 
has a normal pension age 
of 60. Ian McHoul has not 
joined either plan. Pension 
salary supplement is 
20 per cent.
None Scheme earnings cap 
increased to £153,000  
for 2013/14 tax year .
Other benefits
Attraction and 
retention
Principal benefits are life, 
disability and healthcare 
insurance and car/travel 
allowance.
None None
Annual bonus
Rewards the 
achievement of 
annual financial  
and delivery of  
other strategic 
business targets
Calculated by reference to a 
mix of EBIT A, cash flow and 
personal targets that vary 
from year to year and between 
individuals to reflect the 
business priorities associated 
with each role.
The additional stretch bonus is 
deferred in AMEC shares for 
three years during which time 
it is subject to forfeiture and 
claw-back. 
Bonus excluding additional 
stretch may at the directors’ 
option, subject to the 
committee’s agreement, be 
in the form of options over 
company shares of equivalent 
value instead of cash payment. 
The vesting is deferred for 
three months during which it 
is forfeit if the individual is a 
bad leaver . Options have a 
six-month exercise window.
T ar get bonus is 83.33 per cent 
of base salary for the  
Chief Executive and 
66.67 per cent for the CFO.
The maximum opportunity 
is 150 per cent for the CEO 
and 125 per cent for the CFO 
which includes an additional 
stretch bonus of 25 per cent 
in each case.
Business performance 
targets are set so that a 
target level of bonus is paid 
normally for achieving the 
company’ s short-range 
plan. T o achieve maximum 
bonus, higher targets have 
to be met. In determining 
targets, the committee takes 
account of the general 
business circumstances 
including the perceived 
difficulty inherent in the 
short-range plan and the 
need to balance stretch 
against risk. 
The additional stretch bonus 
is subject to EBITA targets 
and only begins to be earned 
for performance that exceeds 
the maximum target that 
applies to other executives.
None
Long-term  
incentives
Incentivises directors 
to achieve growth in 
profitability in line  
with Vision 2015  
and to enhance 
shareholder value 
longer term
Annual awards with a 
three-year performance 
period of restricted shares 
or nil-cost options with an 
18-month exercise period 
after vesting. Part of award 
is a two for one match on 
investment shares that the 
individual lodges for the 
three years.
Basic award of 175 per cent 
and matching award of  
up to 75 per cent.
EPS and relative TSR.
EPS is adjusted for 
certain defined items and 
calculated on a consistent 
basis between base and 
final years.
No changes to TSR 
comparator group but 
reference period changed to 
final quarter of same year 
as for EPS. EPS targets 
remain 5 per cent annual 
growth in excess of UK RPI 
for threshold vesting and 
12 per cent for maximum.
Copies of the rules of the Performance Share Plan are available from the Company Secretary on request. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 60
Part 2 – Remuneration policy and changes for 2013 continued
Link between reward and business strategy
In determining and applying remuneration policy , our aim 
is to provide a mix of incentives supporting the overall 
business strategy of delivering sustainable growth that 
builds to superior performance over the longer term. 
T argets are set to be ambitious and stretching but not 
at a level that might encourage inappropriate risk-taking 
or short-termism.
Scenarios
The chart below shows the balance between fixed and 
incentive based payments for Samir Brikho at threshold 
and maximum performance levels:
The chart below shows the same for Ian McHoul:
 
Maximum assumes achievement of maximum bonus 
and full vesting of shares under the PSP and assumes 
that the full investment/matching opportunity has been 
taken. Threshold values are 25 per cent of maximum 
bonus excluding the additional stretch element and 
25 per cent vesting of the PSP award. The deferred bonus 
and PSP elements do not take account of any change in 
share price or reinvested dividend adjustments between 
award and vesting/exercise.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere 
in company and shareholder views
Our approach to the annual review of base salaries 
is to take account of personal performance, company 
performance and pay levels more broadly within the 
company . The increases for 2013 are within the range 
of increases awarded to AMEC staff in the UK generally . 
External benchmarking is also taken into account, 
particularly for new appointments.
Any proposals to change remuneration policy are 
considered against the ‘best practice’ guidelines produced 
by shareholder bodies and we consult directly with major 
shareholders and their representative bodies when 
formulating any proposals for significant changes.
The Chairman of the company and the Chairman of 
the remuneration committee make themselves available 
to discuss any issues raised.
Service contracts and exit payments policy
AMEC’s policy is that on appointment, executive directors 
will normally be employed with a notice period of twelve 
months. Executive directors are required to give six 
months’ notice of resignation. This policy is followed for 
all current executive directors. There are no specified 
termination payments included in contracts but they do 
provide for payment to be made in lieu of all or part of the 
required notice at the company’s discretion; there is no 
prescribed methodology for calculating such payment 
in lieu.
In the event of employment being terminated by AMEC 
with less notice than that provided for contractually , 
damages will be determined at the time taking account 
the circumstances leading up to the termination and 
the individual’s duty to mitigate his or her loss. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Threshold
Percentage of base salary      
Maximum
Deferred bonus Bonus Benefits Salary PSP
0 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600%
Threshold
Percentage of base salary      
Maximum
Deferred bonus Bonus Benefits Salary PSP
0 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 61 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Chairman
The remuneration committee is responsible for determining 
the remuneration and other terms of appointment of the 
Chairman of the board. The annual fee was reviewed on 
1 January 2013 and increased by 3 per cent to £309,000 
per annum. He does not participate in any AMEC benefit 
schemes or incentive schemes. His engagement may be 
terminated on six months’ notice on either side. 
Non-executive directors
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined 
by the Chairman and the Chief Executive under delegated 
authority from the board. The non-executive directors 
receive fees for their services and do not participate in any 
of the incentive or benefit schemes of the group. The policy 
with regard to fee structure is to reflect time commitment 
and responsibility of the various roles.
Fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2013. The 
base fee was increased by 4.5 per cent to £58,000 per 
annum, subject to the approval of resolution 15 in the 
shareholder circular . There is an additional fee of £5,000 
per annum paid to the Senior Independent Director . 
Additional fees are paid for chairing committees of the 
board as follows:
Audit committee         £17,500
Remuneration committee              £12,500
Ethics committee          £6,000
Linda Adamany receives a 20 per cent uplift that recognises 
the additional travelling time, given her home location in 
the US.
Fees are paid quarterly in advance. The contracts of 
non-executive directors may be terminated by the 
individual at any time. There are no specific provisions for 
compensation in the event of early termination by the 
company . As noted on page 43 our practice is that all 
directors submit themselves for re-election on an annual 
basis, in line with the recommendations in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company 
of the directors holding office as at 31 December 2012 and 
their connected persons were as follows: 
Legally 
owned
Awarded subject 
to conditions  
other than 
performance
Awarded subject 
to performance 
conditions
John Connolly 35,538 – –
Samir Brikho 1,807,023 1,335 601,037
Ian McHoul 284,558 1,512 334,037
Tim Faithfull 10,000 – –
Neil Carson 5,000 – –
Colin Day 20,000 – –
Simon Thompson 4,744 – –
Linda Adamany 3,100 – –
On 7 January 2013, Colin Day acquired 222 shares in lieu of 
the interim dividend paid on 2 January 2013. There were no 
other changes in the directors’ interests in the share 
capital of the company between 31 December 2012 and 
14 February 2013. Up-to-date details of the interests and 
transactions of current directors are available on our website.
Guidelines are in place requiring executive directors and 
members of the group management team to build up over 
a three-year period and retain a holding of AMEC shares 
received from incentive plans or purchased by them. The 
level of targeted shareholding is 250 per cent of salary for 
executive directors and 125 per cent for other senior 
executives. Based on the average share price and salaries 
during December 2012, the shareholdings shown above 
represented the following percentages of base salary:
Samir Brikho 2,071%
Ian McHoul 587%
There is no shareholding requirement for the Chairman 
or non-executive directors. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 62
Part 3 – Statutory information subject to audit
Individual aspects of remuneration were as follows:
Salary/fee
£000
Pension 
supplement
(2)
£000
Other 
benefits
(3)
£000
Bonus
£000
2012
Total
£000
2011
Total
£000
Executive
Samir Brikho 900 151 42 769 1,862 1,906
Ian McHoul 500 100 15 343 958 972 
Neil Bruce (to October 2012) 365 51 78 – 494 901
Non-executive
John Connolly (from June 2011) 300 – – – 300 175
Jock Green-Armytage (to May 2011) –– – – – 123
Tim Faithfull 72 – – – 72 70
Simon Thompson 61 – – – 61 59
Neil Carson 56 – – – 56 54
Colin Day 69 – – – 69 66
Linda Adamany (from October 2012) 17 – – – 17 –
Peter Byrom (to February 2011) –– – – – 17
T otal board 2,340 302 135 1,112 3,889 4,343
Notes
1
  Samir Brikho is a member of the advisory board of Stena AB and received fees of CHF60,000 during the year in relation to this appointment. 
Ian McHoul is a director and chairman of the audit committee of Premier Foods plc and received fees of £73,000 during the year in relation 
to this appointment. Such appointments are subject to prior approval of the board. Directors are permitted to retain fees
2
   Samir Brikho and Neil Bruce received a taxable supplement of 20 per cent of salary above the pension cap. Ian McHoul received a taxable 
supplement of 20 per cent of full salary in lieu of pension accrual
3
  The value of benefits received during the year relates principally to the provision of a car allowance and private medical expenses insurance 
In the case of Neil Bruce, it also included a payment made in March 2012 in respect of relocation expenses and an accommodation allowance 
for the part of the year prior to relocation.
Loss of office
Neil Bruce’s employment terminated on the grounds of redundancy and he resigned from his executive directorship 
with immediate effect on 5 October 2012. His contractual notice period was 12 months. However , consistent with the 
company’s policy of applying mitigation in determining severance, the company agreed with Neil Bruce that he would 
receive a payment in respect of six months ’ notice only as a severance package. The package of £621,186 comprised: 
six months’ basic salary and contractual benefits; a sum in respect of his 2012 bonus (calculated as a pre-estimate of 
his bonus for 2012, pro-rated to reflect the period worked by him); a statutory redundancy payment; accrued but untaken 
holiday entitlement as at the termination date; and legal fees. The treatment of his long-term incentives and pension is 
set out in the following tables and notes.
Directors’ remuneration report continued AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 63 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
The numbers of restricted shares held by executive directors to whom awards had been made under the Performance 
Share Plan (PSP) were as follows:
Plan
As at 
1 January 
2012 
Number
Awarded
 during 
the year
 Number
Date 
awarded
Market price 
at date of 
award
Pence
Vested 
during the 
year
Number
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Number
As at 
31 December
 2012/
date of
leaving
Number
End of restricted 
period
Samir Brikho PSP 318,300 – April 2009 534.08 227,584 90,716 – March 2012
PSP 219,148 – April 2010 799.00 – – 219,148 March 2013
PSP 146,893 – April 2011 1,192.00 – – 146,893 March 2014
PSP 37,802 – June 2011 1,158.00 – – 37,802 March 2014
PSP – 197,194 April 2012 1,141.00 – – 197,194 March 2015
Ian McHoul PSP 176,937 – April 2009 534.08 126,509 50,428 – March 2012
PSP 121,819 – April 2010 799.00 – – 121,819 March 2013
PSP 81,655 – April 2011 1,192.00 – – 81,655 March 2014
PSP 21,012 – June 2011 1,158.00 – – 21,012 March 2014
PSP – 109,551 April 2012 1,141.00 – – 109,551 March 2015
Neil Bruce PSP 108,595 – April 2009 534.08 77,645 30,950 – March 2012
PSP 85,104 – April 2010 799.00 – – 85,104 March 2013
PSP 75,501 – April 2011 1,192.00 – 11,011 64,490 March 2014
PSP 19,430 – June 2011 1,158.00 – – 19,430 March 2014
PSP – 104,074 April 2012 1,141.00 – 36,426 67,648 March 2015
Notes
1
  The terms and conditions of the above awards have not been varied during the year . Details of the performance conditions applicable to each 
award are described in the remuneration report for the relevant year and are available on request from the Company Secretary
2
  The outcome against the performance conditions for the PSP awards made in 2009 is set out on page 57. This resulted in 71.5 per cent of the 
original award vesting and the remainder lapsing. The share price at the date of vesting was 1,141.00 pence
3
  Neil Bruce’s employment terminated on the grounds of redundancy on 5 October 2012. His outstanding PSP awards granted in 2011 and 2012 
have been time pro-rated in accordance with the PSP rules and company policy . All PSP awards (pro-rated as applicable) will vest on the normal 
vesting dates stated above, subject to the applicable performance conditions having been met
4
  The award made in June 2011 was a top-up to the award made in April, following shareholder approval at the AGM and the lodging of additional 
investment shares by the individual, and is subject to the same performance conditions and period
5
  The awards made in 2012 are in the form of nil-cost options which have an 18 month exercise period following vesting
6
   The dividends which accrue on the PSP awards from 2011 onwards have increased the number of shares under the 2011 awards by 4.9 per cent 
and the number of shares under the 2012 awards by 2.0 per cent at 31 December 2012. These will be awarded to the extent that the three-year 
performance targets are met
7
  The closing price of the shares at 31 December 2012 was 1,003.0 pence (2011: 907.5 pence). Had the outstanding restricted shares detailed 
above vested in full on that date, including the dividend accrual to date, the approximate latent value before appropriate taxes for each of the 
current directors would have been: Samir Brikho £6,159,000 and Ian McHoul £3,423,000. These hypothetical figures assume that all relevant 
performance conditions would have been fully met, which in practice may not transpire
8
 The range of the closing prices for the shares during the year was 923.0 pence to 1,172.0 pence
9
  The register of directors ’ interests, which is open to inspection at the company’ s registered office, contains full details of directors ’ shareholdings, 
share options and awards under the performance share plans. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 64
Part 3 – Statutory information subject to audit continued
The options over AMEC plc shares held by the directors under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme were as follows:
Date of grant
As at  
1 January 
2012 
Number
Granted
 during the
 year 
Number
Exercised 
during the year
 Number
Lapsed 
during the 
year 
Number
As at  
31 December 
2012
Number
Option 
price 
Pence
Market 
price on 
date of
 exercise
 Pence
Exercise period for
 options 
outstanding on  
31 December 2012
Samir Brikho Oct 2011 1,335 – – – 1,335 674.00 – Jan–June 2015
Ian McHoul Oct 2009 1,512 – – – 1,512 600.00 – Jan–June 2013
Pension entitlements and benefits
The following directors were members of defined benefit schemes provided by the company during the year . 
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year:
Gross 
increase in 
accrued pension
£000
Increase in 
accrued pension 
net of inflation
£000
T otal accrued
 pension at 
31 December 
2012/
date of
leaving
£000
Value of net
 increase in 
accrual over 
period
£000
T otal change 
in value 
during 
period
£000
Value of accrued
 pension at 
31 December 
2012/
date of
leaving
£000
Value of accrued
 pension at 
31 December 
2011
£000
Samir Brikho 6 5 30 95 84 629 528
Neil Bruce 4 3 48 48 44 993 941
Notes
1
 Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year
2
 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the trustee’s transfer value basis
3
  The value of net increase represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year , calculated on the assumption service 
terminated at the year end. It is based on the accrued pension increase after deducting the director’ s contribution
4
  The change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and 
directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution
5
 Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown
6
  Neil Bruce left AMEC on 5 October 2012. His right to draw accrued pension from age 57 onwards without actuarial reduction only applied 
if he remained in service until that age and has therefore now lapsed. The accrued pension at the date of leaving shown above is payable 
from age 62. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 65 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
2012 2011
Note
 Before
 amortisation,
 impairment and
 exceptional items
 £ million
 Amortisation,
 impairment and
 exceptional items
 (note 5) 
 £ million
 Total 
 £ million
 Before
 amortisation,
 impairment and
exceptional items 
 £ million
 Amortisation,
 impairment and
 exceptional items
 (note 5)
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Continuing operations
Revenue 2 , 3 4,158 – 4,158 3,261 – 3,261
Cost of sales (3,625) – (3,625) (2,779) – (2,779)
Gross profit 533 – 533 482 – 482
Administrative expenses (225) (68) (293) (209) (47) (256)
Profit on business 
disposals and closures ––– –22
Profit/(loss) before net 
financing income 4
308 (68) 240 273 (45) 228
Financial income 19 – 19 18 – 18
Financial expense (8) – (8) (2) – (2)
Net financing income 7 11 – 11 16 – 16
Share of post-tax results 
of joint ventures 2 12 – 12 15 – 15
Profit/(loss) before 
income tax 2 331 (68) 263 304 (45) 259
Income tax 8 (72) 21 (51) (69) 17 (52)
Profit/(loss) for the year 
from continuing 
operations 259 (47) 212 235 (28) 207
Profit for the year from 
discontinued operations 9 –55 –2525
Profit/(loss) for the year 259 (42) 217 235 (3) 232
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 216 232
Non-controlling interests 1 –
217 232
Basic earnings per share: 10
Continuing operations 82.0p 67.0p 71.9p 63.3p
Discontinued operations – 1.5p – 7.5p
82.0p 68.5p 71.9p 70.8p
Diluted earnings per shar e: 10
Continuing operations 80.4p 65.8p 70.5p 61.9p
Discontinued operations – 1.5p – 7.4p
80.4p 67.3p 70.5p 69.3p
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 66
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Note
 2012
 £ million
 2011
 £ million
Profit for the year 217 232
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 14 24 (71)
T ax on actuarial gains/(losses) (19) 23
Exchange movements:  
 On translation of foreign subsidiaries (34) –
 Net gain on hedges of net investment in foreign subsidiaries 19 1 4
 T ax on exchange movements (1) –
Cash flow hedges:
 Effective portion of changes in fair value 3 –
 T ax on effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (1) –
Other comprehensive income (27) (44)
T otal comprehensive income 190 188
 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 189 188
Non-controlling interests 1 –
T otal comprehensive income 190 188 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 67 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Note
 2012
 £ million
 2011
 £ million
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property , plant and equipment 11 43 35
Intangible assets 12 969 848
Interests in joint ventures 13 47 41
Retirement benefit assets 14 86 32
Other receivables 20 27 23
Deferred tax assets 15 42 72
T otal non-current assets 1,214 1,051
Current assets
Inventories 16 4 4
T rade and other receivables 17 1,014 844
Derivative financial instruments 19 1 4
Current tax receivable 10 31
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 17 28
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 23 258 493
T otal current assets 1,304 1,404
T otal assets 2,518 2,455
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts 23 (176) –
T rade and other payables 18 (905) (758)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (4) (15)
Current tax payable (66) (55)
T otal current liabilities (1,151) (828)
Non-current liabilities
T rade and other payables 20 (11) –
Derivative financial instruments 19 – (3)
Retirement benefit liabilities 14 (93) (81)
Deferred tax liabilities 15 (9) –
Provisions 21 (171) (169)
T otal non-current liabilities (284) (253)
T otal liabilities (1,435) (1,081)
Net assets 1,083 1,374
EQUITY
Share capital 22 154 169
Share premium account 22 101 101
Hedging and translation reserves 22 99 131
Capital redemption reserve 22 32 17
Retained earnings 22 693 955
T otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,079 1,373
Non-controlling interests 4 1
T otal equity 1,083 1,374
The accounts on pages 65 to 110 were approved by the board of directors on 14 February 2013 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
Samir Brikho Ian McHoul 
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2012 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 68
Share
capital
£ million
Share
premium
£ million
Hedging
reserve
£ million
Translation
reserve
£ million
Capital
redemption
reserve
£ million
Retained
earnings
£ million
Total
£ million
Non-
controlling
interests
£ million
Total
equity
£ million
As at 1 January 2012 169 101 (4) 135 17 955 1,373 1 1,374
Profit for the year ––––– 216 216 1 217
Actuarial gains on defined  
benefit pension schemes – – – – – 24 24 – 24
T ax on actuarial gains – – – – – (19) (19) – (19)
Exchange movements on 
translation of foreign subsidiaries – – – (34) – – (34) – (34)
Net gain on hedges of net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries –––1–– 1 – 1
T ax on net gain on hedges of net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries – – – (1) – – (1) – (1)
Effective portion of changes in  
fair value of cash flow hedges – – 3 – – – 3 – 3
T ax on effective portion of changes  
in fair value of cash flow hedges – – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Other compr ehensive income for the year – – 2 (34) – 5 (27) – (27)
T otal compr ehensive income for the year – – 2 (34) – 221 189 1 190
Dividends – – – – – (98) (98) – (98)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – 15 15 – 15
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the 
Performance Share Plan – – – – – (6) (6) – (6)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 9 9 – 9
Acquisition of treasury shares – – – – – (36) (36) – (36)
Acquisition of shares under  
the buyback programme (15) – – – 15 (322) (322) – (322)
Forward share purchase 
agreement as at 31 December 2012* – – – – – (45) (45) – (45)
Arising on business combinations – – – – – – – 2 2
As at 31 December 2012 154 101 (2) 101 32 693 1,079 4 1,083
* See note 22 for further details
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 69 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Share
capital
£ million
Share
premium
£ million
Hedging
reserve
£ million
T ranslation
reserve
£ million
Capital
redemption
reserve
£ million
Retained
earnings
£ million
Total
£ million
Non-
controlling
interests
£ million
Total
equity
£ million
As at 1 January 2011 169 101 (4) 131 17 858 1,272 3 1,275
Profit for the year ––––– 232 232 – 232
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – (71) (71) – (71)
T ax on actuarial losses – – – – – 23 23 – 23
Net gain on hedges of net investment in 
foreign subsidiaries – – – 4 – – 4 – 4
Other compr ehensive income for the year – – – 4 – (48) (44) – (44)
T otal compr ehensive income for the year –––4– 184 188 – 188
Dividends – – – – – (86) (86) – (86)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – 11 11 – 11
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the 
Performance Share Plan – – – – – (11) (11) – (11)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 11 11 – 11
Acquisition of treasury shares – – – – – (12) (12) – (12)
Business disposal –––––– – (2) (2)
As at 31 December 2011 169 101 (4) 135 17 955 1,373 1 1,374 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 70
Note
 2012
 £ million
 2011
 £ million
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 263 259
Profit/(loss) before income tax from discontinued operations 9 6 (2)
Profit before income tax 269 257
Financial income (19) (18)
Financial expense 8 2
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures (12) (15)
Intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment 44 39
Impairment of joint venture investment 3 –
Depreciation 11 10
Loss on disposal of businesses 11 2
Difference between contributions to retirement benefit schemes and current service cost (6) (7)
Profit on disposal of property , plant and equipment (2) –
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1 –
Equity-settled share-based payments 15 11
323 281
Increase in inventories – (3)
Increase in trade and other receivables (154) (62)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables and provisions 102 (7)
Cash generated from operations 271 209
T ax paid (29) (36)
Net cash flow from operating activities 242 173
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) (159) (254)
Funding of joint ventures (11) (12)
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (19) (12)
Purchase of intangible assets (15) (11)
Movements in short-term bank deposits 11 168
Disposal of businesses (net of cash disposed of) (6) (9)
Disposal of property , plant and equipment 4 1
Interest received 8 6
Dividends received from joint ventures 11 17
Amounts paid on maturity of net investment hedges (7) (20)
Net cash flow from investing activities (183) (126)
Net cash flow before financing activities 59 47
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from other borrowings 150 –
Interest paid (9) –
Dividends paid (98) (86)
Acquisition of shares for cancellation (322) –
Acquisition of treasury shares (net)* (27) (1)
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the Performance Share Plan (6) (11)
Net cash flow from financing activities (312) (98)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (253) (51)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year 493 544
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (8) –
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 232 493
Cash and cash equivalents consist of :
Cash at bank and in hand 169 130
Bank deposits (less than three months) 89 363
Bank overdrafts** (26) –
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 232 493
Bank deposits (more than three months) 17 28
Bank loans (150) –
Net cash as at the end of the year 99 521
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
  * Net of £9 million (2011: £11 million) received from SAYE option holders on exercise of options
** Bank overdrafts arise from a new global cash pooling arrangement which from an accounting perspective must be shown gross. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 71 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
increased total comprehensive income of £8 million. 
There is no impact on either the net retirement benefit 
liability or related deferred tax balance within the 
balance sheet. 
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ builds on 
existing principles by identifying the concept of control 
as the determining factor in whether an entity should be 
included within the consolidated accounts of the parent 
company . The standard provides additional guidance to 
assist in the determination of control where this is 
difficult to assess.
IFRS 11 ‘ Joint Arrangements’ replaces IAS 31 ‘Interests 
in Joint Ventures’. IFRS 11 considers the classification of 
joint arrangements in which two or more parties have 
joint control. Under IFRS 11, joint arrangements are 
classified as joint operations or joint ventures, depending 
on the rights and obligations of the parties to the 
arrangements.
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities’ 
includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of 
interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, 
associates, special purpose vehicles and other off 
balance sheet vehicles. 
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ aims to improve 
consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise 
definition of fair value and a single source of fair value 
measurement and disclosure requirements for use 
across IFRS. 
IFRS 10, 11, 12 and 13 are not expected to have a material 
impact on the group’s reported results.
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are 
not yet effective that would be expected to have a material 
impact on the group.
Basis of preparation
The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the 
nearest million. All calculated numbers, for example 
earnings per share, are calculated on the underlying 
numbers to one decimal place precision. They are 
prepared on the historical cost basis except that 
derivative financial instruments and retirement 
benefit assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires management 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts 
of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on 
historical experience and various other factors that are 
1 Significant accounting policies
AMEC plc is a public limited company , which is listed 
on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and 
domiciled in the UK. 
Statement of compliance
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of 
AMEC plc (AMEC) and all of its subsidiaries made up to 
31 December each year , and the group’ s share of the profit 
after interest and tax, and net assets of joint ventures and 
associates, based on the equity method of accounting.
In accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002), 
the consolidated accounts of the group have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) adopted for use in the EU as at 
31 December 2012 (adopted IFRS), International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) 
interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The company has elected to prepare its parent company 
accounts in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (UK GAAP); these are presented 
on pages 113 to 118.
Accounting standards adopted in the year
There are no IFRS or IFRIC interpretations effective for 
the first time this financial year that have had a material 
impact on the group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations 
issued but not effective which have not been early 
adopted by the group
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations 
to existing standards have been published that are 
mandatory for the group’s accounting period beginning 
on or after 1 January 2013. The group has elected not to 
adopt early these standards which are described below:
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ was amended in June 2011. 
The impact on the group will be to replace interest cost 
and expected return on plan assets with a net interest 
amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate 
to the net defined benefit asset.
The group has assessed the impact of the revised 
standard IAS 19 (2011). The impact on the results for the 
year ended 31 December 2012 will be to increase cost 
of sales by £1 million, to reduce the net finance income 
by £12 million and reduce the income tax charge by 
£5 million, resulting in a lower profit after tax of £8 million. 
Within the consolidated statement of other comprehensive 
income, the impact will be to increase the actuarial gains 
on defined benefit schemes by £13 million and to increase 
the tax on actuarial gains by £5 million resulting in an 
Notes to the consolidated accounts AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 72
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
are made for legal claims or actions against the group 
on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are 
made for those which, in the view of management, are 
unlikely to succeed. 
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for 
in accordance with the advice of independent qualified 
actuaries but significant judgements are required in 
relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension 
increases, discount rate, inflation, investment returns and 
member life expectancy that underpin their valuations. 
For AMEC, these assumptions are important given the 
relative size of the schemes that remain open.
In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations’, the post-tax results 
of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in 
the consolidated income statement. 
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built 
Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007, 
and SPIE, which was sold in 2006. The cash flows of 
discontinued operations are fully consolidated within 
AMEC up to the date of sale. The results and other 
disclosures in respect of discontinued operations are 
shown in note 9.
Going concern
The directors are satisfied that the group has adequate 
resources to operate for the foreseeable future. As at 
31 December 2012 the group held net cash of £99 million.
During the year , the group entered into a five-year 
multi-currency revolving credit facility of £377 million, 
to be used as required for general business purposes.
The group will finance operations and growth from its 
existing cash resources and the revolving credit facility . 
The group’ s policy aims to ensure the constant availability 
of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current 
and future forecast requirements consistent with the 
group’ s budget and strategic plans.
Accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless 
otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods 
presented in these consolidated accounts.
Basis of consolidation
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by AMEC. Control 
is achieved where AMEC has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries are 
included in the consolidated accounts from the date that 
control commences until the date that control ceases.
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation continued
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the 
results of which form the basis of making the judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not 
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may 
differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is 
revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the 
period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods.
Some of these policies require a high level of judgement, 
and AMEC believes that the most critical accounting 
policies and significant areas of judgement and estimation 
arise from the accounting for long-term contracts under 
IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts ’ , for provisions under IAS 37 
‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, 
and for defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 
(revised) ‘Employee Benefits’.
A significant amount of the group’ s activities is undertaken 
via long-term contracts. These contracts are accounted 
for in accordance with IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ 
which requires estimates to be made for contract costs 
and revenues.
Management bases its judgements of contract costs 
and revenues on the latest available information, which 
includes detailed contract valuations. In many cases 
the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term 
contractual obligations which span more than one 
reporting period. Contract costs and revenues are 
affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the 
outcome of future events and often need to be revised 
as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved. The 
estimates of contract costs and revenues are updated 
regularly and significant changes are highlighted through 
established internal review procedures. In particular , the 
internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of 
incentive payments and the age and recoverability of any 
unagreed income from variations to the contract scope 
or claims. The impact of the changes in accounting 
estimates is then reflected in the ongoing results.
When accounting for provisions for litigation and other 
items the group has taken internal and external advice 
in considering known legal claims and actions made by 
or against the group. It carefully assesses the likelihood 
of success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 73 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity 
period of three months or less from date of acquisition; 
convertible without an undue period of notice; and not 
subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and 
form an integral part of AMEC’ s cash management are 
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents 
for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are 
shown within borrowings in current liabilities. 
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three months 
at inception are classified as short-term investments.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities 
held for sale
A discontinued operation is a separate major line of 
business or geographic area of operations that has 
either been disposed of, abandoned or is part of a plan 
to dispose of a major line of business or geographic area. 
An operation is classified as a discontinued operation in 
the year that the above criteria are met. 
Certain legacy settlements and r elevant pr ovision 
adjustments are allocated to discontinued operations 
when appropriate.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive 
payment is established.
Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution 
pension plans are recognised in the income statement 
as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit 
pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by 
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and 
prior periods that benefit is discounted to determine its 
present value; and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid 
price) is deducted. The liability discount rate is the yield at 
the balance sheet date on AA-rated corporate bonds that 
have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the 
group’ s obligations. The calculation is performed by a 
qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other 
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
1 Significant accounting policies continued
A joint venture entity is an entity over whose activities 
AMEC has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement. An associate is an entity in which AMEC has 
significant influence, but not control, over the financial 
and operating policies. The consolidated accounts 
include the group’s share of the total recognised gains 
and losses of associates and joint venture entities on 
an equity accounted basis. The results of joint venture 
entities and associates are included in the consolidated 
accounts from the date that joint control or significant 
influence commences until the date that it ceases.
Losses of a joint venture or an associate are recognised 
only to the extent of the group’s interest in the joint 
venture or associate, unless the group has incurred legal 
or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf 
of the joint venture or associate.
Jointly controlled operations and assets where each party 
has its own separate interest in particular risks and 
rewards, are accounted for by including the attributable 
share of the assets it controls, liabilities and cash flows 
it incurs and its share of the income measured according 
to the terms of the arrangement.
Bid costs
Bid costs are expensed as incurred until the group 
is appointed as the preferred bidder . Subsequent to 
appointment as preferred bidder , bid costs are capitalised 
and held on the balance sheet provided the award of the 
contract is virtually certain and it is expected to generate 
sufficient net cash flow to allow recovery of the bid costs. 
Where bid costs are reimbursed at financial close, the 
proceeds are applied first against the balance of costs 
included in the balance sheet, with any additional 
amounts treated as deferred income and released 
to profit over the period of the contract.
Business combinations and goodwill
The purchase method is used to account for all 
business combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the 
purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 
is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both 
annually and when there are indications that its carrying 
value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is not amortised.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments
Cash c omprises cash balanc es and deposits r epay abl e on 
demand and availabl e within one working day without penalty . AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 74
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised. 
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the 
hedging reserve remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs. The cumulative gain or loss in the 
hedging reserve is transferred to the income statement 
in the same period that the hedged item affects profit 
or loss.
Foreign currencies
The group’ s consolidated accounts are presented in 
Sterling, which is also the parent company’s functional 
currency . Each entity in the group determines its own 
functional currency and items included in the accounts of 
each entity are measured using that functional currency . 
An entity’s functional currency reflects the underlying 
transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency 
other than the functional currency of the entity are 
translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate 
ruling at the day of the transaction. Entities which have 
multiple foreign currency transactions apply the average 
rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange 
rate on the day of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated into the functional currency at the rates 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any 
foreign exchange differences arising are recognised 
in the income statement except those arising on 
intra-group balances, settlement of which is neither 
planned nor probable to occur , which are recognised 
in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets 
and liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost 
and are translated using the exchange rate at the date 
of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional 
currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling 
using a monthly average exchange rate. The net assets 
of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing 
exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign 
currency net investments and any foreign currency 
borrowings, or forward contracts used to hedge those 
investments, are taken to a translation reserve. They 
are recycled and recognised as a profit or loss on the 
disposal or closure of a business. The cumulative 
translation difference for all foreign operations was 
deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004, the date of 
transition to adopted IFRS.
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Exceptional items
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial 
Statements’, certain items are presented separately 
as exceptional on the face of the consolidated income 
statement. In the opinion of the directors, these 
exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue 
of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear 
and consistent presentation of the group’s underlying 
performance and to provide consistency with internal 
management reporting. Exceptional items may include, 
but are not restricted to: profits or losses arising on 
disposal of businesses or on closure of businesses; 
business restructuring charges; and profits or losses 
arising on the disposal of fixed assets. In addition, 
acquisition-related costs including transaction costs; 
changes in deferred consideration and elements of 
deferred compensation (those dependent on continued 
employment) which, in line with IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ are required to be charged to the income 
statement are also classified as exceptional.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. 
Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of 
the instrument.
Cash, deposits, short-term investments, borrowings and 
trade receivables and payables are held at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially 
and subsequently at fair value. The gain or loss on 
re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in 
the income statement. However , where derivatives qualify 
for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain 
or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is 
determined by reference to market values for similar 
financial instruments or by discounting the expected 
future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments 
are non-speculative.
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated 
as a hedge against the variability in cash flows of a 
recognised asset or liability , or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, any gain or loss on the effective part of the 
derivative financial instrument is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated within the 
hedging reserve. The gain or loss on any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the 
income statement. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 75 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Long-term contracts
As soon as the outcome of a long-term contract can 
be estimated reliably , contract revenue and expenses 
are recognised in the income statement in proportion 
to the stage of completion of the contract. The stage of 
completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work 
performed. When the outcome of a contract cannot be 
estimated reliably , revenue is recognised only to the 
extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will 
be recoverable, and contract costs are expensed as 
incurred. An expected loss on a contract is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
Revenue in respect of variations to the contract scope 
and claims is recognised when it is probable that it will 
be received and is capable of being reliably measured. 
Incentive payments are recognised when a contract 
is sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the 
required conditions will be met and the amount of the 
payment can be reliably measured.
The gross amounts due from customers under long-term 
contracts are stated at cost plus recognised profits, less 
provision for recognised losses and progress billings. 
These amounts are reported in trade and other receivables.
Payments on account in excess of the gross amounts due 
from customers are included in trade and other payables.
Net financing income
Net financing income comprises interest receivable 
on funds invested, interest payable, pension financing 
income, the unwinding of discounted balances and 
foreign exchange gains and losses. Interest income and 
interest payable are recognised in the income statement 
as they accrue, using the effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the 
cost of purchased and constructed property , plant and 
equipment, until the relevant assets are brought into 
operational use. The only material projects where this 
has occurred are those held in the group’ s investments 
in joint ventures which are involved in public-private 
partnerships (PPP) projects to finance, design and build 
assets and operate them on behalf of the customer .
Property , plant and equipment
Property , plant and equipment is measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The 
cost of property , plant and equipment as at 1 January 
2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, was 
determined by reference to its fair value at that date.
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment
The carrying values of all of the group’s assets other than 
inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred 
tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
If there are indications of an impairment in the carrying 
value then the recoverable amount is estimated and 
compared to the carrying amount. 
For goodwill and assets not yet available for use, 
the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance 
sheet date. An impairment loss is recognised to the 
extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount.
Intangible assets other than goodwill
Intangible assets acquired by the group, which include 
software, customer relationships, trademarks and order 
backlogs, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and impairment losses. The cost of an intangible asset 
acquired in a business combination is fair value at date 
of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on 
a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of 
intangible assets, from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 
31 December 2012 are as follows:
Software Three to seven years 
Customer relationships Two to ten years 
Brand/trademarks Up to five years 
Other Up to six years
Inventories
Inventories, including land held for , and in the course 
of, development, are stated at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included 
at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and 
disposing of the development. Cost includes cost of 
acquisition and development to date, including directly 
attributable fees and expenses net of rental and other 
income attributable to the development.
Leases 
Operating lease costs, including incentives received, are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis 
over the period of the lease. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 76
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
a valuation model, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the awards were granted. The 
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect 
the actual number of shares that vest except where 
non-vesting is due to total shareholder return not 
achieving the threshold for vesting. 
T axation
Income tax expense comprises the sum of current tax 
charge and the movement in deferred tax. 
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable 
profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of 
previous years. T ax is recognised in the income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in 
other comprehensive income or equity , in which case it 
is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity 
as appropriate.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the accounts and the corresponding tax bases used in the 
computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences 
with deferred tax assets being recognised where it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the asset can be utilised. The carrying amount of 
deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet 
date and adjustments made to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
differences arise from the initial recognition (other than 
in a business combination) of assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable pr ofit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates, except where the group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it 
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply 
when the deferred tax asset is realised or the liability 
is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority and it is intended that they will be settled 
on a net basis.
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Property , plant and equipment continued
Depreciation is provided on all property , plant and equipment, 
with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to 
write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset 
on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. Reviews 
are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and 
residual values of individual assets.
The estimated lives used are:
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years 
Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the   
 lease term or 50 years 
Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The group has taken internal and external advice in 
considering known legal claims and actions made by or 
against the group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of 
success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions are 
made for legal claims or actions against the group on the 
basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for 
those which, in the view of management, are unlikely to 
succeed. These possible but not probable liabilities are 
disclosed in note 26 as contingent liabilities.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration 
received or receivable, excluding value added tax, for goods 
and services supplied to external customers. It includes 
the group’ s share of revenue from work carried out under 
jointly controlled operations.
Revenue from services and construction contracts is 
recognised by reference to the stage of completion of 
the contract, as set out in the accounting policy for 
long-term contracts.
Share-based payments
There are various share-based payment arrangements 
which allow AMEC employees to acquire AMEC shares; 
these awards are granted by AMEC. The fair value of 
awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment 
with a corresponding increase in equity . The fair value is 
measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to 
the award. The fair value of the award is measured using  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 77 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations 
In 2012 AMEC had three divisions, Natural Resources, Power & Process and Environment & Infrastructure, offering 
high-value consultancy , engineering and project management services to the world’s oil and gas, mining, clean energy , 
and environment and infrastructure markets. Each of the divisions is considered to be a reportable segment. See page 5 
for details of the new geographic structure to be adopted from 1 January 2013.
AMEC’s Chief Executive together with the senior management team constitute the chief operating decision maker and 
they regularly review the performance of these three divisions, as well as the Investments and other activities segment. 
The Investments and other activities segment principally comprises the Incheon Bridge PPP project in Korea now in 
the operational phase, the group’s insurance captive and AMEC’s residual UK wind development activities. Details of 
the services offered by each division and the end markets in which they operated are given in the segmental review on 
pages 12 to 19 and 26 to 29.
Revenue and results
 Revenue Profit/(loss)
 2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
 2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Class of business:
Natural Resources 2,416 1,742 192 192
Power & Process 973 849 78 72
Environment & Infrastructure 820 722 87 66
Investments and other activities 9 7 7 3
4,218 3,320 364 333
Internal revenue (60) (59)
– –
External revenue 4,158 3,261
– –
Corporate costs
1
(33) (34)
EBITA
2
331 299
Net financing income
3
5 12
Adjusted profit before tax 336 311
T ax on results of joint ventures
4
(5) (7)
331 304
Intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment (44) (39)
Exceptional items (24) (6)
Profit before income tax 263 259
1
  Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads
2
   EBIT A is earnings from continuing operations before net financing income, tax, intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment and pre-tax 
exceptional items of £308 million (2011: £273 million), but including joint venture EBIT A of £23 million (2011: £26 million)
3
 Net financing income includes AMEC’s share of net interest payable of joint ventures
4
 The share of post-tax results of joint ventures is further analysed as follows:
2012
 £ million
2011
 £ million
EBITA 23 26
Net financing expense (6) (4)
Tax (5) (7)
12 15 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 78
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations continued
Revenue and results continued
T ransactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis. Internal revenue arises in the 
segments as follows:
  2012 
 £ million
  2011 
 £ million
Natural Resources 18 21
Power & Process 13 16
Environment & Infrastructure 29 22
60 59
Other information
 Share of post-tax results 
of joint ventures Depreciation
 Intangible amortisation and 
 goodwill impairment 
  2012 
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
  2012
 £ million
  2011 
 £ million
  2012
 £ million
  2011 
 £ million
Class of business:
Natural Resources 3 1 4 3 14 19
Power & Process 12 16 3 3 7 1
Environment & Infrastructure – – 4 4 23 19
Investments and 
other activities (3) (2) – – – –
12 15 11 10 44 39
 Capital expenditure
 Interests in joint ventures Property , plant and equipment Intangible assets
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
  2012
 £ million
  2011 
 £ million
  2012
 £ million
  2011 
 £ million
Class of business:
Natural Resources 20 16 10 4 5 6
Power & Process 10 8 4 2 4 4
Environment & Infrastructure – – 5 6 3 4
Investments and 
other activities 17 17 – – – –
47 41 19 12 12 14
Geographical origin
 Revenue Non-current assets
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
  2012
 £ million
  2011 
 £ million
United Kingdom 1,100 976 336 173
Canada 1,260 929 211 222
United States 1,097 844 278 313
Rest of the world 701 512 261 239
4,158 3,261 1,086 947
The non-current assets analysed by geography include property , plant and equipment, intangible assets, interests in joint 
ventures and long-term receivables. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 79 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
3 Revenue
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Construction contracts 484 399
Services 3,674 2,862
4,158 3,261
The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included in 
IAS 11 and includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if AMEC’s role is as 
a service provider , for example project management.
4 Profit before net financing income – continuing operations
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 11 10
Minimum payments under operating leases 92 79
There are no material receipts from subleases.
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Fees paid to the auditor and its associates:
 The auditing of accounts of any associate of the company 1.3 1.3
 T axation compliance services 0.3 0.4
 All taxation advisory services other than compliance 0.1 –
  All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed  
to be entered into, by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 0.2 –
 All other non-audit services 0.1 –
2.0 1.7
5 Amortisation, impairment and exceptional items
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Continuing operations:
Administrative expenses – exceptional items (24) (8)
Administrative expenses – intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment (44) (39)
(68) (47)
Profit on business disposals and closures – 2
(68) (45)
T axation credit on exceptional items of continuing operations 9 6
T axation credit on intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment 12 11
21 17
Post-tax amortisation, impairment and exceptional items of continuing operations (47) (28)
Exceptional items of discontinued operations (post–tax) 5 25
Post–tax amortisation, impairment and exceptional items (42) (3) AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 80
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
5 Amortisation, impairment and exceptional items continued
Post-tax exceptional items for 2012 are further analysed as follows:
  2012
Loss on
 disposals
 £ million
 Profit in
 respect of
 business
 closures
 £ million
 Loss on
 business
 disposals
 and closures
 £ million
 Other
 exceptional
 items
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Continuing operations – – – (24) (24)
Discontinued operations (11) – (11) 17 6
(Loss)/profit before tax (11) – (11) (7) (18)
Tax 3– 358
(Loss)/profit after tax (8) – (8) (2) (10)
Pre-tax costs of £24 million in continuing operations includes the cost of funding a joint venture which was part of a recent 
acquisition, costs associated with restructuring following the management reorganisation into geographic business units 
and transaction and deferred compensation costs which, in line with IFRS 3, are charged to the income statement. 
Transaction costs of £2 million were incurred in the year .
Pre-tax gains in discontinued operations of £6 million represents a £17 million credit from the recognition of an insurance 
receivable following the Supreme Court judgement on mesothelioma liability , a provision against which was established 
a number of years ago, offset by an £11 million loss on disposals and closures arising from adjustments to provisions held 
in respect of businesses sold in prior years and foreign exchange movements on provisions established on the disposal 
of SPIE.
Post-tax exceptional items for 2011 are further analysed as follows:
  2011
 Profit/(loss) on
 disposals
 £ million
 Profit in
 respect of
 business
 closures
 £ million
 Profit/(loss) on
 business
 disposals
 and closures
 £ million
 Other
 exceptional
 items
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Continuing operations – 2 2 (8) (6)
Discontinued operations (2) – (2) – (2)
Profit/(loss) before tax (2) 2 – (8) (8)
Tax 27 1 28 5 33
Profit/(loss) after tax 25 3 28 (3) 25
Adjustments to provisions held in respect of businesses sold in prior years, including the release of a tax provision relating 
to the disposal of AMEC’ s Built Environment businesses in 2007, resulted in a post-tax profit on disposal and closures of 
£28 million.
Other exceptional losses of £8 million include IFRS 3 acquisition, transaction and deferred compensation costs along 
with the costs of exiting the group’s activities in Libya and restructuring costs in the Environment & Infrastructure division 
following the acquisition of MACTEC. Transaction costs of £3 million were incurred in the year . AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 81 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
6 Staff costs and employee numbers – continuing operations
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Wages and salaries 1,424 1,269
Social security costs 94 83
Equity-settled share-based payments (note 22) 15 11
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 34 30
Defined benefit pension scheme expense (note 14) 19 12
 1,586 1,405
  2012
 number
  2011
 number
The average number of people employed was as follows:  
Natural Resources 9,793 8,931
Power & Process 6,565 6,086
Environment & Infrastructure 6,849 6,199
Investments and other activities 172 206
23,379 21,422
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 56 to 64.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
7 Net financing income – continuing operations
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Financial income:
Interest income on bank deposits 7 4
Other interest and similar income 2 2
Pension financing income 9 9
Foreign exchange gains 1 3
19 18
Financial expense:
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (5) –
Other interest and similar expense (2) –
Foreign exchange losses (1) (2)
(8) (2)
Net financing income 11 16
8 Income tax – continuing operations
Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Income tax expense on continuing operations before exceptionals, intangible amortisation 
and goodwill impairment 72 69
Income tax credit on intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment (12) (11)
Income tax credit in respect of exceptional items (9) (6)
T otal income tax expense from continuing operations in the income statement 51 52 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 82
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
8 Income tax – continuing operations continued
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at 24.5 per cent (2011: 26.5 per cent) 15 12
Double tax relief (4) (2)
Overseas tax 56 47
Adjustments in respect of prior years (7) (2)
60 55
Deferred tax:
UK deferred tax at 23.0 per cent (2011: 25.0 per cent), pension surplus at 35.0 per cent 
(2011: 35.0 per cent) – origination and reversal of temporary differences 9 11
Overseas deferred tax (15) (11)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3) (3)
(9) (3)
T otal income tax expense for continuing operations 51 52
On 21 March 2012, in his budget speech, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a reduction in the rate of 
corporation tax from 26 per cent to 24 per cent from 1 April 2012 and further reductions to 22 per cent by April 2014. 
In the autumn statement, a further 1 percentage point reduction to 21 per cent by April 2014 was announced.
As at 31 December 2012, the reduction in the rate to 23 per cent had been substantively enacted. However the remaining 
reductions in the rate were not substantively enacted before the year end and therefore the proposed changes are not 
reflected in the figures reported.
The decrease in the rate from 23 per cent to 21 per cent would increase the balance sheet deferred tax liability by 
approximately £2 million and would leave unrecognised deferred tax assets unchanged. During the period to 2014, the 
effect of the proposed changes to income and equity is estimated to be a charge of £2 million to the income statement.
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 263 259
Expected income tax expense 64 69
Non-deductible expenses – pre-exceptional 9 6
Non-deductible expenses – exceptional 1 2
Non-taxable income – pre-exceptional (5) (8)
Non-taxable income – exceptional – (4)
Impact of providing deferred tax on pension surplus at 35.0 per cent (2011: 35.0 per cent) 1 1
Impact of change in UK tax rate to 23.0 per cent (2011: 25.0 per cent) on deferred tax 3 2
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than 24.5 per cent (2011: 26.5 per cent) 3 3
Change in recognition of deferred tax assets (11) (9)
Utilisation of current year tax losses – (1)
Other adjustments in respect of prior years (10) (5)
Effects of results of joint ventures (4) (4)
T otal income tax expense for the year for continuing operations 51 52 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 83 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
8 Income tax – continuing operations continued
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
T ax recognised directly in equity:
Current tax (1) (3)
Deferred tax (note 15) 22 (20)
T ax charge/(credit) recognised directly in equity 21 (23)
9 Profit for the year from discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and retained obligations in respect of businesses sold in prior years.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated 
income statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are as follows:
 
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Loss on disposal (11) (2)
Attributable tax on loss on disposal 3 3
Adjustments in respect of prior years – release of tax provision on disposal of business – 24
Other exceptional items 17 –
Attributable tax on exceptional items (4) –
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 5 25
Other exceptional items relate to the recognition of an insurance receivable, following the Supreme Court judgement on 
mesothelioma liability .
10 Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement. The calculation of the average 
number of shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Performance Share 
Plan, those held by the qualifying employee share ownership trust and those held in treasury by the company .
  2012  2011
 Earnings 
 £ million
 Weighted
 average 
 shares
 number
 million
 Earnings
 per share
 pence
 Earnings 
 £ million
 Weighted
 average 
 shares
 number
 million
 Earnings
 per share
 pence
Basic earnings from 
continuing operations 211 315 67.0 207 327 63.3
Share options – 2 (0.4) – 3 (0.6)
Employee share and 
incentive schemes – 4 (0.8) – 4 (0.8)
Diluted earnings from 
continuing operations 211 321 65.8 207 334 61.9
Basic earnings from 
discontinued operations 5 315 1.5 25 327 7.5
Share options –2– –3–
Employee share and 
incentive schemes –4– – 4 (0.1)
Diluted earnings from 
discontinued operations 5 321 1.5 25 334 7.4 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 84
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
10 Earnings per share continued
Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Profit for the year from continuing operations 212 207
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (1) –
Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations 211 207
In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation, goodwill impairment and 
exceptional items, additional calculations of earnings per share are presented.
  2012  2011
 Earnings 
 £ million
 Weighted
 average 
 shares
 number
 million
 Earnings
 per share
 pence
 Earnings 
 £ million
 Weighted
 average 
 shares
 number
 million
 Earnings
 per share
 pence
Basic earnings from 
continuing operations 211 315 67.0 207 327 63.3
Exceptional items (post-tax) 15 – 4.8 – – 0.2
Amortisation and impairment 
(post-tax) 32 – 10.2 28 – 8.4
Basic earnings from 
continuing operations before 
amortisation, impairment and 
exceptional items 258 315 82.0 235 327 71.9
Share options – 2 (0.6) – 3 (0.6)
Employee share and 
incentive schemes – 4 (1.0) – 4 (0.8)
Diluted earnings from 
continuing operations before 
amortisation, impairment and 
exceptional items 258 321 80.4 235 334 70.5
Basic earnings from 
discontinued operations 5 315 1.5 25 327 7.5
Exceptional items (post-tax) (5) – (1.5) (25) – (7.5)
Basic earnings fr om 
discontinued operations befor e 
amortisation, impairment and 
exceptional items – 315 – – 327 –
Share options –2– –3–
Employee share and 
incentive schemes –4– –4–
Diluted earnings fr om 
disc ontinuing operations bef or e 
amortisation, impairment and 
e x c eptional items – 321 – – 334 – AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 85 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
11 Property , plant and equipment
 Land and
 buildings
 £ million
 Plant and
 equipment
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Cost:
As at 1 January 2012 31 106 137 
Acquired through business combinations – 2 2
Additions 4 15 19 
Disposals (3) (20) (23)
As at 31 December 2012 32 103 135
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2012 16 86 102 
Provided during the year 3 8 11 
Disposals (2) (19) (21) 
As at 31 December 2012 17 75 92
Cost:
As at 1 January 2011 28 104 132
Exchange and other movements – (1) (1)
Acquired through business combinations 1 3 4
Additions 4 8 12
Disposals (1) (6) (7)
Disposal of businesses (1) (2) (3)
As at 31 December 2011 31 106 137
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2011 15 85 100
Exchange and other movements – (1) (1)
Provided during the year 2 8 10
Disposals (1) (5) (6)
Disposal of businesses – (1) (1)
As at 31 December 2011 16 86 102
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2012 15 28 43
As at 31 December 2011 15 20 35
As at 1 January 2011 13 19 32
 31 December 
  2012
 £ million
31 December
2011
£ million
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freehold 5 6
Short leasehold 10 9
15 15 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 86
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
12 Intangible assets
 Goodwill
 £ million
 Software
 £ million
Customer 
relationships
 £ million
 Other
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
Cost:
As at 1 January 2012 764  46 107 57 974 
Exchange and other movements (20) (3) (3) (1) (27)
Acquired through business combinations 87 1 85 5 178
Additions – 12 – – 12
Disposals and retirements – (3) (1) (5) (9)
As at 31 December 2012 831 53 188 56 1,128
Amortisation:
As at 1 January 2012 39 19 36 32 126 
Exchange and other movements 1 (2) (1) (1) (3)
Provided during the year – 6 24 14 44
Disposals and retirements – (2) (1) (5) (8)
As at 31 December 2012 40 21 58 40 159
Cost:
As at 1 January 2011 597 27 57 48 729
Exchange and other movements 5 – (1) 4 8
Acquired through business combinations 164 5 53 21 243
Additions – 14 – – 14
Disposals and retirements (2) – (2) (16) (20)
As at 31 December 2011 764 46 107 57 974
Amortisation:
As at 1 January 2011 40 15 21 32 108
Exchange and other movements (1) – – – (1)
Provided during the year* 2 4 17 16 39
Disposals and retirements (2) – (2) (16) (20)
As at 31 December 2011 39 19 36 32 126
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2012 791 32 130 16 969
As at 31 December 2011 725 27 71 25 848
As at 1 January 2011 557 12 36 16 621
* Amounts provided during 2011 included £2 million of goodwill allocated to a small business divested during that year
The net book value of other intangible assets is analysed as follows:
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Brand/trademarks 8 15
Order backlog 2 4
Non-compete agreement 3 3
Licences 3 3
16 25 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 87 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
12 Intangible assets continued
The group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually , or more frequently 
if indicators of impairment exist. 
The review of unamortised goodwill for indications of impairment by management is performed against the three core 
segments of Natural Resources, Power & Process and Environment & Infrastructure, being the lowest level of cash 
generating units (CGU) monitored for goodwill purposes. This is consistent with the integration of acquisitions into the 
three segments in order to generate synergies. Goodwill has been allocated between segments on a relative fair value basis.
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow 
projections included in the financial budgets approved by management covering a two-year period and pre-tax discount 
rates as set out in the table below. Given the current market conditions, management believe that the discount rates 
chosen are conservative. For the purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond 
the two-year period include 2 per cent growth per annum (2011: 2 per cent), which is in line with long-term average 
growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate. The value in use has been compared to the carrying value 
for each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged in respect of any of the CGUs.
The financial budgets reflect management’s judgement of the future cash flows which includes past experience and 
expectations of future performance. The most significant assumptions relate to EBITA margin
1
 and the conversion of 
EBITA into cash (cash conversion). Revenue is underpinned by a secure order book for each CGU and the order book 
remains strong at £3.6 billion as at 31 December 2012 (2011: £3.7 billion). The selection of EBITA margin takes into 
account the margins being generated on contracts in progress and management’s view of the margin on orders received, 
and is consistent with Vision 2015 objectives. The cash conversion reflects past experience and current contract mix.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed, at the individual CGU level, in order to review the impact of changes in key 
assumptions. For example, a 10 per cent decrease in volume, with all other assumptions held constant, or a 1 per cent 
decrease in margin, with all other assumptions held constant, did not identify any impairments. Similarly , zero growth 
after the initial two-year period, with all other assumptions held constant or a 1 per cent increase in discount rate, did 
not identify any impairments.
Unamortised goodwill is as follows:
 Unamortised
 goodwill
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
 Pre-tax 
 discount rate
  2012
 per cent
 Unamortised
 goodwill
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
 Pre-tax 
 discount rate
  2011
 per cent
Natural Resources 387 11 393 11
Power & Process 159 11 85 11
Environment & Infrastructure 245 11 247 11
1
  Before intangible amortisation and exceptional items but including joint venture EBIT A, as a percentage of revenue AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 88
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
13 Interests in joint ventures
 £ million
Net book value:
As at 1 January 2012 41
Exchange and other movements 2
Additions 6 
Impairment of investment (3)
T otal comprehensive income 12 
Dividends received (11) 
As at 31 December 2012 47
As at 1 January 2011 43
Exchange and other movements (1)
Additions 2
Disposals (1)
T otal comprehensive income 15
Dividends received (17)
As at 31 December 2011 41
T otal comprehensive income of £12 million (2011: £15 million) is net of provisions of £4 million (2011: £nil) taken against 
the profits of one joint venture entity , where the corresponding increase in the carrying value of the joint venture is 
not recoverable.
Principal group companies are listed on page 120.
An analysis of the group’s interests in the assets and liabilities of joint ventures is as follows:
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011 
 £ million
Non-current assets 397 222
Current assets 203 364
Current liabilities (108) (74)
Non-current liabilities (431) (461)
Group share of net assets 61 51
Fair value adjustment (14) (10)
Interests in joint ventures 47 41
The net book value of joint ventures of £47 million (2011: £41 million) includes a fair value adjustment on acquisition of 
£14 million (2011: £10 million) in addition to the group’ s share of joint ventures ’ net assets of £61 million (2011: £51 million).
An analysis of the group’s share of the revenue and expenses of joint ventures is as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Revenue 120 115
Expenses (97) (89)
Share of profit before net financing expense 23 26
Net financing expense (6) (4)
Share of pre-tax results 17 22
Tax (5) (7)
Share of post-tax results 12 15 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 89 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
13 Interests in joint ventures continued
PPP service concessions
Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows:
 Financial
 close
 Equity
 stake
 Concession
 period
 Net equity
 invested
T ransport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years –
Incheon Bridge, Korea 2005 23% 30 years £16m
Waste management Lancashire Waste Project 2007 50% 25 years £2m
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities
The group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees. The principal defined benefit schemes 
are in the UK, with the main schemes being the AMEC Staff Pension Scheme and the AMEC Executive Pension Scheme. 
These schemes were closed to new members during the year but remain open to further accrual. The majority of overseas 
members are in defined contribution schemes. Contributions by the group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed 
in note 6.
Defined benefit schemes
The valuations used have been based on the most recent valuation of the two major UK schemes as at 31 March 2011 
and updated by the schemes’ actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes 
as at 31 December 2012. The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December 2012.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries in relation to the main UK schemes are as follows:
 31 December 
  2012
 per cent
 31 December 
  2011
 per cent
Rate of discount 4.5 4.7
Rate of inflation 2.9 3.0
Rate of increase in salaries 2.9 4.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (service before/after 1 January 2008) 2.8/2.0 3.0/2.3
Expected rate of return on scheme assets:
Equities 4.5 8.1
Bonds 4.5 4.7
Gilts 4.5 3.1
Property 4.5 5.1
The main overseas schemes as at 31 December 2012 consist of three funded defined benefit schemes held in Canada and 
The Law Companies Group, Inc Pension Plan that was acquired as part of the acquisition of MACTEC. A discount rate of 
4.3 per cent (2011: 4.6 per cent) and salary inflation rate of 2.75 per cent (2011: 2.75 per cent) have been used for the three 
defined benefit schemes held in Canada. A discount rate of 3.7 per cent (2011: 4.6 per cent) has been used for the Law 
Companies Group, Inc Pension Plan retirement scheme. No further benefits are being accrued in this scheme.
For the main UK pension schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows:
 31 December 
  2012 
 Male
 years
 31 December 
  2012 
 Female
 years
 31 December 
  2011 
 Male
 years
 31 December 
  2011 
 Female
 years
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 22.8 24.3 22.7 24.1
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 24.6 26.2 24.5 26.1 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 90
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, 
which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
T o develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the company considered the current level of 
expected returns on risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated 
with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. 
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected 
long-term rate of return on assets for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 5.4 per cent assumption as at 
31 December 2011. In line with IAS 19 (2011) the expected rate of return on scheme assets will in future be in line with 
the rate of discount.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
 31 December 
  2012
 £ million
 31 December 
  2011
 £ million
Retirement benefit assets 86 32
Retirement benefit liabilities (93) (81)
Retirement benefit net liability (7) (49)
The retirement benefit liabilities of £93 million (2011: £81 million) reflect primarily the deficits on the overseas schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows:
 31 December 
  2012
 per cent
 31 December 
  2011
 per cent
Equities 39.8 37.6
Bonds (including gilts) 51.8 55.1
Property 8.2 7.1
Other 0.2 0.2
100.0 100.0
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Current service cost 28 20
Interest cost 76 78
Expected return on scheme assets (85) (86)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs (note 6) 19 12
Settlement gain (4) –
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 15 12
The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 14 11
Administrative expenses 10 10
Net financing income (9) (9)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 15 12 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 91 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
As at 1 January 1,618 1,408
Exchange and other movements (6) (1)
Current service cost 28 20
Interest cost 76 78
Plan participants’ contributions 12 10
Actuarial losses 8 100
Acquired through business combinations – 59
Settlements (13) –
Benefits paid (71) (56)
As at 31 December 1,652 1,618
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
As at 1 January 1,569 1,435
Exchange and other movements (3) –
Expected return on plan assets 85 86
Actuarial gains 32 29
Employer contributions 30 28
Plan participants’ contributions 12 10
Acquired through business combinations – 37
Settlements (9) –
Benefits paid (71) (56)
As at 31 December 1,645 1,569
The movement in the scheme net (liability)/asset during the year is as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Scheme net (liability)/asset as at 1 January (49) 27
Exchange and other movements 3 1
T otal charge as above (19) (12)
Employer contributions 30 28
Acquired through business combinations – (22)
Settlements 4 –
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 24 (71)
Scheme net liability as at 31 December (7) (49)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
As at 1 January (311) (240)
Net actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the year 24 (71)
As at 31 December (287) (311) AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 92
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The actual return on scheme assets is as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Actual return on scheme assets 117 115
The history of experience gains and losses has been as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011 
 £ million
 2010 
 £ million
 2009 
 £ million
 2008 
 £ million
Defined benefit obligation as at 31 December (1,652) (1,618) (1,408) (1,328) (1,065)
Fair value of assets as at 31 December 1,645 1,569 1,435 1,324 1,221
(Deficit)/surplus (7) (49) 27 (4) 156
Difference between expected and actual  
return on scheme assets 32 29 50 58 (170)
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 1.9 1.8 3.5 4.4 (13.9)
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities (1) 29–86
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (0.1) 1.8 – 0.6 0.5
Contributions
The group expects to contribute £30 million to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2013. This includes special 
contributions of £5 million.
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
 Assets Liabilities
 31 December 
  2012 
 £ million
 31 December 
  2011 
 £ million
 31 December 
  2012 
 £ million
 31 December 
  2011 
 £ million
Property , plant and equipment 14 15 (4) –
Intangible assets – – (48) (37)
Retirement benefits 19 25 (30) (11)
Derivative financial instruments 1 2 (1) (1)
Provisions 60 57 – –
Employee share schemes 4 6 – –
Other items 13 8 (10) (9)
T ax losses carried forward 15 17 – –
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 126 130 (93) (58)
Offset of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating  
to income tax levied by the same taxation authority (84) (58) 84 58
Net deferred tax assets 42 72 (9) – AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 93 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
 As at
 1 January
  2012
 £ million
 Exchange
 and other
 movements
 £ million
 Acquisitions
 £ million
 Recognised
 in income
 £ million
 Recognised
 in equity
 £ million
 As at
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
Property , plant and equipment 15 – (3)  (2) – 10
Intangible assets (37) 1 (22) 10 – (48)
Retirement benefits 14 (1) – (5) (19) (11)
Derivative financial instruments 1 – –  – (1) –
Provisions 57 (2) – 5 – 60
Employee share schemes 6 – –  – (2) 4
Other items (1) – – 4 – 3
T ax losses carried forward 17 – – (2) – 15
72 (2) (25) 10 (22) 33
 As at
 1 January
  2011
 £ million
 Exchange
 and other
 movements
 £ million
 Acquisitions
 £ million
 Recognised
 in income
 £ million
 Recognised
 in equity
 £ million
 As at
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Property , plant and equipment 15 – – – – 15
Intangible assets (13) – (29) 5 – (37)
Retirement benefits (13) – 8 (4) 23 14
Derivative financial instruments 1 – – – – 1
Provisions 48 – 1 8 – 57
Employee share schemes 12 – – (3) (3) 6
Other items (4) – 4 (1) – (1)
T ax losses carried forward 14–21 – 17
60 – (14) 6 20 72
The deferred tax credit of £10 million (2011: £6 million) recognised in income consists of a credit of £9 million (2011: £3 million) 
relating to continuing operations and a £1 million credit (2011: £3 million) in respect of discontinued operations.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
There are a number of factors that may affect the group’ s future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with 
tax authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation 
and tax rates. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
 31 December 
  2012
 £ million
 31 December 
  2011
 £ million
Deductible temporary differences 20 15
T ax losses 14 20
34 35 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 94
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Unrecognised deferred tax assets continued
T ax losses and deductible temporary differences not recognised by the group do not expire under current tax legislation. 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the group can utilise these assets. 
In addition, claims have been made to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to offset tax losses of up to £79 million against 
the group’s UK taxable profits. These losses were generated in a legacy German business in accounting periods up to 
31 December 2002. If successful, the claims will result in a refund of UK corporation tax. The amount and availability 
of the refund depends on a number of factors which are currently being discussed with HMRC.
This potential refund is not included as an asset in the accounts.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of £551 million (2011: £474 million) of unremitted earnings of 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures because the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be £29 million 
(2011: £24 million).
16 Inventories
 31 December 
  2012
 £ million
 31 December 
  2011
 £ million
Development land and work in progress 4 4
17 Current trade and other receivables
 31 December 
  2012
 £ million
 31 December 
  2011
 £ million
Amounts expected to be recovered within one year:
Gross amounts due from customers 451 348
Trade receivables 482 418
Amounts owed by joint ventures 13 12
Other receivables 12 23
Prepayments and accrued income 48 36
1,006 837
Amounts expected to be recovered after more than one year:
Trade receivables 7 6
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1 1
8 7
1,014 844
T rade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of £35 million (2011: £15 million) relating 
to contracts in progress. Trade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions of 
£7 million (2011: £5 million) relating to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all long-term contracts 
in progress for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was £4,504 million (2011: £4,645 million).
Trade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 95 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
18 Current trade and other payables
 31 December 
  2012
 £ million
 31 December 
  2011
 £ million
Amounts expected to be settled within one year:
Trade payables 500 416
Gross amounts due to customers 77 82
Other taxation and social security costs 53 57
Other payables 156 123
Accruals 67 76
Forward share purchase agreement 45 –
898 754
Amounts expected to be settled after more than one year:
Other payables 2 2
Accruals 5 2
7 4
905 758
Gross amounts due to customers include advances received of £26 million (2011: £26 million).
T rade payables, other payables and accruals are classified as other financial liabilities.
19 Capital and financial risk management
Capital management 
The objective of the group’ s capital management is to ensure that it has a strong financial position from which to grow the 
business to meet its Vision 2015 targets and is able to maximise shareholder value. The appropriate capital structure for 
the group would comprise a mix of debt and equity . The mix would be determined by considering business profile and 
strategy , financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
The group is currently in a net cash position. The long-term net debt is expected to be no more than two times EBITDA. 
The group may exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it. However , it is expected that any 
increases would be temporary given the net operational cash flows of the group.
On 18 July 2012, a £377 million multi-currency revolving credit facility was entered into with a number of core relationship 
banks. The facility is committed for five years and is available for general corporate purposes. At 31 December 2012 
£150 million of the facility had been utilised.
In February 2012, the board approved a share buyback programme of £400 million. As at 31 December 2012 a total of 
33 million shares had been purchased under this programme, including through close periods by the use of forward 
share purchase contracts. The group completed the buyback programme on 8 February 2013.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during 2012 or 2011.
Financial risk management
The principal financial risks to which the group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange risk; funding and liquidity risk; 
counterparty credit risk; and interest rate risk. The board has approved policies for the management of these risks.
The group’ s treasury department manages funding, liquidity , credit risk and risks arising from movements in interest and 
foreign currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board. The treasury department does not 
operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted. T reasury operations are conducted 
within a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed by the board, most recently in October 2012.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 96
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Foreign currency exchange risk
The group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling. The majority of the group’ s trading income is denominated in the 
local curr ency of the business operations which pr ovides a natural hedge against the curr ency of its cost base. Wher e commer cial 
contracts are undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange 
risk, when the cash flow giving rise to such exposure becomes certain or highly probable. This is achieved through the use 
of forward currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options. There are currently no material 
transactional exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged. AMEC has no reason to believe that any 
outstanding forward contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
A portion of the group’s earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies. Such overseas profits are translated into 
Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year . There is currently no hedging in place for profits 
generated in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis. In addition, the 
group has various assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollars and Canadian Dollars. A proportion 
of these assets, including unamortised goodwill, has been designated in net investment hedges using cross-currency 
instruments. The policy was changed in 2009 to cease translation hedging for core assets of the business. The existing 
hedging contracts will not be replaced as they mature. In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation of 
foreign assets, the group may from time to time enter into new net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – cash flow hedges
The group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk typically arising where contracts are awarded in, or involve costs in, 
non-local currency . Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose and are 
designated as cash flow hedges. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts and 
swaps designated as cash flow hedges are as follows:
  2012
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
  2011
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
  2012
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
  2011
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
  £ million
Current assets 13 4 – –
Current liabilities 13 39 – (4)
26 43 – (4)
The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the forward foreign exchange contracts 
designated as cash flow hedges are expected to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss:
 2012
 Carrying
 amount
 £ million
 Expected
 cash flows
 £ million
 12 months
 or less
 £ million
 1 to 2
 years
 £ million
 2 to 5
 years
 £ million
Forward exchange contracts
Assets –1312 1 –
Liabilities – 13931
–2621 4 1
 2011
 Carrying
 amount
 £ million
 Expected
 cash flows
 £ million
 12 months
 or less
 £ million
 1 to 2
 years
 £ million
 2 to 5
 years
 £ million
Forward exchange contracts
Assets – 4 4 – –
Liabilities (4) 39 38 1 –
(4) 43 42 1 –
In neither 2012 nor 2011 was there any charge for ineffectiveness recognised. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 97 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – fair value through income statement
Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and 
changes in their fair value are recognised through the income statement. The notional contract amount, carrying amount 
and fair values of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows:
  2012
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
  2011
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
  2012
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
  2011
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
Current assets 71 76 – 2
Current liabilities 73 125 – (3)
144 201 – (1)
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – net investment hedges
The group currently has forward foreign exchange contracts and currency interest rate swaps which have been designated 
as hedges of the net investments in core subsidiaries in Canada and the US. The group has revised its policy and the 
existing hedging contracts will not be replaced as they mature. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair 
values of swaps designated as net investment hedges are as follows:
  2012
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
  2011
 Notional
 contract
 amount
 £ million
  2012
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
  2011
 Carrying
 amount and
 fair value
 £ million
Current assets – 118 – 2
Non-current assets – – – –
Current liabilities 14 33 (3) (8)
Non-current liabilities – 14 – (3)
14 165 (3) (9)
A net foreign exchange gain for the year of £1 million (2011: £4 million) was recognised in the translation reserve in respect 
of these forward foreign exchange contracts and currency interest rate swaps.
Other financial derivative assets and liabilities
The group has other financial derivative assets of £1 million (2011: £nil) and financial derivative liabilities of £1 million 
(2011: £nil).
Sensitivity analysis
The group hedges its material transaction-related exposures and hence has no material transactional profit or loss 
sensitivity . With respect to translation-related exposure, the group hedges a proportion of assets denominated in foreign 
currencies. A 10 per cent movement in Sterling/Canadian Dollar and Sterling/US Dollar rates results in a £2 million 
credit/charge (2011: £14 million) to other comprehensive income arising on net investment hedges. This would be offset 
by a credit/charge on the hedged net investment.
Funding and liquidity risk
The group’s policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and 
future forecast requirements consistent with the group’s budget and strategic plans. The group will finance operations 
and growth from its existing cash resources and the £377 million multi-currency revolving credit facility . The requirement 
to enter into additional external facilities has been kept under review during 2012.
Appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for bank guarantees and letters of credit. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 98
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit risk
The group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its 
financial instruments. The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the group’ s risk 
management activities. 
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially 
through contract payment terms. Where appropriate, payment security is sought. Credit control practices are applied 
thereafter during the project execution phase. A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
Credit risks arising from treasury activities are managed by a central treasury function in accordance with the board 
approved treasury policy . The objective of the policy is to diversify and minimise the group’s exposure to credit risk from 
its treasury activities by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25 to 30 mainstream banks and 
with each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit. These limits are set at prudent levels by the board and are based 
primarily on credit ratings set by Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. Credit ratings are monitored continually by 
the group treasury department. 
The group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid an over-concentration 
of exposure to any one counterparty .
The ageing of trade receivables at the year end was:
 Gross
 receivables
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
 Impairment
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
 Gross
 receivables
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
 Impairment
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Not past due 271 – 238 –
Past due 0 to 30 days 106 – 102 –
Past due 31 to 120 days 65 (3) 54 (1)
Past due 121 to 365 days 14 (6) 15 (6)
More than one year 6 (6) 15 (13)
462 (15) 424 (20)
The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of £35 million (2011: £15 million) expected to 
be recovered within one year and £7 million (2011: £5 million) expected to be recovered after one year . Net receivables 
as at 31 December 2012 include £nil (2011: £2 million) in respect of amounts overdue by more than one year . The group 
believes there is no material exposure in respect of these balances.
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
As at 1 January (20) (22)
Net impairment allowance credited 5 2
As at 31 December (15) (20)
Based on past experience, the group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade 
receivables not past due.
Trade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government-backed organisations and the credit 
ratings of these organisations are monitored. Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent 
company guarantees, insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The group’s most significant customer in 2012 accounted for around 15 per cent (2011: 14 per cent) of continuing 
revenues, and a similar percentage of current trade and other receivables. The revenue was included in the group’s 
Natural Resources and Environment & Infrastructure divisions. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 99 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk 
The group remained in a net cash position throughout the year . Long-term interest rate hedging (for periods beyond three 
to six months) was not considered appropriate as the surplus cash position is viewed as temporary . 
The £377 million multi-currency revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending 
on leverage.
Interest rate risk – contractual maturity and effective interest rates
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their 
effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature:
  2012
 Effective
 interest rate
 per cent
 Total
 £ million
 6 months
 or less
 £ million
Short-term investments 0.94 17 17
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 0.98 258 258
Bank overdrafts 0.53 (26) (26)
Bank loans 1.67 (150) (150)
99 99
  2011
 Effective
 interest rate
 per cent
 Total
 £ million
 6 months
 or less
 £ million
Short-term investments 1.15 28 28
Cash and cash equivalents 0.99 493 493
521 521
Group borrowing
The group’ s borrowings (bank overdrafts and bank loans) are all denominated in Sterling.
There were no borrowings as at 31 December 2011.
All covenants attached to borrowings have been complied with throughout the year . 
Fair values
Fair values are determined using observable market prices (level 2 as defined by IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures ’) as follows:
The fair value of interest rate swaps is estimated by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and 
maturity of each contract and using market interest rates.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual 
forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate.
20 Other non-current receivables and payables
Other non-current receivables of £27 million (2011: £23 million) represent indemnities received on the acquisition of 
MACTEC and, in 2012, certain insurance receivables, both of which are matched by liabilities included within provisions.
Trade and other payables of £11 million (2011: £nil) represent lease incentives received which are being amortised over 
the period of the lease. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 100
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
21 Provisions 
 Litigation
 settlement
 and future
 legal costs
 £ million
 Indemnities
 granted and
 retained
 obligations
 on disposed
 businesses
 £ million
 Insurance
 £ million
 Onerous
 property
 contracts and
 provisions to
 fund joint
 ventures
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
As at 1 January 2012 54 66 37 12 169
Exchange and other movements (2) (1) – – (3)
Utilised (12) (6) – (4) (22)
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
 Additional provisions 2 12 – 17 31
 Unused amounts reversed (2) (2) (1) – (5)
Arising on business combinations – – – 1 1
As at 31 December 2012 40 69 36 26 171
Provision was made during 2006 and prior for the estimated litigation, settlement and future legal costs in connection with 
the group’s ongoing major litigation. T o the extent that these provisions were charged as exceptional items, any reversals 
are also included as exceptional items. 
The provision for indemnities relates to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, purchasers of the Built 
Environment businesses and other peripheral businesses in 2007. These businesses are reported as discontinued 
operations and any adjustments to the provisions are treated as adjustments to the profits on disposal which were 
treated as exceptional items.
The insurance provision relates to the potential liabilities in the group’s captive insurance entity and provisions in relation 
to risks associated with insurance claims. These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease 
of former employees.
Future outflows in respect of the onerous property contracts are expected to occur over the next several years. 
Provision has been made for AMEC’s potential liability to fund loss-making joint venture entities. The increase in the 
provision in 2012 includes an exceptional charge of £11 million in respect of funding a joint venture that was part 
of a recent acquisition.
Due to the nature of the other liabilities, the timing of any potential future outflows is uncertain.
22 Share capital and reserves
Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 68 and 69.
Share capital
The authorised share capital of the company is £350 million (2011: £350 million). This comprises 700 million (2011: 700 million) 
ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects. T o the company’ s knowledge and 
belief , there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting rights between holders of shares.
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £ million
As at 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 337,965,871 169
As at 1 January 2012 337,965,871 169
Cancellation of shares acquired under the buyback programme (29,968,301) (15)
As at 31 December 2012 307,997,570 154 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 101 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share buyback programme
During the year , 33 million ordinary shares were purchased at an average price of £10.76 and a total cost of £358 million. 
Of the shares purchased, 30 million shares have subsequently been cancelled.
As at 31 December 2012 the company was party to an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement for the purchase 
of its own ordinary shares for a maximum total cost of £45 million. The purchase of these shares was dependent upon the 
company’ s share price not reaching a pre-determined level during the remainder of the contract period. The outstanding 
share purchase mandate liability of £45 million has been presented as a current liability in accordance with IAS 32.23. 
The company was not party to any such contracts as at 31 December 2011.
Reserves
The group has acquired 3,250,000 shares (2011: 1,000,000) during the year which are held in treasury . During the year 
1,694,284 shares (2011: 1,922,253) were transferred to share scheme participants leaving a balance held in treasury 
as at 31 December 2012 of 7,291,522 shares (2011: 5,735,806). £71 million (2011: £49 million) has been deducted from 
equity in respect of these shares.
A qualifying share ownership trust (‘the Quest’) was established on 26 August 1999. The Quest held shares issued by the 
company in connection with the savings related share option scheme. As at 31 December 2011 the Quest held 259 shares; 
these shares were sold during 2012 and the funds remitted to the company .
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments 
that hedge the company’ s net investment in foreign subsidiaries, that have arisen since 1 January 2004, being the date 
of transition to adopted IFRS.
Share-based payments
Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings Related Share Option Schemes 
which are open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria. Grants of share options are made 
to participating employees that entitle them to buy shares in the company normally after three years at up to 20 per cent 
discount to the market price of the shares at the time of offer . In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, options are 
granted at a maximum discount of 15 per cent to the share price at the time of grant and are normally exercisable after 
two years.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted 
shares that are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period. Detailed 
terms of this plan are included in the remuneration report on pages 56 to 64.
The company has a further scheme in place, the Executive Share Option Scheme. AMEC’ s policy is to grant share options 
under this scheme only selectively and in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment. No awards have been made 
under this scheme since 2004 and authority for its use lapsed in 2012.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the group are equity-settled and, other than in defined good leaver 
circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the group at the time of vesting. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 102
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share-based payments continued
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
are as follows:
 Weighted
 average
 exercise price
  2012
 pence
 Number
 of options
  2012
 Weighted
 average
 exercise price
  2011
 pence
 Number
 of options
  2011
Outstanding on 1 January 643 7,646,883 601 6,361,127
Lapsed/cancelled 645 (839,094) 656 (654,060)
Exercised 525 (1,752,145) 577 (1,929,259)
Granted 927 1,899,323 682 3,869,075
Outstanding on 31 December 751 6,954,967 643 7,646,883
Exercisable on 31 December 772 131,041 685 72,559
Options were exercised on a regular basis during the year and the average share price for the year was 1,066 pence 
(2011: 1,042 pence).
Options outstanding on 31 December 2012 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
 Weighted
 average
 remaining
 contractual life
  2012 
years
 Number
 of options
  2012
 Weighted
 average
 remaining
 contractual life
  2011 
years
 Number
 of options
  2011
500.00 pence to 599.99 pence –– – 1,812,188
600.00 pence to 699.99 pence 0.9 3,988,698 1.5 4,497,993
700.00 pence to 799.99 pence 0.1 1,021,906 0.3 1,224,593
800.00 pence to 899.99 pence – 54,032 – 112,109
Over 900.00 pence 0.8 1,890,331 ––
6,954,967 7,646,883
The numbers of shares held under the Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan are as follows:
 Number
 of shares
  2012
 Number
 of shares
  2011
As at 1 January 3,931,369 4,059,359
Lapsed (584,809) (444,298)
Vested (1,144,754) (933,045)
Granted 1,721,392 1,249,353
As at 31 December 3,923,198 3,931,369 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 103 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
22 Share capital and reserves continued
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to 
the fair value of those instruments. For grants in either the current or preceding year , the pricing models used and inputs 
(on a weighted average basis where appropriate) into those models are as follows:
 Savings Related
 Share Option Scheme
 (Black-Scholes model)
 Performance Share Plan
 (Monte Carlo model) 
Restricted
 Share Plan
 (Monte Carlo
model)
  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012
Weighted average fair value  
at measurement date 239p 285p 1,053p 937p 990p
Weighted average share price  
at measurement date 1,103p 909p 1,139p 1,184p 1,106p
Exercise price 927p 682p n/a n/a n/a
Expected share price volatility 28% 34% 29% 33% n/a
Option life 3.3 years 3.3 years 3.0 years n/a 2.7 years
Expected dividend yield 3.3% 2.5% n/a n/a 3.0%
Risk-free interest rate 1.0% 1.1% n/a n/a n/a
Comparator share price volatility n/a n/a 35% 42% n/a
Correlation between two companies  
in comparator group n/a n/a 50% 50% n/a
The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison of the total shareholder return 
of the company with that of its comparators and achievement of targeted earnings per share growth. The former is a mark et 
based test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award. There are no performance conditions 
attached to the Restricted Share Plan.
Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of 24.8 pence per share, 
which will absorb an estimated £74 million of equity . Subject to approval, it will be paid on 1 July 2013 to shareholders on 
the register of members on 31 May 2013. This dividend has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences 
for the company . This final dividend together with the interim dividend of 11.7 pence (2011: 10.2 pence) per share results 
in a total dividend for the year of 36.5 pence per share (2011: 30.5 pence).
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Dividends charged to reserves and paid
Interim dividend in respect of 2011 of 10.2 pence (2011: interim dividend in respect of 2010 
of 7.3 pence) per share 34 24
Final dividend in respect of 2011 of 20.3 pence (2011: final dividend in respect of 2010 
of 19.2 pence) per share 64 62
98 86
The amounts waived by trustees of the Performance Share Plan in respect of the interim and final dividends was 
£1 million (2011: £1 million). AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 104
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
23 Analysis of cash, cash equivalents, bank loans and net cash
 As at
 1 January
  2012 
 £ million
 Cash flow
 £ million
 Exchange and
 other non-cash 
 movements 
 £ million
 As at
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
Cash at bank and in hand 130 46 (7) 169
Short-term investments (less than three months) 363 (273) (1) 89
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 493 (227) (8) 258
Bank overdrafts – (26) – (26)
Cash and cash equivalents 493 (253) (8) 232
Short-term investments (more than three months) 28 (11) – 17
Bank loans – (150) – (150)
Net cash as at the end of the year 521 (414) (8) 99
Short-term investments comprise short-term bank deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2012 includes £30 million (2011: £22 million) that is held in countries 
from which prior approval is required to transfer funds abroad. There are restrictions on the use of £9 million 
(2011: £4 million) of cash held on behalf of joint venture arrangements. In addition, there are restrictions on the use 
of a further £13 million (2011: £19 million) of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the group’s 
captive insurance subsidiary to certain insurers. 
Bank overdrafts arise from a new global cash pooling arrangement, which, from an accounting perspective, must 
be shown gross. All bank loans and overdrafts are repayable within one year . 
24 Acquisitions and disposals
The following purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions. None of the businesses acquired made a material 
contribution to consolidated revenue and profit in the period from their acquisition to 31 December 2012, nor would they 
have done in the year ended 31 December 2012 if they had been acquired on 1 January 2012.
Intangible assets recognised at fair value on the acquisition of these businesses included trade names, order backlogs, 
customer relationships and non-compete agreements.
Acquisitions in 2012
Unidel
On 30 May 2012, the group acquired all of the shares in Unidel Group Pty Limited (Unidel).
Unidel is a 260-person company working in Australia’s energy , resources and infrastructure sectors which provides a 
range of environmental and infrastructure services similar to those of AMEC. Its experience includes projects involving 
gas field exploration, development, production and transmission, water pipelines and coal seam methane.
The acquisition is fully aligned with AMEC’ s Vision 2015 strategy and builds AMEC’ s presence in Australia to some 1,500 
employees. It also expands the group’s capabilities in one of the key growth regions and allows the group to better serve 
customers in the oil & gas, mining, and clean energy markets. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 105 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of Unidel were as follows:
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Intangible assets 11
T rade and other receivables 7
Cash and cash equivalents 1
T rade and other payables (5)
Deferred tax liability (3)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 11
Goodwill on acquisition 5
 16
Consideration 
Cash  – paid on completion 16
16
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of Unidel primarily due to its skilled workforce positioned within the Australian 
market which did not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets as at the date of acquisition.
Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants
On 29 June 2012, the group acquired all of the shares in Energy , Safety and Risk Consultants (UK) Limited (ESRC). ESRC 
was Serco Group plc’s nuclear technical services business. It is based at a number of sites in the UK and has around 600 
people providing consultancy and project solutions for customers including the Ministry of Defence, EDF , Magnox and the 
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority . The acquisition is fully aligned with AMEC’ s Vision 2015 growth strategy and further 
builds AMEC’s footprint and capabilities in the clean energy market. The team of highly skilled professionals will 
complement AMEC’s existing expertise in nuclear support activities and enable AMEC to better service its customers. 
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the ESRC acquisition were as follows:
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Property , plant and equipment 1
Intangible assets 74
Cash and cash equivalents 1
T rade and other receivables 13
T rade and other payables (7)
Deferred tax liability (20)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 62
Goodwill on acquisition 75
 137
Consideration 
Cash  – paid on completion 137
137
Goodwill has been recognised on this acquisition as a result of the value of its skilled workforce which did not meet 
the criteria for recognition as intangible assets as at the date of acquisition. The acquisition also provides significant 
opportunities for the combined business to grow due to the complementary skills. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 106
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2012 continued
Other acquisitions
Other acquisitions were made in the year for a total consideration of £8 million of which £6 million was paid on completion 
with the balance of £2 million dependent on the achievement of set earnings targets. The aggregate fair value of identifiable 
net assets was £4 million, and there was a minority interest of £2 million created. Goodwill arising was £6 million and has 
been recognised as a result of the value of its skilled workforce which did not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible 
assets as at the date of acquisition. 
A further £2 million was paid in the period in respect of businesses acquired in 2011 and prior years.
Acquisitions in 2011
The following purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions. MACTEC, Inc contributed £126 million to consolidated 
revenue and £10 million to consolidated EBITA in the period from the date of its acquisition to 31 December 2011. 
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year , the EBIT A of the group would have been £307 million 
and consolidated revenue would have been £3,386 million. None of the other businesses acquired made a material 
contribution to consolidated revenue and profit in the period from their acquisition to 31 December 2011, nor would 
they have done in the year ended 31 December 2011 if they had been acquired on 1 January 2011. 
Intangible assets recognised at fair value on the acquisition of these businesses included brands, trade names, customer 
relationships, order backlogs and non-compete agreements. 
QED International Limited
On 21 February 2011, the group acquired all of the shares in QED International Limited (qedi). qedi is a market-leading 
project delivery company , focused on delivering specialist completion and commissioning services for major projects in 
the oil and gas industry . The acquisition strengthens AMEC’ s project delivery capability across its key sectors, supports 
the Vision 2015 strategy and reinforces AMEC’s excellent track record through commissioning into operation.
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of qedi were as follows:
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Intangible assets 14
T rade and other receivables 10
Bank loans (1)
T rade and other payables (4)
Deferred tax liability (3)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 16
Goodwill on acquisition 17
 33
Consideration 
Cash – paid on completion 28
 – paid to repay debt 5
33
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of qedi primarily through the recognition of the specialist expertise of its workforce 
in completion and commissioning services for major projects in the oil and gas industry , which did not meet the criteria for 
recognition as intangible assets at the date of acquisition. The acquisition also provides opportunities for expansion of the 
qedi business utilising AMEC’ s geographic coverage. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 107 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Zektin Group Pty Limited
On 28 February 2011, the group acquired all of the shares in Zektin Group Pty Limited (Zektingroup). Zektingroup is 
an Australian-based specialist engineering consultancy for the oil and gas and resources industries. The acquisition 
provides AMEC with oil and gas capability on the east coast of Australia, as well as access to the coal seam methane 
sector . This is fully aligned with AMEC’s Vision 2015 strategy of assured growth through a strengthened geographic 
footprint and enhanced capabilities in key sectors.
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of Zektingroup were 
as follows:
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Intangible assets 5
T rade and other receivables 7
Cash and cash equivalents 1
Current tax payable (1)
T rade and other payables (3)
Deferred tax liability (1)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 8
Goodwill on acquisition 25
33
Consideration 
Cash – paid on completion 26
Contingent consideration 7
33
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of Zektingroup through recognition of the value of its workforce of circa 220 which 
has strong capabilities and experience in target markets which did not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible 
assets at the date of acquisition. The acquisition also provides opportunities for synergies with and cross-selling for 
existing AMEC businesses.
At December 2011, the latest forecasts indicated that, due to events that have occurred since the acquisition, the 
contingent consideration would not be payable and the provision was released to the income statement in 2011 
within other exceptional items. The latest forecasts in 2012 support this position. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 108
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2011 continued
MACTEC, Inc
On 3 June 2011, the group acquired all of the shares in MACTEC, Inc (MACTEC). MACTEC is a leading US engineering and 
environmental services company that provides a similar wide range of services to the group’ s Environment & Infrastructure 
division. The acquisition provides greater access to new customers and regions, is fully aligned with the Vision 2015 strategy 
and provides the group with the right scale to service the important and growing environmental and infrastructure engineering 
services market.
The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition of MACTEC were as follows:
 Recognised
 value
 £ million
Property , plant and equipment 4
Intangible assets 54
Indemnities received 23
T rade and other receivables 65
Cash and cash equivalents 14
Current tax payable (2)
T rade and other payables (46)
Deferred tax liability (7)
Retirement benefit liabilities (20)
Provisions (23)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 62
Goodwill on acquisition 121
183
Consideration
Cash – paid on completion 123
  – paid to repay debt 60
183
Goodwill has been recognised on this acquisition through recognition of the value of its workforce of circa 2,600 mostly 
highly skilled technical professionals which did not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets as at the date 
of acquisition. MACTEC’s 70 offices are mainly based in eastern US, complementing the strength of the existing AMEC 
Environment & Infrastructure business in western US and Canada. The acquisition also provides significant opportunities 
for synergy benefits and cost savings.
Other acquisitions
Other acquisitions were made in the year for a total consideration of £14 million of which £11 million was paid on 
completion with the balance of £3 million dependent on the achievement of set targets for labour revenue growth. 
The aggregate fair value of identifiable net assets was £6 million, which consisted of £6 million relating to other 
intangible assets, cash and cash equivalents of £1 million and other net liabilities of £1 million. Goodwill arising 
was £8 million and has been recognised as a result of expected synergies.
A further £16 million was paid in the period in respect of businesses acquired in 2010 and prior years.
Disposal in 2011
There was one small disposal made during the year . In addition, there were various cash payments in respect 
of businesses sold in prior years and adjustments to provisions held in respect of prior year disposals resulting 
in a net loss of £2 million and a net cash outflow of £9 million. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 109 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations
The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Net cash flow from operating activities (2) (7)
Net cash flow from investing activities (4) (7)
(6) (14)
25 Operating leases
The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows:
 31 December
  2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
In one year or less 71 71
Between one and five years 168 145
Over five years 66 56
305 272
AMEC enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires; leases for motor vehicles and office equipment with 
lease periods of two to five years; and longer-term property leases. None of the leases include any contingent rentals.
26 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees and indemnities
The borrowings of joint ventures are generally without recourse to AMEC.
Legal claims and actions
AMEC has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known legal claims and actions made by or against the 
company . Consequently , it carefully assesses the likelihood of the success of a claim or action. AMEC makes an appropriate 
provision for those legal claims or actions against the company on the basis of the likely outcome, but makes no provision 
for those which are, in its view, unlikely to succeed. Provisions of £40 million (2011: £54 million) are shown in note 21 in 
respect of these claims.  AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 110
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued
27 Related party transactions
During 2012 there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and 
subsidiary companies.
T ransactions with the senior management group
Directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.72 per cent of the voting rights of the company as at 
31 December 2012.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and they receive share 
awards under the Performance Share Plan. The company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf of certain 
executive directors.
The senior management group consists of AMEC plc board directors and details of their compensation are as follows:
  2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Short-term employee benefits 4 4
Pension costs – –
Equity-settled share-based payments 3 2
7 6
The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows:
 Value of transactions 
 in the year
 Outstanding balance 
 as at 31 December
  2012 
 £ million
  2011
 £ million 
  2012 
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Services rendered 28 41 14 16
Provision of finance 5 12 35 31 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 111 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors 
are also responsible for preparing a directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company’ s website. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of consolidated and 
parent company accounts may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors 
in respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 the accounts, pr epar ed in accor dance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole and
 the directors report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and 
the position of the issuer and undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
Samir Brikho
Chief Executive
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer
14 February 2013
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the annual report and 
the accounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual 
report and the consolidated and parent company accounts, 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law r equir es the dir ectors to pr epar e consolidated 
and parent company accounts for each financial year . 
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the 
consolidated accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the parent company accounts in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
consolidated and parent company accounts unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent 
company accounts, the directors are required to: 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently 
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent
 for the consolidated accounts, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by 
the EU
 for the parent company accounts, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the parent company accounts and 
 prepare the consolidated and parent company 
accounts on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the consolidated and 
the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the parent company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the parent company and enable them to ensure that its 
accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general r esponsibility for taking such steps as ar e r easonabl y 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Responsibility statements of the directors AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 112
 Have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors ’ Report 
for the financial year for which the consolidated accounts 
are prepared is consistent with the consolidated accounts.
Matters on which we are required to 
report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
 Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or
 We have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 The directors’ statement, set out on page 54, in 
relation to going concern; and
 The part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified 
for our review; and
 Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the 
board on directors ’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company 
accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December 
2012 and on the information in the Directors ’ Remuneration 
Report that is described as having been audited.
Hywel Ball 
(Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP , 
Statutory Auditor 
London
14 February 2013
Notes
1  The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the 
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the 
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly , the auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they 
were initially presented on the web site.
2  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
We have audited the consolidated accounts of AMEC plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise 
the consolidated income statement, the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated 
balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes 
in equity , the consolidated cash flow statement and the 
related notes 1 to 27. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body , in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertak en 
so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent 
permitted by law , we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’ s 
members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
As explained mor e full y in the Dir ectors ’ R esponsibilities 
Statement set out on page 111, the dir ectors ar e r esponsible 
for the pr eparation of the consolidated accounts and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view . Our 
r esponsibility is to audit and expr ess an opinion on the 
consolidated accounts in accor dance with applicable law 
and International Standar ds on Auditing (UK and Ir eland). 
Those standar ds r equir e us to compl y with the Auditing 
Practices Boar d’ s Ethical Standar ds for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the 
consolidated accounts
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the consolidated accounts sufficient 
to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or error . This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the consolidated accounts.
Opinion on consolidated accounts
In our opinion the consolidated accounts:
 Give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for 
the year then ended;
 Have been properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
Independent auditors’ report to the members of AMEC plc
Registered number 1675285 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 113 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
Note
 2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Fixed assets
T angible assets 2 21 13
Investment in subsidiaries 3 2,516 1,888
2,537 1,901
Current assets
Debtors: including amounts falling due after one year of £1 million 
(2011: £6 million) 4 19 22
Cash at bank and in hand 73 144
92 166
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (250) (84)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (158) 82
T otal assets less current liabilities 2,379 1,983
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 6 (857) (857)
Net assets 1,522 1,126
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7, 8 154 169
Share premium account 8 101 101
Capital redemption reserve 8 32 17
Profit and loss account 8 1,235 839
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,522 1,126
The accounts on pages 113 to 118 were approved by the board of directors on 14 February 2013 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
Samir Brikho
Chief Executive
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2012 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 114
Interest 
Interest income and payable is recognised in profit or loss 
on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Investments 
Investments are stated at cost less provision for permanent 
diminution in value. Where equity-settled share-based 
payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary 
companies, the fair value of the award is treated as a capital 
contribution by the company and the investment in 
subsidiaries are adjusted to reflect this capital contribution.
Pensions
The company participates in a UK group-wide funded 
defined benefit pension scheme. The assets of the scheme 
ar e held separatel y fr om those of the company . The company 
is unable to identify its shar e of the underl ying assets and 
liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and r easonable basis 
and ther efor e, as r equir ed by FRS 17 ‘R etir ement Benefits ’ , 
accounts for the scheme as if it wer e a defined contribution 
scheme. As a r esult, the amount char ged to the pr ofit and 
loss account r epr esents the contributions payable to the 
scheme in r espect of the accounting period.
Details of the defined benefit scheme can be found in 
note 14 of the consolidated accounts.
Remuneration of auditors
The detailed information concerning auditor’ s remuneration 
is shown in note 4 of the consolidated accounts.
Share-based payments
There are share-based payment arrangements which 
allow AMEC employees to acquire AMEC shares; these 
awards are granted by AMEC. The fair value of awards 
granted is recognised as a cost of employment with a 
corresponding increase in equity . The fair value is 
measured at grant date and spread over the period 
during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is 
measured using a valuation model, taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the awards were 
granted. The amount recognised as a cost is adjusted to 
reflect the actual number of shares that vest except 
where non-vesting is due to share prices not achieving 
the threshold for vesting. 
T axation
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the 
year and takes into account taxation deferred because 
of timing differences between the treatment of certain 
items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in 
respect of all timing differences between the treatment of 
certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which 
have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, 
except as otherwise required by FRS 19 ‘Deferred T ax’.
1 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The accounts have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention in accordance with applicable accounting 
standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The company has not presented its own profit and loss 
account, as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
Cash flow statement
The company is exempt from the requirement of FRS 1 
‘Cash Flow Statements ’ to prepare a cash flow statement 
as its cash flows are included within the consolidated 
cash flow of the group.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all tangible assets, other than 
assets in the course of construction, at rates calculated 
to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual 
value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its 
estimated useful life. The estimated lives of tangible 
assets as at 31 December 2012 are as follows:
Plant and equipment  Three to five years 
Software Three to seven years
Depreciation is provided from the month in which the 
asset is available for use.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive 
payment is established.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. 
Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of 
the instruments. Cash, deposits and short-term 
investments are held at amortised cost. Derivative 
financial instruments are accounted for as described 
in note 1 to the consolidated accounts.
The company is exempt from the disclosure requirements 
of FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ as the 
financial instruments disclosures of IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’ are included in the notes to the 
consolidated accounts.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in a currency other than Sterling are 
translated to Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet 
date and exchange differences are taken to profit and loss 
accounts in the year . Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Notes to the company balance sheet AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 115 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
2 T angible assets
 Assets in 
 the course of 
 construction 
 £ million
 Plant and
 equipment
 £ million
Software
£ million
 Total
 £ million
Cost:
As at 1 January 2012 13 4 – 17
Additions 8 1 – 9
Disposals – (1) – (1)
Reclassification (21) – 21 –
As at 31 December 2012 – 4 21 25
Depreciation:
As at 1 January 2012 – 4 – 4
Disposals – (1) – (1)
Provided during the year – – 1 1
As at 31 December 2012 – 3 1 4
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2012 – 1 20 21
As at 1 January 2012 13 – – 13
3 Investments (held as fixed assets)
 Shares in
 subsidiaries
 £ million
 Amounts
 owed by
 subsidiaries
 £ million
 Total
 investment in
 subsidiaries
 £ million 
Cost:
As at 1 January 2012 1,531 438 1,969
Exchange and other movements – (19) (19)
Additions 216 624 840
Disposals (228) – (228)
As at 31 December 2012 1,519 1,043 2,562
Provisions:
As at 1 January 2012 81 – 81
Disposals (41) – (41)
Provided during the year 6 – 6
As at 31 December 2012 46 – 46
Net book value:
As at 31 December 2012 1,473 1,043 2,516
As at 1 January 2012 1,450 438 1,888
The increase in investments held as fixed assets primarily relates to an internal restructuring. See note 8 for more details.
Principal group companies are listed on page 120. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 116
Notes to the company balance sheet continued
4 Debtors
 31 December
 2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors – 1
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 1 –
Derivative financial instruments 4 14
Corporation tax 9 –
Prepayments and accrued income 4 1
18 16
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year
Derivative financial instruments – 3
Deferred tax 1 3
1 6
19 22
The deferred tax asset is analysed as follows:
 31 December
 2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Difference between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances (1) –
Other timing differences 2 3
1 3
On 21 March 2012, in his budget speech, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a reduction in the rate of 
corporation tax from 26 per cent to 24 per cent from 1 April 2012, and further reductions to 22 per cent by April 2014. 
In the autumn statement, a further 1 percentage point reduction to 21 per cent by April 2014 was announced.
As at 31 December 2012, the reduction in the rate to 23 per cent had been substantively enacted. However the remaining 
reductions in the rate were not substantively enacted before the year end and therefore the proposed changes are not 
reflected in the figures reported.
The decrease in the rate from 23 per cent to 21 per cent is forecast to have an insignificant impact on the balance sheet 
deferred tax asset and future charges to the profit and loss account.
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
 31 December
 2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Bank and other loans and overdrafts 180 40
Trade creditors 2 3
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1 1
Derivative financial instruments 4 18
Corporation tax – 1
Other taxation and social security costs 11 10
Forward share purchase agreement 45 –
Other creditors 1 3
Accruals 6 8
250 84
On 18 July 2012, a £377 million multi-currency revolving credit facility was entered into with a number of core relationship 
banks. The facility is committed for five years and is available for general corporate purposes. As at 31 December 2012, 
£150 million of the facility had been utilised. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 117 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
6 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
 31 December
 2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 857 854
Derivative financial instruments – 3
857 857
7 Share capital
The authorised share capital of the company is £350 million (2011: £350 million).
 31 December
 2012
 £ million
 31 December
  2011
 £ million
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 pence each 154 169
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £ million
As at 1 January 2012 337,965,871 169
Cancellation of shares acquired under the buyback programme (29,968,301) (15)
As at 31 December 2012 307,997,570 154
Share-based payment
Details of share-based payment schemes operated by the company are provided in note 22 to the consolidated accounts.
8 Reserves
 Share
 capital
 £ million
 Share
 premium
 account
 £ million
 Capital
 redemption
 reserve
 £ million
 Profit
 and loss
 account
 £ million
 Total
 £ million
As at 1 January 2012 169 101 17 839 1,126
Profit for the year – – – 879 879
Dividends – – – (98) (98)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – 15 15
Acquisition of shares by trustees 
of the Performance Share Plan – – – (6) (6)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – 9 9
Acquisition of treasury shares – – – (36) (36)
Acquisition of shares under 
the buyback programme (15) – 15 (322) (322)
Forward share purchase agreement as at  
31 December 2012 – – – (45) (45)
As at 31 December 2012 154 101 32 1,235 1,522
Details of dividends paid by the company and approved during the year are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated accounts.
During the year AMEC plc generated a significant profit from an internal restructuring. This becomes distributable as 
qualifying consideration is passed to AMEC plc. As at 31 December 2012, £620 million of reserves are considered to 
be distributable.
The company’ s profit for the year in 2011 was £195 million. AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 118
Notes to the company balance sheet continued
9 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees and indemnities
Guarantees given by the company in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries amounted to £nil as at 31 December 2012 (2011: £nil).
In addition, the company is party to cross-guarantee arrangements relating to an overdraft for certain group companies. 
The maximum gross exposure at 31 December 2012 was £82 million (2011: £36 million).
10 Related party transactions
During the year the only related party transactions for which disclosure is required under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures ’ 
were with the senior management group. Transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings are not disclosed.
T ransactions with the senior management group
Directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.72 per cent of the voting rights of the company as at 
31 December 2012.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and they receive share 
awards under the Performance Share Plan. The company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf of certain 
executive directors.
The senior management group consists of the AMEC plc board directors and details of their compensation are as follows:
 2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
Short-term employee benefits 4 4
Pension costs – –
Equity-settled share-based payments 3 2
7 6 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 119 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
 Have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006; and
 The information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the accounts are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company accounts.
Matters on which we are required to 
report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by 
the parent company , or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by 
us; or
 The parent company accounts and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or
 Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or
 We have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
 We have reported separately on the group 
consolidated accounts of AMEC plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2012. 
Hywel Ball 
(Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP , 
Statutory Auditor 
London
14 February 2013
Notes
1  The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is 
the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the 
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly , the auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they 
were initially presented on the web site.
2  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
We have audited the parent company accounts of AMEC 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise 
the company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 10. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body , in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertak en 
so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent 
permitted by law , we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 111, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the parent company 
accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the parent company accounts in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the accounts
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give r easonable 
assurance that the accounts are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This 
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’ s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the accounts. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited accounts. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
Opinion on accounts
In our opinion the parent company accounts:
 Give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2012;
 Have been properly prepared in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and
Independent auditors’ report to the members of AMEC plc
Registered number 1675285 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 120
Performance Improvements (PI) Limited
Performance Improvements (PI) Group Limited
Primat Recruitment Limited
Rider Hunt International Limited
T erra Nova T echnologies, Inc. (US)
Joint ventures
AMEC Black Cat LLC (Qatar) (49 per cent) 
Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd (23 per cent) 
  Nuclear Management Partners Limited (36 per cent)  
Petersbogen Immobilengesellschaft  
GmbH & Co. KG (50 per cent)  
Sellafield Limited
2
1
   Kr omav Engenharia S.A. is 50% owned by AMEC 
2
   Sellafield Limited is 100 per cent owned by Nuclear 
Management Partners Limited.
The subsidiaries and joint ventures which, in the opinion 
of the directors, principally affect group trading results 
and net assets are listed below. Except where indicated, 
all subsidiaries listed below are wholly owned, incorporated 
in Great Britain and carry on their activities principally in 
their countries of incorporation. Shares are held by subsidiary 
companies except where marked with an asterisk, where 
they are held directly by the company . A full list of subsidiaries 
will be filed with the Registrar of Companies with the next 
annual return.
Subsidiaries
AMEC Americas Limited (Canada) 
AMEC Australia Pty Limited (Australia)
AMEC Asia KK (Japan)
AMEC BDR Limited (Canada)
AMEC (Bermuda) Limited (Bermuda) 
AMEC Cade Ingenieria y Desarrollo de Proyectos Ltda.  
 (Chile)
AMEC Cade Servicios de Ingenieria Ltda. (Chile)
AMEC Chile International Ingenieria y Construcción Limitada  
 (Chile) 
AMEC Environment & Infrastructure Pty Limited  
 (Australia)
AMEC Engineering Holdings Pty Limited (Australia) 
AMEC Environment & Infrastructure UK Limited
AMEC Environment & Infrastructure, Inc. (US)
AMEC Earth and Environmental (UK) Limited
AMEC E&C Services, Inc. (US)
* AMEC Finance Limited
AMEC GRD SA BV (Netherlands)
* AMEC Group Limited
AMEC Holdings, Inc. (US)
AMEC Inc. (Canada)
AMEC Kamtech, Inc. (US)
AMEC Minproc Engenharia e Consultoria Ltda. (Brazil)
AMEC Nuclear UK Limited
AMEC NCL Limited (Canada)
AMEC NSS Limited (Canada)
AMEC Nuclear Holdings Limited
AMEC Oil & Gas, Inc. (US)
AMEC Petroleo e Gas Ltda. (Brazil)
AMEC (Peru) S.A. (Peru)
AMEC Programs, Inc. (US)
AMEC Project Investments Limited
* AMEC Property and Overseas Investments Limited
AMEC US Nuclear Services, Inc. (US)
Aquenta Consulting Pty Limited (Australia)
Atlantic Services Limited (Bermuda)
Energy , Safety and Risk Consultants (UK) Limited
Kromav Engenharia S.A. (Brazil)
1
MACTEC Development Corporation (US)
National Ventures, Inc. (US)
Principal group companies
As at 31 December 2012 AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 121 
Overview Strategy Financials Performance Governance 
 2012
 £ million
  2011
 £ million
 2010
 £ million
 2009
 £ million
 2008
 £ million
Summarised consolidated results
Continuing operations
Revenue 4,158 3,261 2,951 2,539 2,606
Adjusted profit before tax
1
336 311 280 216 210
Joint ventures tax (5) (7) (7) (5) (1)
331 304 273 211 209
Amortisation and impairment (44) (39) (25) (16) (9)
Exceptional items (24) (6) 11 9 107
Profit before income tax 263 259 259 204 307
Income tax (51) (52) (23) (47) (97)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 212 207 236 157 210
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued 
operations (net of income tax) 5 25 (6) 16 (11)
Profit for the year 217 232 230 173 199
Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations 67.0p 63.3p 73.0p 47.6p 64.5p
Diluted earnings per share from 
continuing operations
2
80.4p 70.5p 62.5p 46.9p 44.0p
Dividends per share 36.5p 30.5p 26.5p 17.7p 15.4p
Dividend cover
2
2.2x 2.3x 2.4x 2.6x 2.8x
Summarised consolidated balance sheets
Non-current assets 1,214 1,051 820 686 660
Net working capital 54 55 (43) (131) (111)
Net cash 99 521 740 743 764
Other non-current liabilities (284) (253) (242) (272) (307)
Net assets 1,083 1,374 1,275 1,026 1,006
T otal attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,079 1,373 1,272 1,023 1,003
Non-controlling interests 4 1333
T otal equity 1,083 1,374 1,275 1,026 1,006
The five-year record has been prepared under adopted IFRS and is stated in accordance with the accounting policies set 
out on pages 71 to 76.
1
  Adjusted profit before intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment and pre-tax exceptional items, but including joint venture profit before tax
2
  Before amortisation, impairment and exceptional items
Five-year record AMEC plc  annual report and accounts 2012 122
Dividends
AMEC’s interim dividend is usually announced with the 
half-year results and paid in the following January; the 
final dividend is proposed with the full-year results and 
paid in July .
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building 
society account and can also be paid in local currency in 
certain overseas territories. Contact our registrars for 
more details. 
We have a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) if you would 
prefer to buy more AMEC shares rather than receive 
cash dividends. This is only available to shareholders in 
certain countries. Y ou can find out more on our website 
amec.com/investors/shareholderinformation/dividends 
or by contacting our registrars.
Electronic shareholder communication
The majority of AMEC’ s shareholders now receive 
information from us electronically . If you have elected to 
do so and provided an email address, you will receive an 
email from our registrars whenever any new shareholder 
information is published. In the absence of an email 
address, you will be sent a letter which includes details 
of where the information can be found on our website.
Y ou can register for electronic shareholder communication 
and also manage your personal shareholding online at 
www.capitashareportal.com. Y ou will need your Investor 
Code (IVC) which can be found on your proxy card, share 
certificate or dividend tax voucher .
Printed copies of the annual report
Shareholders may receive a printed copy of AMEC’s 
latest annual report on request, within a reasonable 
time period, by writing to our registered office or by 
filling in the form on our website amec.com/investors/
shareholderinformation/free report.
AMEC’ s registered office 
AMEC plc 
Booths Park  
Chelford Road  
Knutsford 
Cheshire WA16 8QZ 
United Kingdom 
Registered in England No 1675285
Our website
AMEC’s website, amec.com, is the best source of useful, 
up-to-date information about AMEC and its activities, 
including annual reports, AGM documents and other 
shareholder communications. 
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange 
can be found at amec.com/rns and alerting services are 
available at amec.com/utilities/email alerts.
AMEC’ s registrars
AMEC’s registrars are Capita Registrars. They maintain 
the shareholder register on our behalf and handle all the 
administration related to it. They should be your first point 
of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding 
in AMEC. The best way to contact them depends on the 
type of query you may have. 
For DRIP , electronic communications 
and general enquiries 
Email ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Website www.capitaregistrars.com
Postal address Capita Registrars 
 The Registry 
 34 Beckenham Road 
 Beckenham 
 Kent BR3 4TU 
 United Kingdom
T elephone
1
 UK  0871 664 0300
2
 
 Others +44 20 8639 3399
Payment of dividends overseas 
T elephone
1
 +44 20 8639 3405 
Website www.capitaregistrars.com/international
1
 Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday 
2
 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras.
 
Financial calendar
AMEC’s year end is 31 December . The normal annual 
calendar is as follows:
Full-year results issued February
Annual report published March
Annual general meeting April
Half-year results issued August
Interim management statements April and November
Full details are available at amec.com/investors/
financialcalendar/2013.
Shareholder information Our values
This report is printed using vegetable-based inks by Pureprint Group, a company totally committed to 
reducing the impact printing has on the environment. The production of this report is carbon neutral 
and Pureprint Group is certified to ISO 14001, registered to EMAS (Eco Management Audit Scheme) 
and holds the FSC
®
 Chain of Custody; number SCS-COC-000620 as well as the Queen’s Award for 
Enterprise: Sustainable Development.
This report is printed on Hello Silk, a paper produced from virgin wood fibre from well managed 
forests certified in accordance with the rules of the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) and is ECF (elemental 
chlorine free). The producing mill is certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management systems.
Designed and produced by AMEC Corporate Communications in association with The Design Portfolio 
Marketing Services.
Front cover shows (clockwise from top left): Mary Kelly , Senior Consultant, Mississanga, ON, Canada; Savio Mendonca, HR Administrator , Stuaiba, Kuwait; 
Stu Warlow, Instrument Design T echnologist, Vancouver , BC, Canada; Richard Evans, Corrosion Scientist, Birchwood, UK.
Photography by: Justin Grainge, Roth and Ramberg and William King
Sustainably delivering excellence 
Acting with integrity
Believing in people
Never compromising on safety
to our customers by: AMEC plc 
Old Change House 
128 Queen Victoria Street 
London  EC4V 4BJ 
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7429 7500 
amec.com
