 Amec Foster Wheeler plc
Annual report and accounts 2014
Connected
excellence Amec F oster Wheeler’s vision is to be  
the most trusted partner for our 
customers by consistently delivering 
excellence – bringing together the 
knowledge, expertise and skills of our 
people from across our global network.
W elcome to Amec F oster Wheeler
Strategic report: overview
01 Performance highlights
02 Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive’s statement
Strategic report: strategic review
14  Our business model
16 Delivering excellence
20 Principal risks and uncertainties
24 Sustainability
25 Global market trends
26 Our markets
Strategic report: 
performance review
30 Financial review
40 Our business units
Governance
44  Chairman’s governance overview
45 Our board of directors
48 Governance overview
50 Audit committee
55 Nominations committee
57  Health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics 
committee
59 Remuneration committee
61 Directors’ remuneration report
75 Our Group Leadership T eam
76 Management committees
77 Leadership
80 Effectiveness
81 Accountability
82 Engagement
83 Directors’ report
86  R e sponsibilit y s t at ement s  
of the directors
Financials
87 Independent auditors’ report (UK)
95  Report of independent public 
accounting firm (US)
96 Consolidated income statement
97  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
98 Consolidated balance sheet
99  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
102  Consolidated cash flow 
statement
103  Notes to the consolidated 
accounts
156 Company balance sheet
157  Notes to the company  
balance sheet
Additional information
163 History and development
164 Risk factors
169 Performance measures
173  Prior year operating results 
176 Information for shareholders
177 Other information
188 Cross-reference to Form 20-F
1 90  P rincip al sub sidiarie s  
and joint ventures
192 Five-year record
193 Glossary
194 Forward-looking statements Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
01
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
2014 was a year of resilient delivery  
for us, both financially and operationally 
– despite the challenging backdrop of 
difficult markets, reducing capex and 
falling commodity prices. 
P erformance highlights
Key performance indicators
We use a variety of other key performance indicators to track 
our progress towards our goals. These relate to the elements of 
our business model and can be found in the strategic report on 
pages 14 and 15.
Adjusted performance measures used by the Group are 
explained and reconciled to the equivalent IFRS measures in the 
section entitled Performance measures on pages 169 to 172.
1  C ontinuing oper ations . 2  Figures for 2012, 2011 and 2010 have been restated to reflect the 
reclassification in 2013 of the UK conventional power business as  
a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) 
‘Employee Benefits’ .
3  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional 
items, the amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs  
and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the group’s share  
of tax on the results of joint ventures.
4  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year before 
exceptional items, the amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related 
costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect 
of those items, divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares.
Revenue
1
£m 
3,993
2014
3,974
2013
4,088
2012
3,133
2011
2,786
2010
Adjusted profit before tax
1, 2, 3
£m 
317
2014
332
2013
327
2012
323
2011
286
2010
Dividend per share
p 
43.3
2014
42.0
2013
36.5
2012
30.5
2011
26.5
2010
Adjusted diluted EPS
1, 2, 4
p 
79.5
2014
87.2
2013
78.6
2012
73.2
2011
63.3
2010
Profit before tax
1, 2
£m 
155
2014
255
2013
254
2012
264
2011
261
2010 02
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Amec F oster Wheeler at a glance
Aggregate employees 2014
40k
Total pro forma scope revenue 2014
£5.5bn
With revenues of £5.5bn and over 40,000 
employees in more than 50 countries, 
Amec F oster Wheeler operates across the 
whole of the oil and gas industry – from 
production through to refining, processing 
and distribution of derivative products 
– and in the mining, clean energy and 
environment and infrastructure markets. 
Percentage split of average aggregate employees
% 
 Americas 
 N. Europe & CIS  
 AMEA & S. Europe 
 Global Power Group
41
23
29
7
Percentage split of revenue
% 
 Americas 
 N. Europe & CIS  
 AMEA & S. Europe 
 Global Power Group
47
17
28
8
Office locations Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
03
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Collaboration and 
leveraging of skills 
around the world.
Our operations
From 1 January 2015, our operations are structured into the 
four business units described here. Compared to 2014, only 
the Americas business unit has the same geographical remit 
as there were previously three AMEC divisions (Americas, 
Europe and Growth Regions) and two Foster Wheeler divisions 
(Engineering & Construction and Global Power Group).
The new company structure has been designed to further 
enable collaboration and promote greater growth opportunities.
Global Power Group
Operating four manufacturing facilities, two cogeneration 
plants, 11 engineering and service centres in eight countries 
and employing around 2,600 employees, this business unit 
designs, supplies and erects boilers, auxiliary steam and 
air pollution control equipment, as well as a wide range of 
aftermarket products and services.
Delivering projects and services virtually anywhere in the 
world, we enable utilities, independent power producers and 
industrial customers to achieve their power, process steam 
and environmental goals.
Northern Europe & CIS
Northern Europe & the Commonwealth of Independent States 
has around 12,000 employees operating in more than 120 
locations across 15 countries, with its expertise extending into 
many more. 
The unit has broad-based customer reach across three of 
our markets, in Environment & Infrastructure; Clean Energy 
– notably in the nuclear industry, including asset support, 
decommissioning and new-build programmes; and Oil & Gas 
– across the value chain and lifecycle for projects on and off 
shore, from pre-feasibility consulting to late-life management 
and decommissioning.
AMEA & Southern Europe
The Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe (AMEASE) 
unit has over 9,000 employees, spread across more than 
40 locations with strong capabilities and customer reach 
across each of our Oil & Gas, Environment & Infrastructure 
and Mining markets. In addition we have our Consultancy and 
Special Construction group which is focused on infrastructure 
planning, design and construction serving government, 
Oil & Gas, and Mining customers across key geographies 
in and beyond the AMEASE region.
Americas
The largest of our business units, with around 16,000 
employees and approximately 150 offices in 10 countries, 
across the two continents.
Our business is balanced across our markets and we have 
a growing mid/downstream Oil & Gas business in North 
America; a presence in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil upstream 
offshore and we are the market leader in mineable oil sands. 
We are the leading mining consultant in the region and have 
good solar and bioprocess positions in the US, nuclear and 
wind positions in Canada, and we are a leading environmental 
consultancy.
F rom 2015, 
our operations are 
structured into 
four business units. 04
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Our four markets
We have positioned our operations across four markets 
because we believe a diversified approach minimises risk 
and maximises opportunity over the long term. In Oil & Gas, 
Mining, Clean Energy and Environment & Infrastructure, 
we provide similar services, winning work through strong 
customer relationships and our proven ability to deliver projects 
successfully. Many of the services we provide to our customers 
are transferable across markets.
Oil & Gas
We are involved in every part of the project delivery phase 
across the oil and gas value chain, but we specifically do not 
operate in early cycle exploration or drilling.
Clean Energy
In renewables we provide a full service engineering, 
procurement and construction solution on wind, solar, biomass 
and biofuels projects. We also support the full lifecycle of 
nuclear energy and are a respected leader in the design and 
supply of combustion and steam generation equipment.
Mining
We offer mining consultancy (including ore resource estimation, 
mine planning and feasibility studies), design, project and 
construction management services.
Environment & Infrastructure (E&I)
We are a leading consulting, engineering and project 
management firm with strong market positions, especially 
in the water, transportation and infrastructure, government 
services and industrial sectors.
Amec F oster Wheeler at a glance continued
Our customers include
Providing safe and 
sustainable project 
solutions for  
our customers.
BG
BP
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd
ConocoPhillips
Dow Chemical
EDF Energy
Enterprise Products
ExxonMobil
Freeport-McMoRan
GDF Suez
Honeywell
KNPC
National Grid
Newmont
Novartis
Pemex
Royal Dutch Shell
Saudi Aramco
Sempra Energy
US Government
Order book
£6.3bn
Order book
% 
 Americas 
 N. Europe & CIS  
 AMEA & S. Europe 
 Global Power Group
32
25
37
6 Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
05
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Our sectors
Government
Comprehensive engineering  
services and solutions 
Water
Global expertise in every  
aspect of water, from  
source to ocean
Transmission & Distribution
Innovative and high value  
added solutions 
Mining & Metals
Expertise and delivery  
from concept to closure
Industrial/Pharmaceutical
Offering a whole world of  
technical expertise
Transportation &  
Infrastructure
Innovative solutions for  
complex transportation needs 
Power
Shaping the future  
of clean energy
Renewables/Bioprocess
A century of experience  
supporting today’s  
renewable energy
Nuclear
Expertise spanning the  
entire lifecycle of complex  
nuclear assets
Downstream
Pre-eminent provider  
of services to the oil and  
gas industry
Midstream
Providing transportation  
for the midstream oil and  
gas industry
Upstream
Delivering challenging  
and complex upstream  
oil and gas projects 06
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement
In the closing months of 2014 we saw a fundamental change  
in our business with the completion of the transformational 
Foster Wheeler deal. It brings greater strength and depth 
across many markets and provides your Company with access 
throughout the oil & gas value chain. The dramatic drop  
in global oil prices will prove an unfortunately-timed testing 
ground for our new business proposition over the coming  
years – however, I and your board retain complete confidence  
in your Company’s potential.
We begin 2015 with a new name, reflecting the power of both 
brands; a new identity, which encapsulates the depth and 
breadth of our potential; and a new culture, which meshes the 
best of both breeds and will provide the bedrock of our future 
operational success. These are covered in more detail in the 
Chief Executive’s statement.
Y our board
The board of directors is responsible for governing the 
organisation by establishing broad policies and objectives, 
monitoring the performance of the management team, 
ensuring the availability of adequate financial resources, 
and being held accountable to you, the shareholders, for the 
Company’s performance and longer term potential. 
We support the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and 
believe we have complied with the provisions of the September 
2012 edition throughout the year ended 31 December 2014. 
We continue to focus on diversity within our business.  
Not just the diversity of human characteristics and skills,  
but also diversity of thought – as we believe that part of our  
role is to constantly challenge the business to ensure we are  
at the top of our game. We must, of course, continue to deliver 
the highest possible standards in safety, collaboration and value 
creation. We must also ensure that we nurture an environment 
where new thinking and creative solutions can thrive for our 
customers. The complementary merging of our operations  
with those of Foster Wheeler not only enhances this potential, 
but it also provides greater resilience to market cyclicality.
In November, upon the closing of the Foster Wheeler offer,  
we appointed Stephanie Newby to the board and to the 
company’s audit and health, safety, security, environmental  
and ethics committees. Stephanie was an independent  
non-executive director of Foster Wheeler and she brings  
a wealth of boardroom expertise and experience of being  
a director of a company listed on a US stock exchange – as your 
Company now has a listing of its American Depositary Shares  
on the New Y ork Stock Exchange.
John Connolly
Chairman
2014 was a year of quantum change  
for our business. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
07
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Since the year-end we have announced other board changes.  
In February Kent Masters joined the board. Kent was the  
CEO and a board director of Foster Wheeler. In February we 
also announced that Simon Thompson will step down from the 
board at the upcoming annual general meeting after serving 
six years as a director of the Company. Simon also holds the 
important roles of Senior Independent Director and chairman 
of the remuneration committee. I am very grateful for Simon’s 
contribution to the board during a period of significant change 
in your company. Neil Carson will assume the roles of senior 
independent director and chairman of the remuneration 
committee at the conclusion of the annual general meeting  
on 14 May 2015. The board has commenced a process to recruit 
one or two new non-executive directors. Announcements on  
the new directors will be made in the next few months.
Our priorities
Each of your directors has been actively engaged in our board 
meetings and has contributed to debates on future strategy 
and direction. In 2015 the board will continue with a programme 
of regular engagements with management teams across the 
group. Our priorities going forward include monitoring the 
execution of the integration plans and the implementation of 
the new operating model referred to in the Chief Executive’s 
statement. Recognising the enlargement and changes in the 
group, combined with the challenging markets in our sector, 
a significant priority for the board is working with the Group 
Leadership T eam to set the strategy and medium-term business 
plan for the Group. 
Y our Company’s performance
Across our four markets we have seen a full range of conditions 
in 2014, ranging from tough and challenging, to robust, stable 
and growing. In these markets our trading profit
1
 was £321m.  
A further indication of our belief in the model and your 
company’s potential is the proposed final dividend of 28.5p,  
making a total of 43.3p per share for the year – a 3% increase 
on 2013 and dividend cover
1
 of 1.8 times. If approved at the 
Company’s annual general meeting on 14 May 2015, it will 
be paid on 2 July 2015 to those shareholders on the register 
at 29 May 2015. It remains the board’s intention to continue 
with a progressive dividend policy. 
Conclusion
I and my fellow directors remain strongly convinced of the 
potential for your company. We believe that Amec Foster 
Wheeler has the right strategy, a strong customer base,  
an improved customer proposition and the right skills for  
it to achieve its true potential.
On your behalf I would like to thank Samir Brikho and his 
management team and all of the 40,000 people in Amec  
Foster Wheeler for their valued contribution to date and  
their future potential.
John Connolly 
Chairman 
26 March 2015
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172)
Dividend per share for the year
43.3p
Adjusted diluted EPS for 2014
1
79.5p
Amec F oster Wheeler 
has in place a strong, 
highly competent board 
that performs well. 08
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s statement
This annual report reflects on 2014 – a year in which the fourth 
quarter saw everything change. We completed the acquisition  
of Foster Wheeler, created a new operating model for our 
business – designed for the future – and we created a new 
organisation with a clear vision, a strong identity and a culture 
hungry for success.
Our vision is clear. We want to be the most trusted partner for 
our customers by consistently delivering excellence – bringing 
together the knowledge, expertise and skills of our people from 
across our network.
Whilst I will cover the recent performance of the business, 
much of my statement will look forward as we seek to create 
sustainable, stable growth and to deliver the potential which  
I believe we have at Amec Foster Wheeler.
2014 results
2014 was a year of resilient delivery for us, both financially  
and operationally – despite the challenging backdrop of 
economic uncertainty, reducing capex and falling commodity 
prices. We have delivered a T rading Profit
1
 of £321m, on flat 
revenues of £3,993m, and we have delivered our 19th year  
of dividend growth.
Our cash conversion rate
1
 was 88% and adjusted earnings 
per share
1
 of 79.5p. Ian McHoul, our Chief Financial Officer, 
discusses our financial performance in more depth on page 30.
Our will to win
Ahead of the deal closing we were able to prepare for ‘day one’ . 
So we were really able to hit the ground running – announcing 
several contract wins in the first few weeks, some of which are 
detailed below. 
We have created a skilled and experienced team of around 
40,000 people. These colleagues are our greatest asset, and we 
will continue to focus on their development, mobility and our 
new employer brand, as we want to be the company for whom 
people want to work. 
We have to deliver for our customers. Our good customer 
relations and execution skills have won some contract awards 
and we have further nurtured and enhanced relationships with 
our existing and potential clients. 
A great example is our recently announced Anagold Madencilik 
contract win in T urkey, where we are contracted to provide 
front-end engineering services for the expansion of the Çöpler 
Gold Mine. This perfectly demonstrates the power of our 
combination, leveraging the proven gold processing expertise  
of the AMEC team and Foster Wheeler’s highly regarded  
T urkish operation and successful project delivery track record  
in the country.
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive 
W e have the will to win, the desire to 
succeed and, in the newly created Amec 
F oster Wheeler , the right combination  
to achieve our true potential.
Çöpler
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172) Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
09
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Strong cash conversion, 
demonstrating our 
continuing financial 
discipline.
W e have deliberately 
diversified our business 
across energy and 
power markets and this 
remains our strategy.
The desire to succeed
Success for any company is not just about the numbers.  
For Amec Foster Wheeler, it also means we have to be recognised 
as a company that listens to its customers, understands market 
challenges and is prepared to change. We have to propose  
new ways of thinking, better quality of delivery, and offer higher 
predictability of project delivery, on time and on budget. 
We operate in complex arenas, designing, delivering and 
maintaining strategic and complex assets for a wide range of 
customers throughout the global energy and related sectors.
Our largest market remains Oil & Gas, and we are operating 
across the whole value chain from production through to 
refining, processing and distribution of derivative products. 
This significantly enhances our capability to service customers 
and – if we make the most of our new platform by working 
collaboratively, partnering effectively, and providing the best 
possible skills to deliver for our customers – this puts us in the 
frame for projects that neither AMEC nor Foster Wheeler would 
have won as separate companies. 
We have long recognised the benefits of diversity. We encourage 
it in our workforce, in our thinking when solving customers’ 
problems, and in our strategy. All our end markets have long-
term growth potential – but they are also all cyclical. That is 
why we deliberately maintain strong and established positions 
in mining, clean energy, power generation, environment and 
infrastructure alongside the oil and gas market. 
And as an employer, success is to see our employees being 
engaged, inspired, committed and accountable. Our people 
need to be excited about our future, living our values, fostering 
a culture of collaboration, transparency and honesty, helping 
each other with the client being the focal point.
And our customers need to see that in the way we operate  
on their behalf.
Amec Foster Wheeler is proud to be delivering the Engineering, 
Procurement, Construction Management (EPCM) contract for 
Swakop Uranium’s Husab Project in Namibia in joint venture 
with T enova Bateman. We have deployed a highly-skilled project 
team, who have amassed over 10 million man-hours working 
on the mine. Once completed, Husab will be the second largest 
uranium mine in the world.
The right combination
Amec Foster Wheeler has three main stakeholders – our 
shareholders, our customers and our employees – and we 
have to deliver excellence to all of them by creating the right 
environment for success.
We have identified increased deal synergies from $75m to 
$125m and our newly introduced operating model (see page 16) 
is already bearing fruit. With more intelligent use of our  
High Value Execution Centres we can further support the 
businesses whilst recognising and managing the project risks 
through our Identify, Acquire, Deliver process (see below).
£6.3bn order book. 10
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
We are also not compromising on safety. This remains our 
paramount focus and we have again run a company-wide Safety 
First campaign at the start of the year. 
An illustration of our dedication here can be seen in the work we 
are doing for a new rubber plant on Jurong Island, Singapore. 
This complex project, the largest of its kind in the world, involves 
state-of-art technologies and compact design that demands a 
highly committed and collaborative project team to embrace 
the challenges and deliver excellence, with approximately six 
million safe man-hours.
Achieving our potential
2014 saw our Global Power Group rated the number one global 
market position for the supply of Circulating Fluidised Bed 
(CFB) boilers and Heat Recovery Steam Generators. 
Add to this industry plaudits for our work in solar and nuclear 
energy, oil & gas and mining and you can see we have a firm 
foundation from which to build.
However, understanding and managing our project 
performance is a prerequisite of delivering excellence to our 
customers and providing governance. So the Group Project 
Review Committee meets quarterly to better understand the 
performance of key projects within Amec Foster Wheeler and  
to ensure they are meeting our clients’ expectations.
The Group Leadership T eam (see page 75) has been expanded 
to incorporate the new functions of Strategy and Business 
Development and Project Delivery. We have changed the way 
we win work, and Business Development has an increased 
prominence throughout our business. We have created a 
consistent structure throughout the business units which 
will aid understanding and global collaboration between the 
regions, units and functions.
Emphasising our quality controls, we have introduced our new 
Identify, Acquire, and Deliver process, with clear decision rights 
and roles for Strategy and Business Development, Operations, 
and the functions in winning and executing work. There are 
three key decision gates: 
 X pursue/not pursue – to prioritise leads and opportunities  
with good strategic fit and to align on optimal resourcing 
solutions early in the process;
 X bid/no bid – to ensure all requirements of responding to  
a tender are understood and can be met; and
 X permission to submit – to ensure that a fully defined and 
approved proposal is formally issued to the customer.
We have a new sense of purpose and intend to build to achieve 
our true potential.
Chief Executive’s statement continued
2014 saw our Global Power 
Group rated the number one 
global market position for 
the supply of Circulating 
Fluidised Bed (CFB) boilers 
and Heat Recovery Steam 
Generators.
My aim is for Amec 
F oster Wheeler to 
emerge from the 
current economic 
situation stronger than 
our industry peers. 
Our largest market remains 
Oil & Gas, and we are 
operating across the whole 
value chain from production 
through to refining, 
processing and distribution 
of derivative products. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
11
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Additional information
Outlook
Commodity price falls are impacting both our Oil & Gas and 
Mining businesses. We have seen price decreases of up to 
60% impact several of our projects and customers adjust their 
capital expenditure, even deferring some projects.
Current economic conditions are undoubtedly challenging and 
an unclear pricing outlook implies further difficult times ahead 
in some of our key markets. However, I believe that the winners 
in our industry will be those who add value to their clients,  
in good times and in bad. Despite being a new company,  
Amec Foster Wheeler’s heritage goes back over 150 years and 
our customer service model has been built to operate through 
such fluctuations. 
Undoubtedly customers will seek reduced engineering project 
costs and refined proposals; we have to continue to engage with 
our customers to satisfy these needs. We will need to provide 
greater simplicity in our innovative solutions and focus on more 
standardised delivery alongside specific bespoke offerings  
to ensure projects are sanctioned by our customers. 
We understand the challenges, we have reinvented ourselves 
and we are ready and capable of proposing such solutions, 
to partner with our customers and make money despite the 
economic pressures. 
And my aim is for Amec Foster Wheeler to emerge from the 
current economic situation stronger than our industry peers, 
with a business that is based on a more cost-effective, stable 
and sustainable growth platform, as the partner of choice  
for our customers.
 
Samir Brikho 
Chief Executive 
26 March 2015
I believe that the winners  
in our industry will be those 
who add value to their 
clients, in good times and 
in bad. The Samcheok green power project 
marks a significant development in  
clean coal power .
After a comprehensive study and 
evaluation of the technology options, 
Korean Southern P ower chose us due 
to our advanced technology experience, 
coupled with our capability and  
track record to deliver a large-scale  
quality product.
12
By 2016, four of our 550 
megawatt CFB boilers will 
produce 2,100 megawatts 
of electricity from coal, 
biomass and recycled 
materials, setting a new 
standard for clean, large-
scale power generation. Connected
excellence
Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
13
through 
engineering 
innovations 14
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
W e convert the talents of our people  
and their customer relationships into  
a low-risk, cash-generative business. 
T o succeed we need to deliver excellence 
to our customers.
Our business model
What this means
People are our principal asset
Read more on page 16
Our employees are clever people. Their skills are a scarce 
resource.
Our highly skilled engineers, project managers, consultants 
and scientists deliver for our customers, creating long-term 
customer relationships and a strong reputation for excellence.
We are customer focused
Read more on page 17
We have a wide range of customers around the world.
They include some of the largest international oil companies 
such as ExxonMobil and BP , chemical companies such as Dow, 
miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such as EDF and 
government bodies such as US DoD.
Customers rely on our services and solutions
Read more on page 18
We provide high-value services – consulting, engineering, 
project and construction management, and supply chain 
management.
These skills are critical to the successful development and 
operation of our customers’ assets – right across their 
lifecycle.
We have a particularly strong reputation for delivering 
engineering solutions for complex projects.
We have a flexible and low-risk business model
Read more on page 19
The majority of our contracts reimburse us for our people’s 
time. We often also get additional payments by achieving  
pre-agreed performance measures. Many of these are  
long-term contracts.
In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work. 
The breadth of our market and customer exposure gives  
us great growth opportunities, and reduces the impact during 
lower levels of activity in one market.
Delivering excellence Strategic report: strategic review
15
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Managing the challenges
Our future success relies on attracting, developing and 
retaining the best people.
We need to be flexible, using our skills on those projects  
which bring greatest advantage.
We maintain the highest standards of safety and ethics.
We win business because of our reputation for delivery  
and the strength of our long-term customer relationships.
Our diversified customer base limits our dependence  
on any one customer.
We are adaptable to ensure we offer our customers the  
right services when and where they need them.
We must be able to deliver these services in a  
cost-effective way. 
We work across a range of cyclical markets, which can  
impact demand for our services.
Our reputation for delivery is very important to our  
continued success.
We take fixed-price work when we know the customer  
and the project well. 
We have a good track record predicting earnings from  
each project and contract.
How we measure success
We look at the utilisation rate of employees, gender diversity 
and employee-instigated turnover. 
We measure the engagement of our people and the 
development activity that has taken place and a number  
of safety measures.
Read more on page 16
We track levels of customer satisfaction and look to improve 
our win-to-bid ratio. 
Read more on page 17
We track our revenue growth and our margin progression. 
We also look at the mix of services we provide and where they 
sit in the lifecycle of our customers’ assets.
Read more on page 18
Our profit margin and cash conversion reflect the quality  
of project delivery. 
We also have a range of non-financial measures, including 
greenhouse gas emissions and completion of project and  
peer reviews.
Read more on page 19
X We listen, understand and respond
X We agree on clear expectations
X We aspire to consistent excellence
X We invest in our people
X We embrace diversity and inclusion
X We connect globally as one team
X We put safety first
X We act ethically and with integrity
X We care about our communities
Delivering 
on promises
Developing 
full potential
Doing the 
right thing 16
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Delivering excellence
Our success depends upon our  
people delivering projects successfully  
for our customers. 
T o foster the right culture in which  
our people can succeed, our values  
(see page 15) are entrenched throughout 
our business.
We perpetuate the very highest standards of safety, mutual 
respect and ethical behaviour that we can and this, combined 
with caring for the environment in which we operate, underpins 
our approach to being a sustainable people business (read 
more about our commitment to sustainability on page 24 and 
on our dedicated sustainability microsite to be launched on 
amecfw.com).
New leadership and integration
AMEC and Foster Wheeler both employed highly skilled, 
customer focused workforces providing high value services, 
such as engineering, design and project management to their 
customers. 
Now, as one team, we have more than 40,000 employees and 
the increased scale is expected to provide efficiencies, such 
as increased workflow between offices, known as multi-office 
delivery.
The Group Leadership T eam itself reflects this integration and 
combines the best talents from both organisations (see page 75 
for more details).
Around 23,500 of our people met at least one of the new  
Group Leadership T eam through an extensive roadshow around 
our offices in the first three weeks following the creation of 
Amec Foster Wheeler on 13 November. The extended leadership 
team, of 100 people (85% male, 15% female), met in London to 
ensure we were thoroughly prepared for the launch of the new 
operating model.
New operating model 
On 1 January 2015, we introduced our new operating model.  
The early signs are very encouraging, with changes to the way 
we identify, acquire and deliver work and also how we assure 
each part of this process. 
Key principles include global standards for execution of 
projects, creating centres of excellence and multi-office delivery.
Investing in talent
We have developed both technical and leadership training  
to ensure we maintain a pipeline of skilled talent to meet our 
growth aspirations.
Group-wide training is led by The Academy, our in-house 
development programme. 
Adapting to dynamic markets 
Delivering a project for our customers requires us to put 
together teams of people to match the needs of the project and 
the customer. 
During 2014 we recruited 9,425 people into project teams.  
Of these new hires, more than 95% were recruited directly.  
We have also seen 2,997 people leave as projects finish, or their 
roles change. T ogether this means that our utilisation rates 
remain very high.
Diversity and inclusion 
The business case is clear. An organisation that enjoys diversity 
enjoys a richness of ideas that leads to better solutions for the 
customer. 
Gender is just one part of this and women now make up 24%, 
or 8,823 members of our directly employed workforce; 12% (50 
people) of our executive grade employees; 10% (one person) of 
our Group Leadership T eam and 22% (two people) of our board. 
Age, gender, ethnicity, etc., are all important and assessed, 
but diversity of thought, for instance, cannot be measured as 
accurately. Our approach is to survey our employees, to ask 
how they feel and feed the findings into the Group Leadership 
T eam.
We are committed to providing a safe and secure workplace, 
where people are free from harassment and where diversity and 
inclusion are the norm, with equal opportunities for progression 
and development for all.
Our Code of Business Conduct highlights our commitment 
to human rights and we respect those of any individual, or 
community, with whom we are involved and we support the 
elimination of child labour.
Incentivisation
We have completely refreshed our approach. The top layers of 
management are now all rewarded against one set of common 
group-wide incentives. Please see page 67 for more detail. 
Priorities for 2015
As usual, the most important priority remains that our people 
are safe at work and that we continue to attract, develop and 
retain skilled employees.
 
P eople are our principal asset
Split of employees
% 
 Americas 
 N. Europe and CIS 
 AMEA and S. Europe 
 Global Power Group
41
29
23
7 Strategic report: strategic review
17
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
W e have a wide range of customers and 
work for some of the world’s largest 
corporations and government bodies, 
designing and maintaining critical assets. 
Our customers expect us to deliver 
excellence every day. W e are very proud  
of the high proportion of repeat business 
we generate.
Our customers include some of the largest international oil 
companies such as ExxonMobil and BP , chemical companies 
such as Dow, miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such 
as EDF, and government bodies, such as the US Department  
of Defense. 
Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 30%  
of revenue. 
 
Strategic customer management 
Developing long term and worldwide relationships with  
key customers is a priority. 
With additional service offerings and new customers  
across a broader geographic footprint, there are much  
greater opportunities to cross-sell and a strategic approach  
to managing our customer relationships is no longer a  
nice-to-have – it is a necessity. We now have three tiers  
of customer relationship: global, regional and local.
Global accounts will be managed centrally by the business 
development team. We expect to expand this over the coming 
years. 
By utilising strategic account management and global 
accounts, we are ‘upping our game’ to expand and deepen our 
relationships with our most significant customers. 
Our goal is to get closer to our customers and be their trusted 
partner. Regional and local account management will remain 
an important component.
Achievements in 2014
We are pleased that in the first few weeks after the merger  
was completed, several contracts with customers highlighted 
the benefits of our new approach.
In November we were awarded a front-end engineering 
contract with Alacer on the Çöpler Gold Mine project in T urkey, 
combining the gold-processing expertise of the AMEC team  
in North America and Foster Wheeler’s highly regarded T urkish 
operation.
And earlier this year we had more success with new 
combinations of heritage expertise, winning a feasibility study  
in Chile that combined Power & Process Americas, our Milan 
team and the ports experts in our E&I team.
Priorities for 2015
The development of long term and worldwide customer 
relationships will continue to be our key priority. 
Integrating the former AMEC and Foster Wheeler relationships 
will provide us with significant new opportunities, particularly  
in the mid- and downstream Oil & Gas market. 
For example, we will be able to offer enhanced project delivery 
to the combined upstream and downstream customer 
across new-build and brownfield projects. We will be offering 
environmental services to former Foster Wheeler customers  
for the first time too. 
We are also planning to expand the geographic reach of 
our services, for instance by offering brownfield services in 
countries where AMEC did not have a major presence, and 
where Foster Wheeler did not serve the upstream market. 
W e are customer focused
Diversified customer base
% 
 T op 10 
 11-20 
 Others 
9
61
30 18
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Delivering excellence continued
In each market or sector , the range  
of services provided to our customers  
is similar . 
W e are experts in designing, delivering  
and maintaining strategic and complex 
assets, offering total life of asset support 
from feasibility planning right through  
to decommissioning.
Our diversified service offering partially offsets the cyclical 
nature of our customers’ capital expenditure plans, and reduces 
our dependence on any one part of the energy mix. 
 
Core services
Our core services include: engineering, project management, 
construction and construction management, hook-up and 
commissioning, decommissioning, and related consultancy 
work.
We have a reputation for delivering engineering solutions for 
complex projects and operating in remote and harsh locations.
Our Clean Energy offering also now includes Circulating 
Fluidised Bed (CFB) and heat recovery steam generators, 
condensers and emission control equipment for improved 
environmental performance. 
Working through the lifecycle 
We provide high value services across the life-cycle of our 
customers’ assets and the range of services we are able to 
provide is similar in each of our four markets. 
Many of our services are provided through long-term contracts, 
giving us the opportunity to provide critical services in 
partnership with our customers. For instance, we have been 
supporting the current fleet of UK nuclear reactors for more 
than 50 years. Some of these contracts have been renewed 
several times.
Project delivery team
Our new operating model has an enhanced project delivery 
function with responsibility for ensuring the identification 
and management of project risks, driving the use of common 
systems and tools, supporting the development and 
mobilisation of our teams and ultimately helping us to deliver 
excellence on all our projects. 
Achievements in 2014
Contract wins announced in 2014 include:
 X Australia: Early stage project support for Hillside copper 
project (Rex Minerals);
 X Austria/Germany: 5-year integrated project management 
framework for refineries (OMV);
 X Azerbaijan: EPCM for Shah Deniz 2 topsides (BP); 
 X Bulgaria: Design and supply 50 MWe CFB boiler (Solvay Sodi);
 X Canada: FEED for Canada LNG project (Shell);
 X Chile: Engineering and design for secondary ore processing 
facility (Codelco); 
 X China: MOU for JV to establish nuclear decommissioning  
and life extension services (CNNC);
 X Finland: Design, supply and erection of SCR at Naantali  
unit 3 (TSE);
 X Kuwait: FEED for onshore LNG import and regasification 
terminal (KNPC);
 X Libya: FEED for onshore oil field development in  
Area 47 (Nafusah);
 X Mexico: EPC for delayed coking facilities at two refineries 
(Pemex);
 X Poland: Owners engineer role for nuclear new build 
programme (PGE Polska);
 X T urkey: Design and supply two CFBs and flue gas scrubbers 
(Harbin Electric);
 X UK North Sea: FEED for Captain expansion (Chevron);
 X US: Design and construction of specialist facilities for  
DoD program (US Space Fence); and
 X Vietnam: Design and supply two pulverised coal steam 
generators (Vietnam Electricity).
Priorities in 2015
Our main priority is to implement the new operating model  
and show customers the strength of our platform and people.
Customers rely on our services  
and solutions
Core services
% 
 Design & supply 
 Consulting 
 Engineering 
 EPCM/PMC 
 Other 
 Project delivery 
12
5
16
8
31
28 Strategic report: strategic review
19
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
W e have a flexible and low-risk business 
model; the majority of our contracts are 
on a cost-plus basis. 
When we agree fixed-price work we take 
the time to get to know the customer and 
the project first. 
By using common systems we can deliver 
work consistently and share work across 
offices and time zones. 
As a result, our business is more flexible 
and sustainable, and our financial 
performance less volatile than others.
In the majority of our contracts, our customers reimburse us 
for our people’s time and any materials we consume. We often 
arrange to get additional payments if we achieve pre-agreed 
performance measures. 
In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work.  
T ypically, we will do this where we know the customer and the 
project well. 
Where this is not possible, we may look to partner with others 
to gain access to projects which would otherwise be unavailable 
to us. 
Each year we do work on numerous contracts – some of which 
are multi-year – this, together with the breadth of our market 
and customer exposure, reduces the impact of lower levels 
of activity in any one area of our business. 
Flexibility
The Global Power Group has a different business model to our 
engineering and project management business.
In addition to engineering and project delivery, it includes 
fabrication in its typical scope of activities.
Enhanced risk management
This plays a vital role in ensuring that we win projects with the 
greatest possible opportunity for success: maximising the value 
we get for our resources and addressing risks that are part of 
contracting in our industry.
We use a detailed workflow system which addresses the risks 
associated with tenders (for both lump sum and reimbursable 
contracts) in areas such as technical challenges, financial 
and pricing terms, joint venture/partner risks; as well as a full 
range of governance issues, such as human rights, safety and 
environmental risks.
Achievements in 2014
Our order book grew from £4.1bn to £6.3bn during the year. 
On a like-for-like basis it was flat. 
We completed our fixed-price detailed design and engineering 
services for Roy Hill’s iron ore processing plant and bulk ore 
handling facility at the Port Landside works for Samsung C&T – 
the EPC contractor on the project. 
We transferred key staff from the upstream project team in 
Houston to work in the downstream propane dehydrogenation 
project for Enterprise in T exas. 
Priorities for 2015
Despite some tough market conditions, we want to win new 
contracts which will maintain our low-risk and flexible business 
model. 
We will continue to increase collaboration across the group – 
between teams from different sectors and countries, as well as 
substantially increasing the share of work carried out through 
multi-office delivery.
Revenue by contract style
% 
 Reimbursable 
 Fixed price 
 T echnology 
W e have a flexible and low-risk  
business model
72
2
26 20
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties
Amec F oster Wheeler operates in more 
than 50 countries, serving a broad range 
of markets and customers. As such, the 
Group is subject to certain general and 
industry specific risks. Where practicable, 
the Group seeks to mitigate exposure 
to all forms of risk through effective risk 
management and risk transfer practices.
Risk management process
The acquisition of Foster Wheeler was completed in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 and we are currently reviewing the control 
framework and integrating the risk and control systems with 
those of the wider group.
A mandatory procedure detailing the risk management process 
is used at project, operating unit, business unit and group levels 
to identify the key risks that could have a significant impact on 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s ability to achieve its objectives. These 
are recorded in risk registers and evaluated to determine the 
likely impact and probability of occurring. 
Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate risks that 
are considered unacceptable. Risk owners are identified and 
given responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented with 
appropriate review dates.
The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least quarterly 
with the relevant risk owners.
Reporting and monitoring
Reporting to the board, the risk committee is chaired by the 
Chief Executive and meets at least twice each year to:
 X review risk management policies, procedures and processes;
 X review the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and make 
recommendations as appropriate;
 X review, approve and make recommendations in respect  
of those risks which Amec Foster Wheeler is willing to accept 
or assume in the ordinary course of business (risk appetite);
 X review any issues raised by other committees of the board 
that impact on the risk profile of Amec Foster Wheeler;
 X review any emerging risks and any potential impact they may 
have on risk appetite;
 X review and consider reports on key risk issues such as new 
business and geographical locations for operations  
or projects; and
 X issue risk reports and make recommendations to the board. 
We acknowledge ‘Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting’ issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, and  
the terms of reference of the risk committee have been 
amended accordingly.
Roles and responsibilities
Business unit 
presidents
Chief Executive/ 
risk committee
Project manager
Operating unit 
heads
Group function heads
Leadership teams/ 
function heads
Leadership teams/ 
function heads
Project team
Head of Risk 
Management
Business Unit 
Head of Commercial/ 
Head of Project 
Delivery
Operating Unit Head 
of Commercial/ 
Head of Project 
Delivery
Project risk owners
Risk oversight
X  ensure appropriate risk management 
processes are in place
X  ensure management is positioned 
to identify and respond to risk
X  ensure relevant information is raised 
to the appropriate level
Risk owner/risk manager
X  participate in the identification of risk
X  participate in the identification of risk 
management action plans
X  ensure action plans are implemented
X  monitor and report on risk status
Risk co-ordinator
X  ensure risk management process 
is followed
X  facilitate risk management reviews
X  collate and issue risk management 
reports/registers
X  promote learning and consistency
Group internal audit
Projects Operating 
unit
Business 
units
Board
plc Strategic report: strategic review
21
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Principal business and strategic risks
The table below shows Amec Foster Wheeler’s principal business and strategic risks. Each is specific to the Group and could have 
a material impact on it. Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Other financial risks that may impact the Group are shown on pages 134 to 139 – note 19 Capital and financial risk management.
Risk Mitigation
Geopolitical and economic conditions
Amec Foster Wheeler expects to derive the majority of its 
revenues from Europe, the US and Canada and is therefore 
particularly affected by political and economic conditions  
in those markets.
Changes in general economic conditions may influence 
customers’ decisions on capital investment and/or 
asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility in the 
development of Amec Foster Wheeler’s order intake. These 
may also lead to change in the customer base, competition 
and in the way customers procure the services we provide. 
An increase in competition for new contracts may lead to 
different, less favourable contract terms and conditions.
Continuing and escalating unrest in the Middle East may 
have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities 
in the region.
Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to maintain a balanced geographic 
presence and, through acquisitions and organic growth, will continue 
to increase its exposure to other attractive regions of the world.
The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a 
downturn and affecting the demand for Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
services has been addressed, as far as practicable, by seeking  
to maintain a balanced business portfolio in terms of geographies, 
markets, clients and service offering/business model.
In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have 
been taken to assess and monitor any potential impact on Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s business opportunities and address potential 
increased supply chain and, more broadly, counterparty risk.
The introduction of a new focused Strategy and Business 
Development function to realise the synergies across our 
customers, markets, geographies, service offerings and 
relationships.
Changes in commodity prices
A sustained and significant reduction in oil and gas or 
commodity prices would have an adverse impact on the level 
of customer spending in Amec Foster Wheeler’s markets and 
consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
The fall in oil prices has had an impact on the investment 
behaviour of Amec Foster Wheeler customers in this sector, 
with pressure on capital expenditure now leading to a greater 
focus on smaller projects and operating expenditure.
This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio 
of geographies, markets, clients and service offerings.
Improved efficiencies through increased workflow between offices 
and the effective use of centres of excellence and High Value 
Execution Centres.
Integration of the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses
Amec Foster Wheeler may fail to extract value from the 
successful integration of the AMEC and Foster Wheeler 
businesses. This may result from a number of factors, 
including a continuing deterioration in market conditions, 
management time being focused on the integration of 
the businesses which could distract management from 
delivering on base businesses to the detriment of safety 
performance, project delivery, insufficient engagement 
between the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses at various 
levels and/or poor communication with customers.
Amec Foster Wheeler has mitigated this risk with:
 X detailed planning for cost and revenue synergies;
 X continuing prioritisation of plans to ensure delivery of critical 
items; 
 X plans to ensure clear allocations of resource to integration 
management, whilst focusing remaining resources and efforts  
on the base businesses; 
 X the launch of a new operating model on schedule;
 X timely and ongoing communication with customers; and
 X detailed integration planning and success factors with regular 
progress reports against them.
Project delivery
Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer 
expectations on project delivery could result in damage to 
reputation, loss of repeat business and potentially lead to 
litigation and/or claims against Amec Foster Wheeler.
Amec Foster Wheeler has created a new focused and prominent 
Project Delivery function including a Group Project Delivery 
Director reporting directly to the Chief Executive. The role of the 
Project Delivery function is to assure and drive project execution 
and to support the development, training and mobilisation of 
personnel to enhance execution competencies.
In addition the system of globally applied policies and procedures, 
combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk 
management process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews 
and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to successful project 
delivery. 22
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risk Mitigation
Lump sum contracts
Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable 
contracts, with the contractor agreeing the contract price 
at the start of the contract and accepting the risk of cost 
overruns in completing the project.
This risk is mitigated by having skills and competencies fully 
aligned with the project scope. It is further mitigated by having 
a clear, delegated authority structure in place, combined with 
the formal global mandatory procedures relating to contracting 
principles and the contract review process. In addition, the Project 
Delivery function referred to in the project delivery risk above will 
perform reviews, provide assurance and drive project execution.
Staff recruitment and retention
An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre 
employees could become a barrier to the continued success 
and growth of Amec Foster Wheeler.
Senior management departures or prolonged absences 
could also adversely affect our ability to implement our 
strategy and manage our operations efficiently. 
This risk is mitigated with a clear Human Resources (HR) 
strategy, which is aligned to the business strategy and focused on 
attracting, developing and retaining the best people for the Group 
with succession planning as appropriate. It is underpinned by an 
employee framework which describes how we manage our people 
consistently.
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and 
benefits to ensure sector and geographic competitiveness and 
there are localised recruitment teams capable of recruiting large 
numbers into Amec Foster Wheeler.
Amec Foster Wheeler Academy delivers development activities to 
enhance delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles.
Health, safety, security and environment
Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in activities and 
environments that have the potential to cause serious injury 
to personnel or damage to property or the environment and 
damage to our reputation.
These activities may involve operations such as design, 
construction, commissioning and decommissioning, which 
have potential to cause serious environmental damage, 
pollution and habitat destruction.
In order to control risk and prevent harm, Amec Foster Wheeler 
is focused on achieving the highest standards of health, safety 
and security management. This is achieved through setting 
of an effective policy and putting in place clear standards 
which underpin our health, safety, security and environmental 
management systems.
We have put in place processes to assure that our systems work 
effectively throughout the organisation and health and safety 
performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets to 
facilitate continual improvement.
Amec Foster Wheeler employs environmental and engineering 
specialists to support projects in implementing comprehensive 
project management planning at all stages of a project. These 
processes are governed by appropriate quality management 
systems and are supported by risk identification tools aimed at 
identifying and managing all aspects of project environmental risk.
Environmental licences
Amec Foster Wheeler’s build/own/operate facilities and 
fabrication/manufacturing sites rely on maintaining 
environmental licences to operate, which includes protecting 
the environment and achieving legally enforceable operating 
parameters. Failure to maintain these standards may 
result in the revocation of all or part of the licence and the 
suspension of operation, resulting in criminal or civil action 
and/or financial risk to the business. Failure to maintain 
assets and/or pollution abatement equipment may result 
in a failure to meet legally-binding objectives and targets 
for the operation.
Environmental management systems are in place to monitor and 
mitigate this risk.
Information technology (IT)
Amec Foster Wheeler is exposed to the risk that the IT 
systems on which it relies fail and/or that sensitive data held 
by the Group is lost due to ineffective data governance or 
as a result of unauthorised access to Amec Foster Wheeler 
systems or malware attacks. 
Appropriate controls are in place to mitigate the risk of systems 
failure and data loss, including systems back-up procedures, 
data security breach response plan, disaster recovery plans and 
globally distributed data centres providing a secure and reliable 
environment for hosting critical applications. There is also 
appropriate virus protection, malware detection and remediation, 
network security controls and penetration testing and encryption 
of mobile devices. Strategic report: strategic review
23
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Risk Mitigation
Ethical breach
A substantive ethical breach and/or non-compliance with 
laws or regulations could potentially lead to damage to Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s reputation, fines, litigation and claims for 
compensation.
This risk is heightened as we transition from two Codes 
of Business Conduct and two systems for raising ethical 
concerns to a single Code of Business Conduct and a single 
system for raising ethical concerns for the combined group. 
Confusion could arise amongst employees and give rise to an 
increased risk of substantive non-compliance with the Codes 
of Business Conduct. In addition personnel could engage in 
activities which could be in substantive breach of laws and 
regulations.
Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of measures in place in the two 
legacy businesses to mitigate the risk of a substantive ethical breach 
and/ or non-compliance with laws or regulations, including:
 X embedded policies and procedures;
 X Codes of Business Conduct; 
 X segregation of duties;
 X management oversight;
 X financial and operational controls; 
 X independent whistle-blowing mechanism; 
 X appointment of ethics and compliance officers;
 X anti-fraud and other internal audits;
 X legal team advice;
 X ethics training programme; and
 X oversight by the ethics committee of the board  
(now the HSSEE committee – see page 57).
Work is underway to establish a single combined Code of Business 
Conduct, revised global mandatory policies and procedures and 
provide further appropriate training in 2015.
Pensions
Amec Foster Wheeler operates a number of defined benefits 
pension schemes, where careful judgement is required in 
determining the assumptions for future salary and pension 
increases, discount rate, inflation, investment returns and 
member longevity. There is a risk of underestimating this 
liability.
This risk to Amec Foster Wheeler’s pension schemes is mitigated by:
 X maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time; 
 X taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other 
professional advisers;
 X agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees; and
 X close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with 
reparatory action agreed with the trustees in the event that  
a sustained deficit emerges.
See note 14 on page 126 for further details on our pension schemes.
Legacy risks
Litigation and business claims from divested and non-core 
businesses remain a risk to Amec Foster Wheeler.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment may 
require skills that are not common to the rest of the 
Company.
Ground contaminants remain at some former Amec Foster 
Wheeler operational localities where the pollutant may 
have been as a result of the Company’s operations, or the 
Company is responsible for its clean-up. There is a risk 
that pollution may result in a risk to human health or the 
environment. There is potential for civil and/or criminal 
action against the Company for such pollutants.
The established legacy team manages these claims with internal 
and external legal advice. The aim is to seek cost-effective 
management of litigation and promote commercially sensible 
settlements where appropriate.
Amec Foster Wheeler has made provisions for the legacy issues 
that are believed to be adequate and is not aware of any other 
current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely 
to have a material impact. Specialist teams with the appropriate 
knowledge are brought in as required.
In the case of any historical contaminated land, strategies have 
been developed to minimise the risk posed by such contaminated 
land, including asset management and land remediation projects 
and they remain under continuing review.
Asbestos liability
The legacy Foster Wheeler business is exposed to significant 
numbers of claims relating to alleged exposure to asbestos. 
The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each 
year and provisions are held against these loss projections. 
However there is a risk that these loss projections will be 
exceeded and the provisions could be inadequate to meet 
the liabilities.
There is a dedicated in-house finance and legal resource 
comprising a team of specialist asbestos lawyers who manage  
the claims, assisted by National Co-ordinating Counsel (NCC)  
and local counsel. A claims strategy has been developed with the 
NCC and regular reviews are undertaken.
The team monitors legal developments in these claims and the 
strategy to deal with them on a regular basis.
The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each year  
and provisions are held against the ultimate loss projections. 24
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Sustainability
Sustainable development is shaping  
our business every day. It is at the heart  
of our values.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Y ear ended 30 September
2014
CO 2 e 
emissions in 
tonnes
2013 
CO 2 e 
emissions in 
tonnes
Combustion of fuel and operation  
of facilities 24,126 28,863
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use 34,397 32,226
Per employee 2.16 2.13
Per £1m revenue* 15.74 15.37
*Based on AMEC revenue only for 2014.
The figures show scope one and two emissions* from our global 
business where we have operational control. 
The 12-month period to 30 September (the carbon reporting year), 
rather than the calendar year, has been used. This ensures actual 
data can be reported, even for those regions where energy/fuel 
usage is more difficult to access. By reducing reliance on estimation, 
a more accurate footprint can be provided in a timely manner.
In our figures, we use accepted methods of calculation based on the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition). We first adopted our operational 
control approach in 2001. We have used national conversion factor 
guidelines (e.g. Environmental Protection Agency, Environment 
Canada) where appropriate. We have restated our reported 2013 
carbon data following the discovery that some project diesel fuel use 
had not been included in the figure previously stated and through 
improvement in company car data reporting within the Americas. 
Our figures for 2013 and 2014 are based on the AMEC business, 
as the Amec Foster Wheeler business did not come into effect 
until after the carbon reporting year had ended. It is our intention 
to report carbon emissions for the whole Amec Foster Wheeler 
business for the 2015 carbon reporting year and beyond – and 
launch a real-time microsite for public accountability.
 
*Scope 1 emissions – all direct greenhouse gas emissions from owned  
or controlled sources.
Scope 2 emissions – indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption  
of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3 emissions – other indirect emissions, such as transport in vehicles 
not owned or controlled by the Company.
Our approach to sustainable business
Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing 
on our customers and how we deliver our projects safely 
and sustainably.
We believe sustainable business is about integrating social, 
environmental and economic concerns into core values and 
operations in a transparent and accountable manner. 
Our customers face increasing legislative and other pressures 
to operate in a sustainable way and we aim to support them, 
working with our partners and supply chain. We are working 
with them to provide innovative solutions to minimize resource 
use (water, materials, energy), consider the long-term social 
requirements on projects (utilising local workforce and 
suppliers, supporting the local communities in which we work, 
etc.) and ensuring the delivery of safe projects (inherent within 
the design, on site during delivery and onwards during the 
operation).
In each of these areas, we utilise our internal programmes and 
tools, along with our technical and scientific expertise, to ensure 
consistent excellence. 
For us, sustainability is integrated into the very core of our 
business and within our decision making processes. We want 
to be recognised as a leader in sustainable business practice, 
continually validating our social license to operate by ensuring 
employees’ behaviours and actions are in line with our values. 
In 2015 we will be developing and launching a new sustainability 
strategy for Amec Foster Wheeler which will support the 
business and our customers in delivering in these areas.  
Further details can be found in the 2014 sustainability report,  
to be issued via the new microsite in May 2015. 
Additionally:
 X we continue to support SOS Children as our global strategic 
charity and during 2014 our employees held events to raise 
monies to fully fund a water project in the SOS village in 
Callao, Peru, to which the Company donated £69,069;
 X we provided expertise to the International Federation of  
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, designing transitional 
shelters to be used in disaster situations; 
 X we made additional payments of £384,694 to 274 charities,  
for which employees raised £530,591;
 X our total carbon footprint reduced by 3,579 tonnes in 2014  
to 84,154 tonnes in comparison to 2013, however our carbon 
per person remained the same over the period;
 X AMEC was awarded industry leader in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index for 2014/15 and were given a gold class 
sustainability award by RobecoSAM Global Sustainability 
Index; and 
 X following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we began an 
extensive stakeholder engagement process to identify and 
prioritise the most material sustainability issues on which we 
will focus our attention moving forwards. This results of this 
exercise will form the basis of a new sustainability strategy  
for the business which will be published mid-2015. 
Carbon emissions 
T onnes CO
2
e per employees,  
scope 1, 2 and 3 
3.1
2014
3.1
2013
3.2
2012 Strategic report: strategic review
25
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Global market trends
Our markets are all cyclical and we are 
not immune to the recent falls in key 
commodity prices – such as oil, gas, 
copper and iron ore – which are all at  
five-year lows.
Each of our markets is expected to grow  
in the long term. 
W e are positioned across sectors so as  
to benefit whatever the relative weighting 
in the energy mix. 
This diversity means we are not dependent 
on any one part of the energy mix.
Positive long-term trends
At the time of writing in early 2015 the full impact of the recent 
oil price decline is not yet clear. The early consensus appears  
to be that global economic activity may receive a small  
boost from lower fuel costs – but this will largely be offset by 
negative consequences from lower levels of investment in the 
energy sector.
 
Despite the current volatility, long-term forecasts for global 
energy demand and supply have not changed significantly over 
the past year. The International Energy Agency (IEA) World 
Energy Outlook 2014 predicts a 37% increase by 2040. 
Long-term oil demand is expected to increase more than 20% 
from just over 90 to 110 million barrels of oil per day by 2035.
Changing hydrocarbon production mix
A change from today’s production mix is still expected, with 
crude oil falling and a greater share being taken by natural gas 
liquids and unconventional sources. 
In recent years the rapid increase in tight oil production – 
mainly from the oil sands in Canada and shale oil in the US – 
together with huge investments in liquefied natural gas projects 
has changed the nature of the energy market, and created 
regional trade imbalances. 
In 2005 the US imported more than 12 million barrels of oil per 
day, and it is now forecast to be self-sufficient during the 2030s. 
Over the same period, China is expected to import more than  
13 million barrels per day, and to become the largest importer.
Changing energy mix
Concerns around resource depletion, dangerous emissions, 
stricter regulation and consumer preference are driving 
renewable forms of energy, including nuclear, to increase their 
share of total energy production. Amongst fossil fuels, gas is 
expected to grow its share, with oil and coal reducing.
 
The nuclear industry remains a fragmented market with a 
consequence that our opportunities vary significantly. We 
expect to see new build in the UK, Eastern Europe and in some 
countries in Asia; reactor life extensions in the UK, Europe and 
North America; and decommissioning work in the UK, Europe 
and North America. Overall, the IEA forecasts nuclear will be 
used to generate around 12% of electricity in 2035, slightly 
above today’s level. 
Emissions controls and the need for greater efficiency are also 
driving change. T oday, many renewable technologies benefit 
from local and regional subsidies, which is currently supporting 
their growth. 
Strong resource fundamentals remain
More than 1.5bn people in emerging markets are expected to 
become urbanised in the period to 2035, a key underlying driver 
of long-term growth for the mining industry. 
However, lower commodity prices and general economic 
uncertainty have caused the postponement or cancellation 
of some projects in the near term. 
In addition, a number of major mining companies have 
announced delays to projects and cost reduction programmes 
in order to increase returns to their shareholders. 
Solid growth in environmental consultancy
The global environmental consultancy market is expected 
to grow consistently in line with GDP , with services related to 
climate change, energy and contaminated land/remediation 
expected to grow particularly strongly. 
Energy mix
% 
 Oil & Gas 
 Coal 
 Renewable 
 Nuclear 
 Other 
 
56
30
3
4
7
Oil price 
At year end
$ per barrel 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Bloomberg,  
Brent (USD/barrel)
57.33
2014
110.80
2013
111.11
2012
107.38
2011
94.75
2010 26
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Our markets
W e provide similar services in each of our 
markets.
W e win work through strong customer 
relationships and our proven ability to 
deliver projects successfully.
Many of our services are transferable 
across markets.
We have positioned our operations across four markets 
because we believe a diversified approach minimises risk and 
maximises opportunities over the long term.
We are always on the look-out for strategic opportunities 
to enhance our position in our chosen markets. For example, 
our January 2015 acquisition of Scopus complements our 
existing Oil & Gas position by adding further cost-effective 
services across the whole lifecycle of a project. In particular, 
the enhanced lean engineering capability will allow us to provide 
a low-cost solution at the late-life stage of a facility prior to 
decommissioning.
Competitive environment
There is no one competitor operating in all the same markets, 
with the same geographic footprint and with a similar approach 
to risk as Amec Foster Wheeler.
 
Oil & Gas
The combination of AMEC and Foster Wheeler transformed  
our market offering.
We do not operate in early cycle exploration or drilling, but we 
are now involved in every part of the project delivery phase 
across the oil and gas value chain.  
In the upstream market, the majority of our activity is for 
offshore assets, where we support fixed platforms and floating 
production units, largely above the waterline. 
We are a market leader in UK North Sea brownfield services  
and provide integrated solutions to new entrant operators  
in the region. 
We also support onshore oil and gas fields, booster stations, 
gathering centres, tank farms, gas-oil separation plants and 
pipelines. 
 
Recent advances in the extraction of gas reserves in onshore 
locations around the world have made gas monetisation one 
of the fastest growing sectors in the global oil and gas industry, 
where we hope to build on extensive experience.
In the downstream market we work on new-builds and major 
expansions and revamps, including clean fuels projects to meet 
new legislation and residue upgrading to produce higher-value 
products. 
We have more than 60 years of experience in the chemicals 
industry, encompassing plants producing olefins, aromatics, 
fertilizers and a wide range of specialty and fine chemicals.
W e operate in more than 50 countries, 
focusing on four markets
X Oil & Gas
X Clean Energy
X Mining 
X Environment & Infrastructure
2014 scope revenue
1
 by end market
% 
 Oil & Gas 
 Mining  
 Clean Energy 
 Environment & Infrastructure
54
28
8
10
Oil & Gas scope revenue
1
% 
 Upstream 
 Midstream 
 Downstream
7
41
52
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172) Strategic report: strategic review
27
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Clean Energy
In renewables, our focus is on delivering projects for our 
customers, most of which are local utilities. We provide a full 
service engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) 
solution on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels projects. This is 
mostly in North America, however we also plan to expand our 
positions in the Middle East. 
Over the past three years we have seen strong growth in the  
US for solar power, spurred on by subsidies which are due to be 
reviewed in 2017 . 
Our nuclear capability has been developed over 60 years, 
positioning us to support the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, 
from new build and reactor support (including lifetime extension)  
to nuclear decommissioning and waste management. We have 
experience of a wide range of nuclear technology. 
Our nuclear customers include major utilities, governments, 
national regulators, reactor suppliers and other significant 
stakeholders. We have a particularly strong presence in the  
UK and Canada, a growing business in the US, a good presence 
in Central and Eastern Europe and South Africa, and nascent 
propositions in Asia.
We also have a long-standing relationship in the UK and 
a growing presence in Canada with the transmission and 
distribution system owners. 
We offer a full range of steam generator equipment, clean 
air technologies, aftermarket products and services to the 
power, industrial, and waste-to-energy sectors. In addition to 
engineering and procurement, we offer fabrication facilities 
located in Europe and Asia to deliver our products.
Our experience comes from designing, servicing and improving 
fossil generating plants that come from over 200 million hours 
of successfully and reliably logged operation. 
Mining 
We support our customers’ projects in a diverse range of 
commodities, including potash, iron ore, copper and gold. 
We offer mining consultancy (including ore resource estimation, 
mine planning and feasibility studies), design, project and 
construction management services and have whole-life service 
capabilities. 
We are a leading international consultancy, with a leading 
position in the North and South American engineering, 
procurement and construction management (EPCM) markets. 
In addition to our established position in Australia, we are 
growing our African business. 
 
Environment & Infrastructure (E&I)
The environmental consulting and engineering market includes 
services provided to all four of our markets, with skills that are 
easily transferable across customers.
By positioning ourselves as a trusted partner right at the 
beginning of a project – often the early site development and 
permitting stage – we can deliver comprehensive solutions 
across the lifecycle of our customers’ assets.
We are currently operating predominantly in the US, Canada 
and the UK, with an emerging presence in the Middle East, 
Africa and Australasia. 
Our E&I market alone consists of four sectors: 
Water
Our primary areas of focus are water resource management, 
water policy, coastal management, asset planning and 
management, and wastewater collection and treatment. 
Water services are also commonly provided to customers in our 
other markets, including Mining & Metals and Oil & Gas. 
T ransportation/infrastructure 
We provide programme management, planning and design, 
project and construction management, asset development  
and long-term asset support. Our customers include 
government transportation agencies, national and local 
customers and private developers in Canada and the US.  
We have over 50 years’ experience in the sector. 
Government services
We provide a broad range of services to various clients, 
including the US Federal Government, which is the largest 
procurer of environmental services in the world. Customers  
also include various branches of the military and state/
provincial agencies. Services range from remediation 
programmes to design and delivery of infrastructure facilities, 
including airfield facilities, housing and site improvements  
at installations globally. 
Industrial/commercial
We provide compliance and due diligence services, ranging 
from geotechnical and environmental to materials and water 
resources consulting. Connected
excellence
28
through  
customer  
insight
Previously capable of 
tracking approximately 
23,000 basketball-sized 
objects in space, the new 
system will be capable of 
tracking up to 200,000 
such objects. Strategic report: strategic review
29
Financials Governance Additional information
The Space F ence Program will enhance US 
detection and tracking of space objects to 
help prevent space-based collisions.
Our customer insight will enable us 
to deliver facilities and infrastructure, 
including radar array buildings, mechanical 
and operations buildings, power 
generation plants and site work to create 
the largest ground-based radar of its  
type ever constructed. 30
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financial review
Reported under IFRS
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,993 3,974 0%
Profit before net financing 
expense 148 243 -39%
Profit before tax 155 255 -39%
Cash flow from operations 200 292 -32%
Diluted earnings per share 35.1p 62.5p -44%
Dividend per share 43.3p
1
42.0p +3%
1  Includes the proposed final dividend for 2014 of 28.5p per ordinary share.
Adjusted measures 
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change
Underlying 
change
8
 
Continuing operations
Scope revenue
1
 3,920 3,854 +2% +1%
T rading profit
2
321 343 -6%
T rading margin
3
 8.2% 8.9% -70bps
Adjusted profit 
before tax
4
317 332 -5%
T rading cash flow
5
283 341 -17%
Cash conversion
6
88% 99% -110ps
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per share
7
79.5p 87 .2p -9%
1  Scope revenue represents reported revenue less flow-through  
procurement revenue.
2  T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense before the 
amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs (net of insurance 
recoveries) and exceptional items, but including the Group’s share of the 
trading profit of joint ventures.
3  T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage  
of scope revenue.
4  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional 
items, the amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and 
interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax 
on the results of joint ventures.
5  T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before 
cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related payments 
(net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit 
contributions and the current service cost, legacy settlements and 
discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on working 
capital, but including dividends received from joint ventures.
6  Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage  
of trading profit.
7  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from 
continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation of 
intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of 
insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items, divided by the 
diluted number of ordinary shares.
8  Underlying change excludes the effect of flow-through procurement, 
acquisitions and disposals of businesses and currency exchange rate 
movements.
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer
  Strategic report: performance review
31
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Basis of preparation
Accounting policies
The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and those parts of 
the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. From the Group’s perspective, there are 
no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and 
IFRS as issued by the IASB. 
The Group’s principal accounting policies during 2014 were 
unchanged compared with 2013. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
As outlined in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, 
management considers that the most significant areas of 
judgement and estimation made in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements arise in relation to the accounting for 
long-term contracts, business combinations, defined benefit 
pensions and other retirement benefits and provisions 
(including asbestos-related liabilities), and in assessing the 
recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Adjusted performance measures
We report adjusted performance measures because they 
provide both management and investors with useful additional 
information about the underlying trading performance of the 
business.
Before we acquired Foster Wheeler, the adjusted performance 
measures that we reported excluded the amortisation of 
intangible assets and exceptional items and, where relevant,  
the tax effects of those items.
On the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we assumed significant 
additional asbestos-related obligations in relation to claims 
for damages made or expected to be made by individuals who 
allege that they have suffered personal injury from exposure 
to asbestos primarily in connection with equipment allegedly 
manufactured by Foster Wheeler’s subsidiaries during the 
1970s and earlier. When Foster Wheeler’s obligations are added 
to AMEC’s existing, though much less significant, asbestos-
related obligations, there is the possibility in the future that the 
Group’s results and cash flows will be materially affected by 
changes in these asbestos-related obligations or our provisions 
for these obligations. We have therefore additionally excluded 
from the adjusted performance measures the asbestos-related 
costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries) and, 
where relevant, the tax effect of those items. In previous years, 
asbestos-related costs incurred by AMEC were not material 
to the Group’s trading performance and therefore there has 
been no restatement of the adjusted performance measures 
presented for 2013 and 2012.
Adjusted performance measures used by the Group are 
explained and reconciled to the equivalent IFRS measures in the 
section entitled Performance measures on pages 169 to 172.
Continuing operations
Revenue
Revenue for the year was broadly unchanged compared with 
last year at £3,993m (2013: £3,974m). 
Revenue declined by £175m in the Americas and by £108m 
Europe, but increased by £54m in the Growth Regions. Revenue 
from Oil & Gas was down 13%, Mining was down 14% and E&I 
down 3%, but revenue from Clean Energy was up 11%. Revenue 
in all markets was adversely affected by the strength of sterling, 
particularly against the US dollar. Overall, currency exchange 
rate movements reduced revenue by £238m in 2014 compared 
with 2013.
Foster Wheeler contributed £274m to the Group’s revenue 
during the last seven weeks of the year following its acquisition 
in November 2014.
Flow-through procurement decreased by £47m to £73m 
(2013: £120m).
Excluding flow-through procurement, the effect of acquisitions 
and currency movements, underlying revenue increased by 1%. 
Underlying revenue from Oil & Gas was down 5% and that from 
Mining down 6%, but Clean Energy was up 16% and E&I was 
up 5%. 
Seasonality
The Group’s revenue is generally higher in the second half of 
the year, principally because weather conditions in the northern 
hemisphere are typically more conducive to project activity. 
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses were £354m (2013: £293m), including 
exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and asbestos-
related costs (net of insurance recoveries) totalling £135m 
(2013: £65m). 
Administrative expenses before intangibles amortisation, 
exceptional items and net asbestos-related costs declined 
by 4% to £219m (2013: £228m), principally due to the impact 
of currency movements and reduced share-based payment 
charges. Also determined on this basis, Foster Wheeler’s 
administrative expenses following its acquisition were £26m.
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs of operating  
central corporate functions and certain regional overheads, 
were £4m lower at £31m (2013: £35m).
Profit before net financing expense
Profit before net financing expense was significantly lower at 
£148m (2013: £243m), largely due to exceptional costs incurred 
during 2014 in relation to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.  32
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
T rading profit and trading margin
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 3,993 3,974 0%
Flow-through 
procurement (73) (120)
Scope revenue
1
3,920 3,854 +2% +1%
Profit before net 
financing expense 148 243
–  Int angible s 
amortisation 49 47
–  Net asbestos-
related costs 8 –
–  Exceptional items 94 25
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 22 28
T rading profit
1
 321 343 -6%
T rading margin
1
8.2% 8.9% -70 bps
Order book  £6.3bn £4.1bn +55%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172).
T rading profit decreased by 6% to £321m (2013: £343m). 
T rading margin decreased by 70 basis points to 8.2% 
(2013: 8.9%). 
In Americas, trading profit fell due to the impact of currency 
translation and lower levels of activity in Oil & Gas and Mining, 
being partially offset by increased work in Clean Energy. T rading 
margin declined partially due to this change in market mix 
towards lower margin Clean Energy and because of the timing 
of large contract close-outs, which were particularly favourable 
in 2013. In Europe, trading profit and trading margin both 
increased compared with 2013, largely as a result of the non-
recurrence of the losses from the T eesside Gas Processing Plant 
contract. In the Growth Regions, trading profit fell due to the 
impact of currency translation and a lower contribution from 
Clean Energy and E&I. Compared with 2013, Growth Regions 
trading margin fell due to pricing pressure from customers and 
investment for growth.
Currency exchange rate movements reduced trading profit 
by £22m in 2014 compared with 2013. 
Financial review continued
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise goodwill and identifiable 
intangible assets that were recognised in relation to acquired 
businesses. Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an 
annual impairment test. No impairment was recognised in 
either 2014 or 2013. 
Intangibles amortisation was £49m (2013: £47m). Whilst an 
additional amortisation expense of £11m was recognised on 
the intangible assets acquired with Foster Wheeler and there 
was the full-year amortisation of intangible assets recognised 
in acquisitions completed in 2013, the year-on-year change was 
reduced because the amortisation expense in 2013 included the 
accelerated amortisation of certain intangible assets. We expect 
the full-year impact of the amortisation of intangible assets 
acquired with Foster Wheeler to be approximately £85m.
Asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries)
During 2014, the Group recognised net asbestos-related costs 
of £8m (2013: £nil) in profit before net financing expense, which 
largely related to the reduction between the acquisition date 
and the year-end date in the discount rate applied to the net 
asbestos-related liabilities assumed on the acquisition of Foster 
Wheeler. In addition, the Group recognised an asbestos-related 
interest expense of £1m (2013: £nil). 
Exceptional items
Net exceptional costs totalling £98m (2013: £25m) were 
recognised in arriving at profit before tax from continuing 
operations, as follows:
 X costs of £41m in relation to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler 
(including transaction costs of £37m within administrative 
expenses and acquisition-related facility fees amortisation 
of £4m within net financing expense);
 X costs of £35m relating to the integration of AMEC and Foster 
Wheeler (including internal staff costs associated with 
identifying and achieving cost synergies); 
 X costs of £6m incurred in completing the restructuring 
of AMEC’s business onto a geographical basis; and
 X a net loss of £16m on the exit of businesses, comprising a 
loss of £21m on businesses sold in the year (principally the 
reverse premium payable on exit from the Group’s investment 
in the Lancashire Waste project), which was partially offset by 
a gain of £5m on the release of a provision no longer required 
in respect of a business closed in a previous year.  Strategic report: performance review
33
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Net financing expense 
Net financing expense was £5m (2013: £2m), including net 
bank interest payable of £7m (2013: £2m), net foreign exchange 
losses of £nil (2013: £1m), and net interest income on pension 
assets and liabilities of £2m (2013: £1m). In 2014, net financing 
expense also included a net expense of £1m (2013: £nil) due 
to the unwinding of the discount on asbestos-related liabilities 
(net of insurance recoveries).
A net currency exchange loss of £4m (2013: loss of £1m) 
was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of foreign 
currency borrowings and derivatives held in designated net 
investment hedging relationships.
Share of results of joint ventures
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ profit for the year was £12m 
(2013: £14m).
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax was £155m (2013: £255m) after intangibles 
amortisation of £49m (2013: £47m), net asbestos-related costs 
and interest expense of £9m (2013: £nil), exceptional items of 
£98m (2013: £25m) and the Group’s share of joint ventures’ 
tax expense of £6m (2013: £5m). 
Adjusted profit before tax was 5% lower at £317m 
(2013: £332m), reflecting the overall decline in the Group’s 
trading performance in 2014 compared with 2013.
T axation
Our tax policy is to manage our obligations in compliance with 
all relevant tax laws, disclosure requirements and regulations. 
We seek to ensure that our approach to tax and the tax 
payments that we make in all territories in which we have 
operations are fully consistent with local requirements, taking 
into account available tax incentives and allowances, and are 
aligned with the Group’s wider business strategy. We seek to 
develop good, open working relationships with tax authorities 
and to engage with them proactively, recognising that tax 
legislation can be complex and may be subject to differing 
interpretations.
During 2014, there was a tax credit on exceptional items 
of £6m (2013: tax charge of £6m), and a tax credit of £12m on 
intangibles amortisation (2013: £20m). In addition, there was 
an exceptional tax charge of £16m in 2013. 
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ income tax expense was 
£6m (2013: £5m).
The Group’s effective tax rate on continuing operations 
(including its share of joint ventures’ income tax expense 
but before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and 
asbestos-related items) increased to 23.0% (2013: 21.9%). 
The increase principally reflected reduced prior period credits 
which result from agreement of historical items with various 
tax authorities. In addition, 2013 included a credit following 
a reduction in the tax rate applied to the UK pension surplus 
which was not repeated in 2014.
Profit for the year from continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations was £106m 
(2013: £186m) after intangibles amortisation of £49m 
(2013: £47m), the net asbestos-related expense of £9m 
(2013: £nil), net exceptional items of £98m (2013: £25m),  
and an income tax credit on those items of £18m  
(2013: charge of £2m).
Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations was 6% 
lower at £244m (2013: £260m).
Non-controlling interests
During 2014, there was a loss of £3m attributable to non-
controlling interests (2013: loss of £1m). 
Earnings per share
Diluted EPS was 26.5p (2013: 59.8p), comprising earnings per 
share of 35.1p (2013: 62.5p) from continuing operations and a 
loss of 8.6p (2013: 2.7p) from discontinued operations.
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations was lower at 
79.5p (2013: 87 .2p), due to the decline in the profit for the year 
from continuing operations and the increase in the number 
of shares in issue as a consequence of the acquisition of 
Foster Wheeler.
Dividend
The board recommends a final dividend of 28.5p per share, 
which, together with the interim dividend of 14.8p per share, 
results in a total dividend of 43.3p per share (2013: 42.0p), an 
increase of 3%. Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM 
on 14 May 2015, the final dividend will be payable on 2 July 2015 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
29 May 2015.
Dividend cover for 2014 is 1.8 times (2013: 2.1 times) based 
on adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations. Going 
forward, the board expects to maintain a progressive dividend 
policy whilst maintaining dividend cover at around two times 
adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations. 34
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financial review continued
Europe
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,119 1,227 -9% -8%
Profit before net 
financing expense 70 63
–  Int angible s 
amortisation 17 17
– Exceptional items 3 1
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 11 12
T rading profit
1
101 93 +9%
T rading margin
1
9.1% 7.6% +150bps
Order book £1.8bn £1.7bn +3%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172). 
Revenue in Europe fell by 9% to £1,119m (2013: £1,227m), 
primarily due to the reduced level of Oil & Gas activity in the 
North Sea. Underlying revenue declined by 8%.
T rading profit increased by 9% to £101m (2013: £93m). T rading 
margin was 9.1%, up 150 basis points compared with 2013, 
largely as a result of the non-recurrence of losses from the 
T eesside Gas Processing Plant.
Growth Regions
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue £m 590 536 +10% +18%
Profit before net 
financing expense 20 10
–  Int angible s 
amortisation 4 12
– Exceptional items 2 7
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 4 4
T rading profit
1
30 33 -9%
T rading margin
1
5.1% 6.2% -110ps
Order book £0.9bn £0.9bn
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172). 
Revenue in Growth Regions improved by 10% to £590m 
(2013: £536m), primarily driven by increased revenue from 
Oil & Gas activities in the Middle East and a partial recovery 
in Mining revenue in Australia. Underlying revenue increased 
by 18%, principally due to the exclusion of adverse currency 
exchange rate movements.
T rading profit fell by 9% to £30m (2013: £33m), reflecting lower 
contributions from Clean Energy and E&I. T rading margin was 
5.1%, down 110 basis points compared with 2013, due to pricing 
pressure from customers and investment for growth.
Results by operating segment
Americas
£m unless stated 2014 2013 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 2,072 2,247 -8%
Flow-through 
procurement (73) (120)
Scope revenue
1
1,999 2,127 -6% +4%
Profit before net 
financing expense 195 211
–  Int angible s 
amortisation 17 18
–  Exceptional items (6) 10
–  Share of trading 
profit of joint 
ventures 1 2
T rading profit
1
 207 241 -14%
T rading margin
1
10.2% 11.3% -110bps
Order book  £1.2bn £1.4bn -14%
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172). 
Revenue in Americas was £2,072m (2013: £2,247m), a decline 
of 8%. Excluding flow-through procurement, the effect of 
acquisitions and currency movements, underlying revenue was 
up 4%. Growth in underlying revenue in Clean Energy and E&I 
was partially offset by declines in Oil & Gas and Mining. 
T rading profit fell by 14% to £207m (2013: £241m), largely as a 
result of the reduced levels of activities in Oil & Gas and Mining. 
T rading margin was 10.2%, down by 110 basis points compared 
with 2013. T rading margin declined principally due to increased 
weighting of lower-margin Clean Energy in the product mix 
and due to the timing of large contract close-outs, which were 
particularly favourable in 2013.  Strategic report: performance review
35
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Acquisitions
Acquisition of Foster Wheeler
On 13 November 2014, the Group acquired a 95.3% interest in 
Foster Wheeler AG by way of a public tender offer. Consideration 
payable for the interest acquired totalled £1,915m, of which 
£979m was settled in cash, £919m was settled by the issue 
of approximately 85m of the Company’s ordinary shares and 
ADSs and £17m was settled by the grant of replacement share 
options and awards.
Management’s preliminary assessment shows that the net 
identifiable assets of Foster Wheeler amounted to £362m at 
the acquisition date. Adjustments made in the purchase price 
allocation included the recognition of identifiable intangible 
assets of £738m, an increase in net asbestos-related liabilities 
of £178m, additional provisions for project litigation of £66m 
and provisions for unfavourable property leases of £70m. As 
at 31 December 2014, provisional goodwill of £1,583m was 
recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. Acquisition 
costs relating to Foster Wheeler totalling £37m were recognised 
within administrative expenses during 2014.
In January 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 4.7% 
interest in Foster Wheeler AG by way of a ‘squeeze-out merger’ 
under Swiss law for consideration of £85m, of which £51m was 
paid in cash and £34m was settled by the issue of 4.3 million of 
the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs.
Further details of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler are set out  
in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Acquisition of Scopus
On 15 December 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued 
share capital of Scopus Group (Holdings) Limited for  
£68m in cash (of which payment of £1m is deferred until the 
first anniversary of the acquisition). 
Management’s preliminary assessment shows that the net 
identifiable assets of Scopus amounted to £34m at the 
acquisition date. As at 31 December 2014, provisional goodwill 
of £34m was recognised on the acquisition of Scopus.
Liquidity and capital resources
Cash flow
T rading cash flow
T rading cash flow was lower at £283m (2013: £341m), 
principally due to the reduction in trading profit and an increase 
in working capital of £31m. 
Cash conversion fell back to 88% (2013: 99%).
Cash generated from operations
Cash generated from operations was £200m (2013: £292m), 
a decrease of £92m which was largely due to the £58m decline 
in trading cash flow and the increase of £37m in the cash outflow 
on exceptional items (principally acquisition-related costs). 
E&C Services and Global Power Group
E&C Services and Global Power Group are Foster Wheeler 
business units and therefore contributed to the Group’s 
performance only for the final seven weeks of the year following 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in November 2014.
E&C Services contributed revenue of £221m and a trading 
profit of £4m (before intangibles amortisation of £7m). As at 
31 December 2014, the value of E&C Services’ order book was 
£2.0bn.
Global Power Group contributed revenue of £53m and a trading 
profit of £2m (before intangibles amortisation of £4m). As at 
31 December 2014, the value of Global Power Group’s order 
book was £0.4bn.
Investment Services
During the periods under review, Investment Services 
principally comprised the Incheon Bridge PPP project in Korea 
and the Lancashire Waste project (which the Group exited 
in 2014), the Group’s insurance captive, the Group’s wind 
development activities and a range of other non-core activities. 
Revenue in Investment Services was £6m (2013: £6m). 
Investment Services incurred a loss before net financing 
expense of £16m (2013: £3m), after deducting an exceptional 
loss on disposals of businesses of £21m (2013: £nil). T rading 
profit was £8m (2013: £11m), of which £3m (2013: £7m) was 
derived from joint ventures. 
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and 
retained obligations of businesses sold in prior years, together 
with the UK conventional power business that was classified  
as a discontinued operation during 2013. 
Discontinued operations generated a trading loss before tax 
of £10m (2013: loss of £10m) and after a tax credit of £2m 
(2013: £2m) generated a loss for the year of £8m (2013: loss of 
£8m). During 2014, negative revenue of £13m was recognised 
due to the settlement of final accounts and additional 
provisions on certain contracts within the UK conventional 
power business.
Discontinued operations included a loss on disposals of £23m 
(2013: loss £6m) arising from additional indemnity provisions 
and costs associated with businesses sold in prior years. In 
2014, the loss on disposals included a provision of £11m in 
respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract 
completed by the Built Environment business which was sold 
in 2007 .
Discontinued operations generated an overall loss for the year 
of £27m (2012: £8m).  36
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Net (debt)/cash comprised:
As at 31 December
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash balances 516 250
Bank overdrafts – (9)
Bank loans (net of facility fees) (1,258) (120)
Finance lease obligations (61) –
Net (debt)/cash (803) 121
Cash balances
We manage our cash balances such that there is no 
significant concentration of risk in any one bank or other 
financial institution. We monitor closely the credit quality 
of the institutions that hold the Group’s deposits. Similar 
consideration is given to the Group’s portfolio of derivative 
financial instruments. 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had cash balances totalling 
£516m (2013: £250m), of which 85% was held in institutions 
with a long term credit rating of at least A- (or equivalent) by 
at least two of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch.
Borrowings
Borrowing facilities 
We seek to maintain a balanced capital structure comprising 
a mix of debt and equity, which is determined by considering 
the Group’s business profile and strategy, financial policies 
and the availability and cost of funding. We expect the Group’s 
long-term net debt to be no more than two times trading profit. 
Whilst we may choose to exceed this limit if required, we would 
expect any such increases to be temporary given the Group’s 
net trading cash inflows.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had committed banking 
facilities of £1,863m (2013: £477m).
In February 2014, the Group entered into a US$2,160m 
credit facility agreement with a syndicate of lenders. In July 
2014, the facility agreement was amended to, among other 
things, increase the financing available under the facility to 
US$2,260m. As at 31 December 2014, the facilities available 
under the agreement were as follows:
 X Facility A, a US$250m bridge to cash facility maturing 
August 2015;
 X Facility B, a US$830m bridge facility maturing February 2015 
(with two six-month extensions available at the Group’s option);
 X Facility C, a US$830m term loan maturing in equal 
instalments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019; and
 X Facility D, a US$350m revolving credit facility maturing 
May 2016.
Financial review continued
Capital expenditure 
Capital expenditure was £31m (2013: £23m). Additionally, 
in 2014, purchases of computer software amounting to £33m 
were financed using deferred payment arrangements.
Acquisitions and disposals
Cash consideration paid on the acquisition of business 
was £1,049m, which comprised £982m for Foster Wheeler 
(including a currency hedging loss of £3m) and £67m for 
Scopus.
During 2014, the net cash outflow on acquisitions was £781m 
(2013: £21m), after deducting cash and cash equivalents of 
£268m (2013: £nil) held by the acquired businesses. Also, during 
2014, there was a cash outflow of £23m (2013: outflow of £4m) 
in relation to businesses sold, which principally related to the 
reverse premium paid to exit Lancashire Waste. After taking 
into account debt owed by acquired businesses, the effect of 
acquisitions and disposals was to increase the Group’s net debt 
by £876m (2013: £31m).
Movement in net (debt)/cash
The movement in net (debt)/cash may be analysed as follows: 
Y ear ended 31 December
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
T rading cash flow 283 341
Net asbestos-related payments (5) –
Excess of retirement benefit contributions 
over current service cost (2) –
Cash outflow on exceptional items (58) (21)
Legacy settlements and discontinued 
operations (9) (14)
Dividends received from joint ventures (14) (8)
Exchange rate movements 5 (6)
Cash generated from operations 200 292
Income taxes paid (net) (54) (52)
Interest paid (net) (3) (2)
Capital expenditure (net of disposals) (31) (22)
Acquisitions and disposals (net) (876) (31)
Ordinary dividends (124) (108)
Net share movements 6 (40)
Exchange and other movements 7 5
Cash movement in net (debt)/cash (875) 42
Non-cash movements (49) (20)
Movement in net (debt)/cash (924) 22
Opening net (debt)/cash 121 99
Closing net (debt)/cash (803) 121 Strategic report: performance review
37
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Facilities A, B and C were for the purpose of financing the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler, including the payment of all 
fees, costs and expenses associated with the acquisition and 
the repayment of the Group’s £100m 12-month term loan 
that matured in April 2014. Facility D is available for general 
corporate purposes but may not be used for the same purposes 
as Facilities A, B and C. Facility D is currently utilised only for 
providing bank guarantees. 
We extended Facility B for six months in February 2015 and 
intend to refinance this facility in the capital markets during 
2015.
We also have a five-year £377m multi-currency revolving credit 
facility that matures in July 2017 .
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had committed borrowing 
headroom of £440m (in addition to cash balances of £516m):
Facility 
£m
Drawings 
£m
Headroom 
£m
Credit facility agreement
– Facility A 160 (70) 90
– Facility B 532 (532) –
– Facility C 532 (532) –
– Facility D 225 (157) 68
Revolving credit facility 377 (95) 282
Project debt 37 (37) –
Finance leases 61 (61) –
Committed facilities 1,924 (1,484) 440
Uncommitted facilities 30 – 30
T otal facilities 1,954 (1,484) 470
Interest rate profile
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in US 
dollars and bear interest at floating rates. 
Our policy is to maintain between 30% and 70% of the Group’s 
borrowings at fixed rates of interest. We achieve this by using 
interest rate swaps and other interest rate derivatives. As 
at 31 December 2014, only 23% of the Group’s borrowings 
were effectively at fixed interest rates but we increased this 
proportion above 30% in January 2015. 
As at 31 December 2014, the weighted average effective cost of 
the Group’s outstanding borrowings was 2.0% and the effective 
interest maturity was 19 months.
Borrowing covenants
We are subject to customary covenants, representations and 
warranties in relation to our borrowing facilities. Our debt 
financing facility contains certain financial covenants as defined 
in the facility agreement including: 
 X the ratio of consolidated net total borrowings to adjusted 
consolidated EBITDA must not exceed 3.25 times EBITDA; and 
 X the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated net finance 
costs must not be less than 3.0 times.
We satisfied these financial covenants by a comfortable margin 
for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Currency profile of debt
We aim to maintain the currency of the Group’s debt in 
proportion to the currencies in which the net assets of the 
Group’s businesses are denominated. We achieve the desired 
currency profile of the Group’s debt by entering currency 
derivative contracts. 
As at 31 December 2014, the effect of our hedging activity  
on the currency profile of the Group’s debt was as follows: 
Debt before 
hedges 
£m
Effect of 
hedges 
£m
Debt after 
hedges 
£m
Currency:
– Sterling 116 71 187
– US dollar 1,161 (494) 667
– Euro 42 192 234
– Canadian dollar – 231 231
1,319 – 1,319
Other assets and liabilities
Goodwill and other intangibles
As at 31 December 2014, the carrying amount of goodwill was 
£2,390m (2013: £757m), with the increase during the year 
principally due to the addition of the goodwill recognised on the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler (£1,583m) and Scopus (£34m). 
As at 31 December 2014, the carrying amount of other 
intangibles was £929m (2013: £150m), which comprised 
acquired identifiable intangible assets of £851m (2013: £113m) 
and computer software of £78m (2013: £37m). We recognised 
identifiable intangible assets amounting to £738m on the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler and £31m on the acquisition of 
Scopus, which principally comprised customer relationships, 
brands and trademarks and their respective order backlogs. 
Whilst additions to other intangible assets were significant, 
the amortisation expense increased only slightly to £49m 
(2013: £47m) because both Foster Wheeler and Scopus were 
acquired late in 2014.
Research and development 
Our engineering, project management and consultancy 
businesses seek to develop advanced engineering solutions 
for our customers targeted towards the achievement of new 
or improved functions and performance of their assets. Our 
businesses are involved in front-end and detailed engineering 
design and implementation and testing activities across a broad 
range of markets including the Oil & Gas, Mining and Clean 
Energy sectors. 
GPG also conducts research and development activities 
in the areas of combustion; solid, fluid and gas dynamics; 
heat transfer; materials; and solid mechanics. GPG licenses 
its technology to a limited number of third parties in select 
countries or markets. 
In the UK, the US and Canada, the Group claims research and 
development government credits. Research and development 
expenditure net of amounts recoverable from customers and 
government credits claimed is not material to the Group’s 
operating results.  38
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Property, plant and equipment
As at 31 December 2014, property, plant and equipment 
amounted to £157m (2013: £39m), with the increase during the 
year largely due to property amounting to £84m and plant and 
equipment amounting to £34m acquired with Foster Wheeler 
and Scopus. 
We hold the majority of the properties through which the Group 
operates under operating leases which are for varying periods 
and on differing terms. The Group has a network of over 350 
offices worldwide, which range from regional hubs, with a 
headcount of between 1,000 and 2,500 employees, to smaller 
offices with more local focus. It is expected that the number 
of properties that are occupied by the Group will be reduced 
following the integration of Foster Wheeler’s businesses.
Due to the geographical spread of the Group’s operations, 
there is no individual facility the loss of which would have a 
material adverse impact on the Group’s operations. Equally, 
there are no plans to construct, expand or improve facilities 
that would, on completion or cancellation, significantly affect 
the Group’s operations.
Post-retirement benefits
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans 
in a number of countries. Following the acquisition of Foster 
Wheeler, there are three principal plans: two in the UK and one 
in the US. Each of these plans is closed to new entrants and 
the two Foster Wheeler plans are also closed to future service 
accruals. As at 31 December 2014, the net deficit on the Group’s 
defined benefit pension plans amounted to £86m (2013: net 
surplus of £40m). During 2014, the Group contributed £32m 
(2013: £29m) to defined benefit pension plans and expects 
to contribute £33m in 2015, including special contributions 
of £6m.
Further information on the Group’s retirement benefit plans 
is provided in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
Asbestos-related obligations
Both AMEC and Foster Wheeler are subject to claims by 
individuals who allege that they have suffered personal 
injury from exposure to asbestos primarily in connection 
with equipment allegedly manufactured by certain of their 
subsidiaries during the 1970s and earlier. 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group recognised:
 X asbestos-related liabilities of £407m (after the effect of 
discounting of £76m), which included estimates of indemnity 
amounts and defence costs for open and yet to be asserted 
claims expected to be incurred in each year in the period to 
2050; and
 X insurance recoveries of £107m (after discounting of £4m). 
Provisions
Provisions held at 31 December 2014 amounted to £696m 
(2013: £163m), with the substantial increase during the 
year arising principally due to the recognition of obligations 
assumed on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. Otherwise, 
additional provisions of £20m were recognised in relation 
to businesses sold in prior years and additional provisions 
of £5m were recognised in relation to the Group’s insurance 
captive. Unutilised provisions amounting to £11m were released 
during 2014.
Provisions may be summarised as follows:
As at 31 December
2014 
£m
2013
£m
Asbestos-related litigation 372 12
Project litigation 120 37
Obligations relating to disposed 
businesses 87 71
Property-related provisions 85 8
Other provisions 32 35
696 163
Details of the provisions held by the Group are set out in note 21 
to the consolidated financial statements. 
Non-controlling interests
As at 31 December 2014, non-controlling interests in equity 
amounted to £29m (2013: £2m), with the increase during the 
year being principally due to the addition of the 4.7% non-
controlling interest in Foster Wheeler AG that existed when the 
Group took control of Foster Wheeler in November 2014 and 
was subsequently acquired by the Group in January 2015.
Distributable reserves
As at 31 December 2014, the Company’s distributable reserves 
stood at £726m (2013: £842m).
£m
As at 31 December 2013 842
Dividends paid during 2014 (124)
Dividends received from subsidiaries 75
T ransaction and integration costs (50)
Other costs (17)
As at 31 December 2014 726
During 2012, the Company generated a significant profit from 
a group restructuring which becomes distributable as qualifying 
consideration is received by the Company in settlement of 
the associated loan. During 2014, the Company received £nil 
(2013: £163m).
Financial review continued Strategic report: performance review
39
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
Contractual obligations
As at 31 December 2014, the Group’s contractual obligations were as follows:
Earliest period in which payment due
T otal 
£m
Less than 
one year 
£m
Between one 
and two years 
£m
Between two 
and five years 
£m
After more 
than five years 
£m
Bank and other loans
– Principal 1,267 706 5 545 11
– Interest
1
57 11 13 22 11
Derivative financial instruments
1, 2
19 15 2 2 –
Finance leases 80 12 12 35 21
Operating leases 472 99 108 141 124
Post-retirement benefits
3
33 33 – – –
T otal
4
 1,928 876 140 745 167
1  Floating rate interest payments and payments on the floating rate legs of interest rate derivatives are estimated based on market interest rates as at 
31 December 2014.
2 Payments on foreign currency derivatives are estimated based on market exchange rates as at 31 December 2014.
3  Post-employment benefit obligations represent contributions to which the Group is committed and are not subject to potential future adjustment to reflect 
investment performance and other actuarial factors.
4  Future payments relating to the Group’s uncertain tax positions are not included because it is not practicable to estimate reliably the timing of these 
cash outflows.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
At 31 December 2014, the Group had no off-balance sheet 
arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a 
current or future effect on the Group’s financial condition, 
revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital 
expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 
Details of the Group’s operating lease commitments are set out 
in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Outlook for 2015
During the remainder of 2015, we expect to see a continuation 
of recent trends – with growth in Clean Energy, downstream and 
Middle Eastern Oil & Gas markets offsetting tougher conditions 
elsewhere. We expect this mix of performance, together with 
the increased customer pricing pressure and cost saving plans, 
to lead to a modest reduction in like-for-like trading margins. 
On current market forecasts, the reversal of the currency 
headwinds we experienced in 2014 will add approximately 
£150m to the Group’s scope revenue in 2015.
Going concern
Based on internal forecasts and projections that take into 
account reasonably possible changes in the Group’s trading 
performance, the directors consider that the Company and 
the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in 
operation for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the directors 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Company’s and the Group’s financial statements.
We outline on pages 21 to 23 the principal risks and 
uncertainties that may affect the Group’s results, cash flows 
and financial position. 40
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
The Americas is the largest business  
unit, with material market positions  
in each of our four core markets:  
Oil & Gas, Mining, Clean Energy, and 
Environment & Infrastructure.
Our business units from 1 January 2015
Northern Europe and CIS Americas
2014 Scope Revenue
1
% 
 Oil & Gas 
 Mining  
 Clean Energy 
 Environment & Infrastructure
41
13
30
16
Our 12,000 people focus on three  
key markets: Oil & Gas, Clean Energy,  
and Environment & Infrastructure.  
Our newly combined capabilities give  
us real opportunities to deliver new  
and existing services for our customers  
in all these markets.
We have around 16,000 expert employees in over 150 offices; 
geographically our region covers northern Canada to southern 
Chile and from Vancouver Island to Newfoundland. 
Our experts support our customers in consulting, through  
the EPC project lifecycle (including engineering, procurement, 
project management and construction), into operations  
& maintenance, and remediation and reinstatement. 
Key Oil & Gas projects currently underway include oil sands 
work for Imperial Oil, Syncrude, CNRL, Suncor and Shell among 
others, and the provision of consulting and project services 
in US shale gas. In downstream, we continue to work on the 
Propane Dehydrogenation project in T exas for Enterprise 
Products and projects for Lyondell Bassell and Dow. In Latin 
America we continue to build our relationship through project 
activity with PEMEX in Mexico and Ecopetrol in Colombia.
Mining activity in project delivery include a number of copper, 
gold and potash EPCM projects for Codelco, Newmont, 
Thompson Creek, PotashCorp and K+S Potash. In E&I site 
remediation programme for Honeywell and Duke.
Contracts won in the past 12 months include the speciality 
construction contract for the US Space Fence Program,  
EPCM for Rainy River Gold project in Canada and engineering 
and design work for the secondary ore processing facility  
at Chuquicamata copper concentrator.
Key projects worked on during the year include BP’s Clair Ridge, 
GDF Suez Cygnus fields in the North Sea, continuing work 
on long-term brownfield engineering contracts with T alisman 
and Shell ONEgas. New projects included an EPCM award for 
the Shah Deniz 2 topsides for BP in Azerbaijan, and front-end 
engineering and design for Chevron’s Captain expansion  
six-year brownfield contract with Nexen for the UK North Sea.
Beyond oil & gas projects, on-going clean energy projects 
include reactor services support work for EDF’s nuclear 
power stations in the UK. New projects include the owner’s 
engineer role for PGE Polska on its potential nuclear new build 
programme in Poland, environmental impact assessments for 
Nugen for its nuclear new build programme in the UK, and an 
EPC contract with Sellafield for the Box encapsulation project. 
We also signed a specialist technical services framework for  
the UK MoD and a framework agreement with National Grid  
for high voltage cables.
2014 Scope Revenue
1
% 
 Oil & Gas 
 Clean Energy 
 Environment & Infrastructure
74
22
4
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172) Strategic report: performance review
41
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Additional information
AMEA and Southern Europe Global Power Group
W e now have enhanced capabilities  
and significantly increased customer 
reach which positions us well for  
growth across all of our four markets –  
Oil & Gas, Mining, Clean Energy,  
and Environment & Infrastructure.
W e have world class capabilities in the 
design, supply and erection of boilers, 
auxiliary steam and air pollution control 
equipment, including a wide range of 
aftermarket products and services. 
Customers include utilities, independent 
power producers, and industrial concerns.
This is a diverse region with over 9,000 employees spread 
across more than 40 locations.
Key projects include providing asset support for ConocoPhillips’ 
Bayu-Undan gas facilities in East Timor Sea, operational 
readiness services for Chevron’s Wheatstone facility offshore 
Australia, and onshore turnaround and maintenance support 
to ENI’s onshore gas treatment plant and offshore unmanned 
wellhead platform, also in Australia. In the Middle East, we are 
providing support to KNPC’s new oil refinery at Al Zour and 
KOC’s major projects programme. 
New projects this year in Australia include: EPCM work on 
Arrow’s expansion of its Daandine, and front end engineering 
for the Surat coal seam gas projects and early stage project 
work with Rex Minerals at the Hillside copper project. In China 
we have worked on a new pipe rack project at the Zhongtian 
Hechuang coal to gas plant and signed a memorandum of 
understanding with the China National Nuclear Corporation to 
work with them on life extension and decommissioning.
Our 2,600 people are spread across 11 engineering and service 
centres and four manufacturing facilities in eight countries. 
We have a record of competitively delivering projects virtually 
anywhere in the world.
We have world-class capabilities in the design, supply and 
erection of boilers, auxiliary steam and air pollution control 
equipment (APC) including a wide range of aftermarket 
products and services.
Our products and services enable utilities, independent power 
producers (IPP), and industrial clients achieve their power, 
process steam and environmental goals.
Significant projects include the Samcheok green power project 
in South Korea and the Lagisza power plant in Poland.
We see growth in several areas of our served markets including 
opportunities to expand our Circulating Fluidised Bed (CFB) 
into the large supercritical utility sectors in Asia and the Middle 
East (petroleum coke), the industrial boiler sectors in North 
America and new natural gas power gas generation globally.
2014 Scope Revenue
1
% 
 Oil & Gas 
 Mining  
 Environment & Infrastructure
80
12
8
Director’s approval statement
The strategic report, as set out on pages 1 to 41, has been 
reviewed and approved by our board of directors.
Samir Brikho
Chief Executive
26 March 2015
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172) T o be successful we need to ensure we 
have global reach and long-standing 
relationships with our customers.  
T oday, ours span all forms of oil company 
and we operate in some 50 countries,  
with 40,000 employees covering around 
100 nationalities.
Our strong partnership with BP sees 
Amec F oster Wheeler engaged in the 
second phase of the Clair Ridge oilfield 
off the Shetland Islands in North East 
Scotland, UK.
42 Financials Governance Additional information Strategic report: performance review
43
Connected
excellence
through  
global  
capabilities
Our scope of work includes 
engineering and project 
management services for 
detail design, procurement 
supply chain, hook-up and 
commissioning for topside 
installations and a bridge 
link between the two new 
platforms. 44
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Effective governance is the mainstay of all 
successful companies, and your board takes 
its responsibilities very seriously, carefully 
outlining its goals and agenda at the start of 
the y ear and then measuring its performance 
against these as the year progresses.
Dear shareholder,
It is important that the right tone is set by the board and equally 
important that strong governance frameworks are applied 
throughout the group. This report explains how the Amec Foster 
Wheeler group is governed by setting out details of the work of the 
board over the last year and the processes adopted by the board. 
It is considered best practice for boards to engage an external 
specialist to review their activity every three years. In 2014 we 
engaged Lintstock to assist us in this. We utilise their services on 
an annual basis and this year the board effectiveness review was 
facilitated by way of a number of detailed questionnaires. In 2015 
the process will be more in-depth and will also involve externally 
facilitated face-to-face interviews.
In 2014 your board undertook reviews of the terms of reference 
of the board and management committees, including the 
membership of each, to ensure that the most effective use was 
being made of each of the non-executive directors’ time. This takes 
into account the additional requirements following the completion 
of our acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, and has included the 
creation of a disclosure committee (see page 76). 
Such continual appraisal of the constitution of your board has 
resulted in more diverse discussions and expertise from which to 
draw and I have been pleased to welcome Stephanie Newby and 
Kent Masters to our ranks.
Y our board has also continued its practice of formally reviewing 
the company’s strategy on an annual basis. This not only provides 
appropriate context in which corporate transactions, such as 
that of Foster Wheeler, can be assessed and approved, but it 
also ensures that we benefit from the full range of skills and 
insight afforded us by each board member. Such assessment 
provides your board with a consistent and clear view of long-term 
value creation opportunities for our shareholders whilst closely 
monitoring potential areas of risk – for which we have further 
specific assessment criteria. Our approach to risk management 
can be found on page 20 and our key business risks can be found 
in each relevant section of the business model, to give you a 
clearer, more germane perspective on them. 
In my letter to you last year, I spoke about our approach to 
diversity and inclusion and I am pleased to report that the new 
operating model adopted by your company, following the inclusion 
of Foster Wheeler’s businesses, reinforces that approach from top 
down and bottom up – throughout the organisation. Embracing 
diversity and inclusion is one of our core values, for which 
everyone in the company is accountable. And, rest assured, we 
are not merely looking at gender diversity – where we continue to 
support the objectives of the Davies Report on Women on Boards. 
For your company it is just as important to welcome diversity of 
thought and inclusion as natural elements of the business matrix.
Chairman’s governance overview
Our health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) 
committee has an increasingly key role as the business continues 
to expand. In 2014 we expanded the remit of the ethics committee 
to include health, safety, security and environmental matters and 
the committee terms of reference were revised. We have taken 
the opportunity through the Foster Wheeler transaction to further 
assess our global policies and global mandatory procedures, 
ensuring that we benefit from best in class approach, which is 
clear for English and non-English speaking colleagues alike. They 
continue to be an important part of our governance framework 
and you can see this displayed in pictorial format on page 48.
Y our company has retained its focus on investor relations and  
I and senior management are all engaged in meeting regularly with 
and talking to our major shareholders. 
Having incorporated a number of suggestions made by you at 
last year’s annual general meeting (AGM), this year’s report is 
somewhat different to previous years. We now also have to adhere 
to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) – following the successful listing of our shares 
in the form of American Depositary Shares on the New Y ork Stock 
Exchange (NYSE) at the end of 2014.
We continue to strive to make the annual report an informative 
guide with relevant information to assist you on your own 
investment deliberations, providing not only the information you 
need to understand our business model and strategy for growth, 
but also the ability to assess our performance towards our goals. 
I and my fellow directors believe the 2014 annual report and 
accounts offers you a fair, balanced and understandable 
presentation of your company, as we confirm in the directors’ 
responsibility statements on page 86. 
I mentioned in my statement at the front of this report and repeat 
here for reference that as a board, we completely support the  
UK Corporate Governance Code* (the Code) and believe we 
have complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2014. 
We are required to file an annual report in the UK, which complies 
with the Code, and to also file our annual report in the US on Form 
20-F , which complies with the rules of the NYSE, US securities 
laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers. 
We have produced a combined annual report and annual report 
on Form 20-F to ensure consistency in the information provided 
to our UK and US investors. As required by the SEC, a summary 
outlining the significant differences between the company’s 
corporate governance practices as a UK listed company and those 
followed by US companies can be found on page 187 .
Finally, may I take this opportunity of firstly reminding you that 
you can find additional and more in-depth information on your 
company’s website (amecfw.com) and that, secondly, our AGM 
is to be held in London, on Thursday, 14 May 2015, where I hope 
to see many of you in person.
John Connolly 
Chairman 
26 March 2015 
* Printed copies of the Code  
can be obtained from  
www.frcpublications.com 45
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Our board of directors
Our board members are selected to 
ensure a good mix of skills and experience. 
They have particular expertise in the areas 
in which Amec F oster Wheeler operates 
and in the duties and responsibilities 
associated with being a director of a  
listed company.
In accordance with the recommendations 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all 
directors are subject to re-election at each 
annual general meeting of the company.
John Connolly
Chairman of the board, Chairman 
of the nominations committee and 
a member of the remuneration 
committee
A chartered accountant, John 
spent his career until May 2011 
with global professional services 
firm Deloitte. John joined the firm 
in 1980, serving in various roles of 
increasing responsibility. During his 
time at Deloitte, he held a wide range 
of senior leadership positions in the 
United Kingdom and internationally. 
He was Global Chairman between 
2007 and 2011 and Global Managing 
Director from 2003 to 2007 .  
He was Senior Partner and CEO of 
the UK Partnership from 1999 until 
his retirement from the Partnership 
in 2011.
John is chairman of G4S plc and also 
of a number of private companies. 
Beyond commercial business roles, 
John is on the Board of Governors 
of London Business School, is 
Chairman of the Board of T rustees 
of Great Ormond Street Hospital 
Charity and a member of the  
CBI President’s Advisory Council.
T erm of office
John was appointed as non-executive 
Chairman on 1 June 2011 and was 
considered to be independent on 
appointment in accordance with the 
requirements of the Code.
His term of office was extended in 
March 2015 for a second three-year 
term to the date of the 2018 AGM.
Samir Brikho
Chief Executive
Prior to joining Amec Foster Wheeler, 
Samir served in various capacities  
at ABB Ltd., including as a member 
of the group executive committee, 
Head of the Power Systems Division 
and Chairman of ABB Lummus Global, 
Switzerland, ABB’s international 
projects and services business, from 
2005 to 2006, and chief executive 
from 2003 to 2005. Between 1999 
and 2003, he was employed by Alstom 
S.A. in Germany, Belgium and France, 
first as Chief Executive Officer of 
ABB Alstom Kraftwerke and then as 
Senior Vice President, International 
Business and Chief International 
Operations Officer, leading all of 
Alstom’s operations abroad. He began 
his career in 1983 and held various 
senior management positions in sales 
and project management with ABB 
Ltd, culminating in the role of Senior 
Vice President & Managing Director 
of ABB Kraftwerke AG. Samir holds 
an engineering degree, a Master of 
Science in Thermal T echnology from 
the Royal Institute of T echnology in 
Stockholm, Sweden, and completed 
the Y oung Managers Programme at 
INSEAD in France in 1991. In 2000, 
Samir also completed a senior 
executive programme at Stanford 
University, US.
T erm of office
Samir was appointed Chief Executive 
on 1 October 2006 and has no fixed 
term of office. His service contract is 
terminable on six and twelve months’ 
notice by him and the company 
respectively.
External appointments
Samir has been an independent non-
executive director of Skandinaviska 
Enskilda Banken AB (SEB) since 
March 2013 and a member of the 
advisory board of Stena AB since 
February 2011. He is a UK Business 
Ambassador, co-chairman of both 
the UAE-UK Business Council and 
the UK-Korea CEO Forum, and is 
a director of the UK–Japan 21st 
Century Group. He is chairman of the 
Step Change Charity and co-chair 
of the World Economic Forum’s 
Infrastructure & Urban Development 
Industries Committee. 46
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Our board of directors continued
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer
Ian qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with KPMG in 1984.  
His early career was spent in the 
brewing industry. Between 1985 and 
1995 he held various positions with 
the Foster’s Brewing Group, including 
General Manager, Strategy. He was 
Finance & Strategy Director of the 
Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited 
from 1995 to 1998 and then served  
at Scottish & Newcastle plc from 
1998 to 2008, first as Finance 
Director of Scottish Courage and 
later as Group Finance Director of 
Scottish & Newcastle plc. Ian holds 
a BSc in Mathematics from the 
University of Bristol.
T erm of office
Ian was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer on 8 September 2008 and 
has no fixed term of office. His 
service contract is terminable on six 
and twelve months’ notice by him 
and the company respectively.
External appointments
Ian has been a non-executive director 
of Britvic plc since March 2014 and 
was a non-executive director of 
Premier Foods plc from July 2004  
to April 2013.
Linda Adamany
Non-executive Director, Chairman 
of the health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics (HSSEE) 
committee and a member of the 
audit and nominations committees
Linda has over 35 years’ business 
experience, with 27 in the 
international energy sector. Between 
1980 and 2007 Linda held a number 
of executive positions at BP plc in 
the UK and the US. During that time, 
she held various executive roles in 
refining and marketing, exploration 
and production and petrochemicals, 
including Chief Executive of BP 
Shipping and Group Vice President 
and Commercial Director, BP 
Refining & Marketing.
In March 2013, Linda was appointed 
a non-executive director of Coeur 
Mining, Inc., a US based publicly 
quoted primary silver producer, 
where she serves as chairman of the 
audit committee and is a member 
of the environmental, health, 
safety and social responsibility 
committee. In March 2014, Linda was 
appointed to the board of directors 
of Leucadia National Corporation, 
a US based, NYSE listed, diversified 
holding company engaged through 
its consolidated subsidiaries in 
a variety of businesses, where 
she is a member of the audit and 
the nominating and corporate 
governance committees. From 2006 
to 2012, prior to joining Amec Foster 
Wheeler, Linda was a non-executive 
director of National Grid plc and a 
member of their audit, nominations 
and safety, environment and health 
committees. Linda is a qualified 
accountant (CPA) with a BSc in 
Business Administration from John 
Carroll University, Ohio, and has 
also undertaken post-graduate, 
non-degree executive programmes 
at Harvard, Cambridge and T singhua 
universities.
T erm of office
Linda was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 October 2012 for an 
initial term of three years, which will 
end at the 2016 AGM.
Neil Carson
Non-executive Director and a 
member of the audit, remuneration 
and health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics (HSSEE) 
committees
Neil was Chief Executive of Johnson 
Matthey Plc, the FTSE 100 speciality 
chemical company, from 2004 to 
June 2014 and stepped down as a 
member of the board in September 
2014. He joined the company in 1980 
after completing an engineering 
degree and held a number of senior 
management positions in both the 
UK and the US, including Managing 
Director of Catalysts & Chemicals 
from 1999 to 2004 and Division 
Director of Catalytic Systems from 
1997 to 1999.
In July 2014, Neil became a non-
executive director of PayPoint plc, 
where he also serves as chairman 
of the remuneration committee 
and senior independent director. 
He is also co-chair of the Chemistry 
Growth Partnership, which is 
working with the government to 
stimulate growth in the industry 
in the United Kingdom. He was 
previously a founding member 
of the Prince of Wales’ Corporate 
Leaders Group on Climate Change. 
Neil received an engineering degree 
from Lanchester Polytechnic (now 
Coventry University) and has been 
awarded an Honorary Doctor of 
Business Administration from 
Anglia Ruskin University.
T erm of office
Neil was appointed a non-executive 
director on 31 August 2010. His term 
of office was extended in February 
2014 for a second three-year term  
to the date of the 2017 AGM.
As announced on 20 March 2015, 
Neil will take on the roles of Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman 
of the remuneration committee at 
the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Colin Day
Non-executive Director, Chairman  
of the audit committee and a 
member of the remuneration and 
nominations committees
Colin has more than 25 years of 
experience of blue chip companies 
including Aegis Group Plc, ABB 
Group, De La Rue Group Plc and 
British Gas. Colin was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer of Essentra 
plc (formerly Filtrona plc) on 1 April 
2011, prior to which he was Chief 
Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc from 2000 to 2011. 
Between 1995 and 2000, he served 
as Group Finance Director of Aegis 
Group plc. He spent six years in a 
number of divisional finance director 
positions with ABB Group and served 
as Group Finance Director of ABB 
Kent Instrumentation and ABB 
Kent plc from 1988 to 1994. Colin 
started his career in 1973 as a trainee 
accountant at Kodak. He is a Fellow 
of the Association of Chartered 
Certified Accountants and holds 
an MBA from Cranfield School of 
Management, UK.
Colin has been a director of FM 
Global since January 2014 and a 
non-executive director of WPP Group 
plc since 2005. Colin was appointed 
to the FRC Audit Advisory Group on 
3 July 2014.
T erm of office
Colin was appointed a non-executive 
director on 14 October 2010. His term 
of office was extended in February 
2014 for a second three-year term to 
the date of the 2017 AGM. 47
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
We will continue to seek to 
build upon and complement 
the board’s existing skills  
set with a focus on increasing 
diversity whether this 
is through gender, race, 
nationality or general 
background. The review of 
the effectiveness of the board 
in 2014 identified the need 
for additional expertise in 
oil and gas markets and this 
will be the focus of future 
appointments.
Independence of non-executive 
directors
The board considers that, with 
the exception of Kent Masters, 
the non-executive directors are 
independent and free from any 
relationships or circumstances 
that could affect their independent 
judgement.
Kent’s previous employment  
by Foster Wheeler precludes 
him from meeting the required 
independence criteria.
Stephanie Newby
Non-executive Director, member of 
the audit and health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics (HSSEE) 
committees
Stephanie is the Chief Executive 
Officer of Crimson Hexagon, a big 
data social analytics company. She 
is the founder of Golden Seeds LLC, 
which has provided investment 
capital to early stage, high growth 
companies since 2004 and is a 
Managing Partner of its venture 
capital funds. Prior to that, she spent 
20 years working in the financial 
services industry in Sydney, London 
and New Y ork, with the majority of 
her career spent with J.P . Morgan, 
where she headed several global 
businesses serving as Global Head 
of Futures and Options, Head of 
International Private Banking, Chief 
Operating Officer of Global Equities 
and Head of eCommerce.
Appointed in 2004, Stephanie was 
a member of the Foster Wheeler 
AG board until the completion of 
the acquisition by AMEC, serving 
on the audit and governance and 
nominating committees. She also 
previously served as a non-executive 
director and member of the audit and 
compensation and HR committees  
of RiskMetrics Group, Inc.
T erm of office
Stephanie was appointed a non-
executive director on 13 November 
2014 for an initial term of three years, 
which will end at the 2018 AGM. In 
accordance with the company’s 
articles of association, Stephanie will 
retire from office at the forthcoming 
AGM and offer herself for election.
Simon Thompson
Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the remuneration 
committee and a member of the 
audit and nominations committees
Simon held a number of senior 
positions with the Anglo American 
group from 1995 to 2007 including 
executive director of Anglo American 
plc from 2005 to 2007 , chairman  
and chief executive of the base 
metals division, chairman of the 
exploration division and chairman 
of the T armac Group. Before joining 
the Anglo American group, he held 
various investment banking positions 
with S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd and  
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited.
Simon has been a non-executive 
director and chairman of T ullow Oil 
plc since May 2011 and January 
2012 respectively, a non-executive 
director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio 
Tinto Limited since April 2014 and 
a non-executive director of Sandvik 
AB since April 2008. He was a 
non-executive director of Newmont 
Mining Corporation from 2008 to 
April 2014, an independent director 
of United Company Rusal from 2007 
to 2009 and a non-executive director 
of AngloGold Ashanti Limited from 
2004 to 2008. Simon holds an  
MA in Geology from University 
College, Oxford.
T erm of office
Simon was appointed a non-
executive director on 21 January 
2009 and became the Senior 
Independent Director in April 2014. 
He will be retiring from the board  
at the close of the 2015 AGM,  
having served two three-year terms 
as a director.
Kent Masters
Non-executive Director and member 
of the health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics committee 
(HSSEE)
Kent was the Chief Executive Officer 
of Foster Wheeler AG from 1 October 
2011 and its President from 1 January 
2014 until the completion of the 
acquisition by AMEC in November 
2014. Prior to joining Foster Wheeler, 
he served as a member of the 
Executive Board of Linde AG, a 
world leading gases and engineering 
company, from September 2006 
to September 2011. At Linde, Kent 
had responsibility for the Americas, 
Africa, the South Pacific, the global 
business unit Healthcare, and 
the business area Merchant and 
Packaged Gases. He was employed 
by BOC Group plc from 1984 until the 
acquisition of BOC by Linde in 2006. 
Kent served in roles of increasing 
responsibility at BOC, including 
as Chief Executive, Industrial and 
Special Products, from 2005 to 
2006, and as President, Process Gas 
Solutions-Americas from 2002 to 
2005. He also served on the board of 
directors of BOC from 2005 to 2006.
Kent joined the board of Albemarle in 
January 2015 following its acquisition 
of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. where 
he had served as a director since 
2007 . At Rockwood, Kent had served 
on the audit and compensation 
committees. Kent also served as the 
non-executive chairman of African 
Oxygen Limited from April 2005 to 
May 2011.
T erm of office
Kent was appointed a non-executive 
director on 13 February 2015 for an 
initial term of three years, which will 
end at the 2018 AGM. In accordance 
with the company’s articles of 
association, Kent will retire from 
office at the forthcoming AGM and 
offer himself for election. 48
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Amec Foster Wheeler supports the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and, in the opinion of the directors, the company has 
complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition of the 
Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2014. This section 
explains in more detail how we have applied these provisions.
Governance overview 
Amec Foster Wheeler governance structure
Board
The board has ownership  
of the global policies
Behaviours, Vision, Values,  
Code of Business Conduct, Global policies
Local jurisdictional 
 policies and procedures
Global 
mandatory procedures
Board committees
Support the board in its work with specific review and oversight
Group Leadership T eam
Responsible for implementation of the global policies
Business Unit leaders Functional leaders
Chief Financial Officer
Chief Executive
Primarily responsible for running 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses 
with the objective of creating 
shareholder value
Business Unit teams Functional teams
Management committees
Deal generally with more operational matters
Share allotment Pensions and  
retirement benefits
Risk HSSE review
Corporate transactions Disclosure Tender review Project review
Audit
Provides independent 
scrutiny of the company’s 
financial and non-financial 
performance, risks and 
audit functions
Nominations 
Identifies and makes 
recommendations 
concerning the 
composition of the board 
and that of its committees
Health, Safety, Security, 
Environmental and Ethics
Assists in upholding our 
core value of integrity and 
maintaining our HSSEE 
commitments for a safe and 
secure working environment
Remuneration
Aims to attract and retain 
good management and to 
incentivise them to create 
shareholder value 49
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Board role and responsibilities
Amec Foster Wheeler’s board is ultimately responsible for 
promoting the long-term success of the Company in accordance 
with the expectations of, and its obligations to, all stakeholders.
The directors believe that the board leads and controls the 
group effectively and that all directors act in accordance with 
what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, 
consistent with their statutory duties under the Companies Act 
2006 and other legislation.
In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control of the 
group, the board maintains a schedule of matters reserved for 
its approval. These include:
 X annual strategic and short-range plans;
 X financial and treasury policies;
 X risk identification, risk appetite, risk management and internal 
control systems;
 X major acquisitions and disposals;
 X Code of Business Conduct;
 X full and half-year accounts;
 X dividend policy;
 X succession planning for directors and senior executives;
 X group-wide policy framework; and
 X ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices.
This schedule is reviewed for continued acceptability on an 
annual basis. No changes were proposed at the time of the 
annual review in August 2014. In light of the acquisition of  
Foster Wheeler, the schedule was the subject of a brought 
forward review in March 2015. A number of changes have been 
made to take account of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the recently revised terms of reference of the various board  
and management committees, the Chairman’s board plan for 
2015 and the company’s new operating model.
The board has responsibility for maintaining strong corporate 
governance practices and regularly reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Company’s governance framework. The Code of Business 
Conduct forms the foundation of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
approach to corporate governance and is applicable to all 
employees, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer 
and other senior financial professionals. It is the responsibility 
of and is upheld by the board and ensures that the board and all 
those who work for and under Amec Foster Wheeler’s direction 
understand the behaviour that is expected of them. Following 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, a new Code of Business 
Conduct is being launched to take account of and provide a 
practical application of Amec Foster Wheeler’s new values and 
expected working behaviours in the delivery of the Company’s 
vision and values. The Code of Business Conduct complies 
with relevant UK and US regulations and is available on the 
Company’s website at amecfw.com/ethics.
The board approves the group-wide policy framework and other 
mechanisms for ensuring the effectiveness of governance in the 
group’s working practices. On a day-to-day basis, the board has 
delegated responsibility for the implementation of the global 
policies and ownership of the supporting global mandatory 
procedures to the Group Leadership T eam. 
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the global policies 
and procedures and working practices of Foster Wheeler and 
AMEC have been reviewed. The purpose of this review was to 
create the necessary foundation needed to support a consistent 
approach in the direction and management of the group’s 
businesses in accordance with Amec Foster Wheeler’s vision 
and values. The revised global policies and global mandatory 
procedures are in the process of being issued and provide a 
detailed description of expected working behaviours, as we 
continue to integrate the two businesses.
Overall operational management is delegated to the Chief 
Executive who, together with the Group Leadership T eam,  
is responsible for providing the company’s overall strategy 
and vision, driving execution, growing markets and customers 
and developing our people. The board regularly reviews its 
operational structure and, as more fully described in the 
strategic report, on 1 January 2015 further to the acquisition  
of Foster Wheeler, launched a new operating model defining 
how our new company is structured and the changes to the way 
we will work together in our commitment to deliver excellence 
to our customers.
Find out more online
See amecfw.com/aboutus/corporate-governance for further details on the 
Code of Business Conduct
Board committees
The board is supported in its work by four board committees 
(audit, remuneration, nominations and HSSEE (health, safety, 
security, environmental and ethics)), chaired by either the 
board Chairman or another non-executive director, and a 
number of management committees, chaired by executive 
directors (or other senior individuals), to which specific 
responsibilities have been formally delegated.
Find out more online
Full written terms of reference for each board committee can be found at 
amecfw.com/aboutus/corporate-governance
Details of the membership, duties, responsibilities and work  
of the committees are set out on pages 50 to 74.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the membership of each of  
the board committees has been restructured to ensure the 
most effective use of each non-executive director’s time. 
Previously all of the board’s independent non-executive 
directors were members of each of the board committees and 
these have been amended to more appropriately reflect their 
skills and experience. 
The board ensures that the committees are provided with 
whatever resources they need to undertake their duties  
and that their membership continues to be appropriate.  
The secretary of the committees produces timely records of  
all meetings, which are circulated to each member. In addition, 
the chairman of each board committee reports fully to the 
board following each meeting. 50
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
The main objectives of the audit 
committee are to provide independent 
scrutiny of the company’s financial 
and non-financial performance, the 
adequacy of the risk management 
framework and the internal controls and 
the performance of both the external 
and internal audit functions. This is of 
particular importance given the added 
responsibilities of conforming to the  
US SEC requirements. The wide diversity 
of experience and knowledge on the 
committee helps to achieve these 
objectives and constructive challenge 
and guidance continues to be provided 
to the executive team.
Dear Shareholder
The acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG in November 2014 was a 
celebratory moment in AMEC’s long history, as well as being 
a very busy time for this committee. The level of due diligence 
performed by the management team and their advisors was 
substantial, as you might expect for the size of this transaction, 
and also for the numerous regulatory requirements that had 
to be complied with here in the UK, as well as in the US and 
Switzerland. Y our committee and board played a key role in 
overseeing and scrutinising this due diligence and, where 
necessary, requesting and receiving additional detailed 
information for further examination. 
Of course, while the acquisition of Foster Wheeler was a 
busy time for all concerned, there was still the day job to 
be done. The committee continued to play its vital role of 
scrutinising the integrity and relevance of the existing group’s 
financial reporting requirements, the appropriateness of the 
internal control environment across numerous geographies, 
and the continued suitability of the group’s system of risk 
management, as well as overseeing the internal and external 
audit activities. In addition, the committee has paid particular 
attention to material projects and has discussed the key 
features, risks and opportunities these present.
Audit committee 
In September 2014, AMEC’s management detected a fraud 
in one of its overseas operations. The fraud is not material 
at the group level, however it is significant at the local entity 
level. Management took immediate steps to prevent further 
loss and a criminal complaint was filed. T wo former employees 
have been arrested pending criminal proceedings. The 
prosecutors have required that the details of the case remain 
confidential for the time being to avoid any prejudice to their 
ongoing investigation and to any future criminal proceedings. 
The external auditors were notified at the time this fraud was 
uncovered by management.
Our aim continues to be one of being proactive and to provide 
constructive challenge over the information we receive. Over 
this past year we have again been served particularly well 
with the timeliness and quality of information provided by 
management and from the internal and external auditors. Their 
reports have been relevant and clear which has enabled this 
committee to discharge its duties effectively.
Y our committee is mindful of its additional responsibilities 
now the combined business is listed on both the London and 
New Y ork stock exchanges. We are working on a programme 
of integration and overseeing compliance with the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act (SOX), which the combined group will need to 
achieve full compliance with by 2015 year-end.
The composition of your committee is changing. I very 
much welcome the appointment of Stephanie Newby to the 
committee; Stephanie previously served as a non-executive 
director on the board and audit committee of Foster Wheeler. 
I am sure the knowledge Stephanie brings of the Foster 
Wheeler business will add value and insight to this committee. 
As already announced by the company, Simon Thompson 
is stepping down from the board and this committee at the 
conclusion of the 2015 AGM. Simon has served this committee 
extremely well over a number of years and I would like to thank 
him for his valuable contribution. 
Colin Day
Chairman of the audit committee
26 March 2015
Members
During 2014, the audit committee comprised all the 
independent non-executive directors. The committee meets at 
least three times each year and the quorum for the committee 
is two members. 51
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Membership and attendance of the audit committee  
up to 31 December 2014
Scheduled Unscheduled
Colin Day (Chairman) 3/3 3/3
Linda Adamany 3/3 3/3
Neil Carson 3/3 2/3
Tim Faithfull (up to 3 April 2014) 1/1 1/1
Simon Thompson 3/3 2/3
Stephanie Newby (from 13 November 2014) 1/1 1/1
Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year to 
consider matters relevant to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. 
As these were not scheduled, members were not always able 
to attend but were provided with full packs of information and 
their comments were invited.
There were three scheduled audit committee meetings in 2014 
and three unscheduled meetings.
Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing and 
accounting and the board considers that he has sufficient 
financial experience and qualifications to satisfy the criteria 
under US rules for an audit committee financial expert. 
Biographies of all committee members can be found on pages 
45 to 47 . 
The membership of the committee currently comprises  
Colin Day (Chairman), Linda Adamany, Neil Carson,  
Stephanie Newby and Simon Thompson. Simon will step down 
from the committee following the AGM in May.
The company chairman, the executive directors, the 
Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and 
representatives of the external auditor also attend meetings  
by invitation.
During 2014, the committee chairman met separately with  
the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit and the CFO,  
in each case without others being present. No areas of concern 
were raised.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we have 
established a disclosure committee, which is a management 
committee that reports to the audit committee and which will 
assist the committee with regard to verifying the information 
that is required to be disclosed in the company’s material 
public disclosures and in its periodic reports. This is intended 
to ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant 
laws, rules and regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, 
the London Stock Exchange, the New Y ork Stock Exchange and 
the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Key responsibilities
 X Reviewing the annual and half-yearly financial statements 
with particular focus on key accounting and audit judgement 
and making recommendations to the board for their approval.
 X Monitoring the clarity of disclosures, going concern 
assumptions and compliance with UK and US accounting 
standards.
 X Reviewing and monitoring the internal controls and risk 
management systems.
 X Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor 
including the approval of the engagement letter, letter of 
representation and statutory audit fees, with particular focus 
on independence and rotation in accordance with UK and US 
rules or requirements.
 X Promoting an effective internal audit function.
 X Overseeing the company’s compliance with London and New 
Y ork stock exchanges, FCA and SEC requirements.
 X Reviewing arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns 
about any suspected or known improprieties and ensuring 
that such matters are investigated and appropriate actions 
taken.
 X T o monitor and review UK corporate governance and US SOX 
compliance.
 X T o receive the reports of the disclosure committee.
Activities of the committee
On 17 December 2014, the board adopted revised terms of 
reference for the committee to take account of the additional 
obligations placed on the committee as a result of the 
Company’s new US listing. These are available to view at 
amecfw.com.
T raining provided to the committee in the year included  
a presentation in December 2014 from the Chief Corporate 
Compliance Officer on SOX requirements and information  
from Ernst & Y oung LLP (EY) on changes in EU regulation of 
non-audit services.
In 2014, as part of the external review of board effectiveness, 
respondents were asked about the perceived performance 
of the audit committee. This was highly rated overall. It was 
acknowledged that significant work would be needed to meet 
the additional demands required by the US listing.
In preparation for each meeting, the CFO prepares an extensive 
report covering all material financial, tax and treasury matters. 
Particular areas of focus in 2014 included:
 X given the size of the Foster Wheeler acquisition and the 
estimates involved in the purchase price allocation exercise, 
the committee undertook a thorough review of an in depth 
report from the Chief Financial Officer and challenged the 
appropriateness of the fair values assigned thereto;
 X with regard to the allocation of goodwill and impairment 
testing arising from the acquisition, the committee challenged 
and stress tested the assumptions that were being made in  
the process; 52
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
 X contract risks and material contracts (those above £10m 
in contract value) showing a deteriorating position over time, 
such as TGPP and Bluewater. The committee monitored 
management’s enhancements to its early warning system 
to augment visibility, at an earlier stage, to the board of 
potentially underperforming material contracts for further 
scrutiny. This process identified potential issues with the 
Buncefield contract, which had been placed on the watch list, 
as it had suffered margin decline and delays;
 X with regard to the provisions and estimates (including 
litigation) within the accounts, the committee, in conjunction 
with the external auditor, spent time focusing on these and 
satisfying itself as to their appropriateness;
 X revenue recognition, which is by necessity based on 
management estimates and assumptions, particularly with 
regard to timing. In conjunction with the external auditor, 
the judgements of management were challenged, especially 
those relating to end-life forecast estimates. The group’s 
policies and processes that control the estimates made in 
such areas were also examined to ensure that they continued 
to be relevant and robustly and consistently applied;
 X the ongoing quality and acceptability of the group’s 
accounting policies and the going concern statement.  
No issues were identified;
 X an in depth review and challenge of the deferred tax assets 
and the tax provisions;
 X a thorough review of the uplift external audit procedures in 
order to meet the requirements of the SEC/Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) in the US; 
 X consideration of the external auditor’s transaction fees in 
respect of the Foster Wheeler acquisition. Details of these 
fees can be found on page 54;
 X a full review of the group accounts for 2011, 2012 and 2013, 
which had been restated and updated to be concurrent with 
the 2013 accounts in connection with the then prospective 
Foster Wheeler acquisition;
 X as part of the CFO’s report, the committee receives details 
of all breaches of treasury policy. This has increased the 
committee’s knowledge of how relatively minor issues are 
identified and addressed to ensure they do not become 
more significant matters. In the year, minor breaches were 
identified in relation to bank counterparty limits but none 
were considered to be material; and 
 X agreeing the appropriate disclosures and treatment of all 
exceptional items, including the disposal of the group’s 
investment in the Lancashire Waste Project in March 2014.
In its reviews of the full and half-year results, particular 
emphasis continued to be placed on contractual issues 
where the reported financial position was fully analysed and 
discussed in the CFO’s report and the findings were validated 
by means of in depth questioning. 
At the request of the board, the committee has also  
reviewed and provided advice on whether the annual report 
and accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable, to enable the company’s shareholders to 
assess the company’s performance, business model and 
strategy.
In coming to its view that it is satisfied with the overall fairness, 
balance and clarity of the document, the committee took into 
account:
 X its own knowledge of the group, its strategy and performance 
in the year;
 X the comprehensive guidance provided to all contributors  
to the annual report and accounts;
 X a thorough internal verification of the factual content within 
the document;
 X the comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in 
the group to ensure consistency and overall balance; and
 X a detailed review by senior management.
Internal controls and risk management
The committee reviews the processes by which the company’s 
control environment is evaluated. A control risk self-
assessment is undertaken every year, with comprehensive 
integrity checks, and the exercise in 2014 again identified no 
significant areas of concern. The group’s senior management 
is formally required to confirm compliance within their 
businesses with the group’s Code of Business Conduct,  
its policies and procedures and any areas of concern need  
to be fully explained and addressed. A revised Code of  
Business Conduct for the combined business is in the course 
of preparation.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the committee on any 
alleged or suspected wrongdoings reported through the 
independently run helplines or otherwise. All such incidents 
in the year were investigated and didn’t reveal any significant 
internal control failures or have a material financial impact 
at group level. The committee also reviewed management 
actions, which included enhancements made to existing 
controls or procedures and, in a few instances, disciplinary 
action taken against employees, which included dismissals 
where warranted.
Audit committee continued 53
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The committee’s primary responsibilities in relation to risk 
management are in ensuring that robust processes are in 
place for managing risk throughout the group. We completed 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in the fourth quarter of 
2014 and are currently reviewing the control framework and 
integrating the risk and control systems with those of the wider 
group. Although Foster Wheeler was de-listed from NASDAQ 
and de-registered from the SEC subsequent to completion 
of the acquisition, the SOX programme of testing the group’s 
key financial controls for compliance continued to its usual 
conclusion. Management testing was undertaken in line with 
previous years and the overall conclusion was that Foster 
Wheeler continued to be SOX compliant for 2014.
The group’s principal business and strategic risks are shown 
in the strategic report on pages 21 to 23 and the approach to 
managing risk is shown in more detail on page 20.
Internal audit
In 2014, the committee continued to monitor and review the 
operation of the internal audit function, receiving a full report 
at each meeting from the Head of Internal Audit. The Head of 
Internal Audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
The findings of each internal audit review are summarised 
and the committee focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory 
findings and on the action plans in place to address them. 
Particular areas of concern during 2014 included breaches 
of policy with regard to the appointment of advisors by the 
operations, issues with the appointment of recruiting service 
providers and an instance of expense abuse in an overseas 
company, which had been raised through the ethics helpline.
External audit
During 2014, the committee continued to oversee the 
relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Y oung LLP 
(EY). The committee reviews both the procedure for the 
engagement of the external auditor and the procedure for the 
appointment of the external auditor every year. In 2014 both 
procedures were amended to reflect US requirements.
Each year the relevant audit risks are assessed. As in previous 
years, the primary risks identified were revenue recognition, 
valuation of work in progress and receivables, the accuracy 
of end life forecasts, the adequacy of contract provisions and 
legacy liabilities. 
For this year, new areas included impairment testing of goodwill 
and purchase price allocation following the Foster Wheeler 
acquisition, provisions and contingent liabilities generally.
Other risk areas included the adequacy of tax planning and 
reserves, the adequacy of provisions in respect of legacy 
liabilities, presentation of exceptional items and the risk of 
fraud and management override. Throughout the year and in 
conjunction with EY, the committee challenged management 
and assured itself that the risks were being addressed and that 
reporting on the matters was balanced.
The audit differences and quality of earnings schedule for 
the year ended 2014 was presented by EY at the March 2015 
meeting. The value of unadjusted differences and the quality 
of earnings high level review of the impact of items that could 
be considered non-recurring in nature were discussed in detail. 
The audit differences were not considered to be material and 
the quality of earnings was considered appropriate.
On behalf of the committee, the Head of Internal Audit 
undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external auditor, overseen by the Company Secretary. The 
views of senior members of the finance teams throughout the 
group are sought, as well as qualitative feedback. Responses 
can be measured and directly compared with previous surveys, 
so that progress can be monitored.
In March 2015, the committee received a report on the 
effectiveness of the external auditor during 2014. Management 
indicated that EY’s performance had again been generally 
satisfactory but that additional focus should be given to the 
audit of the integrated Foster Wheeler business going forward.
EY were appointed as Amec Foster Wheeler’s external auditor 
in 2010, following a formal tender process. Both EY and the 
audit partner responsible for the group audit have now been 
in place for five years and, therefore, a new audit partner will 
be in place for the 2015 audit. The committee takes account 
of and endorses the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code with regard to the appointment of the 
external auditor, which means that the external audit contract 
will be put out to tender at the latest by 2020, subject to 
further regulatory change.
Amec Foster Wheeler has formal procedures relating to its 
relationship with the external auditor including for the provision 
of non-audit services, to ensure that such work does not impair 
the external auditor’s objectivity and independence. This 
procedure clearly outlines the category of work the external 
auditor is permitted to carry out and the rules governing what 
is not permitted. The procedure follows the guidelines and 
requirements set out by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales and was amended during the year to 
take account of the requirements of SOX and the PCAOB. 
The committee now delegates authority to the Chairman of 
the audit committee to pre-approve all non-prohibited services 
undertaken by the external auditor. In addition, all non-audit 
services performed by the external auditor will be disclosed 
to investors in the company’s periodic reports.
The process is continually monitored by the Head of Internal 
Audit and details of all ‘other services’ performed are 
formally presented to the audit committee twice a year. It 
is the responsibility of the audit committee to monitor the 
overall level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees from 
an independence point of view and to confirm that auditor 
independence has been safeguarded. If there are any concerns 
about this, for the avoidance of doubt, the undertaking of such 
work would not be permitted.  54
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
The level of non-audit fee awarded to EY in 2014 is considerably 
higher than would normally be the case, as shown in the table 
opposite. In conjunction with the CFO, the audit committee 
chairman approved the services of EY to undertake and 
support management’s continued due diligence work for the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler. The substantial due diligence 
performed by EY primarily covered the balance sheet, profit 
& loss, accounting policies, revenues, provisions, liabilities, 
general accounting, tax, corporate finance and differences 
between US GAAP and IFRS.
The decision to appoint EY to undertake this work was 
considered by the audit committee to be in the best interest of 
shareholders. The firm has a deep understanding of the group, 
placing them at a distinct advantage to support the board in 
this regard. In addition, following completion of the acquisition, 
a sizeable portion of the work performed by EY did not need to 
be repeated, thereby making the most efficient and economic 
use of shareholders’ funds. 
Following completion of the offer for Foster Wheeler,  
on 13 November 2014, EY were appointed as the independent 
registered public accounting firm of Foster Wheeler AG in place 
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC). EY therefore acted in 
such role for the period from 13 November 2014 to  
31 December 2014.
Fees payable by the group to the company’s statutory auditor, 
EY, and its associates were as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Audit fees
Audit of the company’s accounts 3.9 0.3
Audit of the accounts of the 
company’s subsidiaries 1.5 1.1
5.4 1.4
T ax fees
T ax compliance services 0.4 0.3
T ax advisory services – 0.1
0.4 0.4
All other fees
Corporate finance transactions 6.4 1.6
Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1
6.5 1.7
12.3 3.5
Fees for the audit of the company’s accounts relate to the 
audit of the parent company’s accounts and the consolidated 
financial statements. 
All EY’s fees for non-audit work in 2014 were approved in 
accordance with the company’s policy covering non-audit 
services. As a result of the application of this policy and 
additional discussions with them, the directors do not believe 
that EY’s independence has been compromised because  
of this additional work on behalf of the company.
During 2014, EY were paid non-audit fees of £2.7m by Foster 
Wheeler prior to the acquisition date. Any services that would 
have been prohibited for a statutory auditor to perform ceased 
before the acquisition date when EY took on the responsibility 
of statutory auditor for the combined group.
Audit committee continued 55
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The nominations committee is primarily 
focused on evaluating the board of 
directors and on examining the skills and 
characteristics that are needed in board 
candidates.
Dear shareholder,
I have referred already in this report to the transformational 
changes through which your company has gone and so, more 
than ever, the role of the nominations committee is a key one.
Y our board has changed in size and composition and there will 
be further changes following our annual general meeting in 
May 2015. Succession and evolutionary change remain our key 
priorities, taking into account our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion. 
Y ou can see from the charts on page 77 that we have a strong 
blend of skills, experience and length of service amongst your 
board of directors and I see no reason that this should not be 
maintained as your company rises to the challenges we will 
undoubtedly face in 2015 and beyond.
John Connolly
Chairman of the nominations committee
26 March 2015
Members
During 2014, the nominations committee comprised all the 
non-executive directors including the Chairman. The quorum 
for the committee was three members. There were four 
committee meetings held in the year.
Membership and attendance of the nominations 
committee up to 31 December 2014
Meeting attendance
John Connolly (Chairman) 3/4
1
Linda Adamany 4/4
Neil Carson 3/4
2
Colin Day 4/4
Tim Faithfull (up to 3 April 2014) 1/1
Simon Thompson 4/4
1 The Chairman was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
2  Neil Carson was unable to attend one meeting due to an unavoidable prior 
commitment.
Meetings of the committee are sometimes called at short 
notice to consider matters as they arise. This means that 
members may not always be available, but they are always  
fully apprised of matters to be discussed and their views 
sought and taken into account.
On 17 December 2014, the board adopted revised terms  
of reference for the committee. These are available to review  
on amecfw.com. 
With effect from 1 January 2015, the membership of the 
committee changed and now comprises: John Connolly 
(Chairman), Colin Day, Simon Thompson and Linda Adamany. 
Simon will step down as a member of the committee at the  
end of the AGM in May 2015. The quorum for the committee  
is now two members.
Key responsibilities
The committee considers the structure, size and composition 
of the board and its committees, including the mix of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the directors.  
In considering recommendations to the board, the committee 
considers the appropriate balance of skills and experience 
to progress the group’s strategy, and takes account of the 
benefits of diversity, including but not limited to gender.
The committee also reviews board succession planning, in 
conjunction with reports from the Chief Executive and Group 
Human Resources Director on senior management succession 
planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is 
maintained both within the senior management team and  
on the board.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review 
undertaken in 2014, the performance of the committee was 
also evaluated. This was generally rated highly overall.
Nominations committee  56
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Activities of the committee
Tim Faithfull stepped down in April 2014, having served nine 
years on the board. In view of the proposed acquisition  
of Foster Wheeler, the committee decided not to commence 
a search for a new director. In February 2014, we announced 
that, as part of the acquisition, two directors of Foster Wheeler 
would join the board following the acquisition. Subsequent 
to this the committee undertook an interview process and, 
as a result, recommended that Stephanie Newby and Kent 
Masters should join the board as non-executive directors. 
Stephanie and Kent joined the board on 13 November 2014 and 
13 February 2015, respectively. No external recruitment firms 
were used and the committee based its decision on  
the benefits that their experience and knowledge would add  
to the board in view of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. 
Following Tim Faithfull’s retirement, the committee considered 
potential replacements for his role as Senior Independent 
Director and as Chairman of the remuneration committee. 
After careful consideration, the committee concluded that 
Simon Thompson best met the required criteria and a 
recommendation was made to the board accordingly. 
The committee also recommended that Linda Adamany  
should replace Simon as chairman of the ethics committee, 
which is now known as the health, safety, security, 
environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee.
Having served six years on the board, Simon Thompson has 
indicated that he does not intend to stand for re-election  
at the 2015 AGM. The committee will therefore commence  
a search for one or two non-executive directors to join  
the board for which an executive search firm will be used. 
Further information in respect of any new appointments to  
the board will be given in due course.
In July 2014, the committee considered and recommended 
the adoption by the board of certain board selection criteria, 
to be used to identify any gaps in the overall experience and 
knowledge of the board as a whole and assist appropriately  
in the future board selection process.
In 2014, the committee considered the reappointment of  
Neil Carson and Colin Day for second three-year terms of 
office as their first three-year terms ended at the 2014 AGM. 
Their significant external experience and their full participation 
in board and committee discussions, providing constructive 
challenge, resulted in a recommendation being made to the 
board to reappoint both directors for second three-year terms.
In early 2015, the committee considered the reappointment  
of John Connolly as Chairman for a second three-year term  
of office as his first three-year term will end at the 2015 
AGM. On the basis of his wide experience and his excellent 
chairmanship during a period of significant change, the 
committee recommended that he should be reappointed for 
a second three-year term. The Chairman did not participate in 
these deliberations, which were led by an independent  
non-executive director.
In anticipation of Simon Thompson’s forthcoming retirement 
at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM, the committee also 
considered potential replacements for the role of the Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration 
committee and, after careful consideration, concluded 
that Neil Carson best met the required criteria and made a 
recommendation to the board accordingly.
The board continues to recognise the importance of diversity 
both in the boardroom and across the group more generally. 
In 2014, Amec Foster Wheeler’s diversity initiatives have 
continued to focus on its group-wide commitment to diversity 
and inclusion, including encouraging and enabling greater 
diversity of thinking. The implementation of this commitment 
includes measurement and monitoring of progress on diversity 
and inclusion activities.
As part of the company’s broader diversity initiative,  
it supports the objectives of the Davies Report on Women  
on Boards. Candidates for board appointments are evaluated  
in light of the requirements of the role, having appropriate 
regard to the objectives of the Davies Report and to the  
group-wide commitment to diversity and inclusion. We are 
pleased to say that with the appointment of Stephanie Newby, 
two out of our nine directors are female, representing just  
over 22% of our board.
 
The gender diversity of the company and its senior 
management is shown on page 16.
Nominations committee continued
Gender diversity of the board
% 
 Female 
 Male
78
22 57
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The core role of the HSSEE committee  
is to assist the board in upholding  
the company’s principal value of doing 
the right thing, to review the HSSE 
policy statement and to satisfy itself 
that all significant health, safety, security 
environmental and ethics risks are 
identified and controlled. 
Dear shareholder
On 1 January 2015, the board created the HSSEE committee to 
replace the ethics committee and extend its terms of reference, 
(full details of which can be found on amecfw.com). The HSSEE 
committee provides an additional level of governance to Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s health, safety, security and environmental 
activities, in addition to ethics, and I look forward to telling you 
about the committee’s activities during 2015.
We have in place a strong framework to support Amec Foster 
Wheeler as it grows, integrates and becomes more global, 
ensuring that our employees, and those who work with and for 
us, act with integrity wherever they are based. Our employees 
should also be able to work in a safe and secure environment, 
which is particularly important in a company that has over 
40,000 people working in more than 50 countries. 
We have a well developed independent third party reporting 
system for employees to report their concerns or report 
issues in complete confidence. The committee treats all 
reports, however reported to us, with the respect they deserve. 
Thankfully nothing of significance to the group as a whole was 
reported in 2014 and any infractions identified were dealt with 
appropriately.
Linda Adamany
Chairman of the health, safety, security, environmental  
and ethics committee
26 March 2015
 
Members
The ethics committee comprised all the independent non-
executive directors. The quorum for the committee was two 
members. In 2014 there were three scheduled committee 
meetings held, and no unscheduled meetings.
The company chairman, the executive directors and the  
Chief Ethics Officer also attended each meeting by invitation. 
From December 2014, the Chief Corporate Compliance Officer 
has also been in attendance.
Linda Adamany replaced Simon Thompson as the Chairman 
of the ethics committee following the conclusion of the 2014 
AGM.
From 1 January 2015, the membership of the committee was 
Linda Adamany (Chairman), Stephanie Newby and Neil Carson. 
Kent Masters joined the committee upon his appointment on 
13 February 2015. The quorum remains at two members.
Membership and attendance of the ethics committee  
up to 31 December 2014
Meeting attendance
Linda Adamany (Chairman) 3/3
Simon Thompson 3/3
Neil Carson 3/3
Colin Day 3/3
Tim Faithfull (up to 3 April 2014) 1/1
Stephanie Newby (from 13 November 2014) 1/1
Key responsibilities of the HSSEE committee
With effect from 1 January 2015, new terms of reference were 
adopted for the HSSEE committee, which now covers health, 
safety, security and environmental matters, as well as ethics 
matters.
The committee reviews Amec Foster Wheeler’s HSSE Policy  
at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose and meets 
requirements in all respects. It also examines the processes  
in place to satisfy itself that all significant health safety, 
security and environmental risks are identified and mitigated.
The committee oversees the operations and activities of the 
HSSE review committee which is a management committee, 
details of which are outlined on page 76.
The committee reviews and monitors business ethics within the 
group, including compliance with relevant legislation, regulation 
and current best practice. It also reviews and approves the 
Group’s Code of Business Conduct at least annually.
It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all 
compliance activity within the Group and reviews the extent 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal training and external 
reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of 
the Code of Business Conduct or any other serious matter, 
a member of the committee will take responsibility for and 
manage any investigation into the relevant matter with the 
support of the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee 58
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Activities of the ethics committee
The committee reviewed AMEC’s Code of Business Conduct 
in August 2014 and endorsed its continuing use.
There was particular focus on the effectiveness of procedures 
to prevent bribery and corruption. As a result, additional 
training on anti-bribery and corruption that was commenced 
in late 2013 continued during the year. This included face-to-
face training for around 1,200 people in the higher risk areas 
of activity.
During the year a total of 56 concerns were raised in AMEC in 
respect of alleged or suspected ethical breaches, most of which 
were reported through the independent third party reporting 
systems that we have set up. A relatively small number of 
these, involving alleged or suspected ethical breaches, required 
further investigation. None of the investigations highlighted 
any significant control failure or noteworthy financial impact 
but each valid report was taken seriously. The outcome of 
these investigations resulted in appropriate disciplinary action 
as well as enhancements to the existing control environment 
where necessary.
In December 2014, the committee received a report on legacy 
Foster Wheeler ethics matters.
The process for recording, reporting and investigating ethical 
issues within Foster Wheeler during the period following  
the acquisition to the year-end remained the same as prior to 
the transaction. Its widely advertised hotline service remained 
available, allowing all Foster Wheeler employees to raise issues 
either with their line manager, via the hotline website,  
or by calling one of the dedicated hotline telephone numbers. 
The website and telephone numbers are provided by a third 
party. During the period following the acquisition to the year-
end, two ethics issues relating to the Foster Wheeler Group 
were raised in total and investigated as appropriate. Neither 
of the investigations revealed any significant control failure or 
noteworthy financial impact. As above, and where necessary, 
appropriate disciplinary action and enhancements to the 
existing control environment were undertaken following the 
conclusion of the investigations.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, a new Code of 
Business Conduct is being launched and the independent 
third-party reporting systems of AMEC and Foster Wheeler  
will be combined and the ethics training programmes of the 
two businesses integrated.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review 
undertaken in 2014, the performance of the committee was 
also assessed and the result of this was confirmation that the 
committee’s performance was rated highly.
Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics (HSSEE) committee continued 59
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee’s aim  
is to design and apply a reward policy  
that promotes the long-term success  
of the Company.
Dear shareholder,
This year the committee’s deliberations have taken place 
against the backdrop of the Foster Wheeler acquisition and  
the sharp downturn in the oil and gas market. 
We indicated last year that we would be reviewing our 
remuneration approach both in the light of the acquisition 
and shareholder expectations. As a result of that review we 
decided that some changes are appropriate. We consulted 
with our major shareholders and investor governance advisory 
bodies, the overwhelming majority of which were supportive of 
the changes proposed. The revised policy, which we expect to 
apply for the next three years, is set out in full on pages 61 to 66 
and approval is being sought for this in resolution number 3 at 
our 2015 Annual General Meeting. 
In summary the proposed changes, designed to simplify our 
incentive arrangements and to achieve greater alignment with 
shareholder interests, are as follows:
 X Our previous annual bonus policy provided that an element 
of bonus up to 25% of salary would be deferred in shares for 
three years, but this element related only to an additional 
stretch profit target and hence the deferral was only likely  
to apply in circumstances of significant outperformance. We 
are proposing to drop this separate stretch element and to 
provide that 25% of any bonus earned during the year will be 
deferred in shares for three years and subject to claw-back. 
The overall bonus maximum remains unchanged at 150% of 
salary for the Chief Executive and 125% for the CFO; and
 X The arrangement under the existing Long T erm Incentive 
Plan (LTIP), whereby participants may invest their own funds 
in company shares and receive a matching award will be 
removed. Instead we will introduce a requirement to retain 
any shares that vest at the end of the three-year performance 
period for a further two years. Vested shares will be held in 
trust and subject to claw-back. The overall LTIP maximum 
remains unchanged at 250% of salary for both Chief 
Executive and CFO. 
We are seeking shareholder approval for a new LTIP that 
reflects these changes for the executive directors, as well as 
some other changes for participants below board level and 
renewal of approval for our all-employee Sharesave Plan.  
These are set out in resolutions 15 and 16.
The second part of the report, on pages 67 to 74, is our annual 
report on remuneration. This explains how our policy has been 
implemented during 2014 and is subject to an advisory vote 
(resolution 4). 
Given that the acquisition was not concluded until near the  
end of the year, bonuses have been determined in relation to 
the targets that were originally set for the AMEC business. 
The standalone AMEC business delivered a resilient financial 
performance in the face of challenging market conditions in 
some of its key markets. Nevertheless, it did not meet some 
of the targets set by the committee at the start of the year. 
This outcome is reflected in the overall remuneration of the 
executive directors: annual bonus payments were lower than 
last year and none of the PSP awards made in 2012 will vest. 
Y our committee continues to take a robust approach to setting 
and measuring targets. We want to ensure that high reward is 
only achieved for outstanding performance. 
We also set out below how we intend to apply the new policy 
in 2015. Notwithstanding the increased scale and complexity 
of the Company, we have concluded that there should be no 
increase to base salaries for the executive directors or to the 
fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors 
(with the exception of the fee payable to the chairman of the 
Audit Committee). This is in line with the approach generally 
across the Company, where increases for staff in most parts 
of the business have been limited to promotions and other 
exceptional cases. 
The 2015 targets for annual bonus have been aligned to 
reflect the strategic priorities with an emphasis on the 
successful integration of Foster Wheeler and implementation 
of our new operating model. These objectives are being 
applied consistently to the entire senior management cadre 
in the Company. LTIP awards will continue to be subject to 
two independent performance measures of relative T otal 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and Earning per Share (EPS) growth 
with equal weighting. The TSR element will be subject to a 
financial underpin that allows any vesting to be reduced at the 
discretion of the committee and the stretching EPS growth 
targets take account of the anticipated contribution from 
Foster Wheeler over the next three years. The proposed policy 
makes provision for a third measure linked to specific strategic 
objectives to be introduced at some future date, if appropriate.
We have reviewed the effectiveness of the application of our 
remuneration policy to date and continue to be satisfied that 
the overall approach provides good alignment of executive 
behaviour with shareholder interests and does not encourage 
excessive risk. Both of our executive directors have high levels 
of personal shareholdings, considerably in excess of our 
minimum guideline (see page 72). 
As previously announced, I will be stepping down as a director 
at the AGM and will be replaced as chairman of the committee 
by Neil Carson.
Simon Thompson
Chairman of the remuneration committee
26 March 2015 60
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Membership and attendance of the remuneration 
committee up to 31 December 2014
Scheduled Unscheduled
Simon Thompson 3/3 2/2
(Chairman from 3 April 2014)
Tim Faithfull 1/1 0/0
(Chairman up to 3 April 2014)
Linda Adamany 3/3 2/2
Neil Carson 3/3 2/2
John Connolly 3/3 2/2
Colin Day 3/3 2/2
During 2014, the remuneration committee comprised all the 
non-executive directors including the Chairman. The 
membership of the committee currently comprises  
Simon Thompson (Chairman), John Connolly, Colin Day and 
Neil Carson. The quorum for the committee is two members. 
There were three scheduled meetings held in 2014 and two 
unscheduled meetings.
The Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director 
attend meetings by invitation. 
Simon Thompson will be retiring as a director at the 
conclusion of the 2015 AGM. He will be succeeded as 
committee chairman by Neil Carson. 
In considering the matters within its remit, the committee 
takes account of recommendations from the Chairman in 
respect of the Chief Executive and from the Chief Executive 
in respect of the other executive directors and designated 
executives. It is advised independently by New Bridge Street 
(NBS). NBS was reappointed by the committee in 2014 and 
its terms of engagement are available from the Company 
Secretary. NBS does not undertake any material additional 
work for the Company. NBS is wholly owned by Aon plc and 
while other companies within the Aon group do undertake 
material work for the Company, this is not in the area of 
executive remuneration and arrangements are in place  
within the Aon group to ring-fence NBS from other services 
provided. Accordingly, the committee does not believe that  
the independence of its adviser is compromised in any way. 
NBS was paid £41,226 during the year for the advice provided  
to the committee on the basis of time expended and seniority 
of individuals providing the advice.
The committee is also supported by the Company’s human 
resources department who may from time to time use third 
parties to provide data and technical advice. 
The committee normally meets three times a year and has 
an established annual agenda of items that it considers 
at the various meetings, the major elements of which are 
summarised below:
February X Confirmation of short and long-term incentive 
outcomes
 X Approval of Directors’ remuneration report
 X New Long T erm Incentive awards
August X Shareholder feedback/consultation
 X Remuneration policy including risk review
 X Committee processes and appointment  
of consultants
December X Review of individual base salaries and total 
remuneration
 X Incentive plan targets
An additional meeting was held in October 2014 to confirm 
changes to remuneration policy and to authorise the chairman 
to consult with shareholders on these.
In order to fully take account of the impact of the acquisition 
and the changed market outlook, the decisions that would 
normally have been made at the December 2014 meeting were 
largely deferred to a meeting in March 2015 the outcomes  
of which are described in this report.
Remuneration committee continued 61
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Introduction 
The description that follows sets out the policy that is subject to the statutory binding vote at the 2015 AGM. It is intended that, 
if approved, it will take effect from that date. The main changes from the previously approved policy relating to the operation of 
annual bonus and LTIP are described in the chairman’s introductory letter on page 59. Some additional minor changes have been 
made to provide greater clarity on aspects of policy.
Remuneration policy table
This table sets out the components of the directors’ remuneration package (except on recruitments or promotions which are 
described on page 64). It is also part of this policy that we will honour payments or awards crystallising after the effective date of 
this policy but arising from commitments entered into prior to the effective date of the new policy, or at a time when the relevant 
individual was not a director of the Company.
Executive directors
Component and how this 
supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Salary
Enables the business 
to attract and retain 
individuals with the 
personal attributes, 
skills and experience 
required to deliver 
our strategy. This also 
applies to the other 
elements of fixed 
remuneration below 
(pension and other 
benefits).
Reviewed annually from 1 January. Interim reviews only in case of significant changes  
of responsibility.
Salary increases for 
executive directors will not 
normally exceed the average 
increase awarded to other 
employees based in the 
same country. Increases 
may be above this level if 
there is an increase in the 
scale, scope, complexity or 
responsibility of the role or 
to allow the base salary of 
newly appointed executives 
to move towards market 
norms as their experience 
and contribution increase. 
2015 salaries for executive 
directors are shown on 
page 67 .
Pension and 
related benefits
Normally through a fixed allowance, some or all of which can be paid in the form of a company 
contribution to a defined contribution pension plan with any balance paid as a cash supplement. 
Where the plan permits, individuals may also sacrifice on a like-for-like basis part of base salary  
in return for an enhanced company contribution. Pension plan membership is available on the 
same basis as for senior employees generally in the country in which the individual is based and 
there are no special arrangements for directors. 
Life assurance is also provided. 
Samir Brikho has a historic arrangement that provides for a pension payable from age 60 made  
up of 4.17% of final pensionable salary in respect of service to 31 December 2007 and one-thirtieth 
of career averaged revalued earnings in respect of service thereafter. Salary and earnings for 
pension purposes are subject to a cap, currently £157 ,500 pa for tax year 2014/15. The cap is 
increased annually, broadly in line with UK inflation. He also receives the cash supplement on salary 
above this cap as a cash supplement.
T o allow for the fluctuating 
value of defined benefit 
pension accrual and cost of 
life assurance, the aggregate 
value of those arrangements, 
company contribution 
to a defined contribution 
arrangement and cash 
supplement will not exceed 
50% of annual salary.
Other benefits Standard benefits typically include disability and healthcare insurance (including cover for eligible 
dependants), car/travel allowance, working lunches and tax return preparation assistance. 
Additional benefits may be paid where an individual is required by the Company to relocate.  
This can include temporary housing prior to full relocation and a one-off payment to cover specific 
costs of moving home or an allowance of an equivalent amount paid for a fixed number of years. 
Where individuals are required to work in another country on a temporary basis, housing, travel, 
tax equalisation and cost of living adjustments may also be paid in line with the Company’s normal 
policy for employees generally. 
Other benefits may be provided from time to time where the committee feels it appropriate and  
in line with market practice to do so in the country in which the director is based. 
The Company may from time to time operate other arrangements that are open to employees  
in a particular country (for example relating to savings, discounted purchase, salary sacrifice, 
holiday buy and sell, service recognition awards) that executive directors may participate in on  
the same basis as other employees in the country in which they are based.
The actual value of these 
benefits will vary from time 
to time depending, among 
other things, on the cost of 
insuring them. The intention 
is that the aggregate cost 
would be in line with market 
practice and will not exceed 
100% of annual salary 
where there is a relocation/ 
expatriate element and 20% 
of annual salary otherwise.
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration policy 62
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy continued
Component and how this 
supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Annual bonus
Rewards the 
achievement of annual 
financial and delivery 
of other strategic 
business targets.
Calculated by reference to a mix of financial and other strategic objectives set by the remuneration 
committee that vary from year to year and may vary between individuals to reflect the business 
priorities associated with each role. Profit-based measures will have a weighting of not less  
than 50%. The committee will determine for each year threshold and target levels of bonus that  
will be payable for meeting predefined performance levels against the objectives set for the year. 
T arget bonus will not exceed two-thirds of maximum.
Details of the actual measures and the levels of threshold and target bonus for the periods under 
review are included in the annual report on remuneration on page 69. 
25% of any bonus earned is paid in the form of Amec Foster Wheeler shares deferred for three 
years during which it is subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for the year for which 
the shares were earned are required to be restated for a correction of a prior period error or,  
at the committee’s discretion, for personal misconduct.
The balance of the bonus is normally paid as a cash allowance following the end of the year to 
which the payment relates. However, to facilitate higher levels of executive share ownership, the 
bonus may, at the director’s option and subject to the committee’s agreement, be in the form of 
nil-cost options over company shares of equivalent value instead of cash payment. The vesting  
is deferred for three months during which it is forfeit if the individual is a bad leaver. Such options 
have a six-month exercise window. 
The committee has discretion to amend performance measures and targets or adjust bonus  
pay-outs to take account of exceptional items, unbudgeted acquisitions or disposals, and other 
aspects of performance which have not been specifically identified in the targets.
The maximum opportunity 
is 150 per cent of annual 
salary for the Chief Executive 
and 125 per cent for other 
executive directors.
Long-term incentive 
plan 
Incentivises directors to 
achieve long-term value 
creation and alignment 
with long-term returns 
to shareholders.
Annual awards of conditional awards or nil-cost options (with an 18-month exercise period after 
vesting). Following vesting and, where relevant, exercise all shares (net of tax) will be held in trust 
for two years from the original vesting date. During this period shares will not normally be able to be 
transferred and may be subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for any year over which 
the shares were earned are required to be restated for correction of a prior period error. There is 
further provision to reduce leaver awards retrospectively on an individual basis as set out on page 65.
Awards are subject to EPS growth and relative TSR measured over a three-year period with equal 
weighting on each measure and any additional strategic measures that the committee may 
consider appropriate for any particular set of awards. Additionally, awards are subject to a provision 
that allows the committee to reduce vesting in the event of a materially adverse misstatement of 
results for any year of the performance period, to correct errors or for personal misconduct. The 
number of shares vesting from these awards is increased to take account of reinvested dividends. 
The committee will determine the applicable EPS range for each set of awards, with 25% of the 
relevant portion of the awards vesting if the bottom of the range is achieved and 100% if the 
top is achieved, with straight line vesting between. EPS is adjusted for certain defined items and 
calculated on a consistent basis between base and final years. 
The committee will determine the TSR comparator group for each set of awards with 25% of the 
relevant portion of the awards vesting if Amec Foster Wheeler’s ranking is at median and 100% if it 
is at upper quartile, with straight line vesting between. The committee, at its discretion, may reduce 
or eliminate the portion of the LTIP determined by reference to relative TSR if it is not satisfied with 
the underlying financial performance of the business during the performance period.
The committee may amend the performance conditions if an event happens which the committee 
considers to be of a genuine, exceptional nature so that amended performance condition(s)  
would be a fairer measure of performance and would be materially neither easier nor more difficult 
to satisfy.
In the event of a change of control and in the absence of an exchange of awards being agreed, 
awards will normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been met at that 
time. The committee has discretion to measure performance based solely against one of the 
performance conditions.
Award of shares with a face 
value at the time of award  
of up to 250 per cent of 
annual salary (ignoring 
dividend equivalents).
Sharesave 
Provides alignment with 
shareholders’ interests.
Sharesave is an employee share plan under which discounted options over Amec Foster Wheeler 
shares are granted linked to a savings arrangement with the options becoming exercisable at the 
end of the savings period. The exercise price can be up to a 20% discount to the share price at the 
time of offer and the number of shares is that which can be bought at the exercise price with the 
expected proceeds of the savings contract. Executive directors are eligible to participate in this 
plan on the same basis as other employees in the country in which they are located. Invitations  
to participate may be made annually. 
Sharesave is not subject to performance conditions as the terms of the plan are subject to tax 
legislation in the UK and certain other countries including the US that preclude this.
Sharesave options become exercisable, to the extent of savings made, in the event of a change  
of control.
The maximum monthly 
savings level under any 
concurrent Sharesave plans 
is in line with the limit set 
by the UK government from 
time to time for such plans 
(currently £500 per month 
or the equivalent in other 
currencies). 63
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Chairman and non-executive directors
Note: The remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the Chairman and Chief Executive under delegated authority from the 
board rather than by the remuneration committee.
Component and how this 
supports strategy How this operates Maximum
Fees
T o attract and retain 
individuals with the 
personal attributes, 
skills and experience 
required to determine 
strategy and 
governance, to apply 
executive oversight 
and to represent 
shareholders’ interests.
Non-executive directors receive only fees for their services and do not participate in any of the 
incentive or benefit schemes of the group. Fee structure comprises a base fee and additional fees 
to reflect time commitment and responsibility of specific roles (for example, SID and committee 
chair). Additional fees may also be paid to directors not resident in the UK to recognise the 
additional travelling time in attending meetings. 
The Chairman, whilst a non-executive director, will not participate in any of the incentive or benefit 
schemes of the group.
Directors (including the Chairman) are reimbursed for expenses relating to performing their duties 
and any tax thereon. 
 
Increases in the Chairman’s 
fee will not normally exceed 
the average increase 
awarded to executive 
directors. 
The company’s articles 
currently set an aggregate 
limit of £600,000 for base 
fees for non-executive 
directors. T otal fees will not 
exceed market norms.
Selection of performance targets
Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set so that the target level of bonus is paid normally for achieving 
the Company’s short-range plan. T o achieve maximum bonus, higher targets have to be met. In determining targets, the 
committee takes account of the general business circumstances including the perceived difficulty inherent in the short-range 
plan and the need to balance stretch against risk. Profit is chosen as the most appropriate measure of the Company’s short-term 
performance and the cash measures are chosen to reflect the conversion of profit to cash across the year. Strategic targets are set 
to reflect other key business objectives during the year. 
EPS targets under the Long-term Incentive Plan are set to reflect the Company’s longer-term growth objectives at a level where 
the maximum represents genuine outperformance against expectations. EPS is chosen as the most appropriate measure of 
absolute growth in line with the Company’s strategy. TSR is chosen to measure relative long-term performance against a peer 
group comprising UK and international companies against which Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly. Other strategic targets 
may be set to reflect other key business objectives during the particular three year cycle.  64
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy continued
Recruitment pay policy
Item External hire Internal promotion to the board
Base salary T ake account of current terms and any premium required  
to secure high calibre appointment.
T ake account of current terms, relativities with other board 
members and whether any previous plc board experience.  
If initial salary is below market benchmark for role, would expect 
to move progressively to that level over next 24 months based 
on performance in role.
Pension and related 
benefits
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Other benefits Normally in line with standard policy but may include special 
transitional arrangements e.g. overseas hire where dependants 
remain outside the UK.
Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with 
standard policy.
Annual bonus Inclusion in annual bonus for year of hire based on pro-rated 
salary. 
Maximum opportunity (as a percentage of salary) no greater 
than that for Chief Executive.
Where relevant, increase existing bonus opportunity to 
level applicable to new role and apply pro-rata from date of 
promotion including any amendment to performance measures.
Maximum opportunity (as a percentage of salary) no greater 
than that for Chief Executive.
Long-term 
incentive plan
Inclusion in LTIP for year of hire subject to same performance 
conditions as others but with three-year vesting period running 
from date of joining.
Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy.
Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy allowing 
for an additional award to be made in year of appointment to 
reflect the timing of the appointment and the extent of other 
enhancements to remuneration terms. Previous awards will 
continue on their original terms.
Sharesave Inclusion in next offer subject to meeting any qualifying period 
of service that applies for new employees generally.
Inclusion in next offer subject to any restrictions as a result  
of savings limits.
Notice periods Where it is necessary to secure the services of a particular 
individual, the remuneration committee has discretion to agree 
initial notice periods of not more than 24 months reducing to 
normal policy level over a period not more than 12 months.
Apply standard policy immediately including, if relevant, 
reducing any more favourable existing terms.
One-off 
arrangements
Where individuals forfeit bonus or long-term incentive payments 
from their former employer as a result of resigning to join  
Amec Foster Wheeler, then the committee has the discretion 
to make additional one-off awards in the form of cash and/or 
shares and subject to performance and/or other conditions, 
including holding periods, as appropriate. The maximum 
amounts to be awarded would be based on an estimate of actual 
loss discounted for any accelerated payment and the extent to 
which the loss is otherwise compensated for by the new terms 
overall. 
Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including 
temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required 
to relocate to take up the new role. Alternatively a temporary 
cash allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which 
equates to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise 
have been reimbursed. These amounts will include any grossing-
up for tax.
Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including 
temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required 
to relocate to take up the new role. Alternatively a temporary 
cash allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which 
equates to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise 
have been reimbursed. These amounts will include any grossing-
up for tax. 65
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Policy on notice and payment for loss of office
Newly appointed executive directors will be employed on contracts that include the following provisions:
 X the individual will be required to give six months’ notice if they wish to leave and the Company will give up to 12 months’ notice  
of termination other than for gross misconduct or other circumstances where employment may be terminated without notice;
 X at the Company’s discretion, the individual may be placed on garden leave for some or all of the period between the giving of 
notice and termination in which case the Company will continue to pay salary and benefits for the garden leave period but will not 
make new share or other incentive awards; and
 X at any time, at the Company’s discretion, employment may be terminated before the end of the required notice period by making 
a payment in lieu of the balance and subject to mitigation as described more fully in the table below.
In the event of long-term incapacity, employment would not normally be terminated so long as the executive was entitled to 
payments under the Company’s group income protection insurance arrangements but the executive would be required to stand 
down from their role and as a director.
Payment for loss of office will be determined according to the following principles set out below and, for the current executive 
directors, having regard to their existing contractual terms as described following the table.
Notice The executive will receive base salary, pension and other benefits for any part of the notice period worked (and any period of garden 
leave). On termination, the executive will be entitled to payment for any accrued but untaken holiday pay. 
The Company may elect to pay a sum in lieu of notice for all or any part of the notice period, calculated by reference to the value of 
salary, pension and other contractual benefits (excluding bonus). In determining the payments to be made and the structure of such 
payments, the Company will have regard to the executive’s ability to mitigate their loss. In respect of any defined benefit pension 
rights, an augmentation of benefits for the relevant part of the notice period may be made. The committee has discretion to continue 
to provide certain benefits to the end of the notice period rather than including them in the payment in lieu. 
Where the employment is being terminated by the Company for gross misconduct (or other circumstances entitling the Company  
to treat the contract as at an immediate end) termination will be immediate and no payment in lieu of notice will be made.
Annual  
bonus 
No bonus will be paid in the event of termination for gross misconduct. 
In all other circumstances, the committee will consider whether it is appropriate to make a bonus payment for the year in question 
taking into account all relevant circumstances, including performance and conduct. Payment will usually be determined and paid in 
cash at the normal time.
Deferred bonus 
from prior years
In the event of termination due to misconduct by the individual, the Remuneration Committee may determine that some or all,  
at its discretion, of the deferred shares will be forfeit.
In the case of death the shares will be released in full to the estate as soon as practicable thereafter. 
In other circumstances, they will continue to be subject to the deferral period and only released at the end of it providing no further 
claw-back applies.
Long-term 
incentive plan
All unvested awards will lapse on leaving in the event of termination for gross misconduct or other bad leaver circumstances.  
An example of a ‘bad leaver’ would be an individual resigning in order to take up a position with a competitor.
Awards will immediately vest in full in the event of death.
In other cases, unvested awards will be pro-rated for service, which may include any period for which payment was made in lieu. 
For pre-2015 awards, provided the associated investment shares remain lodged, matched awards will normally be retained in full 
unless the committee decide to pro-rate for service. A further reduction may be made at the committee’s discretion to take account 
of relevant circumstances at the time of leaving. The retained awards will vest in the normal way, taking account of the relevant 
performance conditions, and at the normal time subject to the committee being satisfied at that time that the individual remains  
a good leaver.
Other Redundancy pay in line with statutory provisions or those applying to employees generally in the country in which the director is based 
will be provided in the event of termination due to redundancy.
The cost of legal, tax or other advice incurred by the individual in connection with the termination and/or support with seeking 
alternative employment may be met up to a maximum of £100,000.
Additional payments may be made where required to settle legal disputes or as consideration for new or amended post-employment 
restrictions.
Where an individual is in receipt of relocation or expatriation benefits, the costs of actual expenses incurred in relation to any 
arrangements that are subject to term contracts may continue to be reimbursed for up to six months or, at the Company’s discretion, 
a one-off payment made to cover the costs of premature cancellation. The cost of repatriation will also be covered where this was part 
of the original expatriation terms.
Sharesave options lapse unless the director leaves because of specified good leaver reasons in which case they can be exercised for  
a limited period, to the extent of savings made to the date of exercise. 66
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are both employed under contracts (dated April 2007 and September 2008 respectively) with 
notice periods of twelve months from the Company and which require them to give six months’ notice of resignation. The 
contracts permit for payment to be made in lieu of all or part of the required notice period at the Company’s discretion but there is 
no prescribed methodology for calculating such payment in lieu or applying mitigation. Should circumstances arise where notice 
is given and the executive is not required to work all or part of the notice period, the terms of the existing contracts would be 
honoured. The individuals may be placed on garden leave for part of the notice period in which case the committee may determine 
that it is appropriate to pay an element of bonus for that garden leave period.
Existing directors’ service contracts
The notice provisions for Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are described above. There are no specified change-of-control provisions.
The Chairman’s engagement may be terminated on six months’ notice on either side.
The contracts of non-executive directors may be terminated by the individual at any time. There are no specific provisions for 
compensation in the event of early termination by the Company. Our practice is that all directors submit themselves for re-election 
on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in company and shareholder views
Our approach to the annual review of base salaries is to take account of personal performance, company performance, and pay 
levels more broadly within the Company. External benchmarking is also taken into account, particularly for new appointments.
Any proposals to change remuneration policy are considered against the ‘best practice’ guidelines produced by shareholder 
bodies and major shareholders are consulted directly when formulating any proposals for significant changes. The committee  
did consider these guidelines as well as representations made by certain individual shareholders in formulating its policy as noted 
in the chairman’s introductory letter on page 59. There was no direct consultation with employees.
The Chairman of the Company and the chairman of the remuneration committee make themselves available at any time and also 
at each annual general meeting to discuss any issues raised.
Differences in policy for directors compared to other employees
The structure of remuneration for executive directors is in line with other senior management. The primary differences compared 
to other employees are the structure of variable pay, which for senior management is in the form of performance-related 
incentives and for other employees is largely in the form of overtime and allowances reflecting the different emphases of the roles, 
and in the level of accrual under defined benefit arrangements.
Illustrations of application of policy
The total remuneration for each of the executive directors that could result from the proposed remuneration policy in 2015 under 
three different performance levels is shown below. 
 
Notes
1  Fixed pay is base salary for 2015 plus the value of pension and benefits. The value of pension and benefits in kind is taken from the single total figure  
of remuneration for 2014.
2 On target performance is the level of performance required to deliver 66.67% of the maximum annual bonus and 50% of the full LTIP award.
3 Maximum performance would result in the maximum bonus and 100% vesting of LTIP award.
4 LTIP values ignore any change in share price or dividend equivalents.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration policy continued
Samir Brikho
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
25% 39% 100%
6
5
4
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
28%
24%
37%
47%
5.069
3.399
1.243
Ian McHoul
£m 
 Fixed pay 
 Annual bonus 
 LTIP
25% 39% 100%
3
2
1
0 Fixed element On target Maximum
25%
21%
40%
50%
2.643
1.760
0.654 67
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Application of remuneration policy for 2015
Changes to base salaries for executive directors
The base salaries of the two executive directors are not being increased in 2015.
2015 2014 % change
Samir Brikho £954,000 £954,000 n/c
Ian McHoul £530,000 £530,000 n/c
Annual bonus measures and targets
The annual bonus plan will operate in 2015 consistent with the amended policy described above. The following bonus measures 
and their weightings (maximum opportunity as a percentage of base salary) have been agreed for 2015. They reflect a range of 
financial and strategic measures that support the key strategic objectives of the Company.
Measure Samir Brikho Ian McHoul
EBITA 90% 75%
Cash conversion 15% 12.5%
Cost synergies 15% 12.5%
Other strategic objectives 30% 25%
Totals 150% 125%
2015 targets against these measures are commercially sensitive and may be subject to revision so have not been disclosed.  
They will be disclosed retrospectively in next year’s report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Long-term incentive awards to be made in 2015
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM for the new long-term incentive plan, awards equivalent to 250% of base salary will 
be made. Half of the award will be subject to a comparative TSR measure and the other half will be subject to an EPS performance 
measure. TSR will be measured against a peer group comprising Amec Foster Wheeler and 20 UK and international companies 
against which Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly. The EPS target range will be 5 percent compound annual growth for 
threshold vesting and 10 percent for maximum vesting measured from a pro forma 2014 base that includes a full-year contribution 
from the Foster Wheeler acquisition. The measures will operate in the manner described in the policy set out in page 62 above. 
Changes to Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ fees
The fee for the Chairman and non-executive directors are not being increased for 2015 other than that for the Audit committee 
chairman to reflect the increased time commitment arising from the ongoing US listing obligations.
2015 2014 % change
Chairman £318,000 £318,000 n/c
Board fee £60,500 £60,500 n/c
Audit committee chairman £30,000 £18,500 +62%
Remuneration committee chairman £13,000 £13,000 n/c
HSSEE committee chairman £6,000 £6,000 n/c
Senior Independent Director £5,500 £5,500 n/c
Non-UK director (additional travel time) £12,100 £12,100 n/c
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration 68
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
The information from this point onwards up to and including the statement  
of directors’ share interests and shareholding on page 72 is subject to audit.
Single total figure of remuneration for 2014
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2014 financial year for each 
director, together with comparative figures for 2013.
Salary/fees 
£’000
T axable benefits 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
LTIP 
£’000
Sharesave 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
T otal 
£’000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Executive
Samir Brikho 954 927 43 66 594 717 0 420** – – 246 240 1,837 2,370
Ian McHoul 530 515 18 15 268 315 0 233** – 6 106 103 922 1,187
Non-executive
John Connolly 318 309 – – – – – – – – – – 318 309
Simon Thompson 76 64 – – – – – – – – – – 76 64
Neil Carson 61 58 – – – – – – – – – – 61 58
Colin Day 79 76 – – – – – – – – – – 79 76
Linda Adamany 77 70 – – – – – – – – – – 77 70
Stephanie Newby* 13 – – – – – – – – – – – 13 –
Tim Faithfull* 21 76 – – – – – – – – – – 21 76
*Stephanie Newby joined the board in November 2014 and Tim Faithfull left the Board in April 2014. Stephanie Newby’s fees include an amount paid in relation 
to her ongoing post-acquisition service as a director of Foster Wheeler AG from 13 November 2014 to 31 December 2014; this ceased from 19 January 2015.
**The 2013 values have been updated from the estimates included in last year’s report as detailed on page 70.
T axable benefits for the executive directors comprise disability and healthcare insurance, car/travel allowance, working lunches 
and tax return preparation assistance. 
The 2013 Sharesave figure for Ian McHoul is the gain made on exercising an option over 1,512 shares made under the Savings-
related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave) at an option price of £6.00. The closing share price on the date of exercise, 3 May 2013, 
was £10.25, resulting in a gain on exercise of £6,426.
Samir Brikho is a member of the advisory board of Stena AB and a non-executive director of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB: 
he received fees of CHF 60,000 during the year in relation to the first appointment and SEK 599,435 in relation to the second. Ian 
McHoul is a director of Britvic plc and received fees of £45,385 during the year in relation to this appointment. Such appointments 
are subject to prior approval of the board. Directors are permitted to retain fees. (These amounts are not subject to audit and are 
not included in the single total figure table above).
Total pension entitlements
The pension amount shown in the 2014 ‘single total figure of remuneration’ above comprises the following:
Accrued DB pension 
at 31/12/14 
£’000
Value of 
DB benefit 
£’000
Cash 
allowance 
£’000
T otal 
pension benefit 
£’000
Samir Brikho 42 87 159 246
Ian McHoul – – 106 106
Samir Brikho has a normal retirement age of 60 in relation to the stated defined benefit (DB) pension. There are no additional 
pension benefits that become payable for either director in the event of early retirement.
The cash allowance in the case of Mr Brikho represented 20% of salary above the pension scheme cap and in the case  
of Ian McHoul represented 20% of full salary. 69
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Annual bonus
The bonus payments in respect of 2014 that will be paid in 2015 to the executive directors (expressed as a percentage of base 
salary earned during the year) are shown below reflecting the indicated outcomes against the various performance elements:
Samir Brikho Ian McHoul
Measure T arget range Actual
Percentage of 
max achieved Max Actual Max Actual
EBITA* £335-370m 338 30% 70% 21.1% 55% 16.6%
EBITA additional stretch 0% 25% 0% 25% 0%
Cash conversion full year 80-90% 88% 59% 18.75% 11.1% 15% 8.9%
Cash conversion half year 45-50% <45% 0% 6.25% 0% 5% 0%
Other strategic objectives See note 30% 30% 25% 25%
Totals 150% 62.2% 125% 50.5%
*For bonus purposes EBITA (after exceptional items which may be disallowed for bonus purposes at the committee’s discretion) is normalised for exchange 
rate movements and cost of share based payments: the target and actual figures shown above are before any such adjustments.
‘Other strategic objectives’ measures for the Chief Executive included actions to establish the acquisition implementation plan  
and strategy for the new combined business, develop the executive management team, deliver higher revenue in Growth Regions 
and safety leadership. For the CFO they included establishing finance integration and cost synergy plans, implementation 
of shared services and IT systems, and delivering performance from the Investment Services activities. The committee has 
discretion to take other factors into account and uses its judgement in determining the amount to be paid under this item.  
For 2014, the committee considered performance against these objectives and resolved that it was appropriate to award 
maximum bonus for this element.
None of the bonus earned for 2014 is subject to compulsory deferral, as the EBITA additional stretch minimum target was not met.
The original EBITA targets were adjusted to remove a provision for contribution from small acquisitions, given the focus on 
completing the Foster Wheeler acquisition, and the actual results were adjusted to exclude the contribution in 2014 from the 
Foster Wheeler acquisition.
Performance Share Plan
The LTIP amount shown in the 2014 ‘single total figure of remuneration’ on page 68 is the award made under the Performance 
Share Plan in 2012. Vesting is due to take place on 3 April 2015 and is subject to two performance conditions each measured  
over three-year periods: (i) earnings per share (EPS*) growth between 2011 and 2014 and (ii) total shareholder return relative  
to a comparator group based on average share prices in the first 11 weeks of 2015 compared to those in the corresponding  
period in 2012 (also subject to the committee being satisfied that there has been sustained financial growth of the Company).  
The two performance conditions operate independently on different parts of the award: half of the basic award is dependent  
on EPS and the other half on TSR; the matched award depends solely on EPS.
*EPS for this measure means the diluted earnings per share expressed to one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and intangible 
amortisation, the charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items. ‘Real’ growth means in excess of the change in the UK Retail 
Prices Index for December 2014 compared to December 2011.
The committee took account of the share buyback that took place during 2012 and 2013 in determining the outcome for the  
EPS element and also excluded the contribution in 2014 from the Foster Wheeler acquisition. The performance achieved against 
the EPS target and the TSR outcome are as follows:
2011 awards performance measure Threshold – 25% vesting Maximum – 100% vesting Outcome Percentage of max achieved
Real annual compound growth in EPS 5% 12% <5% 0%
T otal shareholder return ranking Median Upper quartile 17th out of 24 0%
Accordingly no shares will vest from these awards. 70
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
The LTIP amount shown in the 2013 single total figure of remuneration on page 68 is the award made under the Performance 
Share Plan in 2011 that vested in April 2014. An estimated figure was included for this in last year’s report and this has now been 
updated to reflect the actual outcome as set out below. Vesting took place on 5 April 2014 at a share price of £12.25. The balance 
of the original award lapsed at the same time.
2011 PSP awards
Original award – 
number of shares
T otal number of 
shares vesting 
including dividend 
equivalents
Vesting value 
£’000
Samir Brikho 184,695 34,275
1
420
Ian McHoul 102,667 19,051
1
233
1  These awards were in the form of nil cost options with an 18-month exercise period post-vesting. If the option has not been exercised before the end of the 
period, it will be exercised automatically at that stage. Additional dividend equivalents are accrued between vesting and exercise and this is reflected in the 
table on page 72.
Details of share awards during year
Awards were made under the Performance Share Plan on 27 March 2014 that will vest three years later subject to the outcome 
against the performance conditions and may be exercised up to 18 months after vesting. The face value of the awards is based  
on the share price at the date of award which was £11.05.
T ype of interest awarded Basis of award
Face value 
£’000
Percentage vesting at 
threshold performance Number of shares
End of performance 
period
Samir Brikho Nil-cost options Basic award – 
175% of salary
1,670 25% 151,085 31 December 
2016
Nil-cost options Matched award 
– up to 75% of 
salary on two for 
one investment 
share match
715 25% 64,750 31 December 
2016
Total 250% of salary 2,385 215,835
Ian McHoul Nil-cost options Basic award – 
175% of salary
928 25% 83,936 31 December 
2016
Nil-cost options Matched award 
– up to 75% of 
salary on two for 
one investment 
share match
397 25% 35,972 31 December 
2016
Total 250% of salary 1,325 119,908
Half of the basic award is subject to a TSR performance condition and the other half and all of the matched award is subject to  
an EPS performance condition.
The TSR measure is based on Amec Foster Wheeler’s ranking against the comparator group set out below based on the average 
share price over the final quarter of 2016 compared to the corresponding period in 2013. The threshold for any vesting to occur 
is that Amec Foster Wheeler needs to be ranked at median or higher. If upper quartile ranking is achieved, full vesting will occur. 
Vesting is on a straight line basis between these threshold and maximum targets. 71
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Comparator group in respect of 2014 awards
Aker Solutions Norway Melrose UK
AMEC UK Petrofac UK
Babcock Intl. UK Rotork UK
Baker Hughes USA Saipem Italy
Balfour Beatty UK Schlumberger USA
Cameron Intl. USA Serco Group UK
Carillion UK SNC-Lavalin Group Canada
Chicago Bridge & Iron USA Spirax-Sarco UK
Fluor USA T echnip France
Halliburton USA URS USA
IMI UK Weir Group UK
Jacobs USA Wood Group (John) UK
KBR USA Worley Parsons Australia
Foster Wheeler has been removed from the original comparator group. The committee has discretion to make further adjustments 
to the list when necessary to take account of mergers, acquisitions or other such events. 
The EPS measure is based on the compound annual growth (CAGR) to 2016 from an adjusted 2013 base. EPS for this purpose 
is defined as the diluted earnings per share expressed to one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and 
intangible amortisation, the charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items (at the committee’s 
discretion). The adjustment took account of the Foster Wheeler acquisition. Threshold (25%) vesting will occur if CAGR is 5% and 
maximum (100%) vesting will occur if CAGR is 10% or higher with straight line vesting for a result between these targets.
The number of shares vesting as determined by the performance conditions outcomes will be increased to take account  
of reinvested dividends including the UK tax credit in the period between award and vesting.
Details of the specific companies included in the TSR comparator groups for both the 2012 and 2013 awards were included in the 
directors’ remuneration reports for those years and may be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Payments to former directors
No payments (including payments for loss of office) were made to former directors. 72
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ share interests and shareholding requirements
As at 31 December 2014 (or in the case of Tim Faithfull as at the date he ceased to be a director), the beneficial interests in the 
share capital of the Company of the directors and their connected persons were as follows:
Legally owned shares
Vested but unexercised 
share options
Unvested share options 
subject to performance 
conditions (PSP awards)
Unvested share options 
not subject to performance 
conditions (Sharesave)
John Connolly 35,538 – – –
Samir Brikho 1,894,682 36,491 631,659 1,032
Ian McHoul 318,443 19,540 350,920 1,046
Tim Faithfull 10,000 – – –
Neil Carson 5,000 – – –
Colin Day 21,466 – – –
Simon Thompson 4,744 – – –
Linda Adamany 3,100 – – –
Stephanie Newby 21,899 – – –
The unexercised share options for Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul include those vesting during 2014 from the PSP awards made in 2011, as described on 
page 70 and in the case of Mr Brikho 1,335 options under the Sharesave Plan with an exercise price of £6.74 and an exercise period from January to June 2015. 
Sufficient shares may be sold on exercise of options to meet tax withholding requirements. 
Details of the unvested options for Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are as follows:
Date of award T ype of award Number of shares Exercise price Exercise period
Samir Brikho April 2012 PSP 197 ,194 Nil April 2015 to October 2016
March 2013 PSP 218.630 Nil March 2016 to September 2017
March 2014 PSP 215,835 Nil March 2017 to September 2018
October 2014 Sharesave 1,032 £8.72 January to June 2018
Ian McHoul April 2012 PSP 109,551 Nil April 2015 to October 2016
March 2013 PSP 121,461 Nil March 2016 to September 2017
October 2013 Sharesave 1,046 £8.60 January to June 2017
March 2014 PSP 119,908 Nil March 2017 to September 2018
On 5 January 2015 John Connolly and Ian McHoul acquired 601 and 28 shares respectively and on 7 January 2015 Colin Day 
acquired 363 shares; all of these were in lieu of the interim dividend paid on 5 January 2014. The unexercised share options arising 
from PSP awards increased by 621 for Mr Brikho and 347 for Mr McHoul in respect of dividend equivalents. Mr Brikho exercised his 
Sharesave option over 1,335 shares on 9 March 2015. There were no other changes in the directors’ interests in the share capital 
of the Company between 31 December 2014 and 26 March 2015. No director has used any of their shareholdings in hedging 
arrangements or as collateral for loans.
Guidelines are in place requiring executive directors and members of the Group Leadership T eam to build up and retain a holding 
of Amec Foster Wheeler shares received from incentive plans or purchased by them. The level of targeted shareholding is 250%  
of salary for executive directors and 125% for other senior executives.
Based on the average share price and salaries during December 2014, the legally-owned shares shown above represented the 
following percentages of base salary which are both considerably in excess of the shareholding requirement:
Samir Brikho 1,721% 
Ian McHoul 521%
There is no shareholding requirement for the Chairman or non-executive directors. 73
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Total shareholder return 
This graph compares the TSR performance of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, assuming dividends are re-invested, with the  
TSR performance of the FTSE 100 over the period 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2014.
 
Chief Executive’s pay in the last six years
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Single total figure of remuneration £’000 4,103 9,295 4,590 3,092 2,370 1,837
Bonus awarded as % of maximum 58% 97% 64% 57% 52% 41%
LTIP vesting as % of maximum 100% 80% 71% 50% 19% 0%
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below shows how the percentage change between 2013 and 2014 in the Chief Executive’s salary, benefits and bonus 
compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those elements of pay for a comparator group of employees.  
The committee has selected employees in the UK as the comparator group as they have broadly the same structure of 
remuneration and to eliminate the impact of exchange rate movements if employees in other countries were included.
Salary T axable benefits Bonus
2014 2013 % change 2014 2013 % change 2014 2013 % change
Chief Executive 954 927 +3% 43 66 -35% 594 717 -17%
UK staff +3% +4% -16%
The year-on-year change for UK staff taxable benefits is based on data for tax years ending in 2014 and 2013 averaged over  
the number of employees in receipt of those benefits. The year-on-year changes for UK staff salary and bonus are based on the 
aggregate amounts paid in each year divided by the average number of employees in that year.
Total shareholder return 
 Amec Foster Wheeler 
 FTSE 100 Index 
Source: Thomson Reuters
260
240
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260 74
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Relative importance of spending on pay 
The chart below illustrates the relative importance of spending on pay compared to distributions to shareholders (dividends and 
share buy-back) and other disbursements from profit or cash flow that are considered by the directors to be the most material 
expenditures in relation to the Company’s strategy.
 
Shareholder voting on remuneration policy and report at last AGM
At the annual general meeting held on 3 April 2014 votes were cast as follows:
Resolution
Shares for (including 
discretionary) % in favour Shares against % against Shares withheld
T o approve the remuneration report 166,409,640 88.35 21,949,194 11.65 2,103,756
T o approve the remuneration policy 153,158,481 81.27 35,308,450 18.73 1,995,659
The committee do not consider that the votes against either resolution were substantial requiring any specific explanation or 
action in response. As noted above, shareholders were consulted during 2014 regarding proposed changes to remuneration policy.
Relative importance  
of spending on pay 
£bn 
 2014 
 2013 
 2012 
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0 Staff costs Dividends Share buybacks Acquisitions
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued 75
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Jonathan Nield
Group Project Delivery Director 
Jon was appointed Group Project 
Delivery Director on 13 November 
2014, immediately prior to which  
he served as Vice President, Project 
Risk Management of Foster Wheeler 
– a position he held since May 2011. 
Previously, he was a director of 
Foster Wheeler Energy Limited and 
he has served in various executive 
positions with that company. He 
was a member of the Foster Wheeler 
team for more than 25 years.
Jon has a BSc in Mechanical 
Engineering from Newcastle 
University, an MSc in Project 
Management from Cranfield School 
of Management. He currently serves 
as a director of the Engineering & 
Construction Risk Institute.  
Will Serle
Group Human Resources Director
Will was appointed Group Human 
Resources Director on 1 May 2011, 
having previously held the position 
of Human Resources Operations 
Director since 2009. Will is also 
responsible for sustainability at 
Amec Foster Wheeler. He joined 
the Company in 2000 as Human 
Resources Director for the Oil & Gas 
business, moving to the Natural 
Resources role in 2006.
Will holds a Master’s degree in 
Human Resources from The Robert 
Gordon University and is a Fellow  
of CIPD.
Our Group Leadership T eam
Simon Naylor
Group President, Americas
Simon was appointed Group 
President, Americas in October 
2012. Prior to that Simon had 
been President Natural Resources 
Americas since 2007 , where he 
led the growth and successful 
development of the company’s 
leading positions in the core market 
sectors of Mining, Oil & Gas and 
Oil Sands. In his 22 years with 
the company, Simon has worked 
across the project life cycle; from 
consulting, engineering and project 
management. A natural resources 
professional, his experience includes 
project development, asset support, 
strategy, customer relationship 
management and operations 
leadership.
Simon has an MBA from Cranfield 
School of Management and a BSc 
from University College London in 
Chemical Engineering.
Roberto Penno
Group President,  
AMEA & Southern Europe
Roberto was appointed Group 
President, AMEA & Southern Europe 
on 1 January 2015, immediately 
prior to which he was CEO of Foster 
Wheeler’s Global E&C Group –  
a position he held since 2013. 
Previously he was CEO of the Global 
E&C Group’s Asia-Pacific Region.  
A 27-year veteran of Foster Wheeler, 
he has held a variety of positions 
with the company, including 
managing director of Global Sales, 
Marketing and Strategic Planning; 
director of commercial operations 
for Foster Wheeler Asia Pacific; and 
other senior roles in operating unit 
management, sales and commercial 
management in Europe, Asia and 
the US.
Roberto has a degree in Mechanical 
Engineering from University 
Politecnico Milan.
The team is comprised of senior 
operational and functional management, 
each of whom brings a depth of 
knowledge and experience to their role.
 
Gary Nedelka
Group President, Global Power Group
Gary was appointed Group President, 
Global Power Group on 1 January 
2015, having served as Chief 
Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler’s 
Global Power Group since January 
2009. Prior to this, he served as 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
of Foster Wheeler North America 
Corp., an indirect, wholly-owned 
subsidiary within the Global Power 
Group. Previously he was President 
and General Manager of operating 
companies in China and he held  
a variety of positions of increasing 
responsibility in commercial 
operations and engineering 
management. He joined Foster 
Wheeler in 1979 and is a member of 
the American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers.
Gary holds a BSc in mechanical 
engineering from Clarkson College  
of T echnology. 
Jeff Reilly
President, Strategy & Business 
Development
Jeff was appointed President, 
Strategy & Business Development 
on 28 April 2014. He started his 
career with Stone & Webster 
Engineering Corp. as a Chemical 
Process Design Engineer and 
developed his career there and at 
ABB Lummus Global Inc as company 
Vice President at both engineering 
and construction organisations. 
He joined ConocoPhillips in 2005, 
initially as Major Contracts Manager, 
then led upstream and downstream 
major project portfolios globally and 
was appointed as Chief Procurement 
Officer in 2012.
Jeff has a BS Chemical Engineering 
from The University of T exas at 
Austin; an MBA in Finance and 
International Business from the 
University of Houston.
John Pearson
Group President,  
Northern Europe & CIS
Before taking the role of Group 
President, Northern Europe & CIS 
on 1 January 2015, John was Group 
President of Europe and, prior to 
that, he was Managing Director of 
the Oil & Gas business in Europe and 
West Africa. He joined the company 
in 1990 and has worked in a variety 
of roles in engineering and project 
management. In the past, John has 
led the company’s Oil & Gas projects 
and Asset Support business streams 
globally. Prior to joining the business, 
John worked for Chevron and has 
worked around the world, having 
spent time based in Aberdeen,  
San Francisco, Baku and London. 
John is currently joint contractor 
co-chair of Oil & Gas UK and sits as 
a board member for PILOT , the Fiscal 
Forum and the OGA.
John holds a BSc Honours 
Engineering degree from Aberdeen 
University. 
Alison Y app
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Alison was appointed General 
Counsel and Company Secretary 
on 1 December 2012. Immediately 
prior to joining the company she was 
Company Secretary and General 
Legal Counsel of Hays plc, previous 
to which she was Company Secretary 
and Group Legal Adviser of Charter 
plc. She is a solicitor and has more 
than 20 years’ experience as a senior 
lawyer in industry. She began her 
career in private practice at T urner 
Kenneth Brown, advising corporate 
and commercial clients in M&A 
before moving in-house to Johnson 
Matthey plc where she held various 
senior legal roles. 
Alison holds an LLB (Hons) from 
Bristol University and is a qualified 
solicitor.
In addition to the executive directors shown on pages 45 and 46, 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s Group Leadership T eam consists of the 
following individuals: 76
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
The board has also created a number 
of management committees that deal 
generally with more operational matters.
Management committees 
Share allotment
Members
Any two directors or a director and the General Counsel and Company 
Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary (the chairman to be appointed 
from those directors present).
Responsibilities
The share allotment committee approves the allotment of new shares or 
the issue of existing shares held in treasury following the exercise of options 
under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Risk
Members
Chief Executive (chairman); Chief Financial Officer; General Counsel 
and Company Secretary; Group Commercial Director; Head of Risk 
Management and Insurance; Group Project Delivery Director.
Responsibilities
The risk committee performs an integral role in the governance of risk 
within Amec Foster Wheeler by helping the board fulfil its responsibilities in 
determining the risk appetite of the group and the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control systems that support it. It also reviews 
the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and the potential impact of any 
issues on the risk appetite and the risk profile of the group. It reports on 
key risk issues such as new business and geographical locations and also 
makes recommendations on the insurance programme for the group.
Pensions and retirement benefits
Members
Chief Financial Officer (chairman); Group Human Resources Director;  
Head of Pensions; General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Responsibilities
The pensions and retirement benefits committee reviews and recommends 
the establishment of any new or replacement pension arrangements, 
any material amendments to existing pension schemes, and the 
discontinuance, winding up or merger of any existing arrangement.  
It also agrees with the trustees of those pension arrangements appropriate 
funding plans to secure the benefits promised.
Group project review (from March 2015)
Members 
Group Leadership T eam, Commercial Director.
Responsibilities
The group project review committee reviews project execution and financial 
performance on higher risk, higher value projects that could have a material 
affect on group performance.
Disclosure (from January 2015)
Members 
Group Financial Controller (chairman); General Counsel and Company 
Secretary; Head of Risk Management and Insurance; Chief Corporate 
Compliance Officer; Head of Internal Audit; Director of T ax and T reasury; 
Group Corporate Affairs Director; Head of Investor Relations.
Responsibilities
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we have established a 
disclosure committee which will assist the audit committee with regard to 
verifying the information that is required to be disclosed in the company’s 
material public disclosures and in its periodic reports. This is intended to 
ensure such disclosures are in compliance with all relevant laws, rules and 
regulations, including the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock Exchange, 
the New Y ork Stock Exchange and the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission.
Corporate transactions
Members
Chief Executive (chairman); Chief Financial Officer; General Counsel and 
Company Secretary; Head of Mergers and Acquisitions.
Responsibilities
The corporate transactions committee considers mergers, acquisitions 
and disposals and approves transactions where the consideration or 
assumption of liabilities, as appropriate, is £5m or less, and above this 
level it submits recommendations to the board for approval. In addition 
it determines transaction guidelines that are in line with group policies 
and procedures.
These are chaired by executive directors or other senior 
individuals and members are drawn from senior management 
within the group. The minutes of each of these meetings are 
circulated to each board meeting. The terms of reference of all 
these committees have been reviewed and updated following 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Health, safety, security and environmental (HSSE) review
Members 
Chief Executive (chairman); Group Human Resources Director;  
General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Responsibilities
The HSSE review committee’s key responsibility is to provide effective 
oversight of the company’s performance and management of HSSE 
issues across the group. This includes the evaluation of the effectiveness 
of the group’s policies and management systems in respect of managing 
health, safety, security and environmental risk in both current and future 
operations associated with the company’s growth strategy.
Tender review
Members
Chief Executive (chairman); Chief Financial Officer; General Counsel  
and Company Secretary; Head of Risk Management and Insurance;  
Group Commercial Director; Group Project Delivery Director.
Responsibilities
The tender review committee primarily reviews and approves proposed 
tender submissions for contracts to be undertaken by the business units 
that are outside the delegated authority of the Group Presidents. 77
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
 
 
Attendance at meetings
The board holds a minimum of six regular meetings throughout 
the year, scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable. 
Additional board meetings and telephone conferences are held 
as required to deal with specific issues. In 2014 there were six 
scheduled meetings and ten unscheduled meetings.
Directors are expected to attend all scheduled board and 
relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from 
doing so by unavoidable prior business commitments or other 
valid reasons. All directors are provided with full papers in 
advance of each meeting. Where a director is unable to attend  
a meeting, they are encouraged to discuss any issues arising 
with the Chairman or Chief Executive as appropriate.
Number of meetings attended
Scheduled Unscheduled
John Connolly
1
5/6 10/10
Samir Brikho 6/6 10/10
Ian McHoul 6/6 10/10
Linda Adamany 6/6 10/10
Neil Carson 6/6 6/10
Colin Day 6/6 9/10
Tim Faithfull (to 3 April 2014) 1/1 2/2
Stephanie Newby (from 13 November 2014) 1/1 2/2
Simon Thompson 6/6 10/10
1 The Chairman was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
Unscheduled meetings were convened throughout the year  
to consider matters relevant to the Foster Wheeler acquisition. 
As these were not scheduled, members were not always able 
to attend but were provided with full packs of information and 
were invited to make comments.
Board composition
As at 31 December 2014, the board comprised the non-executive 
chairman; two executive directors (the Chief Executive and the 
Chief Financial Officer); and five non-executive directors. As a 
result of the Foster Wheeler acquisition, Kent Masters joined the 
board on 13 February 2015 as a non-executive director. Given his 
former role as Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler AG, Kent 
is not considered to be independent. Details of the directors, 
including their biographies, other significant commitments and 
committee memberships can be found on pages 45 to 47 .
 
The balance of executive and non-executive directors, 
reinforced by adherence to sound governance procedures, 
ensures no one individual, or group of individuals, dominates 
the board’s decision-making process. The varied backgrounds 
and commercial experience of the non-executive directors, and 
their independence from management, ensures rigorous debate 
at meetings and the constructive challenge and oversight of 
the executive directors in relation to the strategic direction and 
performance of the group.
 
The board is mindful of the need to maintain an appropriately 
diverse mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge 
of the group to ensure the delivery of the group’s strategy and 
performance. The nominations committee regularly reviews the 
composition of the board against these criteria.
The Company’s articles of association require all directors 
to seek re-election by shareholders at the AGM following their 
initial appointment and every three years thereafter. However, 
in line with the recommendations of the Code, our practice 
is that all directors submit themselves for re-election on an 
annual basis. All of the directors wishing to continue serving, 
and considered eligible by the board, will offer themselves for 
re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Details of the directors’ service contracts, emoluments and 
share interests are set out in the remuneration report on pages 
66 to 72.
Leadership
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Membership of the board
 Non-executive Chairman 
 Executive director 
 Non-executive director
1
2
6
Experience of the board
 Financial management and 
 corporate finance 
 Corporate governance 
 International experience 
 Experience in business sectors 
 relevant to Amec Foster Wheeler 
 HSSE 
 Strategy
Number of board directors 
with experience in each topic  
5
6
5
6
7
9
Directors’ tenure as at 31 December 2014
John Connolly
Samir Brikho
Ian McHoul
Linda Adamany
Neil Carson
Colin Day
Stephanie Newby
Simon Thompson
3 yrs 7m
8 yrs 3m
6 yrs 3m
2 yrs 3m
4 yrs 4m
4 yrs 2m
1m
5 yrs 11m 78
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Leadership continued
At least one scheduled meeting each year takes place away 
from Amec Foster Wheeler’s head office in London. This 
provides the board with an opportunity to understand more 
about Amec Foster Wheeler’s business and to meet employees 
based locally. In June 2014 the board meeting took place in 
our offices in Aberdeen, UK, where the board met with local 
management and also visited the Robert Gordon University, 
accessing the state of the art Drilling and Rig T raining (DART) 
simulator developed by the university to help address this area 
of skills shortage in our industry.
Amec Foster Wheeler has a strong working relationship with 
the university, which is very closely affiliated with the oil and gas 
industry and has provided many of the company’s engineering 
graduates.
In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain  
items are considered at every scheduled board meeting.  
The Chief Executive provides a report on business performance, 
strategy execution and emerging issues and the Chief Financial 
Officer updates the board on financial results and progress 
against the short range plan. Executive reports are received 
on investor relations and market issues, HR and health and 
safety. In addition, the Chairman and the General Counsel and 
Company Secretary provide an update on legal and governance 
matters and twice yearly the General Counsel and Company 
Secretary provides updates on material claims and disputes.
Business unit management is regularly invited to present 
at board meetings and, led by the Group Presidents, provide 
‘deep dive’ reviews of each region. In addition to standing items 
discussed at each meeting, the board cycles through a schedule 
of financial and planning matters including the approval of 
financial results and dividends; strategic and special matters 
including the review and approval of strategy; the determination 
of major risks and risk appetite and transaction and competitor 
reviews. The board receives an annual presentation from the 
Group Human Resources Director on senior management 
succession planning and management development.  
In 2014, this took place in June and the board were advised 
of the creation of a new people forum, the purpose of which 
was to ensure that succession was considered more deeply 
throughout the organisation. The board has also identified a 
range of topic reviews that are addressed annually and these 
include the strategies followed by the group’s functions e.g.  
T ax, T reasury and IT , as well as the board effectiveness and 
composition reviews.
The board also holds a separate additional meeting each year 
to perform a full strategic review of the group. On account of the 
timing of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the strategy event 
scheduled for October 2014 was postponed until April 2015. 
 
The Chairman and Chief Executive
The company does not combine the roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive. There is a clear and well defined division of 
accountability and responsibility between the roles of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive and these are set out in writing 
and have been agreed by the board. The consequence of this 
clear division of responsibility at the head of the company  
is such that no individual has unfettered powers of decision. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive are committed to ensuring 
the development and maintenance of an effective and trusting 
relationship with the appropriate balance between challenge 
and support.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and 
effectiveness of the board. At a high level, he is accountable for 
facilitating constructive relations between and the participation 
of all board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness 
and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its 
role. The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board 
discharges its duties to promote the success of the company 
and to guide Amec Foster Wheeler’s business and conduct in 
accordance with the highest ethical standards. 
Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to 
summarise the board’s activities in executing its duties during 
the year. The plan highlights the priorities the board has 
identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive,  
and is modified to take account of unscheduled developments. 
In setting the agenda for board meetings, the Chairman ensures 
sufficient time is available for discussion and meaningful 
challenge of all matters, particularly strategy, performance, 
value creation and accountability.
The Chief Executive is responsible, subject to those matters 
reserved to the board, for running Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder 
value. Consistent with this objective, the Chief Executive has 
ultimate responsibility for the proposal, development and 
implementation of the group’s strategy. The building and 
maintenance of an effective executive management team, and 
the allocation of responsibility therein, are key components of 
and essential to the performance of the Chief Executive’s role.
The Chief Executive takes the lead role in the promotion 
of Amec Foster Wheeler, gives personal leadership to the 
realisation of the company’s vision and values and encourages 
the highest standards of health, safety, security, environmental 
and ethical performance. 79
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Senior Independent Director
Simon Thompson has acted as the board’s Senior Independent 
Director since the conclusion of 2014 AGM, following the 
retirement of Tim Faithfull. Simon was selected for the role 
on account of his significant knowledge of Amec Foster 
Wheeler and its operations and his experience as a director 
of international companies in sectors that are relevant to the 
group. The Senior Independent Director is responsible for:
 X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding board 
for the Chairman;
 X acting as an additional channel of communication between 
the Chairman and the other directors;
 X being available to shareholders for concerns they may have 
that have not been resolved through the normal channels of 
the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors,  
or which are not appropriate to raise through these channels;
 X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and 
concerns of Amec Foster Wheeler’s shareholders through 
attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the 
company’s major shareholders and financial analysts;
 X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive 
directors as to the performance of the Chairman;
 X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, 
providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance; and
 X overseeing the recruitment of the Chairman.
As previously noted, Simon Thompson will step down from the 
board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM, having served six 
years on the board. Following Simon’s retirement, Neil Carson 
will take on the role of Senior Independent Director. Both the 
nominations committee and the board considered that  
Neil Carson best met the criteria required for the role.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors are crucial in bringing an external 
perspective and wide range of skills, experience, expertise 
and diversity of views to the board’s deliberations and the 
development of strategy. They constructively challenge and 
scrutinise the performance of management against agreed 
objectives and provide an invaluable contribution to the work 
of the board’s committees. The board benefits greatly from the 
contribution and balance they bring. T o ensure this continues, 
the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors, 
without the executive directors present, immediately following 
most scheduled board meetings.
The board’s policy is that non-executive director appointments 
are normally for three consecutive three-year terms, subject 
to assessment by the nominations committee after the end 
of each term. The committee makes recommendations on 
reappointment to the board.
Prior to appointment and on any material changes, the external 
commitments of each non-executive director, including those 
of the Chairman, are reviewed. During the year, John Connolly 
became the chairman of a small private company, the Elian 
Group, which is based in Jersey; Linda Adamany was appointed 
as a non-executive director of Leucadia National Corporation, 
Neil Carson was appointed as a non-executive director of 
PayPoint Plc and Colin Day became a director of FM Global and 
was appointed to the FRC Audit Advisory Group. In accordance 
with the board’s policy to ensure that non-executive directors 
are not conflicted and are able to commit sufficient time to 
meet their duties and responsibilities to Amec Foster Wheeler, 
the prospective appointments were disclosed to the board 
for approval. In no case was it considered that the external 
appointment would have a detrimental effect. Each director’s 
undertaking as to their ongoing commitment to the role, 
together with an assessment of their continued independence, 
is reviewed as part of their annual performance evaluation.
Amec Foster Wheeler’s non-executive directors are not 
employed by the company in any capacity, nor have they 
previously been. Kent Masters was the former Chief Executive 
Officer of Foster Wheeler AG and Stephanie Newby was 
formerly an independent non-executive director of Foster 
Wheeler AG. The letters of appointment of the non-executive 
directors are available for inspection at the company’s 
registered office by request to the Company Secretary and will 
be available for inspection at the company’s forthcoming AGM.
Conflicts of interest
The board has procedures in place for the disclosure and 
review of conflicts of interest. No material conflicts of interest 
arose in 2014. Prior to appointment, director-elects provide 
information on any conflicts of interest, and thereafter any 
potential conflicts of interest are considered at the start of 
each board meeting. Accordingly, each director is aware of their 
responsibility to avoid a situation where they have an actual or 
potential conflict of interest, the requirement to keep the same 
under review and inform the Chairman and Company Secretary 
of any change in their situation. An effective procedure is in 
place for the board to authorise conflict situations, should they 
arise, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the 
company’s articles of association.
The Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate 
records, including the scope, of any authorisations granted by 
the board, and ensures the board undertakes regular reviews  
of conflict authorisations.
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external 
appointments without the prior approval of the board.  
In March 2014, Ian McHoul was appointed as a non-executive 
director of Britvic plc. Prior to accepting the appointment, the 
board reviewed the nature of the position and time commitment 
required and concluded that it would not adversely impact  
on his ability to fulfil his role as Chief Financial Officer of  
Amec Foster Wheeler plc. 80
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Professional development
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in the  
co-ordination of director induction and ongoing training.  
A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new 
directors which takes into account their previous experience, 
background and role on the board. The programme is tailored 
accordingly to:
 X provide an understanding of the duties and responsibilities  
of a director and their particular role;
 X build an understanding of how the board operates within 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s structure;
 X further their knowledge and understanding of Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s culture, its business and operations and the 
markets and countries in which it operates;
 X establish a link with Amec Foster Wheeler’s management  
and people; and
 X establish an understanding of the company’s main 
relationships.
New directors are provided with key board, operational  
and financial information and relevant legislatory and 
regulatory guidance. Essential to the success of the programme 
is the varied delivery of materials, at intervals that allow 
the absorption of information at a steady pace. Delivery 
of the induction programme involves a combination of 
documentation, accessible via the portal used by the board  
to communicate and share documents electronically, meetings 
with other members of the board, senior management and their 
extended teams, key external parties including the company’s 
advisers and, where appropriate, major shareholders, and,  
site visits where possible. Where a new director is to serve on a 
board committee, induction material relevant to the committee 
is also provided. Progress against the induction programme 
is reviewed with the director midway through the process to 
ensure a smooth transition into director training and ongoing 
development.
Ongoing training, relevant to each director’s individual 
development needs, continues after appointment. The 
Chairman endeavours to review the training and development 
needs of the directors at least annually. The aim is to ensure 
the further enhancement of their skills and knowledge of the 
business, so that they continue to effectively fulfil their role  
on the board and its committees.
Internally facilitated training is arranged by the Company 
Secretary on topics and issues relevant to the operation of 
the board and the responsibilities of the directors. The board 
receives presentations from management on changes and 
significant developments in the business. Regular updates 
on changes in legislation and communications from the 
Company Secretary’s office on key developments in corporate 
governance are also provided. In addition, use is made of 
external auditor and advisor training programmes. During the 
year the board received presentations from external experts on 
such matters as UK and US requirements in relation to mergers 
and acquisitions and on health and safety legal requirements. 
From time to time the directors individually attend seminars 
and conferences related to their areas of expertise and 
responsibility.
T o further develop the directors’ understanding of the group’s 
operations and culture, the board undertakes visits to various 
places of Amec Foster Wheeler business. As previously 
mentioned, the board visited the group’s Aberdeen operations 
and also Robert Gordon University in 2014.
Evaluation
In line with the recommendations of the Code, each year a 
formal performance evaluation review is undertaken of the 
board, its committees and the directors individually. In 2014,  
the performance evaluation was externally facilitated by 
Lintstock, a third party service provider. Lintstock have been 
the provider of the company’s insider list management software 
since 2011 but other than this and the performance evaluation, 
have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board  
or the company.
The review process involved the completion by each director  
of a survey designed to establish their perceptions in areas such 
as the current composition and expertise of the board; board 
dynamics and the relationships between board members and 
the board and senior management; the board’s management 
of time and the scope of board agendas; the quality of both 
internal and external support to the board including information 
presented at meetings and updates on major developments 
between meetings; and the board’s strategic oversight. 
Opinions were also sought on the appropriateness of the 
board’s risk appetite and approach to risk management and  
on succession planning and human resource management.
The surveys that informed Lintstock’s subsequent report  
to the board, for discussion at its December 2014 meeting,  
were distributed prior to the completion of the acquisition  
of Foster Wheeler. In summary, the results were very positive 
and demonstrated improvement against the outcomes of the 
2013 evaluation process. The overall role played by the board in 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler was very highly rated, as was 
its oversight of the ongoing post acquisition integration process. 
In line with the outcomes of the 2013 review process, areas for 
improvement were again relatively minor and will be addressed 
as the board focuses on the integration of Foster Wheeler and 
achievement of cost and revenue synergies:
 X although there was a high degree of consensus as to the top 
strategic issues facing the company over the next three to five 
years, it was agreed that ensuring greater involvement and 
time spent focusing on strategy and risk and assisting with 
the determination of the strategic direction of the company, 
needed to remain a key area of focus;
 X the introduction of the new organisational structure following 
the acquisition, intended to address the appropriateness 
of the structure of the company at senior levels, will be 
supplemented by greater prioritisation of succession planning 
for the executive directors and key management positions 
below board level and as well increasing the board’s exposure 
to top management to improve their ability to evaluate their 
capabilities; and
 X whilst the composition of the board was rated highly, and has 
subsequently been enhanced by the addition of Stephanie 
Newby and Kent Masters, key changes were identified that 
should be made to the profile of the board over the next three 
to five years to match the company’s strategic goals including 
increased oil and gas experience.
Effectiveness 81
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
In addition, and as required by the Code, during the year 
the Senior Independent Director, having taken the views 
of the non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed 
the performance of the Chairman. The Senior Independent 
Director met with the Chairman in December 2014, to review his 
performance during 2014. The Chief Executive conducts annual 
performance development reviews with his direct reports.
In 2015, the performance evaluation review will again be 
externally facilitated and will include in depth face to face 
interviews with each member of the board.
Information and support
The Company Secretary is fundamental in ensuring the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the board and is responsible for 
ensuring that the directors have timely access to full, accurate 
and relevant information. Agendas and supporting papers for 
board and committee meetings are circulated approximately 
one week prior to the meeting date to allow sufficient time for 
review and enable informed debate and challenge at meetings. 
Monthly interim reports are prepared, including a report from 
the Chief Executive, and these are circulated to the board if  
a meeting is not scheduled in the month.
Where the directors, particularly non-executive directors, 
require further insight on an issue, the Company Secretary will 
facilitate this from the business or relevant members of the 
senior management team. Members of senior management are 
regularly invited to attend board meetings to present on specific 
projects and issues. The Company Secretary ensures that the 
correct board procedures are followed and that the board is 
informed on legislative, regulatory and governance matters 
related to its operation. 
In addition to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, a formal process exists for the directors to 
obtain independent professional advice, at the company’s 
expense, where appropriate and necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities. The Company Secretary is responsible for  
the organisation and co-ordination of access to such advice. 
The Company Secretary is also accountable for ensuring that 
an accurate record is taken of all meetings of the board and  
its committees. If a director had a concern about the running 
of the company or a proposed action that could not be 
resolved, this would be recorded in the minutes. In addition, 
upon resignation, should a director have any such outstanding 
concerns, they would be invited to provide the Chairman 
with a written statement for circulation to the board. No such 
statements were received during 2014. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters 
reserved for the board.
Internal control 
The board is responsible for reviewing Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
systems of internal control. Reviews cover the effectiveness 
and adequacy of financial, operational, compliance and risk 
management systems and are undertaken regularly. These 
systems can, however, only provide reasonable assurance 
against material misstatement or loss, as they are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives.
The board and its committees have an ongoing process that is 
reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the T urnbull 
guidance, for identifying, evaluating and managing significant 
risks faced by Amec Foster Wheeler, including strategy, 
major projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and 
disposals, as well as entry into and exit from different markets. 
The acquisition of Foster Wheeler was completed in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 and we are currently reviewing the control 
framework and integrating the risk and control systems with 
those of the wider group. Where appropriate, business decisions 
are reached following a structured and documented review  
of potential opportunities and threats, taking steps designed  
to manage or mitigate any risk exposure.
The threats and opportunities associated with tender 
submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at 
various levels in the group, in line with delegated authorities. 
The highest value tenders are, in addition, reviewed by the 
tender review committee. Amec Foster Wheeler applies a set 
of contracting principles, under which the level of approval 
required is dependent on the contractual provision in question. 
The most significant issues in terms of risk require the approval 
of the relevant business unit lead and the Group Commercial 
Director.
The internal control processes are complemented by an annual 
control self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal 
businesses. This covers health, safety and environment, legal, 
commercial and contractual, financial, information technology 
and human resources. The results are reviewed by the board, 
through the audit committee, as part of the ongoing internal 
control monitoring process.
Amec Foster Wheeler has interests in a number of joint 
arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part  
of the group’s formal corporate governance process because  
of the joint management responsibilities. Responsibility for  
such reviews rests with the joint venture and joint operations 
boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part of 
Amec Foster Wheeler’s normal internal audit process.
Details of significant joint arrangements can be found on 
page 191.
Details of the Group’s risk management process, including 
reporting and monitoring, and roles and responsibilities can  
be found on page 20.
Accountability 82
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Relations with shareholders
The executive directors undertake an extensive programme 
of meetings with institutional shareholders during each year. 
Events such as results presentations and other capital market 
events are available on our website for those unable to attend  
in person.
Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director offer 
to meet with all major shareholders. Since the publication of the 
previous annual report, six such meetings have taken place.
The Chairman attends full-year results presentations.
Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with members 
of the board are facilitated by the investor relations team.
The board also receives unedited feedback reports following 
shareholder meetings and all material brokers’ research notes, 
together with a report at each meeting showing the company’s 
standing/benchmark within its peer group. 
The company has previously appointed an independent 
consultant to collate the views of shareholders and produce an 
annual perception report. This report was last presented to the 
board in February 2013 and it is expected that a new report will 
be commissioned during 2015.
Information regarding our forthcoming AGM can be found  
on page 85.
Find out more online
We publish our results and presentations on our investor website at  
amecfw.com/investors
Engagement
The Company’s group internal audit function, established by 
authority of the board, has its responsibilities defined by the 
audit committee. The head of the function is accountable to 
the Chief Executive and the audit committee, however, on 
a day-to-day basis accountability is exercised by the Chief 
Financial Officer.
We have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures 
(as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under 
the Exchange Act) under the supervision and the participation 
of the Group Leadership T eam, which is responsible for the 
management of the internal controls, and which includes 
the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer. There are 
inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of 
disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of 
human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls 
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls 
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of 
achieving their control objectives. Based upon our evaluation 
as at 31 December 2014, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer have concluded that the disclosure controls and 
procedures (i) were effective at a reasonable level of assurance 
as of the end of the period covered by this annual report in 
ensuring that information required to be recorded, processed, 
summarised and reported in the reports that are filed or 
submitted under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, 
summarised and reported within the time periods specified in 
the SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) were effective at a reasonable 
level of assurance as of the end of the period covered by this 
annual report in ensuring that information to be disclosed in 
the reports that are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act 
is accumulated and communicated to the management of the 
Company, including the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
This annual report does not include a report of management’s 
assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting 
or an attestation report of the Company’s registered public 
accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules 
of the SEC for newly public companies. 
Changes in internal control over financial reporting 
During the period covered by this annual report, we have 
not made any changes to our internal control over financial 
reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely 
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Accountability continued 83
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Our directors present their annual  
report and the audited accounts of  
Amec F oster Wheeler plc (the Company) 
and its subsidiaries (together referred  
to as the Group) for the year ended  
31 December 2014.
Achievements in 2014 and priorities for 2015
Disclosures relating to particulars of important events affecting 
the Group which have occured since the last financial year and 
an indication of likely future developments in the business of 
the Group can be found in the strategic report on pages 1 to 41.
Change of name
On 13 November 2014, following the acquisition of Foster 
Wheeler AG, the company changed its name to Amec Foster 
Wheeler plc. The names of certain of the Group’s material 
subsidiaries are also in the process of being changed to  
reflect the acquisition.
Dividends
The directors are recommending a final ordinary dividend  
in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 28.5 pence 
per share. This final dividend will be payable on 2 July 2015  
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on  
29 May 2015. An interim dividend for the year ended  
31 December 2014 of 14.8 pence per share was paid on  
5 January 2015. Further information on the payment of 
dividends to shareholders and the holders of American 
Depositary Shares (ADSs) can be found on pages 177 to 178.
Dividends paid during 2014 comprised an interim dividend of 
13.5 pence per share and a final dividend of 28.5 pence per 
share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013.
Changes to the board of directors
Details of the directors of the company as at the date of this 
report, together with brief biographical details and board 
committee memberships, are set out on page 45 to 47 .
Changes to the board since 1 January 2014:
Tim Faithfull Non-executive 
director
Retired 
3 April 2014
Stephanie Newby Non-executive 
director
Appointed  
13 November 2014
Kent Masters Non-executive 
director
Appointed  
13 February 2015
In addition, Simon Thompson will step down as a director at the 
conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance cover. In addition, throughout the financial year 
and at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions within the meaning of Sections 232–234 of the 
Companies Act 2006 were in place for all of the directors  
and the Company Secretary.
Directors’ interests
None of the directors is, or was, materially interested in any 
contract of significance to Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses 
during, or at the end of, the financial year. Details of directors’ 
share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are 
shown in the remuneration report on page 72.
Corporate governance statement
The company’s statement on corporate governance is set  
out on pages 44 to 85 and is incorporated into this report  
by reference.
Share capital
The primary market for Amec Foster Wheeler’s ordinary shares 
is the London Stock Exchange, where we have a premium 
listing and our shares are admitted to the main market. Since 
the completion of the offer for Foster Wheeler, the company’s 
securities have also been traded on the New Y ork Stock 
Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). 
Further information on the company’s ADS programme can  
be found on pages 177 to 178.
The issued share capital of the company as at 31 December 
2014 and movements during the year are set out in note 22 on 
pages 144 to 146. The rights and obligations attaching to the 
shares are set out in full in the articles of association of the 
company and are described on pages 180 to 182. In summary, 
each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings 
of the company and no right to a fixed income. There are no 
restrictions on voting rights.
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2014 AGM to allot 
shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security 
to shares up to a nominal amount of £49,181,027 (Section 551 
amount) of which up to £7 ,451,671 could be allotted for cash 
other than in connection with a pre-emptive offer (Section 561 
amount). T o allow the directors to allot shares to Foster Wheeler 
shareholders in connection with the acquisition, without 
prejudice to the existing authority conferred on the directors 
and approved at the 2014 AGM, this authority was increased at 
the General Meeting held on 23 October 2014 by a maximum 
nominal value of £45,458,521.50, such authority to expire on  
31 December 2015. In anticipation that the offer for Foster 
Wheeler would become effective and the issued share capital 
of the company would increase as a result of the issue of new 
shares to Foster Wheeler shareholders, the authority conferred 
on the directors at the 2014 AGM was also renewed at the 
General Meeting, without prejudice to the authority conferred 
in respect of the new shares to be issued in connection with the 
offer, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £59,228,684.50 of 
which up to £8,974,043 could be allotted for cash other than in 
connection with a pre-emptive offer, such authority to expire at 
the end of the AGM in 2015 or 1 June 2015, whichever is earlier.
In connection with the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, 
85,052,989 shares were issued to Foster Wheeler shareholders 
on 24 November 2014 as partial consideration for the 
acquisition of their Foster Wheeler shares. Pursuant to the 
Squeeze-Out Merger initiated on 8 December 2014 to acquire 
the remaining outstanding issued and to be issued Foster 
Wheeler voting rights, a further 4,255,970 shares were issued  
to Foster Wheeler shareholders on 19 January 2015. 
Directors’ report 84
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to 
extend this authority to the end of the AGM in 2016 or 1 June 
2016, whichever is earlier. The revised Section 551 amount 
will be £64,158,715 and the revised Section 561 amount will 
be £9,721,017 . The directors have no present intention of 
issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of 
share options. No issue will be made that will effectively alter 
the control of the company without the prior approval of 
shareholders at a General Meeting. 
Since the completion of the £400m share buyback programme 
in February 2013, the company has not made any purchases 
of its shares in the market. At the 2014 AGM, authority was 
granted to the directors to make market purchases of up to 
29,806,683 of the company’s shares. In anticipation that the 
offer for Foster Wheeler would become effective and the issued 
share capital of the company would increase as a result of 
the issue of new shares to Foster Wheeler shareholders, this 
authority was renewed at the General Meeting in October 2014, 
allowing the purchase of up to 35,896,172 of the company’s 
shares in the market. This further authority will expire at the 
end of the 2015 AGM or 1 June 2015, whichever is earlier. 
A resolution will be proposed at the 2015 AGM to extend the 
authority of the directors to make market purchases of up to 
10% of the company’s shares within prescribed limits.
Major interests in shares
On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and 
T ransparency Rules (DTR 5) and other notifications received 
by Amec Foster Wheeler plc from shareholders, shareholdings 
of 3% or more of the voting rights of the company as at 
31 December 2014 were as follows:
Number %
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 20,253,855 5.28
BlackRock, Inc 14,946,032 5.01
The shareholding percentages reflect the issued share capital 
at the time of the notifications. On 23 March 2015, pursuant to 
DTR 5, BlackRock, Inc notified the company of their interest in 
21,904,416 shares, representing 5.63% of the voting rights of 
the company. There were no other notifications received under 
DTR 5 between 31 December 2014 and 25 March 2015.
There are no shareholdings that carry special rights relating  
to control of the company.
Financial instruments
Disclosures relating to the group’s use of financial instruments 
can be found in note 19 on pages 134 to 139 and are 
incorporated into this report by reference.
Significant arrangements – change of control
The following significant agreements contain provisions 
entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other 
rights in the event of a change of control of the company:
Under each of the £377m five year multi-currency revolving 
credit facility agreement dated 18 July 2012 (as amended from 
time to time) between, amongst others, the company and The 
Royal Bank of Scotland plc (as facility agent) and the $2,260m 
facilities agreement dated 13 February 2014 (as amended 
and re-stated from time to time), between, amongst others, 
the company and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International 
Limited (as facility agent), the company must promptly notify 
each facility agent if it becomes aware of any change of control.
Following such notice the lenders under the relevant agreement 
are required to negotiate with the company for a period of  
30 days with a view to agreeing terms and conditions 
acceptable to the company and all the relevant lenders for 
continuing the relevant facilities. If agreement is not reached  
by the relevant parties before the end of the 30-day period,  
if a lender so requires, the relevant facility agent must, by 
notice of not less than 30 days to the company, cancel the 
commitments of that lender under the relevant agreement 
and declare the participations of that lender in all outstanding 
loans under that agreement together with accrued interest 
and all other amounts accrued under that agreement to be 
immediately due and payable. 
A change of control occurs if any person or group of persons 
acting in concert gains control of the company.
Depending on the nature of the transaction, entitlements 
under the company’s share plans may be triggered by a 
change of control. Further detail can be found in the directors’ 
remuneration report.
Employees
Our employees embody our knowledge, brand and reputation 
and it is through their activities, day by day, that we deliver  
on our business objectives and commitments to shareholders, 
clients and the wider community. Information on employee 
development and training; how we engage with our employees 
to ensure they understand the direction in which the company 
is going and are committed to Amec Foster Wheeler’s values; 
the actions taken to share knowledge with our employees and 
keep them informed of developments; how we assess and 
act on employee opinion and encourage involvement in the 
company’s performance; and our commitment to cultural 
diversity and equal opportunities can be found on page 16 and 
is incorporated in this report by reference. As can be seen in our 
Code of Business Conduct, Amec Foster Wheeler is committed 
to providing a workplace which offers equal opportunity for 
promotion and advancement. As part of the integration of the 
two AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses, a revised Code of 
Business Conduct is being produced that will meet the needs 
of the wider Group.
Directors’ report continued 85
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
As part of the company’s equal opportunities policy, procedures 
are in place that are designed to provide for full and fair 
consideration and selection of disabled applicants, to ensure 
they are properly trained to perform safely and effectively and 
to provide career opportunities that allow them to fulfil their 
potential. Where an employee becomes disabled in the course 
of their employment, Amec Foster Wheeler will actively seek  
to retain them wherever possible by making adjustments  
to their work content and environment or by retraining them  
to undertake new roles.
Sustainability
Summary details about our commitment to sustainability 
and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set out 
specifically on page 24 and in general throughout our strategic 
report. Further detail is available in our sustainability report  
and on our website.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Disclosures relating to the group’s greenhouse gas emissions, 
as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 
(strategic report and directors’ report) Regulations 2013,  
can be found in the strategic report on page 24.
Political donations
During 2014, Amec Foster Wheeler made no political donations 
in the UK or European Union, including donations as defined for 
the purposes of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums 
Act 2000.
Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited (formerly AMEC 
Americas Limited), a subsidiary of the company in Canada, 
made contributions to non-EU political parties in Canada 
totalling C$1,810 (£995).
Going concern
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the group 
has adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future 
and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the accounts. Further details of this 
review can be found on page 39.
Auditor
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment 
of Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditor of the company.
Disclosure of information to auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the company’s 
auditor is unaware; and the directors have taken all the steps 
that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the company’s auditor is aware of that information.
The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418  
of the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibility statements
The statement of directors’ responsibilities, including the fair, 
balanced and understandable statement, in respect of the 
annual report and accounts can be found on page 86.  
The statement by the Company’s auditor relating to their 
reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 93 and 94.
Annual general meeting
This year’s AGM will be held at Glaziers Hall, 9 Montague Close, 
London Bridge, London SE1 9DD on 14 May 2015 at 11:00am. 
The notice of meeting, which includes explanatory notes on the 
business to be transacted at the meeting, accompanies this 
report and is also available on our website.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to receive  
the annual report and accounts; to declare a final dividend;  
to approve the remuneration report and remuneration policy;  
to re-elect all of the current directors who will retire in 
accordance with the provisions of the Code; to re-elect  
Ernst & Y oung LLP as auditor; and to authorise the directors  
to fix the auditor’s remuneration.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general 
authority of the directors to allot shares in the company  
and to allot such shares without the application of statutory 
pre-emption rights. In addition, shareholders will be requested 
to authorise the company to make market purchases of its own 
shares within prescribed limits and approve the resolution,  
to be repeated at each AGM going forward, to authorise the 
calling of general meetings, other than annual general meetings, 
on 14 clear days’ notice. This year shareholders will be asked to 
approve updated UK and International Sharesave Scheme rules 
together with the rules for a new LTIP (Amec Foster Wheeler plc 
Long T erm Incentive Plan 2015).
The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly 
communicate the group’s progress and engage with 
shareholders. Where possible, the entire board will attend the 
AGM and will be available to answer questions from those 
shareholders present. The board encourages all shareholders  
to attend and participate where possible.
On behalf of the board
Alison Y app
General Counsel and Company Secretary
26 March 2015
Find out more online
Visit our website at amecfw.com/investors for further information regarding 
this year’s AGM. 86
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the annual report and the accounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the consolidated and parent company accounts, in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated 
and parent company accounts for each financial year. Under 
that law the directors are required to prepare the consolidated 
accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under Company law the directors must not approve the 
consolidated and parent company accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for 
that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company 
accounts, the directors are required to:
 X select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 X make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
 X for the consolidated accounts, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
 X for the parent company accounts, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company accounts; and
 X prepare the consolidated and parent company accounts on 
the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the consolidated and the parent company will continue  
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on  
the company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing  
the preparation and dissemination of consolidated and parent 
company accounts may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect  
of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 X the accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
 X the strategic report and directors’ report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the issuer and undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description  
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, we confirm that the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the position and performance, strategy and business model  
of the company.
Signed on behalf of the board
 
Samir Brikho
Chief Executive
  
Ian McHoul
Chief Financial Officer
26 March 2015
Responsibility statements of the directors 87
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
 X the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 X the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and;
 X the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
 X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of Amec Foster Wheeler plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise:
Group Parent Company
Consolidated income statement Company balance sheet
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Related notes 1 to 10
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Related notes 1 to 27
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group has applied International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Overview
Materiality X Overall Group materiality of £14m which represents  
5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Audit scope X We performed an audit of the complete financial information 
of 6 components and audit procedures on specific balances 
for a further 36 components.
 X The 42 reporting components where we performed full and 
specific scope audit procedures accounted for 92% of Group 
revenue and 90% of the Group’s profit before tax.
 X We performed limited scope audit procedures on 18 further 
components.
 X We performed additional procedures to address any residual 
risk at non-specific scope locations.
Areas of focus X Revenue recognition on contracts.
 X Adequacy of contract related provisions.
 X Purchase price allocation on Foster Wheeler acquisition.
 X Goodwill impairment.
 X T ax planning and deferred tax asset recognition. 
 X Adequacy of legacy liabilities.
 X Presentation of exceptional items.
 X Risk of fraud and management override.
Our application of materiality 
We determined materiality for the Group to be £14m (2013: £15m), which is calculated as 5% of adjusted profit before tax, key 
elements of which are outlined below. We believe that this adjusted profit measure provides us with a consistent year on year basis 
for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc 
Registered number 1675285
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 88
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
How we determined materiality:
Audit procedures have been performed on material exceptional items. The adjusted profit before tax provides a basis for identifying 
and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. 
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment and other qualitative 
considerations, our judgement was that overall performance materiality (i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual 
account or balance) for the Group should be 50% (2013: 75%) of planning materiality, namely £7m (2013: £11m). Our objective in 
adopting this approach was to reduce to an appropriate level the probability that the aggregate of total undetected and uncorrected 
misstatements for the accounts as a whole did not exceed our planning materiality. Due to the Foster Wheeler acquisition, Amec 
Foster Wheeler plc is now a dual listed entity in the UK and US for the first time and there is therefore a change in the overall risk 
profile from the prior year which is reflected in the lower performance materiality.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality. The performance 
materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that 
component. In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was £1m to £7m. The upper end  
of the range was allocated to those components which reflected 100% of a single line item within the consolidated balance sheet 
or the related notes. 
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of £0.5m (2013: £0.5m), 
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the 
light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Scope of our audit 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected 60 components 
which represent the principal business units within the Group’s five reportable segments. 6 of these components were subject 
to a full audit, 36 were subject to a specific scope audit and 18 were subject to a limited scope audit. The extent of audit work 
on specific and limited scope audits was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement outlined below and the 
materiality of the location’s business operations relative to the Group. The audit procedures at specific scope components may 
not include testing of all significant accounts of the location but accounts subject to audit procedure contribute to the coverage 
of significant accounts tested for the Group. The group audit team directs the component teams at all stages of the audit. Full 
and specific component testing of significant risks focused on revenue recognition on contracts, adequacy of contract related 
provisions, tax, litigation and purchase price allocation. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
Materiality
Adjustments
Profit before tax £155m
Exceptional items:
X  T ransaction, integration and other exceptional costs of £82m
X  Loss on business disposals and closures of £16m
Asbestos-related costs of £9m 
T ax on results of joint ventures of £6m
T ake 5% of the adjusted profit before tax
Starting basis
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 89
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
For the remaining components, we performed other procedures to test or assess that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement in these components in relation to the Group financial statements. The components subject to full audit or specific 
scope audit procedures accounted for 92% of Group revenue and 90% of the Group’s profit before tax. For components that 
comprise a sub consolidation, further scoping has been performed. This means that not all balances within certain full scope 
components have been audited. The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed 
to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each full scope location at least once every two years on a 
rotational basis. The group audit team visited 5 components in total over the course of the current year audit including Amec 
Foster Wheeler head office in London, UK, Foster Wheeler head office in Reading, UK, Amec Foster Wheeler in Knutsford, UK, 
Foster Wheeler in New Jersey, USA, Amec Europe in Aberdeen, UK, and Amec Americas in T oronto, Canada. The group audit team 
were responsible for auditing 29 components directly, including 1 full scope, 16 specific scope and 12 limited scope audits. For all 
full scope entities, the group audit team has reviewed key working papers and challenged conclusions on significant risk areas 
relevant to each component, as identified at the scoping stage, primarily revenue recognition on contracts, adequacy of contract 
related provisions and the purchase price allocation on the Foster Wheeler acquisition. 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements and 
consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources and the efforts of the engagement 
team, including the more senior members of the team: 
Principal risk area and rationale Response
Revenue recognition on contracts & adequacy of contract related provisions
Amec Foster Wheeler has reimbursable cost, lump sum 
and target cost contracts. The majority of contracts are 
reimbursable, however, the acquisition of Foster Wheeler has 
increased the exposure of the enlarged Group to fixed price 
contracts and the risks associated with these contracts. 
Contract accounting and the associated judgements over 
revenue and costs is highlighted as a key estimate in Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s accounting policies.
Risks include:
 X inappropriate percentage of completion accounting;
 X incorrect recognition of variation orders;
 X inappropriate end life forecast costs, estimated profit and 
contingencies;
 X inaccurate recognition of costs; and
 X warranty accounting based upon inaccurate data and 
assumptions.
Contract related provisions comprise disputes with customers, 
application of the Group’s aged WIP policy, recoverability of 
receivables and other contractual disputes. 
Risks include:
 X unrecorded liabilities for contractual disputes; and
 X mis-application of Group’s accounting policies.
We performed audit procedures on the controls in place 
to assess the appropriate determination of the percentage 
completion of each significant fixed price contract. 
We challenged management in respect of the reasonableness 
of judgements made regarding the cost to complete 
estimate, the timing of recognition of variation orders, and 
the appropriateness of assumptions made in calculating 
warranty provisions. 
Whilst revenue recognised on Foster Wheeler contracts was 
not material to the Group in 2014, we focussed our audit 
testing on the recoverability of unbilled receivable balances 
and adequacy of cost contingencies within contracts. 
We challenged management’s assessments around the 
potential for liquidated damages for projects behind schedule 
and the adequacy of contingency provisions to mitigate 
contract specific risks. For those balances subject to claims 
we made enquires of external and internal legal counsel. 
We consider these to be the key judgemental areas driving 
the recognition of revenue and margins in respect of long 
term contracts. We also assessed whether management’s 
policies and processes for making these estimates continue 
to be appropriate and are applied consistently to all contracts 
of a similar nature.
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 90
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Principal risk area and rationale Response
Preliminary purchase price allocation on Foster Wheeler acquisition
On 13 November 2014, the Group acquired Foster Wheeler AG 
for £1.9bn. The acquisition accounting includes the need to 
determine the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities 
at the acquisition date. This included complex valuation 
considerations and required the use of specialists.
Risks include:
 X inappropriate judgements in determining the fair values for 
the assets acquired;
 X use of inaccurate forecast financial and operational data that 
underpins valuations; 
 X costs are provided before there is an obligation; and
 X accounting policy differences on the Foster Wheeler 
acquisition are not identified. 
We focused on this area given the significant judgements 
involved in assessing the preliminary fair values of assets 
and liabilities acquired for the purposes of the 2014 Group 
financial statements. The fair values are based on valuation 
techniques built, in part, on assumptions around the future 
performance of the business. We challenged the assumptions 
underpinning the valuations, assessed the fair value of the 
identified assets and liabilities, audited the accounting 
differences upon alignment of policy and IFRS conversion 
and evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures in the Group’s 
financial statements. 
The two most significant adjustments recognised were for 
acquired intangible assets (£738m) and asbestos liabilities 
(£347m).
 X With involvement of EY valuation specialists, we challenged 
and evaluated management’s valuation of acquired 
intangible assets as prepared by their advisers. This 
included challenge of the key assumptions made by 
management, such as the discount rates and royalty rates 
applied, and the projected financial information. We have 
re-performed certain aspects of the valuation. We consider 
that the preliminary valuation for the total intangibles 
recognised on acquisition falls within a reasonable range.
 X The Company utilised a third party actuarial firm to 
estimate the fair value of the asbestos-related liability. 
Significant inputs into the liability estimate include number 
of open claims, estimated cost per claim and forecasted 
future claim levels. In addition, there are assumptions 
including the discount rate and risk free rate within the 
actuarial analysis to determine the fair value of the liability. 
We tested the accuracy of a sample of claims data to 
source documentation and verified the completeness and 
accuracy of the data utilized in the valuation to the claims 
database. We also engaged EY actuarial specialists to 
assess the appropriateness of the methodology followed 
and to evaluate the significant assumptions utilised in the 
valuation. We also considered alternative assumptions to 
challenge the sensitivities and uncertainties relating to 
the liabilities.
We challenged the recognition and measurement of other 
adjustments recognised including legal and environmental 
provisions and unfavourable lease obligations, for 
which further EY specialists assistance was obtained 
where necessary. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 91
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Principal risk area and rationale Response
Goodwill impairment
The Group has £2,390m goodwill at the year end. This has 
increased by £1,633m from 2013, largely as a result of the 
Foster Wheeler acquisition. Irrespective of whether there is 
any indication of impairment, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is required to be tested for impairment annually. 
An impairment arises when the recoverable amount is less 
than the carrying value of the investment.
Risks include:
 X the incorrect determination of the cash generating units used 
to assess goodwill for impairment;
 X the incorrect allocation of goodwill to cash generating units;
 X inaccurate models are used to calculate the Value in Use of 
cash generating units; and
 X the assumptions to support goodwill values (e.g. discount 
rates and growth rates) are inappropriate.
We challenged the allocation of goodwill arising on acquisition 
to cash generating units. 
We reviewed the valuations prepared by management and 
supporting third party evidence. We have performed audit 
procedures on the integrity of models and appropriateness of 
cash generating units.
We challenged the assumptions used in respect of forecast 
growth rates and involved EY valuation specialists to review 
the appropriateness of the discount rates used which 
included comparison to economic and industry forecasts 
where appropriate. 
We have compared the forecasts used in generating the 
value in use to current trading conditions, and challenged 
management on the assumptions underpinning the forecasts. 
We applied professional scepticism when reviewing the 
forecasts by stress testing key assumptions, assessing the 
impact on the sensitivity analysis, and understanding the 
degree to which assumptions would need to move before 
impairment would be triggered. 
Tax planning and reserves
The Group enters into tax planning strategies to reduce its 
tax exposure where tax laws permit. In particular there are 
financing structures in Canada, the US and Australia that 
reduce the overall tax rate of the Group. Risk provisions are 
held where it is more likely than not that a liability will crystallise 
in relation to planning, a tax position taken in relation to 
submitted returns or a tax audit. The amount of provision and 
whether it is more likely than not that it will crystallise are both 
judgemental areas.
Given the volume and complexity of the intra-group 
transactions including management recharges, transfer pricing 
is an area of complexity and judgement, and is closely managed. 
Certain provisions recorded to reflect areas of uncertainty.
Risks include:
 X significant judgements involved in determining the provision 
for tax liabilities, can result in misstatement of provisions; and
 X there are a range of possible transfer prices, therefore there 
is a risk of challenge by the tax authorities, particularly with 
the increased focus on tax and multinational businesses. 
We challenged and applied professional scepticism to tax 
exposures estimated by management and the risk analysis 
associated with these exposures along with claims or 
assessments made by tax authorities to date. We have 
audited the components of the tax risk provision to ensure 
they reflect the tax risks in the business and that the 
provisions are appropriate in the circumstances. We have also 
reviewed documentation in relation to tax audits to ensure 
that any exposures the tax authorities are raising have been 
considered and provided for where necessary.
We have reviewed the significant transfer pricing policies 
applied by the Group and the support for them. We have 
challenged these where appropriate, with involvement of 
our own specialists, and ensured that the tax risk provision 
includes appropriate provisions for such risks.
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 92
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Principal risk area and rationale Response
Deferred tax asset recognition
There are significant deferred tax assets in the US, Canada 
and Australia, the recognition of which depends on the future 
profit forecasts for those businesses. As the forecasts, and what 
period can reliably be forecasted are inherently judgemental 
this is an area we focus on.
Risks include:
 X significant judgements involved in determining the recognition 
of deferred tax can result in misstatement of deferred tax 
assets and liabilities, and therefore the groups tax charge and 
effective tax rate.
We challenged and applied professional scepticism to 
management’s rationale for their reassessment of forecast 
models, considered the appropriateness of management’s 
assumptions and the consistency of approach across the 
various tax groups in relation to the likelihood of generating 
suitable future profits to support the recognition of deferred 
tax assets.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting taxable 
profits and the integrity of the forecast models and, as a 
result of these procedures, we formed our own view on 
the Group’s capacity to obtain effective relief for deferred 
tax assets.
In particular we assessed the consistency between the 
different countries regarding the recognition of deferred 
taxes, and that a consistent methodology was applied 
by the Foster Wheeler entities.
Adequacy of legacy liabilities
Risk remains with divested businesses in respect of claims or 
potential claims. Determining the impact and likely outcome of 
any litigation matters requires significant judgement. Therefore, 
estimating litigation reserves and contingent liabilities can 
involve highly judgemental estimates.
Risks include:
 X the judgements involved in determining the likely outcome 
of legal cases or investigations results in a risk those legal 
provisions may be incorrect; and
 X failure to provide on a timely basis for claims due to lack of 
understanding or awareness of the claim.
We challenged and applied professional scepticism 
to judgements and accounting treatments made by 
management arising from contractual disputes and other 
risks. We performed audit procedures on supporting 
calculations and assumptions to challenge whether these are 
appropriate in the circumstances and in line with the Group’s 
accounting policies as well as the requirements of IFRS. 
Where appropriate we have held discussions with 
management’s legal experts, and also obtained and 
considered legal letters and other supporting documentation. 
Presentation of exceptional items
Amec Foster Wheeler consider the separate reporting of 
exceptional costs helps to provide a better indication of the 
group’s underlying business performance where items are 
material by size or nature.
Continuing pre-tax exceptional costs recorded in the current 
year are £107m (2013: £25m).
Risks include:
 X inappropriate classification of costs as exceptional items;
 X inconsistent treatment of exceptional items from year to year; 
and
 X inappropriate quantification of exceptional costs.
We have tested a sample of costs classed as exceptional to 
assess whether the cost has been recorded in the appropriate 
period. We have also challenged whether the items are 
recorded in line with the Group’s policy for exceptional items 
and are excluded from trading profit appropriately.
In particular, we have reviewed, and challenged the 
appropriateness of the workings and rationale supporting the 
inclusion of internal labour within acquisition and integration 
costs, as well as restructuring costs. 
We have applied specific consideration to the level of 
transparency of the disclosures and that the policy has been 
consistently applied year on year. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 93
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Principal risk area and rationale Response
Risk of fraud and management override
The risk of fraud exists in any business. However, fraud involving 
the manipulation of results to achieve performance targets 
are particularly harmful to shareholder value and the current 
economic environment has increased their risk of occurrence. 
Furthermore, the evolution of the business and geographical 
footprint across new territories heightens the risk of fraud and 
bribery and corruption. Business practice in emerging markets 
may expose Amec Foster Wheeler to financial, legal and 
reputational risk. 
Risks include:
 X manipulation of results to achieve performance targets;
 X asset mis-appropriation, particularly involving third party 
suppliers who may overbill for goods or services; and
 X facilitation payments.
Procedures included analytical procedures and journal 
entry testing in order to identify and address the risk of 
management override of controls. We designed testing 
procedures and thresholds for all balances in such a way  
as to ensure that the risk of fraud and error is mitigated.
We have reviewed group internal audit reports in remote 
locations and assessed whether findings are indicative of 
fraudulent activities, tailoring our audit approach accordingly. 
We have reviewed key management bonus and long term 
incentive plans and challenged assumptions used in the 
calculations.
We challenged and corroborated the basis of management’s 
key estimates. 
We considered T ransparency International’s Corruption 
Perception Index 2013 when performing our scoping exercise. 
Components with significant operations in countries which 
are high on the Index have been included in our in scope 
components. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
 X the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 X the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 86, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed. 
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 94
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following. 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
 X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or 
 X is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during 
the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the 
annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should 
have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 X the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 X certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 X the directors’ statement, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern; and 
 X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
Hywel Ball (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP  
Statutory Auditor, London
26 March 2015
Notes
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Amec Foster Wheeler Plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does 
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amec F oster Wheeler plc continued
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 95
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Amec Foster Wheeler plc 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amec Foster Wheeler plc as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, 
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three 
years in the period ended December 31, 2014. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company’s internal control over 
financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, 
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles 
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that 
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position 
of Amec Foster Wheeler plc at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. 
Ernst & Y oung LLP
London, England
26 March 2015
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 96
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
2014 2013 2012
Note
Before 
amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos 
related items 
£m
Amortisation, 
exceptional 
items and 
asbestos 
related items 
(note 5) 
£m
Total 
£m
Before 
amortisation 
and 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Amortisation 
and 
exceptional 
items 
(note 5) 
£m
T otal 
£m
Before 
amortisation 
and 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Amortisation 
and 
exceptional 
items 
(note 5) 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations 
Revenue 2, 3 3,993 – 3,993 3,974 – 3,974 4,088 – 4,088
Cost of sales (3,475) – (3,475) (3,431) – (3,431) (3,556) – (3,556)
Gross profit 518 – 518 543 – 543 532 – 532
Administrative expenses (219) (135) (354) (228) (65) (293) (221) (68) (289)
Loss on business 
disposals and closures – (16) (16) – (7) (7) – – –
Profit/(loss) before net 
financing expense 4 299 (151) 148 315 (72) 243 311 (68) 243
Financial income 11 – 11 12 – 12 10 – 10
Financial expense (11) (5) (16) (14) – (14) (11) – (11)
Net financing expense 7 – (5) (5) (2) – (2) (1) – (1)
Share of post-tax results  
of joint ventures 2, 13 12 – 12 14 – 14 12 – 12
Profit/(loss) before 
income tax 2 311 (156) 155 327 (72) 255 322 (68) 254
Income tax 8 (67) 18 (49) (67) (2) (69) (68) 21 (47)
Profit/(loss) for the 
year from continuing 
operations 244 (138) 106 260 (74) 186 254 (47) 207
(Loss)/profit for the 
year from discontinued 
operations 9 (8) (19) (27) (8) – (8) (3) 5 2
Profit/(loss) for the year 236 (157) 79 252 (74) 178 251 (42) 209
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the 
parent 82 179 208
Non-controlling interests (3) (1) 1
79 178 209
Basic earnings/(loss) 
per share 10
Continuing operations 81.8p 36.1p 89.0p 63.8p 80.1p 65.2p
Discontinued operations (2.6)p (8.9)p (2.7)p (2.7)p (0.8)p 0.6p
79.2p 27.2p 86.3p 61.1p 79.3p 65.8p
Diluted earnings/(loss) 
per share 10
Continuing operations 79.5p 35.1p 87 .2p 62.5p 78.6p 64.0p
Discontinued operations (2.5)p (8.6)p (2.7)p (2.7)p (0.8)p 0.6p
77.0p 26.5p 84.5p 59.8p 77.8p 64.6p
Consolidated income statement
F or the year ended 31 December 2014 97
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit for the year 79 178 209
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss
Exchange movements:
− Exchange movements on translation of foreign subsidiaries 17 (70) (34)
− Net (loss)/gain on hedges of net investment in foreign subsidiaries 19 (4) (1) 1
− T ax on exchange movements – 1 (1)
Cash flow hedges:
− Effective portion of changes in fair value (1) 3 3
− T ax on effective portion of changes in fair value – (1) (1)
− T ransferred to the income statement – 1 –
12 (67) (32)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes 14 (58) 40 37
T ax on actuarial (losses)/gains 11 (20) (24)
(47) 20 13
Other comprehensive income (35) (47) (19)
Total comprehensive income 44 131 190
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 47 133 189
Non-controlling interests (3) (2) 1
Total comprehensive income 44 131 190
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
F or the year ended 31 December 2014 98
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 157 39
Intangible assets 12 3,319 907
Interests in joint ventures 13 122 52
Derivative financial instruments 19 2 1
Retirement benefit assets 14 102 102
Other receivables 20 149 24
Deferred tax assets 15 61 35
Total non-current assets 3,912 1,160
Current assets
Inventories 16 14 3
T rade and other receivables 17 1,506 956
Derivative financial instruments 19 12 5
Current tax receivable 18 10
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 21 18
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 23 495 232
Total current assets 2,066 1,224
Total assets 5,978 2,384
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23 (710) (129)
T rade and other payables 18 (1,381) (801)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (14) (1)
Current tax payable (132) (73)
Total current liabilities (2,237) (1,004)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 23 (609) –
T rade and other payables 20 (83) (11)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (5) –
Retirement benefit liabilities 14 (188) (62)
Deferred tax liabilities 15 (136) (20)
Provisions 21 (696) (163)
Total non-current liabilities (1,717) (256)
Total liabilities (3,954) (1,260)
Net assets 2,024 1,124
EQUITY
Share capital 22 194 152
Share premium account 22 978 101
Hedging and translation reserves 22 45 33
Capital redemption reserve 22 34 34
Retained earnings 22 744 802
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,995 1,122
Non-controlling interests 29 2
Total equity 2,024 1,124
The accounts on pages 96 to 155 were approved by the board of directors on 26 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
Samir Brikho Ian McHoul 
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014
Registered number 1675285 99
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2014 152 101 1 32 34 802 1,122 2 1,124
Profit for the year – – – – – 82 82 (3) 79
Exchange movements on 
translation of foreign subsidiaries – – – 17 – – 17 – 17
Net loss on hedges of net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries – – – (4) – – (4) – (4)
Effective portion of changes in fair 
value of cash flow hedges – – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension schemes – – – – – (58) (58) – (58)
T ax on actuarial losses – – – – – 11 11 – 11
Other comprehensive income 
for the year – – (1) 13 – (47) (35) – (35)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year – – (1) 13 – 35 47 (3) 44
Dividends – – – – – (124) (124) – (124)
Equity-settled share-based 
payments – – – – – 25 25 – 25
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 6 6 – 6
Arising on business combinations – – – – – – – 30 30
Shares issued 42 877 – – – – 919 – 919
As at 31 December 2014 194 978 – 45 34 744 1,995 29 2,024
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
F or the year ended 31 December 2014 100
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2013 154 101 (2) 101 32 693 1,079 4 1,083
Profit for the year – – – – – 179 179 (1) 178
Exchange movements on 
translation of foreign subsidiaries – – – (69) – – (69) (1) (70)
Net loss on hedges of net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries – – – (1) – – (1) – (1)
T ax on exchange movements – – – 1 – – 1 – 1
Effective portion of changes in fair 
value of cash flow hedges – – 3 – – – 3 – 3
T ax on effective portion of 
changes in fair value of cash flow 
hedges – – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Cash flow hedges transferred to 
the income statement – – 1 – – – 1 – 1
Actuarial gains on defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – 40 40 – 40
T ax on actuarial gains – – – – – (20) (20) – (20)
Other comprehensive income 
for the year – – 3 (69) – 20 (46) (1) (47)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year – – 3 (69) – 199 133 (2) 131
Dividends – – – – – (108) (108) – (108)
Equity-settled share-based 
payments – – – – – 14 14 – 14
T ax on equity-settled share-based 
payments – – – – – (1) (1) – (1)
Acquisition of shares by trustees 
of the Performance Share Plan – – – – – (2) (2) – (2)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 7 7 – 7
Acquisition of shares under the 
buyback programme (2) – – – 2 – – – –
As at 31 December 2013 152 101 1 32 34 802 1,122 2 1,124
Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2013 101
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
T ranslation 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
As at 1 January 2012 169 101 (4) 135 17 955 1,373 1 1,374
Profit for the year – – – – – 208 208 1 209
Exchange movements on 
translation of foreign subsidiaries – – – (34) – – (34) – (34)
Net gain on hedges of net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries – – – 1 – – 1 – 1
T ax on exchange movements – – – (1) – – (1) – (1)
Effective portion of changes in fair 
value of cash flow hedges – – 3 – – – 3 – 3
T ax on effective portion of 
changes in fair value of cash flow 
hedges – – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit 
pension schemes – – – – – 37 37 – 37
T ax on actuarial gains – – – – – (24) (24) – (24)
Other comprehensive income 
for the year – – 2 (34) – 13 (19) – (19)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year – – 2 (34) – 221 189 1 190
Dividends – – – – – (98) (98) – (98)
Equity-settled share-based 
payments – – – – – 15 15 – 15
Acquisition of shares by trustees 
of the Performance Share Plan – – – – – (6) (6) – (6)
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – – – 9 9 – 9
Acquisition of treasury shares – – – – – (36) (36) – (36)
Acquisition of shares under the 
buyback programme (15) – – – 15 (322) (322) – (322)
Forward share purchase 
agreement as at  
31 December 2012* – – – – – (45) (45) – (45)
Arising on business combinations – – – – – – – 2 2
As at 31 December 2012 154 101 (2) 101 32 693 1,079 4 1,083
*See note 19 for further details.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity continued
F or the year ended 31 December 2012 102
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 155 255 254
(Loss)/profit before income tax from discontinued operations 9 (33) (16) 2
Profit before income tax 122 239 256
Financial income 7 (11) (12) (10)
Financial expense 7 16 14 11
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 2, 13 (12) (14) (12)
Intangible amortisation 5, 12 49 47 44
Impairment of joint venture investment 13 – – 3
Depreciation 11 16 12 11
Loss on disposal of businesses 5 44 6 11
Difference between contributions to retirement benefit schemes  
and current service cost (2) – (5)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment – (1) (2)
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1 – 1
Equity-settled share-based payments 8 14 15
231 305 323
Decrease in inventories – 1 –
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 106 66 (154)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables and provisions (137) (80) 102
Cash generated from operations 200 292 271
T ax paid (54) (52) (29)
Net cash flow from operating activities 146 240 242
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) 24 (781) (20) (159)
Funding of joint ventures (1) (7) (11)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (14) (10) (19)
Purchase of intangible assets (17) (13) (15)
Movements in bank deposits (more than three months) (3) (1) 11
Disposal of businesses (net of cash disposed of) (2) (4) (6)
Disposal of joint ventures (21) – –
Disposal of property, plant and equipment – 1 4
Interest received 4 9 8
Dividends received from joint ventures 13 14 8 11
Amounts paid on maturity of net investment hedges (7) (3) (7)
Net cash flow from investing activities (828) (40) (183)
Net cash flow before financing activities (682) 200 59
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from other borrowings 1,198 100 150
Repayments of other borrowings (100) (130) –
Cash flows in respect of facility arrangement fees (13) – –
Interest paid (7) (11) (9)
Dividends paid (124) (108) (98)
Acquisition of shares for cancellation – (45) (322)
Cash flows in respect of treasury shares (net)* 6 7 (27)
Acquisition of shares by trustees of the Performance Share Plan – (2) (6)
Net cash flow from financing activities 960 (189) (312)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 278 11 (253)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the beginning of the year 223 232 493
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (6) (20) (8)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 495 223 232
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash at bank and in hand 23 377 153 169
Bank deposits (less than three months) 23 118 79 89
Bank overdrafts 23 – (9) (26)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year 23 495 223 232
Bank deposits (more than three months) 23 21 18 17
Bank loans 23 (1,267) (120) (150)
Fees capitalised against bank facilities 23 9 – –
Finance leases 23 (61) – –
Net (debt)/cash as at the end of the year (803) 121 99
*Net of £6m (2013: £7m; 2012: £9m) received from SAYE option holders on exercise of options.
Consolidated cash flow statement
F or the year ended 31 December 2014 103
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies
On 13 November 2014, following Amec plc acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, the company changed its name from Amec plc to 
Amec Foster Wheeler plc. The primary market for Amec Foster Wheeler’s shares is the London Stock Exchange where we have a 
premium listing and our shares are admitted to the main market. Since the completion of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the 
company’s securities have also been traded on the New Y ork Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares.
Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December 
each year, and the Group’s share of the profit after interest and tax and net assets of joint ventures based on the equity method 
of accounting.
In accordance with EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002), the consolidated accounts of the Group have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted for use in the EU as at 31 December 2014 (adopted 
IFRS), International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations and those parts of the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts 
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP); these are presented on pages 156 to 162.
From the Group’s perspective, there are no applicable differences between adopted IFRS and IFRS as issued by the IASB, and 
therefore the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Accounting standards adopted in the year
There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material 
impact on the Group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ . 
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including the new expected 
credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and the new general hedge accounting requirements. It also 
carries forward guidance on recognition and derecognition on financial instruments from IAS 39. IFRS 9 is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 
‘Revenue’ , IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective. Under IFRS 15 an entity 
recognises revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied. That is when the control of goods or services underlying 
the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. The standard provides far more prescriptive guidance with 
regards to specific scenarios and requires extensive disclosures. IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2017 with early application permitted.
The application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 in the future may have a material impact on the amounts reported and disclosures made 
in the Group’s accounts. However it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 until the 
Group performs a detailed review.
Other than as described above, there are no other IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations which are not yet effective that 
would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Basis of preparation
The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million. All calculated numbers, for example earnings per share,  
are calculated on the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision. They are prepared on the historical cost basis except 
that derivative financial instruments and retirement benefit assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors 
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements 
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Notes to the consolidated accounts 104
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation continued
Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies 
and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from:
 X acquisition accounting under IFRS 3 ’Business Combinations’;
 X long-term contracts under IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’; 
 X intangible assets including goodwill under IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’;
 X provisions under IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’; and 
 X defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee Benefits’ .
In addition, judgement has also been applied in the presentation of certain research and development government credits and 
in presenting the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation in 2013.
IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’
During the year the Group acquired Foster Wheeler. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase under IFRS 3. Determining 
the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired involved significant judgement and estimates. This involved the use of valuation 
models to determine the fair value of the intangible assets acquired. Inputs to these models include estimates of the future cash 
flows of Foster Wheeler; the appropriate discount rate to apply to these future cash flows, estimates of the retention rates for 
key customers and the likelihood of renewal of significant service contracts. Further information about the assumptions used 
for calculating provisions and goodwill are documented below.
IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’
A significant amount of the Group’s activities is undertaken via long-term contracts. These contracts are accounted for in 
accordance with IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ which requires estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues. 
Management bases its judgements of contract costs and revenues on the latest available information, which includes detailed 
contract valuations. In many cases the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term contractual obligations which span more 
than one reporting period. Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome 
of future events and often need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved. The estimates of contract costs 
and revenues are updated regularly and significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures. In 
particular, the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age and recoverability of any 
unagreed income from variations to the contract scope or claims. The impact of the changes in accounting estimates is then 
reflected in the ongoing results. 
Principally, there are two types of long-term contracts being cost reimbursable contracts and fixed price contracts. Due to the 
nature of these contracts the significant estimates tend to arise on fixed price contracts rather than cost reimbursable contracts.
IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’
The Group has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet. Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents 
the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is 
capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be 
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The determination of carrying value involves significant judgements when allocating goodwill to the cash generating units (‘CGUs’) 
expected to benefit from the acquisition. The estimation of the recoverable amounts also requires significant judgements and 
estimates including the future cash flows of the CGU, terminal growth rates and the appropriate rate at which to discount those 
cash flows. See note 12 for further details of the impairment reviews performed during the year.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The cost of an 
intangible asset acquired in a business combination is the fair value of the asset at the date of acquisition. Amortisation is charged 
to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 105
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation continued
IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’
When accounting for provisions for litigation and other items the Group has taken internal and external advice in considering 
known legal claims and actions made by or against the Group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action. 
Appropriate provisions are made for legal claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions 
are made for those which, in the view of management, are unlikely to succeed. 
The Group has a significant asbestos related provision. Some of the Group’s US and UK subsidiaries are defendants in numerous 
asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and UK. Plaintiffs claim damages for personal 
injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed by the Group’s 
subsidiaries during the 1970s and earlier.
The provision for asbestos is the Group’s best estimate of its obligation required to settle claims that is expected to continue 
up until 2050. The provision is discounted back to a net present value using a US T reasury yield curve discount rate. 
See note 21 for further details of the Group’s provisions.
IAS 19 (revised) ‘Employee Benefits’
Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries but 
significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation 
and member life expectancy that underpin their valuations. For Amec Foster Wheeler, these assumptions are important given the 
relative size of the schemes that remain open for future accrual. 
See note 14 for further details of the Group’s retirement benefit schemes.
IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’
In accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ , the post-tax results of discontinued 
operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement. 
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007 , SPIE, which was sold 
in 2006, and the UK conventional power business that was discontinued in 2013. The cash flows of discontinued operations are 
fully consolidated within Amec Foster Wheeler up to the date of sale. The results and other disclosures in respect of discontinued 
operations are shown in note 9.
Going concern
The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future. 
During the year, the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG was partially funded by utilising committed banking facilities. This resulted 
in the Group having net debt of £803m as at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: net cash of £121m). In addition, as at 
31 December 2014 the Group had committed banking facilities of £1,863m. As at 31 December 2014, the undrawn portion of the 
Group’s committed facilities was £440m.
The Group has complied with all applicable covenant requirements and has assessed it will be able to meet expected mandatory 
interest and repayment of its banking facilities in place.
The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and its committed banking facilities. The Group’s 
policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast 
requirements consistent with the Group’s budget and strategic plans.
If for any reason the Group is unable to continue as a going concern, it could impact the Group’s ability to realise assets at their 
recognised values; in particular goodwill and other intangible assets and to extinguish liabilities in the normal course of business 
at the amounts stated in the consolidated accounts.
Accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
consolidated accounts. 106
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2014. Control is achieved 
when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the investee. Generally there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate there is a change of control. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control 
of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in 
the consolidated accounts from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of comprehensive income is attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and 
to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, 
adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies. All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between 
members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling 
interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any investment retained 
is recognised at fair value.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net 
assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when 
decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
The Group’s investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment 
in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the 
Group’s share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date. The results of the joint ventures are included in the 
consolidated accounts from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement and represents 
profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the joint venture.
Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has 
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, 
and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When a Group entity undertakes its activities under joint operations, the Group as a joint operator recognises in relation to its 
interest in a joint operation:
 X its assets and liabilities, including its share of any assets and liabilities held jointly;
 X its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation;
 X its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by joint operation; and
 X its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
Bid costs
Bid costs are expensed as incurred until the Group is appointed as the preferred bidder. Subsequent to appointment as preferred 
bidder, bid costs are capitalised and held on the balance sheet provided the award of the contract is virtually certain and it is 
expected to generate sufficient net cash flow to allow recovery of the bid costs. Where bid costs are reimbursed at financial close, 
the proceeds are applied first against the balance of costs included in the balance sheet, with any additional amounts treated as 
deferred income and released to profit over the period of the contract.
Business combinations and goodwill
The purchase method is used to account for all business combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when 
there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is not amortised.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 107
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments
Cash comprises cash balances and deposits repayable on demand and available within one working day without penalty.
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity period of three months or less from date of acquisition; convertible without 
an undue period of notice and not subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s cash management are included 
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. 
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three months at inception are classified as bank deposits (more than three months).
Development expenditure
Expenditure that is directly attributable to the development of wind farm projects is recognised as an intangible asset when 
the Group can demonstrate it is probable that the wind farm development will generate future economic benefits in excess 
of the amounts capitalised and other relevant criteria for capitalising such costs in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ 
have been met.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when the wind farm development is complete 
and the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. During the period of development, the 
asset is reviewed for impairment annually.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale
A discontinued operation is a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations that has either been disposed 
of, abandoned or is part of a plan to dispose of a major line of business or geographic area. An operation is classified as a 
discontinued operation in the year that the above criteria are met. 
Certain legacy settlements and relevant provision adjustments are allocated to discontinued operations when those settlements 
and provisions arise from or are directly related to the discontinued operations.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. That benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value; and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount 
rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms 
of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
A net surplus from a defined benefit plan is recognised on the balance sheet when the asset would be recoverable as a result  
of an expected future refund after a gradual settlement of plan liabilities. 
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Exceptional items
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ , certain items are presented separately as exceptional on the face  
of the consolidated income statement. In the opinion of the directors, these exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue 
of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Group’s underlying performance and 
to provide consistency with internal management reporting. Exceptional items may include, but are not restricted to: acquisition-
related costs; restructuring costs; gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets; and gains and losses on the disposal or 
closure of businesses. Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs (including external advisory, legal, valuation and 
other professional fees and attributable internal costs), the amortisation of acquisition-related facility fees, payments to selling 
shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. 108
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument.
Cash, bank deposits, borrowings and trade receivables and payables are held at amortised cost.
Bank loans and similar borrowings are recognised initially at fair value (i.e. proceeds received) net of directly attributable 
transaction fees. Interest expense, including transaction fees is recognised over the life of the bank loan using the effective 
interest method.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair 
value is recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition 
of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. The fair value of derivative financial instruments 
is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments or by discounting the expected future cash flows 
at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments are non-speculative.
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge against the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or 
liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, any gain or loss on the effective part of the derivative financial instrument 
is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within the hedging reserve. The gain or loss on any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires, or 
is sold, terminated or exercised. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the hedging reserve remains there until the 
forecast transaction occurs. The cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve is transferred to the income statement in the same 
period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of financial instruments designated as a hedge of a net investment  
in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income, to the extent that the hedge is effective. The gain or loss  
of any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement. On disposal of the foreign operation, 
the cumulative value of gains and losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Foreign currencies
The Group’s consolidated accounts are presented in Sterling, which is also the parent company’s functional currency. Each entity 
in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the accounts of each entity are measured using that 
functional currency. An entity’s functional currency reflects the underlying transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated to the 
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the day of the transaction. Entities which have multiple foreign currency 
transactions apply the average rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange rate on the day of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any foreign exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement 
except those arising on intra-Group balances, settlement of which is neither planned nor probable to occur, which are recognised 
in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling using a monthly 
average exchange rate. The net assets of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency net investments and any foreign currency borrowings, or 
forward contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken to a translation reserve. They are recycled and recognised as a 
profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a business. The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed 
to be zero as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Impairment
The carrying values of all of the Group’s assets other than inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred tax assets  
are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If there are indications  
of an impairment in the carrying value then the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
For goodwill and assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date. An impairment 
loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 109
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Intangible assets other than goodwill
Intangible assets acquired by the Group, which include customer relationships, brands/trademarks, order backlog, patents  
and software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The cost of an intangible asset acquired  
in a business combination is its fair value at date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets,  
from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Customer relationships T wo to 18 years
Brand/trademarks Up to 20 years
Order backlog Three to five years
Patents 15 years
Software Three to seven years
Other Up to six years
Inventories
Inventories, including land held for and in the course of development, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and disposing of the 
development. Cost includes cost of acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable fees and expenses net  
of rental and other income attributable to the development.
Leases 
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the 
inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a 
specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified 
in an arrangement. 
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks 
and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction 
of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are 
recognised in finance costs in the income statement. 
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain 
ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the 
lease term. 
Operating lease costs, including incentives received, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period 
of the lease.
Net financing expense
Net financing expense comprises interest receivable on funds invested, interest payable, pension financing income, the unwinding 
of discounted balances and foreign exchange gains and losses. Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the income 
statement as they accrue, using the effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the cost of purchased and constructed property, plant and equipment, until 
the relevant assets are brought into operational use. 110
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, was determined by reference to its fair value 
at that date.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to write 
off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. Reviews are made 
annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual assets.
The estimated lives used are:
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the lease term or 50 years
Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known and reasonably likely legal claims and actions made by 
or against the Group. It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action. Appropriate provisions are made for legal 
claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of 
management, are unlikely to succeed. These possible but not probable liabilities are disclosed in note 26 as contingent liabilities.
Research and development government credits
The Group claims research and development government credits in the UK, US and Canada. These are judged to have 
characteristics more akin to grants than income taxes and are offset against the relevant expenditure caption. Credits are 
recognised to the extent there is reasonable assurance they will be received which, given the necessary claims processes,  
can be some time after the original expense is incurred.
Revenue recognition and long term contracts
Revenue represents the amount received or receivable for goods and services supplied by the Group to its customers, including 
the Group’s share of revenue from work carried out by jointly controlled operations. Revenue excludes intra-Group sales and value 
added tax and other sales taxes. 
The Group’s revenue is derived principally from service and construction-type contracts. Contract revenue is recognised over 
the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of each reporting period. 
Revenue from cost reimbursable contracts is based on the services provided, typically represented by man-hours worked, and 
is measured by reference to agreed charge-out rates or to the estimated total contract revenue. Flow-through costs on cost 
reimbursable contracts, typically consisting of materials, equipment or subcontractor services, are included as both contract 
revenue and contract costs.
Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by reference to physical 
completion or the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs. If the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated 
reliably, as may be the case in the initial stages of completion of the contract, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the 
costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable. If a contract is expected to be loss-making, the expected amount of the loss 
is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
A variation is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the contract. Variations 
are included in contract revenue when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the related adjustment to the 
contract price can be measured reliably. 
A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from the customer as reimbursement for costs whose inclusion in  
the contract price is disputed, and may arise from, for example, delays caused by the customer, errors in specification or design 
and disputed variations in contract work. Claims are included in contract revenue when negotiations with the customer have 
reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount of the claim can  
be measured reliably.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 111
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition and long term contracts continued
Incentive payments are additional amounts payable to the contractor if specified performance standards are met or exceeded. 
Incentive payments are recognised when the contract is sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the required performance 
standards will be met and the amount of the payment can be measured reliably.
Gross amounts due from customers included in trade and other receivables represent the costs incurred plus recognised profits, 
less provision for recognised losses and progress billings. Progress billings that have not been settled by customers (including 
retentions related to contracts in progress) are included in trade receivables where they are stated after allowance for any 
doubtful debts. 
Gross amounts due to customers included in trade and other payables represent payments on account received from customers 
in excess of the gross amounts due from customers and advances. Advances are amounts received by the customer before the 
related work is performed.
Share-based payments
There are various share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster 
Wheeler shares; these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of 
employment with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation 
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as an expense 
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to total shareholder return not 
achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax. 
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. T ax is recognised 
in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, in which 
case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences with deferred tax assets being recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the asset can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
adjustments made to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply when the deferred 
tax asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and it is 
intended that they will be settled on a net basis. 112
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations
Amec Foster Wheeler designs, delivers and maintains strategic and complex assets for its customers across the global energy 
and related sectors.
Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Group Leadership T eam for the 
purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Group’s businesses.
Prior to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in November 2014, the Group’s continuing operations comprised of four operating 
segments: Americas, Europe, Growth Regions and Investment Services. For the short period between its acquisition and the 
end of 2014, Foster Wheeler’s results were presented to the Group Leadership T eam analysed by its existing operating segments: 
E&C Services and Global Power Group.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group adopted three new geographical operating segments: Americas; Northern Europe 
& CIS; and Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe; with Foster Wheeler’s E&C Services segment being merged into these 
segments. Foster Wheeler’s Global Power Group continues to be reported as a separate operating segment. Investment Services 
also continues to be reported separately. Details of the services offered by each segment and the end markets in which they 
operate are given on pages 3 to 5 and 26 to 27 .
The Group Leadership T eam uses trading profit as the measure of the profitability of the Group’s businesses. T rading profit is, 
therefore, the measure of the segment profit presented in the Group’s segment disclosures. T rading profit represents profit before 
net financing expense excluding exceptional items; the amortisation of intangible assets; and asbestos-related costs (net of 
insurance recoveries). T rading profit includes the Group’s share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
Revenue and results
Revenue Profit/(loss)
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Americas 2,072 2,247 2,500 207 241 233
Europe 1,119 1,227 1,080 101 93 95
Growth Regions 590 536 531 30 33 32
E&C Services 221 – – 4 – –
Global Power Group 53 – – 2 – –
Investment Services 6 6 9 8 11 7
4,061 4,016 4,120 352 378 367
Internal revenue (68) (42) (32) – – –
External revenue 3,993 3,974 4,088 – – –
Corporate costs
1
(31) (35) (33)
T rading profit
2
321 343 334
Net financing expense
3
(4) (11) (7)
Adjusted profit before tax 317 332 327
T ax on results of joint ventures
4
(6) (5) (5)
311 327 322
Intangible amortisation (49) (47) (44)
Exceptional and asbestos related items (107) (25) (24)
Profit before income tax 155 255 254
1 Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads.
2  T rading profit is earnings from continuing operations before net financing expense, tax, intangible amortisation, pre-tax exceptional items and asbestos related 
items of £299m (2013: £315m; 2012: £311m), but including joint venture trading profit of £22m (2013: £28m; 2012: £23m).
3 Net financing expense includes Amec Foster Wheeler’s share of net interest payable of joint ventures.
4 The share of post-tax results of joint ventures is further analysed as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m 
T rading profit 22 28 23
Net financing expense (4) (9) (6)
Tax (6) (5) (5)
12 14 12
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 113
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations continued
T ransactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis. Internal revenue arises in the segments 
as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m 
Americas 13 18 15
Europe 30 17 8
Growth Regions 24 7 9
Investment Services 1 – –
68 42 32
Other information
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures Depreciation Intangible amortisation
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Americas 1 2 1 6 7 6 17 18 18
Europe 8 7 12 4 3 3 17 17 16
Growth Regions 2 2 2 2 2 2 4 12 10
E&C Services – – – 3 – – 7 – –
Global Power Group 2 – – 1 – – 4 – –
Investment Services (1) 3 (3) – – – – – –
12 14 12 16 12 11 49 47 44
Geographical origin
Revenue Non-current assets
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
United Kingdom 1,067 1,112 1,030 774 326 336
Canada 938 1,104 1,260 297 188 211
United States 1,218 1,070 1,097 1,131 284 278
Rest of the world 770 688 701 1,396 225 261
3,993 3,974 4,088 3,598 1,023 1,086
The non-current assets analysed by geography include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and interests in joint 
ventures. 114
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
3 Revenue
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Construction contracts 917 342 414
Services 3,076 3,632 3,674
3,993 3,974 4,088
The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included in IAS 11 and  
includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if Amec Foster Wheeler‘s role is as a service 
provider, for example project management.
4 Profit before net financing expense – continuing operations
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 12 11
Minimum payments under operating leases 87 96 92
Research and development government credits (23) (22) (5)
There are no material receipts from subleases.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Fees paid to the auditor and its associates:
The auditing of the accounts 3.9 0.3 0.3
The auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the company 1.5 1.1 1.0
T axation compliance services 0.4 0.3 0.3
All taxation advisory services other than compliance – 0.1 0.1
All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed  
to be entered into, by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 6.4 1.6 0.2
All other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 0.1
12.3 3.5 2.0
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 115
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
5 Amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos-related items
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Continuing operations:
Administrative expenses – exceptional items (86) (18) (24)
Administrative expenses – intangible amortisation (49) (47) (44)
(135) (65) (68)
Loss on business disposals and closures (16) (7) –
Net financing expense (5) – –
(156) (72) (68)
T axation credit/(charge) on exceptional items of continuing operations 6 (6) 9
T axation charge on restructuring – (16) –
T axation credit on intangible amortisation 12 20 12
18 (2) 21
Post-tax amortisation and exceptional items of continuing operations (138) (74) (47)
Exceptional items of discontinued operations (post–tax) (19) – 5
Post-tax amortisation and exceptional items (157) (74) (42)
Post-tax exceptional items for 2014 are further analysed as follows:
2014
Loss on 
disposals 
£m
Profit in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Loss on 
business 
disposals 
and closures 
£m
Asbestos-
related items 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
Total 
£m
Continuing operations (21) 5 (16) (9) (82) (107)
Discontinued operations (23) – (23) – – (23)
Loss before tax (44) 5 (39) (9) (82) (130)
T axation on exceptional items 5 – 5 – 5 10
Loss after tax (39) 5 (34) (9) (77) (120)
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disposed of its investment in the Lancashire Waste project at a loss of 
£21m mainly arising from a reverse premium payable on exit. This combined with additional indemnity provisions and costs of 
£23m associated with businesses sold in prior years (and classified as discontinued) to give a pre-tax loss on disposal of £44m. 
This includes a provision £11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract completed by the DPS business 
which was sold in 2007 .
There was a credit of £5m from the release of a provision no longer required in respect of a business closed in a prior year 
(and classified as continuing). 
Other exceptional items of £82m includes transaction costs of £37m relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, £35m costs 
of integrating the two businesses and £4m of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition. Integration 
costs include consultancy and other costs of identifying cost synergies of £18m which includes associated internal labour, 
plus £17m costs of achieving cost synergies (including £14m redundancy costs). In addition £6m was incurred in completing 
the previously announced restructuring into geographic business units. There was a charge of £8m relating to a change in the 
discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and £1m in respect of unwinding the discount. Out of the £82m of other exceptional 
items £58m was paid in cash during the year. 116
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
5 Amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos-related items continued
Post-tax exceptional items for 2013 are further analysed as follows:
2013
Loss on 
disposals 
£m
Loss in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Loss on 
business 
disposals 
and closures 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations – (7) (7) (18) (25)
Discontinued operations (6) – (6) – (6)
Loss before tax (6) (7) (13) (18) (31)
T axation charge on restructuring – – – (16) (16)
T axation on exceptional items 6 – 6 (6) –
Loss after tax – (7) (7) (40) (47)
Additional indemnity provisions of £10m and costs in respect of businesses sold in prior years (and classified as discontinued) 
were offset by the release of a £5m litigation provision and indemnity provisions no longer required, and give a pre-tax exceptional 
loss on disposals of £6m.
There were additional litigation provisions of £9m offset by releases of £2m in respect of businesses closed in a prior year and 
classified as continuing.
Exceptional costs of £18m in continuing operations includes £14m restructuring costs associated with the management 
reorganisation into geographic business units and transaction costs of £4m which, in line with IFRS 3, are charged to the income 
statement.
A tax provision of £16m has been established for potential withholding tax following a Group restructuring that resulted 
in a significant amount of cash being repatriated from foreign subsidiaries.
Post-tax exceptional items for 2012 are further analysed as follows:
2012
Loss on 
disposals 
£m
Loss in 
respect of 
business 
closures 
£m
Loss on 
business 
disposals 
and closures 
£m
Other 
exceptional 
items 
£m
T otal 
£m
Continuing operations – – – (24) (24)
Discontinued operations (11) – (11) 17 6
Loss before tax (11) – (11) (7) (18)
T axation on exceptional items 3 – 3 5 8
Loss after tax (8) – (8) (2) (10)
A loss on disposals of £11m arose from adjustments to provisions held in respect of a business sold in prior years (and classified as 
discontinued) and foreign exchange movements on provisions established on the disposal of SPIE.
Exceptional costs of £24m in continuing operations included the £11m costs of funding a joint venture which was part of a recent 
acquisition, costs of £11m associated with restructuring following the management reorganisation into geographic business units 
and transaction and deferred compensation costs which, in line with IFRS 3, are charged to the income statement. T ransaction 
costs of £2m were incurred in the year.
The exceptional gain in discontinued operations of £17m arises from the recognition of an insurance receivable following the UK 
Supreme Court judgement on mesothelioma liability, a provision against which was established a number of years ago.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 117
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
6 Staff costs and employee numbers – continuing operations
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Wages and salaries 1,466 1,459 1,424
Social security costs 100 98 94
Equity-settled share-based payments (note 22) 8 14 15
Contributions to defined contribution schemes 37 36 34
Defined benefit pension scheme expense (note 14) 31 32 32
 1,642 1,639 1,599
 2014 
number
 2013 
number
 2012 
number
The average number of people employed was as follows:
Americas 11,839 13,046 13,516
Europe 7,154 7 ,216 7 ,294
Growth Regions 3,295 3,070 2,348
E&C Services 1,357 – –
Global Power Group 322 – –
Investment Services/Centre 258 240 221
24,225 23,572 23,379
The average number of people employed by E&C Services and Global Power Group relates to the period following the acquisition 
of Foster Wheeler.
Details of directors’ remuneration are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 61 to 74.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
7 Net financing expense – continuing operations
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Financial income
Interest income on bank deposits 3 7 7
Other interest and similar income 5 3 2
Pension financing income 2 1 –
Foreign exchange gains 1 1 1
11 12 10
Financial expense
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (10) (9) (5)
Other interest and similar expense (4) (3) (2)
Pension finance expense – – (3)
Foreign exchange losses (1) (2) (1)
Unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision (1) – –
(16) (14) (11)
Net financing expense (5) (2) (1)
The unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision of £1m and the amortisation of facility fees of £4m (included within 
interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts) have been presented as exceptional items in the income statement. There were no 
exceptional items included in net financing expense in the year ended 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012. 118
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
8 Income tax – continuing operations
Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Income tax expense on continuing operations before amortisation, exceptionals 
and asbestos related items 67 67 68
Income tax credit on amortisation (12) (20) (12)
Income tax charge on restructuring – 16 –
Income tax (credit)/charge in respect of other exceptional items (6) 6 (9)
T otal income tax expense from continuing operations in the income statement 49 69 47
2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 21.5% (2013: 23.25%; 2012: 24.5%) 21 18 16
Double tax relief (2) (3) (4)
Overseas tax 53 80 56
Adjustments in respect of prior years (6) (26) (7)
66 69 61
Deferred tax
UK deferred tax at 20.0% (2013: 20.0%; 2012: 23.0%),  
pension surplus at 20.0% (2013: 20.0%; 2012: 35.0%) 
– origination and reversal of temporary differences 1 (16) 4
Overseas deferred tax (14) 14 (15)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (4) 2 (3)
(17) – (14)
T otal income tax expense for continuing operations 49 69 47
In his budget speeches on 21 March 2012 and 20 March 2013, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced reductions in the 
rate of corporation tax to 23% from 1 April 2013, 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, the reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 20% had been substantively enacted. 
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 155 255 254
Expected income tax expense 34 59 62
Non-deductible expenses – pre-exceptional 13 12 9
Non-deductible expenses – exceptional 11 – 1
Non-taxable income – pre-exceptional (6) (6) (5)
Impact of providing deferred tax on pension surplus at 20.0%  
(2013: 20.0%; 2012: 35.0%) – (21) (1)
Impact of change in UK tax rate to 20.0% (2013: 20.0%; 2012: 23.0%) on deferred tax – – 3
Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than 21.5%  
(2013: 23.25%; 2012: 24.5%) 7 25 3
Change in recognition of deferred tax assets 2 28 (11)
Other adjustments in respect of prior years (10) (24) (10)
Effects of results of joint ventures (2) (4) (4)
T otal income tax expense for the year for continuing operations 49 69 47
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 119
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
8 Income tax – continuing operations continued
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Tax recognised directly in equity
Current tax – – (1)
Deferred tax (note 15) (11) 21 27
T ax (credit)/charge recognised directly in equity (11) 21 26
As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, the deferred tax liability arising on the UK pension surplus has been measured 
at the substantively enacted UK tax rate of 20%. It was measured as at 31 December 2012 at 35% being the tax rate that would 
be applied if the surplus was refunded. The change in 2013 reflected the fact there was no longer any reasonable expectation of 
a refund of the pension surplus in advance of anything that may have become due on the eventual winding-up of the scheme. 
The impact of the change was a deferred tax credit in respect of continuing operations of £21m, a deferred tax credit in respect 
of discontinued operations of £4m and a deferred tax charge of £12m recognised in other comprehensive income during the year 
ended 31 December 2013.
9 (Loss)/ profit for the year from discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and retained obligations in respect of businesses sold in prior years,  
as well as the UK conventional power business, which was discontinued in 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income 
statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are all attributable to the equity holders of the parent and are as follows:
 
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Revenue (13) 15 70
Cost of sales and net operating expenses 3 (25) (74)
Loss before exceptional items and income tax (10) (10) (4)
Attributable tax 2 2 1
(8) (8) (3)
Loss on disposal (23) (6) (11)
T ax on disposals 4 6 3
Other exceptional items – – 17
T ax on exceptional items – – (4)
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations (27) (8) 2
The negative revenue of £13m and loss of £10m before exceptional items and income tax in 2014 relates to the settlement of final 
accounts and additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK conventional power business.
The loss on disposals of £23m (2013: £6m) relates to additional indemnity provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in 
prior years.
Other exceptional items in 2012 related to the recognition of an insurance receivable, following the UK Supreme Court judgement 
on mesothelioma liability.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations
The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows:
2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Net cash flow from operating activities (3) (12) (12)
Net cash flow from investing activities 3 (2) (4)
– (14) (16) 120
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
10 Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement. The calculation of the average number of 
shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Performance Share Plan and those held 
in treasury by the company.
2014 2013 2012
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average
 shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Basic earnings from 
continuing operations 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8 206 315 65.2
Share options – 2 (0.2) – 2 (0.4) – 2 (0.4)
Employee share and  
incentive schemes – 7 (0.8) – 4 (0.9) – 4 (0.8)
Diluted earnings from 
continuing operations 109 311 35.1 187 299 62.5 206 321 64.0
Basic (loss)/earnings from 
discontinued operations (27) 302 (8.9) (8) 293 (2.7) 2 315 0.6
Share options – 2 0.1 – 2 – – 2 –
Employee share and  
incentive schemes – 7 0.2 – 4 – – 4 –
Diluted (loss)/earnings from 
discontinued operations (27) 311 (8.6) (8) 299 (2.7) 2 321 0.6
Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Profit for the year from continuing operations 106 186 207
Loss/(profit) attributable to non-controlling interests 3 1 (1)
Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations 109 187 206
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 121
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
10 Earnings per share continued
In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos related 
items, additional calculations of earnings per share are presented.
2014 2013 2012
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares
 number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
shares 
number 
million
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Basic earnings from 
continuing operations 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8 206 315 65.2
Exceptional items and 
asbestos related items  
(post-tax) 101 – 33.4 47 – 16.0 15 – 4.7
Amortisation (post-tax) 37 – 12.3 27 – 9.2 32 – 10.2
Basic earnings from 
continuing operations 
before amortisation, 
exceptional items and 
asbestos related items 247 302 81.8 261 293 89.0 253 315 80.1
Share options – 2 (0.5) – 2 (0.6) – 2 (0.5)
Employee share and  
incentive schemes – 7 (1.8) – 4 (1.2) – 4 (1.0)
Diluted earnings from 
continuing operations 
before amortisation, 
exceptional items and 
asbestos related items 247 311 79.5 261 299 87.2 253 321 78.6
Basic (loss)/earnings from 
discontinued operations (27) 302 (8.9) (8) 293 (2.7) 2 315 0.6
Exceptional items (post-tax) 19 – 6.3 – – – (5) – (1.4)
Basic (loss)/earnings from 
discontinued operations 
before exceptional items (8) 302 (2.6) (8) 293 (2.7) (3) 315 (0.8)
Share options – 2 – – 2 – – 2 –
Employee share and  
incentive schemes – 7 0.1 – 4 – – 4 –
Diluted loss from 
discontinuing operations 
before exceptional items (8) 311 (2.5) (8) 299 (2.7) (3) 321 (0.8) 122
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
11 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2014 30 95 125
Exchange and other movements 5 (1) 4
Acquired through business combinations 84 34 118
Additions 6 8 14
Disposals (1) (3) (4)
As at 31 December 2014 124 133 257
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2014 17 69 86
Exchange and other movements 2 – 2
Provided during the year 6 10 16
Disposals (1) (3) (4)
As at 31 December 2014 24 76 100
Cost
As at 1 January 2013 32 103 135 
Exchange and other movements (2) (4) (6) 
Additions 2 8 10 
Disposals (2) (12) (14)
As at 31 December 2013 30 95 125
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2013 17 75 92 
Exchange and other movements (1) (3) (4) 
Provided during the year 3 9 12 
Disposals (2) (12) (14)
As at 31 December 2013 17 69 86
Net book value
As at 31 December 2014 100 57 157
As at 31 December 2013 13 26 39
As at 1 January 2013 15 28 43
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freehold 68 5
Short leasehold 32 8
100 13
The carrying value of land and buildings held under finance lease at 31 December 2014 was £6m (2013: £nil). The amount acquired 
through business combinations was £6m (2013: £nil). Additions during the year include £nil (2013: £nil) under finance leases.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 123
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill 
£m
Customer 
relationships 
£m
Brands/
trademarks 
£m
Order 
backlog 
£m
Patents 
£m
Software 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2014 792 192 23 9 – 66 1,082
Exchange and  
other movements 15 8 1 1 – 2 27
Acquired through  
business combinations 1,617 372 155 127 110 5 2,386
Additions – – – – – 51 51
Disposals and retirements – (3) – (1) – (1) (5)
As at 31 December 2014 2,424 569 179 136 110 123 3,541
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2014 35 85 19 7 – 29 175
Exchange and other 
movements (1) 2 – – – 1 2
Provided during the year – 24 3 6 1 15 49
Disposals and retirements – (3) – (1) – – (4)
As at 31 December 2014 34 108 22 12 1 45 222
Cost
As at 1 January 2013 831 197 35 12 – 53 1,128 
Exchange and  
other movements (52) (5) (1) – – (1) (59) 
Acquired through  
business combinations 13 5 1 – – – 19
Additions – – – – – 15 15 
Disposals and retirements – (5) (12) (3) – (1) (21)
As at 31 December 2013 792 192 23 9 – 66 1,082
Amortisation
As at 1 January 2013 40 61 27 10 – 21 159 
Exchange and  
other movements (5) (2) (1) (1) – (1) (10) 
Provided during the year – 31 5 1 – 10 47 
Disposals and retirements – (5) (12) (3) – (1) (21)
As at 31 December 2013 35 85 19 7 – 29 175
Net book value
As at 31 December 2014 2,390 461 157 124 109 78 3,319
As at 31 December 2013 757 107 4 2 – 37 907
As at 1 January 2013 791 136 8 2 – 32 969
The carrying value of software held under deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases as at 31 December 
2014 was £30m (2013: £nil). Additions during the year include £33m (2013: £nil) of software held under deferred payment 
arrangements. 124
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
12 Intangible assets continued
The Group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if indicators 
of impairment exist. 
The review of goodwill for indications of impairment by management is performed against the three core geographies of Americas, 
Europe and Growth Regions, along with the two new reportable segments of Foster Wheeler, E&C Services and Global Power 
Group being the lowest level of cash-generating units (CGU) monitored for goodwill purposes.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler has been allocated to the CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies 
of the acquisition. This has resulted in an allocation of goodwill generated by the acquisition to the Americas, Europe and Growth 
Regions CGUs. 
The recoverable amount of the CGUs has been based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections 
included in the financial budgets approved by the Board for 2015 and pre-tax discount rates as set out in the table below. For the 
purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted period include no growth 
in 2016 and 2017 , 10% growth in 2018, 2019 and 2020 and 3% growth per annum thereafter. In 2013 financial budgets approved 
by management covering a two-year period were used together with a 2% growth thereafter. The long-term growth rates are in 
line with long-term average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate. The value in use has been compared to the 
carrying value for each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged in respect of any of the CGUs.
The financial budgets reflect management’s judgement of the future cash flows which includes past experience and expectations 
of future performance. The most significant assumptions relate to trading profit margin
1
 and the conversion of trading profit 
into cash (cash conversion). Revenue is underpinned by a secure order book for each CGU and the order book remains strong at 
£6.3 billion as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £4.1 billion). The selection of trading profit margin takes into account the margins being 
generated on contracts in progress and management’s view of the margin on orders received, and is consistent with Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s growth strategy. The cash conversion reflects past experience and current contract mix.
Goodwill is as follows:
Goodwill 
31 December 
2014 
£m
Pre-tax 
discount rate 
2014 
%
Goodwill 
31 December 
2013 
£m
Pre-tax 
discount rate 
2013 
%
Americas 635 11 431 12
Europe 399 11 250 12
Growth Regions 203 11 76 12
E&C Services 675 11 – –
Global Power Group 478 12 – –
1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional items but including joint venture trading profit, as a percentage of revenue.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed, at the individual CGU level, in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions. 
For example, a 10% decrease in volume, with all other assumptions held constant, or a 1% decrease in margin, with all other 
assumptions held constant, did not identify any impairments. Similarly, zero growth after the initial two-year period, with all other 
assumptions held constant or a 2% increase in discount rate, did not identify any impairments in the Americas, Europe. E&C 
Services or Global Power Group CGUs. 
The value in use calculation referred to above showed headroom of £100m in the Growth Regions CGU. However, applying zero 
terminal growth, a 1% reduction on margin or a 2% increase in discount rate would eliminate the headroom in this CGU.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 125
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
13 Interests in joint ventures
Interests in joint ventures
The Group does not hold any individual material interests in joint ventures in either the current or prior year.
Details in aggregate of the Group’s interests in all individually immaterial joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity 
method are as follows:
£m
Net book value
As at 1 January 2014 52
Acquired through business combinations 73
Disposal of businesses (2)
Additions 1
T otal comprehensive income 12
Dividends received (14)
As at 31 December 2014 122
As at 1 January 2013 47
Exchange and other movements (1)
Additions 1
Reclassifications (1)
T otal comprehensive income 14 
Dividends received (8) 
As at 31 December 2013 52
During 2013 total comprehensive income of £14m was net of provisions of £15m taken against the comprehensive income of one 
joint venture entity, where the corresponding increase in the carrying value of the joint venture was not recoverable. This joint 
venture was disposed during the current year.
Principal Group companies are listed on pages 190 to 191.
PPP service concessions
Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows:
Financial 
close
Equity 
stake
Concession 
period
Net equity 
invested
T ransport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years –
Incheon Bridge, Korea 2005 23% 30 years £13m
Power Petropower Energía Limitada, Chile 1998 85% 20 years £54m
Interests in joint operations
The Group does not hold any individual material interests in joint operations in either the current or prior year. 126
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees. 
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, there are three principal defined benefit schemes. In the UK these are the 
AMEC Staff pension scheme, (which also has an associated executive top-up scheme) and the Foster Wheeler Pension Plan 
and in the US, The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan. The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are 
closed to new members but remain open to further accrual. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is a hybrid benefit arrangement. 
The defined benefit section is closed to new members and further accrual, but the defined contribution section remains open 
to further accrual. The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan is also closed to new members and further accrual. 
Contributions by the Group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed in note 6.
The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are average salary plans for UK employees. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan was 
a final salary pension plan. All three schemes require contributions to be made to a separately administered fund. These schemes 
are governed by the employment laws of the UK. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and 
salary each year. Once the benefits are in payment, the pension is adjusted each year relative to the UK’s Retail Prices Index for the 
AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is adjusted each year relative to the UK’s Consumer 
Price Index. Each scheme is established under trust law and are governed by a Board of T rustees, which consists of employers’ 
and employees’ representatives. In addition, the AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes have two independent trustees. 
The Board of T rustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy.
Every three years, the Board of T rustees is required by legislation to review the level of funding in the pension plans. The Board 
of T rustees decides the contribution levels in consultation with the employers’ based on the results of this triennial review. In the 
event that there is a funding deficit, the T rustees and the employer will agree a recovery plan to eliminate that deficit over as short 
a period as is reasonably affordable.
Due to the nature of the liabilities, the pension plans are exposed to inflation, interest rate risk and changes in the life expectancy for 
pensioners. As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equities, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk.
The valuations used have been based on the preliminary valuation of AMEC Staff pension scheme and the final valuation of the 
AMEC Executive pension scheme as at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2011 respectively. The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan’s most 
recent valuation took place as at 1 April 2013. These schemes have been updated by the schemes’ actuaries for the requirement 
to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes as at 31 December 2014. The assets of the schemes are stated at their 
aggregate market value as at 31 December 2014.
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan provides pension benefits to certain full-time employees. Under the 
pension plan, retirement benefits are primarily a function of both years of service and level of compensation. The pension plan 
is closed to new members and further accrual.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 127
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries are as follows:
31 December 
2014 
%
31 December 
2013 
%
31 December 
2012 
%
The AMEC Staff pension scheme and the AMEC Executive pension scheme
Rate of discount 3.6 4.6 4.5
Rate of inflation 3.0 3.3 2.9
Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 3.3 2.9
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (service before/after 1 January 2008) 2.9/2.0 3.2/2.2 2.8/2.0
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan
Rate of discount 3.7 – –
Rate of inflation 3.0 – –
Rate of increase in salaries 1.9 – –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 1.1 – –
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan
Rate of discount 3.6 – –
Rate of inflation 2.5 – –
Rate of increase in salaries N/A – –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment N/A – –
In addition the Group has a number of smaller overseas schemes. During the year the rate of discount ranged from 1.8% to 9.0% 
(2013: 4.8% to 4.9%; 2012: 4.2% to 4.3%). The rate of increase in salaries ranged from 1.9% to 2.5% (2013: 2.8%; 2012: 2.8%).
For the three principal defined benefit schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows:
31 December 
2014 
Male 
years
31 December 
2014 
Female 
years
31 December 
2013 
Male 
years
31 December 
2013 
Female 
years
31 December 
2012 
Male 
years
31 December 
2012 
Female 
years
The AMEC Staff pension scheme and  
the AMEC Executive pension scheme
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 22.5 24.6 22.9 24.4 22.8 24.3
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 24.2 26.5 24.7 26.3 24.6 26.2
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 23.5 23.2 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 25.3 25.1 N/A N/A N/A N/A
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried 
Employees Pension Plan
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 21.6 23.7 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 23.2 25.4 N/A N/A N/A N/A
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due 
to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. 128
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
31 December 
2012 
£m
Retirement benefit assets 102 102 86
Retirement benefit liabilities (188) (62) (93)
Retirement benefit net (liability)/asset (86) 40 (7)
The retirement benefit net (liability)/asset is analysed as follows:
31 December
2014 
£m
31 December
2013 
£m
31 December
2012 
£m
The AMEC Staff and the AMEC Executive pension scheme 65 102 86
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan 37 – –
The Foster Wheeler Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan (57) – –
Other smaller pension schemes (131) (62) (93)
(86) 40 (7)
The retirement benefit liabilities of £188m (2013: £62m; 2012: £93m) reflect primarily the deficits on the smaller overseas schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows:
31 December 
2014 
%
31 December 
2013 
%
31 December 
2012 
%
Equities 35.4 41.3 39.8
Bonds (including gilts) 52.6 47.6 51.8
Property 8.4 8.8 8.2
Other 3.6 2.3 0.2
100.0 100.0 100.0
The equities and bonds as listed above are predominantly quoted investments. There is a small investment in privately held pooled 
fund investments and the property/other investments are unquoted. 
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Current service cost and administrative expenses 33 33 29
Interest cost 84 72 75
Interest income (86) (73) (72)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs 
(note 6) 31 32 32
Settlement gain (3) – (4)
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 28 32 28
The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 20 19 15
Administrative expenses 10 14 10
Net financing (income)/expense (2) (1) 3
T otal amount recognised in the income statement 28 32 28
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 129
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
As at 1 January 1,743 1,652 1,618
Exchange and other movements 3 (14) (6)
Acquired through business combinations 898 – –
Current service cost 29 31 29
Interest cost 84 72 75
Plan participants’ contributions 12 12 12
Actuarial charges arising from changes in financial assumptions 278 58 8
Actuarial (gains)/charges arising from changes in demographic assumptions (19) 7 –
Settlements (12) (4) (13)
Benefits paid (85) (71) (71)
As at 31 December 2,931 1,743 1,652
The defined benefit obligation can be allocated to the plans’ participants as follows:
2014 
%
 2013 
%
 2012 
%
Active plan participants 22.0 25.2 23.4
Deferred plan participants 31.3 33.8 32.5
Retirees 46.7 41.0 44.1
100.0 100.0 100.0
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17 years.
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
As at 1 January 1,783 1,645 1,569
Exchange and other movements 3 (8) (3)
Acquired through business combinations 826 – –
Interest income 86 73 72
Actuarial gains 201 105 45
Employer contributions 32 29 30
Plan participants’ contributions 12 12 12
Administrative expenses (4) (2) –
Settlements (9) – (9)
Benefits paid (85) (71) (71)
As at 31 December 2,845 1,783 1,645 130
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
Defined benefit schemes continued
The movement in the scheme net (liability)/asset during the year is as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Scheme net asset/(liability) as at 1 January 40 (7) (49)
Exchange and other movements – 6 3
Acquired through business combinations (72) – –
T otal charge as per note 6 (31) (32) (32)
Employer contributions 32 29 30
Settlements 3 4 4
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income (58) 40 37
Scheme net (liability)/asset as at 31 December (86) 40 (7)
The impact on the defined benefit obligation of the principal pension schemes of changes in the most significant assumptions as 
at 31 December 2014 is shown below: 
The AMEC Staff
 and the 
AMEC Executive 
pension schemes 
£m
The Foster Wheeler
 Pension Plan 
£m
The Foster Wheeler 
Inc. Salaried 
Employees 
Pension Plan 
£m
Discount rate
-10 bps (32) (9) (3)
+10 bps 32 9 3
Inflation
-10 bps 26 6 –
+10 bps (26) (6) –
Salary increase
-10 bps 4 1 –
+10 bps (4) (1) –
Mortality
+1 year (61) (13) (10)
- 1 year 61 15 10
The sensitivity analysis above is based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation of reasonable 
changes in key assumptions occurring as at 31 December 2014.
The defined benefit obligations of the other benefit schemes are significantly lower than those of the principal defined benefit 
schemes. Sensitivity analysis of reasonable changes in the key assumptions as at 31 December did not indicate any significant 
changes to the defined benefit obligations of those schemes.
Expected benefit payments from the defined benefit plans in future years are as follows:
£m
Y ear 1 126
Y ear 2 128
Y ear 3 132
Y ear 4 136
Y ear 5 140
Next five years 751
1,413
The Group expects to contribute £33m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2015. This includes special contributions of £6m.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 131
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 26 15 (14) (2)
Intangible assets 3 – (233) (33)
Retirement benefits 68 8 (46) (20)
Derivative financial instruments 2 1 – (1)
Provisions 118 46 – –
Employee share schemes 1 3 – –
Other items 5 13 (27) (18)
T ax losses carried forward 20 3 – –
T ax credits carried forward 2 – – –
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 245 89 (320) (74)
Offset of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating  
to income tax levied by the same taxation authority (184) (54) 184 54
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 61 35 (136) (20)
As at 
1 January
2014 
£m
Exchange 
and other 
movements 
£m
Acquisitions 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2014 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 13 – (5) 4 – 12
Intangible assets (33) (3) (202) 8 – (230)
Retirement benefits (12) – 28 (5) 11 22
Derivative financial instruments – – 2 – – 2
Provisions 46 2 72 (2) – 118
Employee share schemes 3 – – (2) – 1
Other items (5) – (19) 2 – (22)
T ax losses carried forward 3 – 6 11 – 20
T ax credits carried forward – – 1 1 – 2
15 (1) (117) 17 11 (75)
As at 
1 January 
2013 
£m
Exchange 
and other 
movements 
£m
Acquisitions 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2013 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 10 (1) – 4 – 13
Intangible assets (48) 1 – 14 – (33)
Retirement benefits (11) (2) – 21 (20) (12)
Provisions 60 (2) – (12) – 46
Employee share schemes 4 – – – (1) 3
Other items 3 2 – (10) – (5)
T ax losses carried forward 15 (1) – (11) – 3
33 (3) – 6 (21) 15
The deferred tax credit of £17m (2013: £6m) recognised in income consists of a credit of £16m (2013: £nil) relating to continuing 
operations and a £1m credit (2013: £6m) in respect of discontinued operations. 132
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
There are a number of factors that may affect the Group’s future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with tax 
authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation and tax rates. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Deductible temporary differences 259 33
T ax losses 103 20
362 53
In addition, claims have been made to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to offset tax losses of up to £79m against the Group’s 
UK taxable profits. These losses were generated in a legacy German business in accounting periods up to 31 December 2002. If 
successful, the claims will result in a refund of UK corporation tax. The amount and availability of the refund depends on a number 
of factors which are currently being discussed with HMRC. This potential refund is not included as an asset in the accounts.
As at 31 December 2014 the expiry dates of unrecognised deferred tax assets carried forward are as follows:
T ax losses 
£m
Deductible 
temporary 
differences 
£m
T otal 
£m
Expiring within 5 years 5 28 33
Expiring within 6-10 years 2 55 57 
Expiring within 11-20 years 51 – 51 
Unlimited 45 176 221 
103 259 362 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will 
be available against which the Group can utilise these assets.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of £1,440m (2013: £355m) of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint 
ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is not probable 
that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be £29m (2013: £16m).
16 Inventories
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Raw materials and consumables 14 –
Development land and work in progress – 3
14 3
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 133
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
17 Current trade and other receivables
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Amounts expected to be recovered within one year
Gross amounts due from customers 544 385
T rade receivables 784 471
Amounts owed by joint ventures 20 22
Other receivables 63 18
Prepayments and accrued income 60 56
Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor (note 21) 13 –
1,484 952
Amounts expected to be recovered after more than one year
T rade receivables 6 2
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1 2
Other receivables 15 –
22 4
1,506 956
T rade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of £56m (2013: £34m) relating to contracts in 
progress. T rade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions of £5m (2013: £2m) relating 
to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all long-term contracts in progress 
for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was £16,082m (2013: £4,960m).
T rade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
18 Current trade and other payables
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Amounts expected to be settled within one year
T rade payables 597 449
Gross amounts due to customers 361 76
Other taxation and social security costs 37 59
Other payables 139 134
Accruals 236 75
1,370 793
Amounts expected to be settled after more than one year
T rade payables 1 –
Gross amounts due to customers 5 –
Other payables 4 3
Accruals 1 5
11 8
1,381 801
Gross amounts due to customers include advances received of £nil (2013: £3m).
T rade payables, other payables and accruals are classified as other financial liabilities. 134
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
19 Capital and financial risk management
Capital management 
The objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it has a strong financial position from which to grow the 
business and to maximise shareholder value. The appropriate capital structure for the Group comprises of a mix of debt and 
equity. The mix is determined by considering business profile and strategy, financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group is currently in a net debt position. The long-term net debt is targeted to 
be no more than two times trading profit. The Group may exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it. 
However, it is expected that any increases would be temporary given the net operational cash flows of the Group.
The Group has committed banking facilities of £1,863m (2013: £477m). This consists of a $56m (£37m) project debt and a  
£377m multi-currency revolving facility that was taken out on 18 July 2012. The facility is committed for five years and is available 
for general corporate purposes. In 2014, the Group entered into acquisition facilities totalling $2,260m (£1,449m). This comprises 
of the following: 
 X $250m (£160m) bridge to cash facility maturing August 2015;
 X $830m (£532m) bridge facility which matured February 2015 with two further six month extensions at the Group’s option 
(see below);
 X $830m (£532m) term loan maturing in equal instalments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019; and
 X $350m (£225m) revolving credit facility maturing May 2016.
The Group extended the $830m (£532m) bridge facility for 6 months in February 2015 and it is the intention to refinance this 
facility in the capital markets during 2015. 
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had a £100m Sterling term loan. This was settled in full during the year. As at 31 December 
2014, £1,267m (2013: £120m) of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt and £156m (2013: £nil) was utilised by way 
of Letter of Credit. As at 31 December 2014, the undrawn portion of the Group’s committed facilities was £440m.
In February 2012, the board approved a share buyback programme of £400m. A total of 37 million shares were purchased under 
this programme. During 2012 and 2013, this included the use of forward share purchase contracts through close periods. The 
Group completed the buyback programme on 8 February 2013 and no further purchases took place during 2014.
In November 2014, as part of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, the Group issued 85 million of ordinary shares. This increased 
share capital by £42m and generated a share premium of £877m. 
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during 2014 or 2013.
Financial risk management
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange risk; funding and liquidity risk; 
counterparty credit risk; and interest rate risk. The board has approved policies for the management of these risks which are 
reviewed annually.
The Group’s treasury department manages funding, liquidity, credit risk and risks arising from movements in interest and foreign 
currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board, most recently in October 2014. The treasury 
department does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted. 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 135
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Foreign currency exchange risk
The Group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling. The majority of the Group’s trading income is denominated in the local 
currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge against the currency of its cost base. Where commercial 
contracts are undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk, 
when the cash flow giving rise to such exposure becomes certain or highly probable. This is achieved through the use of forward 
currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options. There are currently no material transactional 
exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged. The Group has no reason to believe that any outstanding forward 
contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
A significant portion of the Group’s earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies. Such overseas profits are translated into 
Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year. There is currently no hedging in place for profits generated 
in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on Group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis. In addition, the Group has various 
assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euros. With the introduction of the 
acquisition facilities detailed above the Group hedges translation exposure, wherever possible, by matching the currency of 
its borrowing (either directly or via derivatives) to the currency of its net assets and future free cash flow. As a result in 2014, 
the Group has designated a series of derivatives and financial instruments as hedging instruments in net investment hedge 
relationships. In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the Group may from time to time 
enter into additional net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks. The Group applies hedge accounting in respect 
of transactions entered into to manage the cash flow exposures of its borrowings. Forward foreign exchange contracts and cross 
currency interest rate swap contracts are held to manage the cash flow exposures of a portion of borrowings denominated in 
foreign currencies and are designated as cash flow hedges. 
Based on the Group’s net debt as at 31 December 2014, if Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the Group’s 
net debt would increase by £44m (2013: £26m increase in net cash). This represents a £134m increase in foreign currency 
borrowings (2013: £nil), a £47m increase in derivative assets designated as cash flow hedges of Group borrowings (2013: £nil) 
and a £43m increase in foreign currency cash and cash equivalents (2013: £26m).
If Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, then the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross 
currency interest rate swaps, other than those designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings, as at 31 December 
2014 would decrease by £57m (2013: £8m).
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps would be recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve or translation reserve.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – cash flow hedges
The Group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising on foreign currency borrowings and where contracts are awarded in, 
or involve costs in, non-local currency. Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose 
and are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts and 
swaps designated as cash flow hedges are as follows:
 2014 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2013 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2014 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
2013 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Non-current assets – cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 105 – – –
T otal non-current assets 105 – – –
Current assets – cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 15 56 – 3
Current assets – cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 318 – 1 –
T otal current assets 333 56 1 3
Current liabilities – cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 44 12 (1) –
T otal current liabilities 44 12 (1) –
482 68 – 3 136
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the forward foreign exchange contracts 
designated as cash flow hedges are expected to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss:
 2014
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
12 months 
or less 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Forward exchange contracts
Assets 1 438 332 – 106
Liabilities (1) 44 44 – –
– 482 376 – 106
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – cash flow hedges
 2013
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
12 months 
or less 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Forward exchange contracts
Assets 3 56 55 1 –
Liabilities – 12 12 – –
3 68 67 1 –
There was no charge for ineffectiveness recognised in either 2014 or 2013.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – fair value through income statement
Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and changes 
in their fair value are recognised through the income statement. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values 
of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows:
 2014 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2013 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2014 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
 2013 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Current assets 229 36 2 2
Current liabilities 422 13 (12) –
651 49 (10) 2
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk – net investment hedges
The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as hedges of the net investments in core 
subsidiaries in Canada, the US and Europe. The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of swaps designated as 
net investment hedges are as follows:
 2014 
Notional
 contract 
amount 
£m
 2013 
Notional 
contract 
amount 
£m
 2014 
Carrying
 amount and 
fair value 
£m
 2013 
Carrying 
amount and 
fair value 
£m
Non-current assets 105 – 2 –
Current assets 318 – 8 –
423 – 10 –
A net foreign exchange loss for the year of £4m (2013: £1m) was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of these forward 
foreign exchange contracts and currency interest rate swaps.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 137
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Other financial derivative assets and liabilities
The Group has other financial derivative assets of £1m (2013: £1m) and financial derivative liabilities of £6m (2013: £1m).
Funding and liquidity risk
The Group’s policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future 
forecast requirements consistent with the Group’s budget and strategic plans. The Group will finance operations and growth from 
its existing cash resources and the £440m undrawn portion of the Group’s committed banking facilities as at 31 December 2014. 
The requirement to enter into additional external facilities has been kept under review during the year. This includes discussions 
with the Group’s main relationship banks to ensure additional bilateral lending capacity is available.
Appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for bank guarantees and letters of credit.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial 
instruments. The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the Group’s risk management activities.
The maximum credit risk exposure on derivatives at 31 December 2014 was £10m, being the total net debit fair values per 
derivative counterparty on forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps. A 60 basis point 
deterioration in the credit quality of the Group’s derivative counterparties would have no impact on the Group’s 2014 income 
statement (2013 £nil).Credit risks arising from treasury activities are managed by a central treasury function in accordance with 
the board approved treasury policy. The objective of the policy is to diversify and minimise the Group’s exposure to credit risk from 
its treasury activities by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25 to 30 mainstream banks and with 
each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit. These limits are set at prudent levels by the board and are based primarily on credit 
ratings set by Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. Credit ratings are monitored continually by the Group treasury department. 
The maximum credit risk exposure on cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits (more than three months) at 31 December 
2014 was £516m (2013: £241m). The Group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid an 
over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially through 
contract payment terms. Where appropriate, payment security is sought. Credit control practices are applied thereafter during 
the project execution phase. A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
The ageing of trade receivables at the year end was:
Gross 
receivables
 31 December
2014 
£m
Impairment 
31 December
2014 
£m
Gross 
receivables 
31 December
2013 
£m
Impairment 
31 December
2013 
£m
Not past due 402 – 234 –
Past due 0 to 30 days 163 – 107 –
Past due 31 to 120 days 99 – 79 (1)
Past due 121 to 365 days 46 (6) 28 (10)
More than one year 33 (8) 5 (5)
743 (14) 453 (16)
The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of £56m (2013: £34m) expected to be recovered within 
one year and £5m (2013: £2m) expected to be recovered after one year. Net receivables as at 31 December 2014 include £25m 
(2013: £nil) in respect of amounts overdue by more than one year. 138
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit risk continued
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
As at 1 January (16) (15)
Increase in impairment allowance (7) (3)
Decrease in impairment allowance 9 2
As at 31 December (14) (16)
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables 
not past due.
T rade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government-backed organisations and the credit ratings of 
these organisations are monitored. Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent company guarantees, 
insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The Group’s most significant customer in 2014 accounted for around 8% (2013: 8%) of continuing revenues, and around 4% 
(2013: 4%) of current trade and other receivables. The revenue was generated in the Americas.
Interest rate risk 
The £377m multi-currency revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage. 
The $250m (£160m) bridge to cash facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin.
The $830m (£532m) bridge facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin which increases over time. 
The $830m (£532m) term loan is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage. 
The $350m (£225m) revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin.
The $56m (£37m) project debt is subject to a mixture of fixed and variable interest rates. $49m (£31m) is subject to an interest 
rate of EURIBOR plus a margin. The remainder is subject to fixed rates of interest.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash and borrowings. Cash is viewed as temporary with any longer term surplus used 
to repay credit facilities. 
When required the Group uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to meet its objective of protecting 
borrowing costs within parameters set by the Board. The Group’s policy is to keep between 30% and 70% of its borrowings 
at fixed rates of interest. Movements in the fair value of interest rates swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps that are 
designated as cash flow hedges of the Group’s borrowings resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve with the fair value recorded in the balance sheet. At 31 December 
2014, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, approximately 23% of the 
Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (2013: nil). The year-end position which was below the lower threshold has been 
rectified in early 2015.
Based on the Group’s gross borrowings as at 31 December 2014, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points in all 
currencies then the annual net interest charge would increase by £9m (2013: £1m). A decrease in interest rates by 100 basis 
points in all currencies would have an equal but opposite effect.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 139
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
19 Capital and financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk – contractual maturity and effective interest rates
In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective 
interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature:
 2014
Effective 
interest rate 
%
Total 
£m
6 months 
or less 
£m
6 to 12 
months 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5
 years 
£m
Over 5 
years 
£m
Bank deposits  
(more than three months) 0.80 21 18 – 2 1 –
Cash and cash equivalents 
(excluding bank overdrafts) 1.24 495 495 – – – –
Fees capitalised against  
bank facilities – 9 4 1 2 2 –
Bank overdrafts 1.00 – – – – – –
Bank loans 1.49 (1,267) (633) (73) (5) (545) (11)
Finance leases 6.54 (61) (3) (6) (9) (26) (17)
(803) (119) (78) (10) (568) (28)
 2013
Effective 
interest rate 
%
T otal 
£m
6 months 
or less 
£m
6 to 12 
months 
£m
1 to 2 
years 
£m
2 to 5 
years 
£m
Bank deposits  
(more than three months) 0.56 18 13 3 1 1
Cash and cash equivalents  
(excluding bank overdrafts) 0.82 232 232 – – –
Bank overdrafts 0.21 (9) (9) – – –
Bank loans 1.25 (120) (120) – – –
121 116 3 1 1
Interest payments of £11m are expected to be paid within one year, £13m between one and two years, £22m between two and five 
years and £1m over five years.
Group borrowing
The Group’s bank overdrafts are all denominated in US Dollars (2013: US Dollars) and the bank loans are denominated in Sterling 
and US Dollars (2013: Sterling).
All covenants attached to borrowings have been complied with throughout the current and prior years. 
Fair values
Fair values are determined using observable market prices (level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’) as follows:
 X The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward 
price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate; and
 X The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting estimated future cash 
flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market rates.
All derivative fair values are verified by comparison to valuations provided by the derivative counterparty banks. There are no 
material credit valuation adjustments (CVA) or debit valuation adjustments (DVA) required on the derivatives outstanding at 
31 December 2014. 140
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
20 Other non-current receivables and payables
Other non-current receivables
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor 90 12
Indemnities receivable 13 12
Insurance receivables 4 –
Lease incentives 28 –
Other non-current receivables 14 –
149 24
Other non-current payables
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Deferred consideration on acquisition 2 3
Lease incentives 7 8
Other payables 35 –
Other post employment benefits 11 –
Other non-current accruals 28 –
83 11
21 Provisions
Asbestos-
related 
litigation 
£m
Project 
litigation 
£m
Obligations 
relating to 
disposed 
businesses 
£m
Property 
related 
provisions 
£m
Other 
£m
T otal 
£m
As at 1 January 2014 12 37 71 8 35 163
Exchange and other movements 3 3 (1) (1) – 4
Acquired through business combinations 347 100 – 82 4 533
T ransfer out to trade payables – (13) – – – (13)
Utilised (3) (1) (3) (1) (11) (19)
Provided 4 2 20 – 4 30
Released – (8) – (3) – (11)
Change in discount rate 8 – – – – 8
Unwinding of discount 1 – – – – 1
As at 31 December 2014 372 120 87 85 32 696
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 141
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
21 Provisions continued
Asbestos-related litigation 
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries in the US and the UK are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and  
out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and the UK. Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen 
from exposure to asbestos primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured by certain of our subsidiaries during 
the 1970s or earlier. We expect that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in additional and/or similar suits and that new 
claims will be filed in the future. Whilst some of these claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the overwhelming 
majority have been and are expected to be made in the US.
We assumed the majority of our asbestos-related liabilities when we acquired Foster Wheeler in November 2014. Management 
worked with independent asbestos valuation experts, to measure the asbestos-related liabilities assumed. Asbestos-related 
liabilities recognised by the Group include estimates of indemnity amounts and defence costs expected to be incurred in each  
year in the period to 2050, beyond which time management expects that there will no longer be a significant number of open 
claims. Management’s estimates were based on the following information and/or assumptions: the number of open claims,  
the forecasted number of future claims, the estimated average cost per claim by disease type – mesothelioma, lung cancer  
and non-malignancies, claim filings which result in no monetary payments (the ‘zero pay rate’), as well as other factors. 
Over the last several years, certain of our subsidiaries have entered into settlement agreements calling for insurers to make  
lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defence 
costs, and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs incurred. Asbestos-related insurance recoveries 
under executed settlement agreements are recognised in trade and other receivables together with our best estimate of actual 
and probable insurance recoveries relating to our liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims in the period to 
2050. Our actual insurance recoveries may be limited by future insolvencies among our insurers. We do not recognise insurance 
recoveries due from currently insolvent insurers unless they are subject to court-approved settlement in liquidation proceedings. 
We have discounted the expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos-related liabilities and the expected insurance 
recoveries using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Asbestos-related liabilities and assets recognised on the Group’s balance sheet were as follows:
2014 2013
US 
£m
UK 
£m
Total 
£m
US 
£m
UK 
£m
T otal 
£m
Asbestos-related provision
Gross provision 446 37 483 – 12 12
Effect of discounting (76) – (76) – – –
Net provision
1
370 37 407 – 12 12
Insurance recoveries
Gross recoveries (75) (36) (111) – (12) (12)
Effect of discounting 4 – 4 – – –
Net recoveries (71) (36) (107) – (12) (12)
Net asbestos-related liabilities 299 1 300 – – –
1  The net asbestos provision is made up of £372m included in provisions and £35m in respect of asbestos provisions included in trade and other payables.
Estimation of asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries is subject to a number of uncertainties that may result in 
significant changes in the current estimates. Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of claims filed, 
the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos claims, uncertainties surrounding the 
litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, as well as potential legislative changes. 
Fluctuations in market interest rates could cause significant changes in the discounted amount of the asbestos-related liabilities 
and insurance recoveries.  142
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
21 Provisions continued
Project litigation
As described in note 26, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts. 
Management has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known or reasonably likely legal claims and actions  
by and against the Group. Where a known or likely claim or action is identified, management carefully assesses the likelihood  
of success of the claim or action. Generally, a provision is recognised only in respect of those claims or actions that management 
considers are probable of success. Additionally, however, the Group recognises provisions for known or likely claims against 
an acquired business if, at the acquisition date, it is possible that the claim or action will be successful and its amount can be 
reliably estimated. 
Provision is made for management’s best estimate of the future legal costs to be incurred in defending each claim or action and  
of the likely settlement costs and/or damages to be awarded for those claims and actions that management considers are likely  
to be successful. Due to the inherent commercial, legal and technical uncertainties underlying the estimation of our project claims, 
the amounts ultimately paid or realised by the Group could differ materially from the amounts, if any, that are recognised in the 
financial statements.
As at 31 December 2014, there were two significant ongoing disputes. Both of these disputes involve Foster Wheeler and were 
ongoing at the acquisition date. Accordingly, in measuring Foster Wheeler’s identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition 
date, management established provisions in respect of these disputes and made appropriate reductions to the carrying amount  
of the related receivables.
Power Plant Arbitration – US
Foster Wheeler is involved in arbitration arising from its role in the construction of a power plant in West Virginia, US. Foster 
Wheeler contracted with its client, Longview Power LLC (‘Longview’), the owner of the power plant, to supply the steam generation 
equipment. Separate contracts existed between Longview and Siemens Energy, Inc. (‘Siemens’) for the supply of the turbine, 
electricity generator and other plant equipment and with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc. (Kvaerner) for the erection  
of the plant. 
Beginning in 2011, various claims and counterclaims were made between Foster Wheeler, Kvaerner, Siemens and Longview. 
In February 2014, Foster Wheeler reached a partial settlement with Longview. In December 2014, various settlement agreements 
were entered into involving the parties, leaving the claims between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner the only claims to be resolved. 
Kvaerner’s total claims against Foster Wheeler amount to approximately US$190m in relation to compensation for alleged delays, 
disruptions, inefficiencies and extra work associated with the construction of the plant allegedly caused by Foster Wheeler’s 
performance under its steam generation equipment supply contract. Foster Wheeler has claimed approximately US$26m from 
Kvaerner in relation to claims for extra work, delays, scope disputes, and improperly assessed delay liquidated damages, as well as 
the cost to perform certain ongoing rehabilitation work on the steam generation equipment due to erection failures by Kvaerner. 
Pursuant to the settlement agreements reached in December 2014, Foster Wheeler received from Kvaerner a parental guarantee 
securing its claims against Kvaerner. Arbitration of the dispute between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner is being conducted by the 
American Arbitration Association. We intend to vigorously defend the claims against us in the arbitration and pursue our claims 
against Kvaerner. Management considers that the arbitration process is likely to be concluded during 2015. 
Refinery Project Arbitration – India
In November 2012, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against Indian Oil Corporation Limited (‘IOCL’) seeking 
collection of unpaid invoices arising from services performed on a reimbursable basis for IOCL in connection with the construction 
of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India. IOCL rejected the claims and has submitted counterclaims totalling approximately 
70 billion Indian rupees for damages, including claims for revenue loss and loss of tax benefits due to delay in the execution of the 
project. IOCL has also withheld payment of Foster Wheeler invoices on account of delay liquidated damages. 
We strongly dispute IOCL’s claims. Any liability for delay liquidated damages is capped under the contract at a specified 
percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent to approximately £12m, an amount already retained by IOCL. Moreover, the 
contract also excludes liability for special damages and consequential damages, including lost profits or product, and contains 
an overall cap on liability for claims in the aggregate of up to a specified percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent to 
approximately £29m. 
An arbitration panel was formed in 2013 and held a number of hearings during 2014. A partial award was made to Foster Wheeler in 
March 2014, but IOCL have petitioned the court for its annulment. We will continue to defend strenuously the claims made by IOCL 
and pursue the collection of unpaid invoices. As the project is still in execution, the unpaid amount that we are seeking to collect 
has increased to the equivalent of approximately £54m and may increase further should IOCL continue to withhold amounts from 
our invoices. Management have made appropriate allowances against these receivables.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 143
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
21 Provisions continued
Indemnities and retained obligations
As described in note 26, the Group agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and/or assets that were 
previously owned by the Group and were sold to them. As at 31 December 2014, we recognised indemnity provisions totalling 
£87m (2013: £71m). Indemnity provisions principally relate to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, and the Built 
Environment and other peripheral businesses that were sold in 2007 . During 2014, the Group recognised additional indemnity 
provisions of £20m in relation to businesses sold in previous years, which included a provision of £11m in respect of a new claim 
received relating to a contract completed by the Built Environment business.
Certain of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, in particular the US and the EU, have environmental laws under which 
current and past owners or operators of property may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal or remediation of toxic 
or hazardous substances on or under their property, regardless of whether such materials were released in violation of law and 
whether the operator or owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances. Largely as a consequence of the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group currently owns and operates, or owned and operated, industrial facilities. It is likely that, 
as a result of the Group’s current or former operations, hazardous substances have affected the property on which those facilities 
are or were situated. The Group also have received and may continue to receive claims pursuant to indemnity obligations from the 
present owners of facilities we have transferred, which claims may require us to incur costs for investigation and/or remediation. 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group held provisions totalling £33m (2013: £nil) for the estimated future environmental clean-up 
costs in relation to industrial facilities that it no longer operates. Whilst the timing of the related cash flows is typically uncertain, 
the Group expect that certain of our remediation obligations may continue for up to 60 years.
Property-related provisions
Property-related provisions comprise provisions for onerous leases, certain leases held by acquired businesses and dilapidation 
of leasehold buildings. 
On the acquisition of a business, provisions are recognised to the extent that the terms of any property leases held by the acquired 
business are unfavourable relative to prevailing market terms. During 2014, the Group recognised provisions for unfavourable 
leases totalling £65m on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, which are expected to be utilised by 2024.
The Group has discounted the provision using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Other provisions
Other provisions include £2m (2013: £2m) in respect of the Group’s legal and constructive obligations to fund loss-making joint 
ventures and to meet its share of certain of their obligations, and insurance provisions of £28m (2013: £27m) relating to the 
potential liabilities in the Group’s captive insurance entity and provisions in relation to risks associated with insurance claims. 
These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease of former employees. 144
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
22 Share capital and reserves
Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 99 to 101.
Share capital
The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all 
respects. T o the company’s knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting 
rights between holders of shares.
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £m
As at 1 January 2013 307 ,997 ,570 154
Cancellation of shares acquired under the buyback programme (4,174,716) (2)
As at 31 December 2013 303,822,854 152
Issued during the year 85,052,989 42
As at 31 December 2014 388,875,843 194
Share buyback programme
During 2013, £4m ordinary shares were purchased at an average price of £10.84 and a total cost of £45m, this completed 
the £400m share buyback programme. Of the shares acquired, 34 million, including all of the share acquired in 2013 were 
subsequently cancelled.
Reserves
As at 1 January 2014, there were 6,186,965 shared held in treasury (2013: 7 ,291,522), during the year 755,651 shares were 
transferred to share scheme participants (2013: 1,104,557) leaving a balance held in treasury as at 31 December 2014 of 5,431,314 
(2013: 6,186,095). £57m (2013: £62m) has been deducted from equity in respect of these shares.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments that hedge 
the company’s net investment in foreign subsidiaries, that have arisen since 1 January 2004, being the date of transition to 
adopted IFRS.
Share-based payments
Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings-related Share Option Schemes which are 
open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria. Grants of share options are made to participating 
employees that entitle them to buy shares in the company normally after three years at up to 20% discount to the market price of 
the shares at the time of offer. In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, options are granted at a maximum discount of 15% 
to the share price at the time of grant and are normally exercisable after two years.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted shares that 
are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period. Detailed terms of this plan are 
included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 61 to 74.
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards are made to selected employees as restricted shares which vest in full after three years 
provided the employee has remained in continuous employment.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler’s Compensation and Executive Development Committee administered the Foster Wheeler 
AG Omnibus Incentive Plan for Foster Wheeler’s employees, non-employee directors and third-party service providers. 
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of AMEC shares were granted by AMEC in replacement of 
Foster Wheeler awards and the terms of those replacement awards will be equivalent in all material respects to the terms of the 
Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan. All employees of Foster Wheeler and its subsidiaries and/or affiliates, its non-employee directors, 
and certain of its third-party service providers were eligible to participate in the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan. As at the date of 
acquisition, only Foster Wheeler options, Foster Wheeler RSUs and Foster Wheeler PRSUs were outstanding under the Foster 
Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the Group are equity settled and, other than in defined good leaver 
circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the Group at the time of vesting.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 145
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share-based payments continued
The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme are as follows:
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
2014 
pence
Number of 
options 
2014
Weighted 
average
exercise price 
2013
pence
Number of 
options 
2013
Outstanding on 1 January 794 6,691,883 751 6,954,967
Lapsed/cancelled 822 (777,995) 789 (901,776)
Exercised 777 (765,267) 644 (1,127 ,999)
Granted 874 2,563,374 866 1,766,691
Outstanding on 31 December 819 7,711,995 794 6,691,883
Exercisable on 31 December 902 200,948 760 283,867
Options were exercised on a regular basis during the year and the average share price for the year was 1,102 pence  
(2013: 1,070 pence).
Options outstanding on 31 December 2014 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life
2014 
years
Number of 
options 
2014
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life
2013
years
Number of 
options
2013
600.00 pence to 699.99 pence – 2,391,513 0.4 2,711,612
700.00 pence to 799.99 pence – – – 683,313
800.00 pence to 899.99 pence 1.1 3,807,935 0.7 1,488,608
Over 900.00 pence 0.2 1,512,547 0.4 1,808,350
7,711,995 6,691,883
The numbers of shares held under the Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan are as follows:
Number of 
shares 
2014
Number of
 shares
2013
As at 1 January 4,194,248 3,923,198
Lapsed (1,110,559) (766,743)
Vested (250,328) (591,863)
Granted 3,883,876 1,629,656
As at 31 December 6,717,237 4,194,248 146
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
22 Share capital and reserves continued
Share-based payments continued
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to the fair 
value of those instruments. For grants in either the current or preceding years, the pricing models used and inputs (on a weighted 
average basis where appropriate) into those models are as follows:
Savings-related Share Option Scheme 
(Black-Scholes model)
Performance Share Plan 
(Monte Carlo model) 
Restricted Share Plan 
(Monte Carlo model) 
Foster 
Wheeler 
Omnibus 
plan
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014
Weighted average fair value 
at measurement date 198p 217p 239p 1,006p 948p 1,053p 949p 960p 990p 1,027p
Weighted average share price 
at measurement date 1,014p 1,061p 1,103p 1,105p 1,060p 1,139p 1,082p 1,070p 1,106p 1,081p
Exercise price 874p 866p 927p n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Expected share price volatility 27% 27% 28% 26% 28% 29% n/a n/a n/a n/a
Option life 3.3 
years
3.3 
years
3.3 
years
3.1 
years
2.8 
years
3.0 
years
2.7 
years
2.7 
years
2.7 
years n/a
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 4.0% 3.3% n/a n/a n/a 3.5% 3.0% 3.0% 3.5%
Risk-free interest rate 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Comparator share price volatility n/a n/a n/a 32% 33% 35% n/a n/a n/a n/a
Correlation between two 
companies in comparator group n/a n/a n/a 50% 50% 50% n/a n/a n/a n/a
The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison of the total shareholder return of 
the company with that of its comparators and achievement of targeted earnings per share growth. The former is a market based 
test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award. There are no performance conditions attached to the 
Restricted Share Plan.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had issued shares awards to employees, non-employee directors and certain third parties 
under the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan. Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted in replacement of these Foster Wheeler awards. On acquisition awards of 2,400,766 
Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted. There are no performance conditions attached to these awards.
Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of 28.5 pence per share, 
which will absorb an estimated £107m of equity. Subject to approval, it will be paid on 2 July 2015 to shareholders on the register 
of members on 29 May 2015. This dividend has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences for the company. 
This final dividend together with the interim dividend of 14.8 pence (2013: 13.5 pence; 2012: 11.7 pence) per share results in a total 
dividend for the year of 43.3 pence per share (2013: 42.0 pence; 2012: 36.5 pence).
2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Dividends charged to reserves and paid
Interim dividend in respect of 2013 of 13.5 pence (2013: interim dividend in respect of 
2012 of 11.7 pence; 2012: interim dividend in respect of 2011 of 10.2 pence) per share 40 36 34
Final dividend in respect of 2013 of 28.5 pence (2013: final dividend in respect of 2012 
of 24.8 pence; 2012: final dividend in respect of 2012 of 20.3 pence) per share 84 72 64
124 108 98
The amount waived by trustees of the Performance Share Plan in respect of the interim and final dividends was £1m (2013: £1m; 
2012: £1m).
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 147
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
23 Analysis of net (debt)/ cash
As at 
1 January
2014
£m
Acquisition 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange and 
other non-cash
 movements
£m
As at 
31 December
2014 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 153 239 (9) (6) 377
Bank deposits (less than three months) 79 29 10 – 118
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 232 268 1 (6) 495
Bank overdrafts (9) – 9 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 223 268 10 (6) 495
Bank deposits (more than three months) 18 – 3 – 21
Bank loans (120) (39) (1,102) (6) (1,267)
Fees capitalised against bank facilities – – 13 (4) 9
Finance leases – (32) 4 (33) (61)
Net (debt)/cash as at the end of the year 121 197 (1,072) (49) (803)
As at
 1 January 
2013 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange and 
other non-cash 
movements 
£m
As at 
31 December 
2013 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 169 5 (21) 153
Bank deposits (less than three months) 89 (11) 1 79
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 258 (6) (20) 232
Bank overdrafts (26) 17 – (9)
Cash and cash equivalents 232 11 (20) 223
Bank deposits (more than three months) 17 1 – 18
Bank loans (150) 30 – (120)
Net cash as at the end of the year 99 42 (20) 121
The fair value of bank loans is £1,268m (2013: £120m) compared to a carrying value of £1,267m (2013: £120m). The fair value of 
finance leases is £66m (2013: £nil) compared to a carrying value of £61m (2013: £nil).
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2014 includes £60m (2013: £25m) that is held in countries from which prior 
approval is required to transfer funds abroad. There are restrictions on the use of £7m (2013: £7m) of cash held on behalf of joint 
venture arrangements and £28m (2013: £nil) held on behalf of customers and collateral against bank guarantees. In addition, 
there are restrictions on the use of a further £16m (2013: £16m) of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the 
Group’s captive insurance subsidiary to certain insurers.  148
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
24 Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisitions in 2014
Foster Wheeler 
Background
On 6 October 2014, the Group launched a public tender offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG, 
the ultimate parent company of Foster Wheeler. Pursuant to the tender offer, which closed on 13 November 2014 (the acquisition 
date), the Group acquired 95.3% of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG. 
Foster Wheeler is a leading international engineering, construction and project management contractor and power equipment 
supplier with approximately 12,000 employees in more than 30 countries. Management believes that the combination of Foster 
Wheeler with the Group’s existing operations will complement the Group’s growth strategy and low-risk, cash-generative business 
model and will position the Group to take advantage of, and create, new growth opportunities. Specifically, management expects 
that the addition of Foster Wheeler will enable the Group to expand its operations in the mid and downstream oil and gas markets, 
to increase its presence in growth regions such as the Middle East and Latin America, and benefit from Foster Wheeler’s strong 
profitable power equipment business.
Under the terms of the tender offer, Foster Wheeler shareholders were offered US$16 in cash and 0.8998 ordinary shares or ADSs 
in the Company for each share in Foster Wheeler AG held. Foster Wheeler shareholders were able to elect to receive either US$32 
in cash or 1.7796 ordinary shares or ADSs in the Company for each share in Foster Wheeler AG held, subject to limitations on the 
total amount of the consideration permitted to be settled in cash or in the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs. On completion of 
the offer, US$1,540m was paid in cash and 29 million ordinary shares and 56 million ADSs were issued. Cash consideration was 
financed by a combination of the Group’s existing cash resources and by drawing on new debt financing facilities.
Whilst the tender offer did not extend to employee-held options and awards over shares in Foster Wheeler AG, separate 
arrangements were made whereby certain of these options and awards were replaced by options and awards over ordinary shares 
or ADSs in the Company.
Purchase price allocation
Consideration payable for the interests in Foster Wheeler acquired by the Group amounted to £1,915m (measured at fair value at 
the acquisition date), of which £979m was settled in cash, £919m was settled by the issue of ordinary shares and ADSs and £17m 
was settled by the grant of replacement share options and awards. 
Due to the relatively short period of time that has elapsed since the acquisition date, management has not yet finalised its 
assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of certain of Foster Wheeler’s property, plant and equipment, equity-accounted 
investments, and property-related, legal and environmental obligations. Management expects to substantially complete the fair 
value assessment during the first half of 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, provisional goodwill of £1,583m was recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. Management 
considers that the goodwill is attributable to the future strategic growth opportunities arising from the acquisition, Foster 
Wheeler’s highly skilled, customer-oriented and collaborative assembled workforce, the significant cost synergies that are 
expected to result from the integration of Foster Wheeler with the Group’s existing operations, and the potential for tax synergies. 
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler totalling £37m were recognised within administrative 
expenses during 2014. Costs of issuing the Company’s ordinary shares and ADSs in relation to the acquisition amounting to 
£877m were set against the Company’s share premium account.
On 19 January 2015, the Group acquired the 4.7% non-controlling interest in Foster Wheeler by way of a ‘squeeze-out’ merger 
under Swiss law for consideration of £85m, of which £51m was paid in cash and £34m was settled by the issue of 5 million of the 
Company’s ADSs. 
Non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler were measured at their proportionate share of Foster Wheeler’s identifiable assets and 
liabilities at the acquisition date.
Subsequent to its acquisition, Foster Wheeler contributed £274m to the Group’s revenue and £1m to the Group’s trading profit. 
After amortisation of the acquired intangibles, exceptional items and asbestos related items, Foster Wheeler generated a loss 
of £44m in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 149
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
Summary of financial effect
Purchase consideration was provisionally allocated as follows: 
£m
Assets acquired
Property, plant and equipment 117
Identifiable intangible assets 738
Interests in joint ventures 73
Current tax asset 11
Deferred tax assets 27
Inventories 11
T rade and other receivables 771
− Gross contractual amounts receivable 801
− Allowance for doubtful debts (30)
Derivative financial instruments (12)
Cash and cash equivalents 265
Liabilities assumed
Bank loans (39)
Finance lease obligations (32)
T rade and other payables (772)
Current tax liability (53)
Net retirement benefit liabilities (72)
Deferred tax liabilities (138)
Provisions (533)
Net identifiable assets acquired 362
Non-controlling interests (30)
Goodwill 1,583
1,915
Consideration
Share based payments 17
Cash paid on completion 979
Shares issued including share premium 919
1,915
Management estimates that if Foster Wheeler had been acquired on 1 January 2014, the Group’s revenue for the year would have 
been £1,814m higher than reported at £5,807m. Management is, however, unable to estimate reliably what the Group’s profit or 
loss for the year would have been on this basis, principally because it is not practicable to retrospectively apply the significant 
purchase accounting adjustments that were made to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of Foster Wheeler at its 
acquisition date and the tax effects of those adjustments.
Scopus
On 15 December 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Scopus Group (Holdings) Limited (Scopus) for £68m 
with £67m paid on completion and £1m deferred for one year. Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases in international oil and 
gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical 
and nuclear industries.
Due to the relative short period of time that has elapsed since the acquisition date, management has not yet finalised its 
assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of 15 December 2014. Management expects to complete the fair value 
assessment during the first half of 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, provisional goodwill of £34m was recognised on the acquisition which management considers 
is principally attributable to its skilled workforce which did not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset at the date 
of acquisition. This specialist expertise will complement Amec Foster Wheeler’s existing project delivery capability across the 
lifecycle of a project. 150
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2014 continued
Summary of financial effect
Purchase consideration was provisionally allocated as follows: 
£m
Identifiable intangible assets 31
Property, plant and equipment 1
T rade and other receivables 7
Cash and cash equivalents 3
T rade and other payables (2)
Deferred tax liability (6)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 34
Goodwill on acquisition 34
68
Consideration 
Cash – paid on completion 67
   – deferred 1
68
Scopus did not make a material contribution to the Group’s results for the year and would not have done so even if it had been 
acquired on 1 January 2014.
Acquisitions in 2013 
Automated Engineering Services Corp.
On 15 November 2013, the Group acquired all of the shares in Automated Engineering Services Corp. (AES) for up to US$35m, of 
which US$29m (£18m) was paid on completion and up to $6m (£4m) will be paid after three years dependent on the achievement 
of certain performance targets. 
AES is a professional design engineering nuclear services firm based in Naperville, Illinois, US. It provides plant design/
modification engineering, engineering analysis, safety, licensing and regulatory services, and engineering programme support 
to existing nuclear utilities, primarily in the US. We acquired AES to build on the Group’s position in the nuclear industry in the US, 
allowing us to better serve our clients and providing a strong platform from which to achieve further growth in nuclear services. 
Goodwill of £12m was recognised on the acquisition of AES.
Purchase consideration was allocated as follows: 
£m
Intangible assets 6
T rade and other receivables 6
T rade and other payables (2)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 10
Goodwill 12
Consideration 22
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 151
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
24 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisitions in 2012
Unidel
On 30 May 2012, the Group acquired all of the shares in Unidel Group Pty Limited (Unidel) for £16m in cash.
Unidel operates in Australia’s energy, resources and infrastructure sectors and provides a range of environmental and infrastructure 
services. Unidel has experience of projects involving gas field exploration, development, production and transmission, coal seam 
methane and water pipelines. We acquired Unidel to build to expand the Group’s capabilities to allow us to better serve customers in 
the oil & gas, mining, and clean energy markets in one of the key growth regions. Goodwill of £5m was recognised on the acquisition 
of Unidel. 
Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants
On 29 June 2012, the Group acquired all of the shares in Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants (UK) Limited (ESRC) for £137m 
in cash. 
ESRC was Serco Group plc’s nuclear technical services business. It is based at a number of sites in the UK and provides 
consultancy and project solutions for customers including the UK Ministry of Defence, EDF, Magnox and the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority. We acquired ESRC to build the Group’s footprint and capabilities in the clean energy market. ESRC’s 
team of highly skilled professionals will complement the Group’s existing expertise in nuclear support activities. 
Goodwill of £75m was recognised on the acquisition which was attributed to the value of ESRC’s assembled workforce and the 
significant growth opportunities for the combined business.
Other acquisitions
During 2012, other acquisitions were made for total consideration of £8m, of which £6m was paid on completion and the balance 
of £2m will be paid dependent on the achievement of earnings targets. Goodwill of £6m was recognised on these acquisitions. 
Purchase consideration was allocated as follows:
ESRC 
£m
Unidel 
£m
Other 
£m
T otal 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1 – – 1
Intangible assets 74 11 6 91
Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 – 2
T rade and other receivables 13 7 2 22
T rade and other payables (7) (5) (2) (14)
Deferred tax liabilities (20) (3) (2) (25)
Net identifiable assets acquired 62 11 4 77
Non-controlling interests – – (2) (2)
Goodwill 75 5 6 86
Consideration 137 16 8 161
Net cash outflow on acquisitions
The net cash out flow on acquisitions was as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Cash consideration paid
1
Current year acquisitions 1,049 18 159
Acquisitions in prior years – 2 2
1,049 20 161
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (268) – (2)
Net cash outflow 781 20 159
1  The £1,049m includes £3m exchange loss for the year ended 31 December 2014. This was created due to the movement in exchange rates between the date 
the Group acquired Foster Wheeler AG and the date when the liability was settled, net of cash flow hedges. 152
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
25 Commitments
Operating lease commitments
The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows:
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
In one year or less 99 66
Between one and five years 249 157
Over five years 124 61
472 284
Amec Foster Wheeler enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires; leases for motor vehicles and office equipment 
with lease periods of two to five years; and longer-term property leases. None of the leases include any contingent rentals.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of property and deferred payment arrangements 
which are similar to finance leases for software. These leases have terms of renewal, but no purchase options and escalation 
clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. Future minimum lease payments under finance 
leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows:
2014 2013
Minimum 
payments 
£m
Present value 
of payments 
£m
Minimum 
payments 
£m
Present value 
of payments 
£m
In one year or less 12 9 – –
Between one and five years 47 35 – –
Over five years 20 17 – –
T otal minimum lease payments 79 61 – –
Less amounts representing finance charges (18) – – –
Present value of minimum lease payments 61 61 – –
 
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 153
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
26 Contingent liabilities
Legal claims and actions
From time to time, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts. 
Such litigation includes claims or actions by and against the Group for cancelled contracts, for additional costs incurred in 
excess of contract provisions, as well as for back charges for alleged breaches of warranty and other contract commitments.
As described in note 21, we have recognised provisions for certain known or reasonably likely legal claims or actions against 
the Group. We do not expect known and reasonably likely legal claims or actions for which a provision has not been established 
to have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Guarantees and indemnities
Guarantees
The Group have guaranteed certain performance obligations in a refinery/electric power generation plant located in China in which 
we hold a non-controlling interest. 
Borrowings of joint ventures are generally without recourse to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Indemnities and retained obligations
We have agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and/or assets that were previously owned by the Group 
and were sold to them. Such indemnifications relate primarily to breach of covenants, breach of representations and warranties, 
as well as potential exposure for retained liabilities, environmental matters and third party claims for activities conducted by the 
Group prior to the sale of such businesses and/or asset. 
As described in note 21, we have established provisions for those indemnities in respect of which we consider it probable 
that there will be a successful claim. We do not expect indemnities or retained obligations for which a provision has not been 
established to have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Mount Polley
The Mount Polley mine is owned and operated by Mount Polley Mining Corporation, a subsidiary of Imperial Metals Corporation, 
and is located near the town of Lively, British Columbia, Canada. On 4 August 2014, a tailings pond facility at the mine failed 
releasing large quantities of water and mine tailings into the local environment. The dam was in the process of being raised at 
the time of the failure. One of our subsidiaries, along with other parties, had various design and quality assurance responsibilities 
associated with the expansion of this facility. Our subsidiary was the engineer at the time of the breach, but did not perform 
the original design. An Independent Review Panel issued its report on 30 January 2015 concluding that the cause of failure was 
shearing along a zone containing a weak soil layer along with other contributory factors. At this time, no litigation has commenced 
against the Group and management’s opinion is that its employees performed in a professional manner consistent with the 
standard of care for a competent engineer on a project of this nature. Management has taken external legal advice and in light 
of this advice and, given the early stages of this matter, it is not considered probable that there will be an outflow in respect of 
this issue. 154
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
27 Related party transactions
During 2014 there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and subsidiary 
companies.
Transactions with the senior management group
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in late 2014, the senior management group now consists of Amec Foster Wheeler plc 
board members and the presidents of the Americas, Europe and Growth Regions geographies along with the presidents of the 
Foster Wheeler segments of E&C Services and Global Power Group. In 2013 the senior management group consisted of Amec 
Foster Wheeler plc board members and the presidents of the Americas, Europe and Growth Regions geographies.
The senior management group and relatives controlled 0.64% of the voting rights of the company as at 31 December 2014.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and other senior managers and 
they receive share awards under the Performance Share Plan. The company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf 
of certain executive directors. Details of their compensation are as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 5 6
Pension costs – –
Equity-settled share-based payments 1 3
6 9
Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures
The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows:
Value of transactions 
in the year
Outstanding balance 
as at 31 December
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Services received 3 – – –
Services rendered 26 38 12 15
Provision of finance 9 8 16 41
In September 2012, the UK government’s Department for Business, Innovation and Skills announced a change to UK legislation 
with respect to the requirement for a UK company to be subject to annual audit. An additional audit exemption has been 
introduced, such that for a subsidiary of a parent established in a European Economic Area state, that subsidiary can be exempt 
from annual audit if certain conditions are met. The principal conditions are the requirement for the subsidiary’s shareholders 
to agree to the exemption and a guarantee to be issued to the subsidiary by the parent undertaking, guaranteeing all of the 
subsidiary’s outstanding liabilities at the year end, until they are satisfied in full.
Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 155
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
27 Related party transactions continued
Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures continued
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2014 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006,  
all of which are fully consolidated in these accounts:
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited (Registered number: 6205760).
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 07870120).
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4530056).
Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited (Registered number: 1580678).
AMEC USA Finance Limited (Registered number: 5299446).
AMEC USA Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4041261).
AMEC USA Limited (Registered number: 4044800).
PI Energy & Emissions Limited (Registered number: SC209704).
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited (Registered number: 5318249).
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited (Registered number: 3863449).
  156
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Fixed assets
T angible assets 2 32 27
Investment in subsidiaries 3 4,480 2,353
4,512 2,380
Current assets
Debtors: including amounts falling due after one year of £1,102m (2013: £nil) 4 1,149 40
Cash at bank and in hand 93 76
1,242 116
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (2,026) (154)
Net current liabilities (784) (38)
Total assets less current liabilities 3,728 2,342
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 6 (1,324) (761)
Net assets 2,404 1,581
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7, 8 194 152
Share premium account 8 978 101
Capital redemption reserve 8 34 34
Profit and loss account 8 1,198 1,294
Equity shareholders’ funds 2,404 1,581
The accounts on pages 156 to 162 were approved by the board of directors on 26 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
Samir Brikho Ian McHoul 
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
 
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014 157
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
1 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except that derivative financial instruments are stated 
at fair value, in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The company has not presented its own profit and loss account, as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Cash flow statement
The company is exempt from the requirement of FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’ to prepare a cash flow statement as its cash flows 
are included within the consolidated cash flow of the Group.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all tangible assets, other than assets in the course of construction, at rates calculated to write off the 
cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life. The estimated 
lives of tangible assets as at 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Plant and equipment  Three to five years
Software Three to seven years
Depreciation is provided from the month in which the asset is available for use.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value. Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instruments. 
Cash, deposits and short-term investments are held at amortised cost. Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as 
described in note 1 to the consolidated accounts.
The company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ as the financial 
instruments disclosures of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ are included  
in the notes to the consolidated accounts.
Foreign currencies
T ransactions in a currency other than Sterling are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date and exchange differences are taken to profit and loss accounts in the year. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Interest 
Interest is recognised in profit or loss on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Investments 
Investments are stated at cost less provision for permanent diminution in value. Where equity-settled share-based payments are 
granted to the employees of subsidiary companies, the fair value of the award is treated as a capital contribution by the company 
and the investment in subsidiaries are adjusted to reflect this capital contribution.
Pensions
The company participates in the Amec Staff and Executive defined benefit pension schemes. The assets of these schemes are 
held separately from those of the company. The company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of 
the schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ , accounts for these 
schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents 
the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Details of the defined benefit schemes can be found in note 14 of the consolidated accounts.
Remuneration of auditors
The detailed information concerning auditors’ remuneration is shown in note 4 of the consolidated accounts.
Notes to the company balance sheet 158
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
1 Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
There are share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster Wheeler 
shares; these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation model, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as a cost is adjusted to reflect 
the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the results for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required 
by FRS 19 ‘Deferred T ax’ .
2 T angible assets
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Software 
£m
T otal 
£m 
Cost
As at 1 January 2014 4 30 34
Additions – 11 11
As at 31 December 2014 4 41 45
Depreciation
As at 1 January 2014 3 4 7
Provided during the year – 6 6
As at 31 December 2014 3 10 13
Net book value
As at 31 December 2014 1 31 32
As at 1 January 2014 1 26 27
Notes to the company balance sheet continued 159
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
3 Investments (held as fixed assets)
Shares in 
subsidiaries 
£m
Amounts 
owed by 
subsidiaries 
£m
T otal 
investment in 
subsidiaries 
£m 
Cost
As at 1 January 2014 1,525 874 2,399
Exchange and other movements – (15) (15)
Additions 2,537 2 2,539
Loan repayment – (397) (397)
As at 31 December 2014 4,062 464 4,526
Provisions
As at 1 January and 31 December 2014 46 – 46
Net book value
As at 31 December 2014 4,016 464 4,480
As at 1 January 2014 1,479 874 2,353
Principal Group companies are listed on pages 190 to 191.
4 Debtors
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 5 2
Derivative financial instruments 13 5
Corporation tax 24 27
Prepayments and accrued income 5 5
Other debtors – 1
47 40
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year
Derivative financial instruments 2 –
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 1,100 –
1,149 40
The deferred tax balance is analysed as follows:
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Difference between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances (1) 1
Share-based schemes 1 (1)
– –
In his budget speeches on 21 March 2012 and 20 March 2013 the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced reductions in the 
rate of corporation tax to 23% from 1 April 2013, 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, the reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 20% had been substantively enacted.  160
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Bank overdrafts 8 1
Bank and other loans 693 120
T rade creditors 37 2
Derivative financial instruments 12 5
Other taxation and social security costs – 14
Other creditors – 4
Accruals – 8
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,276 –
2,026 154
The company has committed banking facilities of £1,826m (2013: £477m). This consists of a £377m multi-currency revolving 
facility that was taken out on 18 July 2012. The facility is committed for five years and is available for general corporate purposes. 
In addition on 13 February 2014 the company entered into acquisition facilities totalling $2,260m (£1,449m). This comprises of the 
following:
 X $250m (£160m) bridge to cash facility maturing August 2015;
 X $830m (£532m) bridge facility which matured February 2015 with two further six month extensions at the company’s option;
 X $830m (£532m) term loan maturing in equal instalments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019; and
 X $350m ($225m) revolving credit facility maturing May 2016.
It is the intention of the Company to refinance the $830m (£532m) bridge facility in the capital markets during 2015.
Previously the company had a £100m Sterling term loan for a period of 12 months. This was settled in full during the year. 
As at 31 December 2014, £1,230m (2013: £120m) of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt and £159m (2013: nil) 
was utilised by way of Letter of Credit.
6 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 794 761
Bank and other loans 528 –
Derivative financial instruments 2 –
1,324 761
Notes to the company balance sheet continued 161
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
7 Share capital
The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each. All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all 
respects. T o the company’s knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting 
rights between holders of shares.
31 December 
2014 
£m
31 December 
2013 
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of 50 pence each 194 152
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows:
Number £m
As at 1 January 2014 303,822,854 152
Shares issued 85,052,989 42
As at 31 December 2014 388,875,843 194
Share-based payment
Details of share-based payment schemes operated by the company are provided in note 22 to the consolidated accounts.
8 Reserves
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£m
T otal 
£m
As at 1 January 2014 152 101 34 1,294 1,581
Loss for the year – – – (3) (3)
Dividends – – – (124) (124)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – 25 25
Utilisation of treasury shares – – – 6 6
Shares issued 42 877 – – 919
As at 31 December 2014 194 978 34 1,198 2,404
Details of dividends approved by the company and paid during the year are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated accounts.
During 2012 Amec Foster Wheeler plc generated a significant profit from an internal restructuring. This becomes distributable 
as qualifying consideration is passed to Amec Foster Wheeler plc. As at 31 December 2014, £746m of reserves are considered 
to be distributable.
The company’s profit for the year in 2013 was £148m. 162
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
9 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees and indemnities
Guarantees given by the company in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries amounted to £nil as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil).
In addition, the company is party to cross-guarantee arrangements relating to overdrafts for certain Group companies. 
The maximum gross exposure as at 31 December 2014 was £94m (2013: £20m).
The company will guarantee the debts and liabilities of the following UK subsidiaries in accordance with Section 479C  
of the Companies Act 2006:
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited (Registered number: 6205760).
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited (Registered number: 07870120).
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4530056).
Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited (Registered number: 1580678).
AMEC USA Finance Limited (Registered number: 5299446).
AMEC USA Holdings Limited (Registered number: 4041261).
AMEC USA Limited (Registered number: 4044800).
PI Energy & Emissions Limited (Registered number: SC209704).
Sandiway Solutions (No 3) Limited (Registered number: 5318249).
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited (Registered number: 3863449).
The company has assessed the probability of loss under these guarantees as remote.
10 Related party transactions
During the year the only related party transactions for which disclosure is required under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ 
were with the senior management group. As allowed by FRS 8 transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings are 
not disclosed.
Transactions with the senior management group
The senior management group of the company consists of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members.
The senior management group of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.60% of the voting rights of the company 
as at 31 December 2014.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and other senior managers and 
they receive share awards under the Performance Share Plan. The company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf 
of certain executive directors. Details of their compensation are as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Short-term employee benefits 3 4
Pension costs – –
Equity-settled share-based payments 1 3
4 7
Notes to the company balance sheet continued 163
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Details of incorporation
Amec Foster Wheeler plc (formerly AMEC plc) is a public limited 
company that is incorporated in England and Wales with the 
registered number 01675285.
AMEC plc changed its name to Amec Foster Wheeler plc on 
13 November 2014 when it took control of Foster Wheeler AG.
The Company’s registered office is situated at Booths Park, 
Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK.
The Company operates under English law.
The Company’s agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact 
address is 111 Eighth Avenue, New Y ork, New Y ork 10011, US.
Origins
AMEC plc was formed in 1982, when Fairclough Construction 
merged with William Press Group. The Matthew Hall Group 
of Companies was acquired in 1988. As a business, we can 
trace our history back over 150 years to the origins of these 
predecessor companies.
Subsequent transformation
In recent years, the Group’s activities have been transformed 
by exiting from civil construction and becoming a consultancy, 
engineering and project management business. We have 
achieved this transformation through a combination of organic 
growth, acquisitions and divestment of non-core activities. 
 X In 2000, we acquired AGRA Inc., a North American 
environmental, engineering and construction services 
company, and Ogden Environmental and Energy Services 
Co. Inc., a US environmental consulting company.
 X In 2005, we acquired Paragon Engineering Services, Inc., 
a Houston-based oil and gas engineering services company, 
and NNC Holdings Limited, a UK nuclear consultancy and 
engineering business.
 X In 2007 , we sold our UK-based civil construction businesses.
 X In 2008, we acquired Geomatrix Consultants, Inc., a California-
based technical consulting and engineering firm; Rider Hunt 
International Limited, a project services company to the oil, 
gas, chemical, energy and process industries; and Bower 
Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited.
 X In 2008, we sold our wind developments business.
 X In 2009, we acquired GRD Limited, an engineering and project 
delivery company based in Perth, Australia, specialising in the 
design, procurement and construction of mineral projects.
 X In 2010, we acquired Entec Holdings Limited, a UK-based 
environmental and engineering consultancy company.
 X In 2011, we acquired MACTEC Inc., a US engineering and 
environmental services company; and QED International 
Limited, or qedi, an oil and gas completions and 
commissioning services company.
 X In 2012, we acquired Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants 
(UK) Limited, or ESRC, a UK-based nuclear technical services 
business, Unidel Group Pty Limited, or Unidel, a consulting, 
engineering and technical services company serving 
Australia’s energy, resources and infrastructure sectors, 
and a 50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda, or KROMAV, 
a participant in the Brazilian oil and gas market.
History and development
 X In 2013, we acquired Automated Engineering Services Corp., 
a US design engineering nuclear services firm which provides 
support to existing nuclear utilities.
Between 1997 and 2006, we bought and sold interests in SPIE, 
which provided electrical engineering, communications services 
and specialist activities in the energy and rail industries, 
predominantly in France.
Developments during 2014
Acquisition of Foster Wheeler 
In November 2014, the Company acquired control of Foster 
Wheeler AG, a leading international engineering, construction 
and project management contractor and power equipment 
supplier, by way of a public tender offer. 
Foster Wheeler AG was a Swiss-registered company that 
was listed on NASDAQ in the US. At 31 December 2014, the 
Company owned, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, 95.3% 
of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG. Details of 
the acquisition are set out in note 24 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
During January 2015, the Company acquired the remaining 
shares in Foster Wheeler AG by way of a so-called ‘squeeze- 
out merger’ conducted under Swiss law and Foster Wheeler 
AG merged with and into one of the Company’s wholly-owned 
subsidiaries. 
At the time of the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had around 
12,000 employees and operated in over 30 countries. Foster 
Wheeler operates through two business groups: 
 X E&C Services, which designs, engineers and constructs 
onshore and offshore upstream oil and gas processing 
facilities, natural gas liquefaction facilities and receiving 
terminals, gas-to-liquids facilities, oil refining, chemical and 
petrochemical, pharmaceutical and biotechnology facilities 
and related infrastructure, including power generation 
facilities, distribution facilities, gasification facilities and 
processing facilities associated with the minerals and 
metals sector, and is also involved in the design of facilities 
in developing market sectors, including carbon capture and 
storage, solid fuel-fired integrated gasification combined-cycle 
power plants, coal-to-liquids, coal-to-chemicals and biofuels; 
and
 X Global Power Group, which designs, manufactures and installs 
steam generators and auxiliary equipment for electric power 
generating stations, district heating and power plants and 
industrial facilities worldwide and also provides a wide range 
of aftermarket services.
Acquisition of Scopus
In December 2014, the Company acquired Scopus Group 
(Holdings) Limited (Scopus). Headquartered in Aberdeen, 
UK, with bases in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has 
around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering 
services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear 
industries. Details of the acquisition are set out in note 24 
to the consolidated financial statements. 164
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
We describe below those risks and uncertainties that we 
consider to be significant because their outcome may have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have not listed 
these risks and uncertainties in any particular order of priority. 
Other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to us, 
or that are known but not considered by us to be significant, 
could also have such material adverse effects. 
Adverse global economic conditions or other  
macro-economic developments in the geographic  
regions and markets in which we operate.
We expect to derive the majority of our revenue from the Oil & 
Gas market. Combining Foster Wheeler’s mid- and downstream 
capabilities with our existing upstream capabilities has resulted 
in greater exposure across the Oil & Gas value chain. Many 
Oil & Gas companies are reducing their capital expenditure 
in response to market and investor pressure. 
In our other markets, such as Clean Energy, spending 
by customers will depend on cost developments for new 
technologies, support for government initiatives and the 
availability of funding for projects; whilst demand for raw 
materials from China may have a significant impact on Mining 
projects. We have experienced increased competition for new 
contracts and some customers have requested different, less 
favourable contract terms due to these conditions.
We expect to derive the majority of our revenue from Europe, 
the US and Canada and will be exposed to the impact of 
global and local economic conditions affecting these regions. 
We may, therefore, be adversely affected if conditions in these 
regions deteriorate. 
Adverse or volatile economic conditions may impact liquidity  
and the availability of credit, as well as the demands of  
investors for greater returns in these markets, which may  
in turn influence customer spending on capital investment  
and/or asset maintenance and may result in delays or 
cancellation of projects. 
If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic 
and political conditions affecting the jurisdictions and markets 
in which we operate, we may be unable to effectively plan for 
or respond to those changes.
Risks associated with operating in emerging markets.
We conduct a portion of our operations in emerging markets. 
Going forward, we expect that our operations will be more heavily 
focused in the Middle East, as well as in other emerging markets, 
such as Latin America and parts of Asia. Our operations in these 
markets are exposed to risks that may not be encountered in 
countries with more well-established economic and political 
systems, which include, to a greater or lesser extent, changes in 
international governmental regulations, trade restrictions and 
laws, tariffs and other barriers, the potential for nationalisation 
of enterprises or government policies favouring local production, 
renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, fluctuations 
in interest rates and currency exchange rates, the introduction of 
exchange controls and other restrictions by foreign governments, 
timeliness of client payments, differing protections for intellectual 
property and enforcement thereof and divergent environmental 
laws and regulations. 
Risk factors
Continuing political and social unrest in the Middle East may 
have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities 
in the region.
Changes in commodity prices may impact demand  
for our services.
Commodity prices are volatile and are influenced by a 
number of external factors, including the supply of and 
demand for commodities, speculative activities by market 
participants, global political and economic conditions, the 
levels of production in major commodity-producing countries 
and the costs of exploring for, developing, producing and 
delivering the commodities. Fluctuations in commodity prices 
may impact customer spending on capital investment and 
asset maintenance and may result in delays or cancellation 
of projects.
A sustained reduction in oil prices may adversely impact 
investment in both oil and gas production by driving 
international oil companies to focus on ways in which they 
can be more capital efficient. Such companies may choose to 
reduce overall levels of upstream capital expenditure and look 
at options to improve the efficiency of operating expenditure. 
Fluctuations in the price of metals and minerals, such as gold 
and copper, have also impacted mining customer spending. 
Such declines in the levels of customer spending as a result 
of a reduction in commodity prices could negatively impact 
our operations. Any delay, deferral or size reduction in our 
customers’ projects may restrict the opportunities available 
to us for organic growth and the achievement of our targets. 
Expected cost, revenue and tax synergies in relation  
to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler may not be achieved 
or may be materially lower than has been estimated.
We expect that the acquisition of Foster Wheeler will produce 
significant cost and revenue synergies. We estimate that the 
acquisition will create cost synergies of at least US$125m per 
year, principally from overhead reduction and the removal of 
other administrative cost duplication, with the full benefit of 
the cost synergies estimated to be realised by the third year 
after completion of the acquisition. We also believe that the 
acquisition will result in a number of operational benefits, such 
as greater scale in Latin America, the Middle East and Asia and 
cross-selling opportunities to a combined customer base. If we 
are not able to successfully complete the integration process 
in an efficient and effective manner, the anticipated synergies 
may not be realised fully, or at all, or may take longer to realise 
than expected. 
Furthermore, any expected revenue synergies may not 
materialise, or may be offset by competing commercial 
considerations arising out of the acquisition: for example, 
our existing business and Foster Wheeler may act for 
competing private sector customers which, for confidentiality 
reasons, may not wish to award work to businesses that also 
provide services to their competitors.  165
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Integration of Foster Wheeler involves numerous 
challenges that may be more time-consuming and costly 
than expected.
Our future success may, in part, depend upon our ability 
to integrate Foster Wheeler without disruption to our existing 
businesses. The integration process is complex and will require 
the co-ordinated efforts of our management teams and 
employees. Integration may take longer than expected, may 
prove more difficult than currently anticipated or unanticipated 
difficulties may arise, thereby posing a risk to our profitability.
A significant amount of management’s time will be required to 
achieve the integration of the businesses, and this may distract 
the management team from running our ongoing businesses.  
In addition, it is possible that certain key personnel may leave 
during the integration period and the management team may 
be required to spend additional time and money hiring suitable 
replacements. 
We currently estimate that we will incur approximately 
US$75m to US$90m in costs over the first two years following 
completion of the acquisition in order to achieve the expected 
cost synergies. However, the costs of achieving the expected 
synergies may be higher than we anticipate or there may be 
significant additional unanticipated costs that we may not be 
able to recover.
Adverse changes in macro-economic, market and other 
conditions could result in the impairment of goodwill and 
other intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more often if 
an event or circumstance indicates that it may be impaired. 
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever 
there is an indication of impairment. An impairment test is an 
assessment of whether the carrying amount of an asset can be 
supported by the net present value of the future cash flows that 
are expected to be derived from it, either by use in the business 
or from sale. An impairment test requires management to make 
certain critical assumptions including future sales volumes, 
profit margins and long-term growth rates and to determine an 
appropriate discount rate to apply to the estimated cash flows. 
Other factors that may affect revenue and profitability (for 
example, intensifying competition, pricing pressures, regulatory 
changes and other industry developments) are also considered. 
Discount rates are based on current yields on government 
bonds, the level of which may change substantially from period 
to period and which may be affected by political and economic 
developments which are beyond our control. 
An impairment loss may be recognised in the future if there is 
an adverse change in the assumptions underlying the estimated 
future cash flows or in the discount rates applied to those 
cash flows. Whilst an impairment loss does not in itself affect 
cash flows, it may be an indication that future cash flows will 
decline. Moreover, no assurance can be given that any future 
impairment loss would not affect the Company’s distributable 
reserves and, therefore, our ability to pay dividends to 
our shareholders.
Failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery 
could result in damage to our reputation and/or loss of 
repeat business and potentially lead to litigation.
Many of the contracts which we enter into with our customers 
are long term and may contain liquidated damages clauses 
relating to on-time delivery and/or liquidated damages relating 
to performance and/or liability in respect of unliquidated 
damages. A number of factors including failure to follow 
best practice guidelines could mean that projects are not 
delivered to time, cost, quality or appropriate health, safety and 
environmental standards and therefore do not meet customer 
expectations or the expectations of the relevant third party. 
Any failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations 
could subject us to damages and/or reduce our margins 
on these contracts. Failure to meet customer expectations 
may also result in disputes or litigation, cancelled contracts, 
additional costs incurred in excess of current contract 
provisions, or back-charges for alleged breaches of warranty 
and other contract commitments. 
Damage to reputation or loss of repeat business as a result 
of our failure to meet our customers’ expectations could 
negatively impact our ability to win new contracts in the future.
Long-term contracts may be subject to early termination, 
variation or non-renewal provisions.
We enter into long-term contracts with customers, which are 
performed over a period that may exceed two years. Such 
contracts may be terminated earlier than expected, either within 
the relevant notice periods or upon default or non-performance 
by ourselves which may result in additional costs if adequate 
compensation is not received. 
Projects included in our order book may be delayed 
or cancelled.
Changes in project scope or schedule create uncertainty as 
to the portion of orders that can be performed or the amount 
of revenue that will be recognised in any given year. Customers 
may also not be able to secure the necessary financing and 
approvals for their projects, which could result in a delay or 
cancellation of the proposed project. Even where a project 
proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties 
may default and fail to pay amounts owed. Furthermore, 
fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the value 
of the order book. As a result of these uncertainties, the order 
book may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue 
or profitability.  166
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Risk factors continued
Lump-sum contracts are more subject to unanticipated 
modifications, technical problems and delays.
Prior to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we usually entered 
into reimbursable contracts, but in limited circumstances, 
where the customer and project are well known to us, such 
as with work for the US federal government or in the Clean 
Energy business in the Americas or on occasion in other AMEC 
businesses, we have entered into lump-sum contracts in which 
we contracted based upon specifications and other design 
information provided by the customer.
Comparatively, Foster Wheeler historically entered into a higher 
percentage of lump-sum contracts, including lump-sum turnkey 
contracts and other fixed-price contracts, mostly within its 
Global Power Group. 
Lump-sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable 
contracts because the selling price of the project is agreed 
based on estimates at the time the contractor enters into the 
contract and the contractor assumes a greater proportion of 
the risks associated with completing the project. In particular, 
in the EPC contracts in which we engage, the contractor often 
assumes the risk of variations from original contract projections 
due to engineering design changes or project modifications 
that the contractor has to make after submitting its tender. 
There may also be unanticipated technical problems with 
the equipment being supplied or developed by the contractor, 
changes in the costs of components, materials or labour, 
difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or 
approvals, changes in labour conditions and other unexpected 
delays or costs. We may incur a loss on contracts that are 
subject to these amendments if we are unable to obtain a 
variation of the contract, or are not sufficiently reimbursed for 
the costs incurred as a result of these changes or modifications.
We may lose key management or face difficulty in 
attracting and retaining appropriately skilled personnel. 
Our future success is dependent on our ability to attract and 
retain key management, qualified engineering managers and 
lead engineers, project managers and other highly skilled 
personnel. It will be particularly important for us to retain the 
expertise of Foster Wheeler’s management and personnel in 
markets and jurisdictions in which we were not involved before 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler. Many of the markets in which 
we operate continue to experience a scarcity of resources for 
key positions and we face intense competition for suitably 
qualified and experienced personnel from other companies 
and organisations. 
While we may have appropriately qualified and experienced 
personnel, we may find it difficult to move them between 
projects and regions and this could impact our ability to meet 
obligations under our contracts. 
Senior management departures or prolonged absences, key 
personnel shortages and difficulties in relocating our personnel 
could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and 
manage our operations efficiently. 
Failure to comply with health, safety and environmental 
laws may result in losses.
We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies 
concerning the protection of health, safety and the 
environment, such as those concerning the use and production 
of waste and by-products considered to be hazardous under the 
environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which 
we operate, including nuclear and other low-level radioactive 
materials, the remediation of environmental contamination, 
waste water and waste disposal or that otherwise relate to 
environmental protection. Failure to comply with such laws, 
regulations and policies and non-compliance could potentially 
lead to reputational damage, fines, litigation and claims for 
compensation, which can be substantial. Such failure may also 
result in the withdrawal or suspension of licences and permits 
or we may be forced to undertake extensive remedial clean-up 
action or to pay for government-ordered remedial clean-up 
actions, even in cases where such hazards have been caused 
by third parties.
We may be subject to liabilities for environmental 
contamination as an owner or operator (or former owner 
or operator) of a facility, or as a generator of hazardous 
substances, without regard to negligence or fault. Our Clean 
Energy business is involved in providing services to operators 
and utilities in the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, from new 
build and reactor support to nuclear decommissioning and the 
management of radioactive and hazardous materials. We could, 
therefore, be exposed to risks associated with the nuclear 
industry and the impact of nuclear regulation. As part of any 
contract involving work or services at or in connection with 
nuclear facilities, we typically require an indemnity in respect 
of nuclear liability from our customers. Where an indemnity is 
not provided, international nuclear conventions, such as the 
Paris Convention and the Vienna Convention, protect us against 
liability, provided that our contracting entity is registered in a 
country which is a signatory of the relevant convention. In cases 
where our customers are not prepared to provide an indemnity 
of this nature and no protection is provided by international 
convention, we may be required to bear the cost of such 
liabilities in addition to any reputational damage.
Changes in environmental laws and regulations, remediation 
obligations, enforcement actions, stricter interpretations of 
existing requirements, future discovery of contamination or 
claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources 
or the environment could result in unanticipated material 
costs and liabilities.  167
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
A major safety incident could lead to reputational damage 
and increase potential liabilities.
We are involved in activities and environments that can be 
dangerous and that have the potential to cause serious injury 
to personnel or damage to property or the environment. Our 
projects are increasingly complex and place employees and 
others near large equipment, dangerous processes, highly 
regulated materials or in remote and challenging environments. 
We are responsible for the safety and security of our employees 
travelling on company business and while working at project 
sites and of third-party personnel while working at project 
sites under our supervision, and, accordingly, must implement 
safety procedures.
Failure to comply with such procedures may cause us to be 
subject to losses and liability under client contracts or statutory 
regulations. Any failure in health and safety performance 
which results in a major or significant health and safety or 
environmental incident is likely to result in additional costs 
in terms of potential liabilities or remediation costs. Such 
failure could generate significant adverse publicity, resulting 
in employee turnover and damage to our reputation which 
may adversely impact our ability to win new business.
Failure or security breaches of our IT systems and/or data 
security or failure to effectively integrate Foster Wheeler’s 
IT systems may result in losses.
We are dependent on the efficient operation of our IT systems. 
Such systems may fail and/or sensitive data held by them 
may be lost. Information and communication systems are, 
by their nature, susceptible to internal and external security 
breaches, including computer hacker and cyber terrorist 
breaches, employee wilful breaches and the risk of employees 
succumbing to criminal scamming from external sources, and 
can fail or become unavailable for a significant period of time.   
A significant performance failure of the Group’s IT systems 
could lead to loss of control over critical business, project 
information and/or systems (such as design tools, contract 
costs, invoicing, payroll management and/or internal reporting), 
resulting in an adverse impact on the ability to operate 
effectively or to fulfil contractual obligations. Such failure may, 
in turn, lead to a loss of customers, revenue and profitability 
and the incurring of significant remedial costs.
Our operations are especially dependent on the use of internal 
data and customer data. We have incurred, and will continue to 
incur, expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security 
standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry 
standards or contractual obligations relating to the collection, 
use and security of personal information data. Failure to comply 
with such data privacy laws and regulations may result in fines, 
penalties, claims and reputational damage. Additionally, if data 
security controls fail, there is a risk that we will unintentionally 
disclose protected or sensitive data, including important 
intellectual property, which could lead to the violation of client 
confidentiality agreements, reputational harm and the loss of 
critical data.
We have developed a plan to harmonise Foster Wheeler’s IT 
systems with our own. As a result of the differences between 
our existing IT systems and Foster Wheeler’s, there can be no 
assurance that this harmonisation will be successful. We may 
experience failures in either Foster Wheeler’s IT systems or our 
own as we work to integrate them. 
Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and 
regulations, economic sanction programmes or other laws 
and regulations may result in us becoming subject to fines 
or penalties and the disruption of our business activities.
Many of the countries in which we operate have anti-corruption 
laws and regulations that restrict the offer or payment of 
anything of value to government officials or other persons with 
the intent of gaining business or favourable government action. 
We are subject to these laws and regulations, including the  
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and the UK Bribery 
Act 2010. Additionally, economic sanctions programmes, 
including those administered by the United Nations, the EU 
and the US Office of Foreign Asset Control, restrict our business 
dealings with certain sanctioned countries. Many of these 
regulations and sanctions programmes establish record- 
keeping obligations.
We are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws 
and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries where 
we, our partners or agents operate. Some of the locations in 
which we currently operate lack a developed legal system, have 
high levels of corruption and have proven to be susceptible to 
the occurrence of fraud. Whilst we mandate compliance with 
relevant policies, laws and regulations (including anti-corruption 
laws) and have implemented procedures and controls to 
monitor internal and external compliance, there can be no 
assurance that our policies and procedures will be followed 
at all times or will effectively detect and/or prevent violations 
of the applicable laws or other fraudulent activity by one or 
more of our employees, consultants, subcontractors, agents 
or partners. 
Violations of anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations 
are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of 
export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from 
government contracts (and termination of existing contracts) 
and revocations or restrictions of licences, as well as criminal 
fines and imprisonment. In addition, any major violations of 
policy, law or regulation (including instances of fraud) could 
have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently 
on our ability to win future business. 168
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Funding risks in relation to defined benefit pension 
schemes.
We operate a number of defined benefit pension schemes, 
where careful judgement is required in determining the 
assumptions for future salary and pension increases (for those 
plans that are not frozen), discount rate, inflation, investment 
return and member longevity. We expect to continue to operate 
these schemes, although the most significant schemes are now 
closed to new entrants. Based on our current assumptions, 
we expect that we will be able to fund these pension schemes 
without seeking recourse to additional external financing. 
Actual outcomes could, however, differ from our assumptions. 
For example, a prolonged period of lower than expected asset 
returns and/or unexpected increases in longevity could create 
or worsen a funding shortfall on one or more of the schemes, 
in which circumstances we may agree or be required to make 
additional cash contributions to the schemes to eliminate the 
funding shortfall. If significant, such additional contributions 
may constrain our ability to invest in acquisitions or undertake 
capital expenditure, thereby adversely impacting our growth 
and profitability. 
If the actual number and/or cost to the Group of resolving 
asbestos-related claims is higher than expected, there 
may be an adverse effect on our cash flows and our results 
to the extent that the additional cost is not covered by 
insurance, or expected insurance recoveries are not, 
in fact, realised.
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have been named 
as defendants in numerous lawsuits and out-of-court 
administrative claims in which the plaintiffs claim damages for 
alleged bodily injury or death arising from exposure to asbestos 
primarily in connection with asbestos placed by others on 
steam-generating units and auxiliary equipment assembled, 
installed and/or sold, by those subsidiaries. In the US, certain 
of Foster Wheeler’s subsidiaries have received claims alleging 
personal injuries due to contracting work performed by 
them and more rarely from exposure to asbestos-containing 
components installed in their steam-generating units and 
auxiliary equipment. We expect that these subsidiaries will be 
named as defendants in additional and/or similar suits and 
that new claims will be filed in the future. Whilst some of these 
claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the 
overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made 
in the US. 
We have provided for the estimated indemnity amounts and 
defence costs that we expect to incur in relation to open and 
expected future asbestos-related claims in each year in the 
period to 2050. We have also recognised the estimated future 
recoveries under our insurance arrangements against the costs 
of resolving these claims. 
It is possible that the actual number of future claims brought 
against us and the cost of resolving pending and future claims 
could be substantially higher than expected due to a number 
of factors, which include:
 X an increase in the rate at which new claims are filed and 
increases in the number of new claimants;
 X adverse changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered 
by the claimants;
 X adverse changes in the mix of claimants making allegations;
 X increases in indemnity payments or defence costs associated 
with asbestos-related claims;
 X decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero 
indemnity payments;
 X indemnity payments being required to be made sooner than 
expected;
 X adverse fluctuations in the discount rate (e.g., the 30-year US 
T reasury rate) used to discount the provision for asbestos-
related claims and related insurance recoveries; 
 X adverse changes to forecasting, estimation or valuation 
assumptions or methodologies (whether related to potential 
liabilities, claims and/or associated costs);
 X payment of damages in amounts greater than expected; and
 X adverse changes in legislative or judicial standards governing 
the filing, handling or resolution of asbestos-related claims.
Whilst certain of these claims are covered by insurance, the 
settlements that we made with our insurers were sometimes 
for fixed monetary amounts and/or provide cover only for 
claims made before a specified future date. Accordingly, a 
future increase in the Group’s asbestos-related liabilities would 
not result in an equivalent increase in the amount recoverable 
from those insurers. It is also possible that insurance recoveries 
may not be realised in full and on time or at all, due to insurer 
insolvency or for some other reason. T o the extent that any 
defence and/or indemnity costs incurred by us for open and 
expected future asbestos-related claims are not covered by 
insurance proceeds, we would be responsible for the payment 
of those costs, which would adversely affect our cash flows.
Obligations and liabilities relating to divested and  
non-core businesses.
We remain at risk to potential litigation and business claims 
in relation to divested and non-core businesses where we 
have provided customary warranties to the purchaser or have 
continuing obligations such as to carry out environmental 
remediation. Where appropriate, we have made provision for 
these obligations but it is possible that the actual costs incurred 
in settling any claims will materially exceed those provisions.
 
Risk factors continued 169
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
We assess the financial performance of our businesses using a variety of measures. Certain of these measures are particularly 
important and we have termed them ‘key performance indicators’ . We refer to these measures in the strategic report and use 
them in presentations to investors. In this section, we explain the relevance to us of each of these measures and show how they 
are calculated.
Some of these measures are non-IFRS measures because they exclude amounts that are included in, or include amounts that are 
excluded from, the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS, or are calculated using 
financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with IFRS. We do not regard these non-IFRS measures as a substitute 
for, or superior to, the equivalent measures calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS and it should be noted that they 
may not be comparable with similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
Scope revenue
Scope revenue represents reported revenue less flow-through procurement revenue. 
Flow-through procurement revenue and costs are recognised when we purchase materials, equipment or third-party services for our 
customers on a reimbursable basis. We do not recognise any profit on flow-through procurement costs. Scope revenue is a non-IFRS 
measure that we present because it represents the revenue that we have earned from providing services to our customers. We use 
scope revenue in the calculation of trading margin because our margins would otherwise be reduced by flow-through revenue on 
which we earn no profit and would fluctuate from one period to another depending on the extent of procurement activities. 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Continuing operations 
Revenue 3,993 3,974 4,088
Flow-through procurement revenue (73) (120) (320)
Scope revenue 3,920 3,854 3,768
Profitability measures
Management uses three measures of profitability that are not recognised measures under IFRS: trading profit, trading margin 
and adjusted profit before tax. Each of these measures is based on an IFRS measure of profit but excludes specific items whose 
inclusion in the IFRS measure hinders the comparison of the trading performance of our businesses from one period to another, 
with each other or with those of our competitors. 
Management has identified the following specific items that are excluded in arriving at these non-IFRS measures: exceptional 
items; the amortisation of intangible assets; and asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries). Exceptional items are items 
of income and expense that are material by their size, incidence or nature and may include, but are not restricted to: acquisition-
related costs; restructuring costs; gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets; and gains and losses on the disposal or 
closure of businesses. Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs (including external advisory, legal, valuation and 
other professional fees and attributable internal costs), the amortisation of acquisition-related facility fees, payments to selling 
shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. Exceptional items 
that were recognised in continuing operations are analysed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 
T rading profit, trading margin and adjusted profit before tax exclude items that can have a significant effect on the Group’s profit 
or loss and should, therefore, be used in conjunction with, and not as a substitute for, the equivalent IFRS measures. Management 
compensates for these limitations by separately monitoring the items that are excluded from the equivalent IFRS measures in 
calculating these non-IFRS measures. 
T rading profit
T rading profit represents profit before net financing expense excluding exceptional items; the amortisation of intangible assets; and 
asbestos-related costs (net of insurance recoveries). T rading profit includes the Group’s share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
T rading profit is the measure used by management to assess the trading performance of the Group’s individual businesses and is the 
measure of segment profit that we present under IFRS. T rading profit is a non-IFRS measure when presented on a consolidated basis.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Continuing operations 
Profit before net financing expense 148 243 243
Intangibles amortisation 49 47 44
Net asbestos-related costs 8 – –
Exceptional items 94 25 24
Share of trading profit of joint ventures 22 28 23
T rading profit 321 343 334
P erformance measures 170
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
P erformance measures continued
T rading margin
T rading margin represents trading profit expressed as a percentage of scope revenue.
T rading margin is a non-IFRS measure that is used by management to measure the success of our businesses in managing their 
cost base and improving profitability.
£m unless stated otherwise 2014 2013 2012
Continuing operations 
Scope revenue 3,920 3,854 3,768
T rading profit 321 343 334
T rading margin 8.2% 8.9% 8.9%
Adjusted profit before tax
Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional items, the amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-
related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures. 
Adjusted profit before tax is a non-IFRS measure that is used by management to assess the trend in the Group’s overall profitability. 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Continuing operations 
Profit before tax 155 255 254
Intangibles amortisation 49 47 44
Net asbestos-related expense 9 – –
Exceptional items 98 25 24
Share of income tax of joint ventures 6 5 5
Adjusted profit before tax 317 332 327
Cash flow measures
T rading cash flow (previously operating cash flow)
T rading cash flow represents cash generated from operations before cash flows arising from exceptional items, asbestos-related 
payments (net of insurance recoveries), the difference between retirement benefit contributions and the current service cost, 
legacy settlements and discontinued operations, and currency translation differences on working capital, but including dividends 
received from joint ventures.
T rading cash flow is a non-IFRS measure which is an indicator of the Group’s ability to generate cash from its continuing operations 
before taking into account exceptional items and the servicing of long-term obligations and the settlement of legacy issues. 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Cash generated from operations 200 292 271
Net asbestos-related payments 5 – –
Excess of pension contributions over current service cost 2 – 5
Cash outflow on exceptional items 58 21 19
Legacy settlements and discontinued operations 9 14 –
Currency translation differences (5) 6 6
Dividends received from joint ventures 14 8 11
T rading cash flow 283 341 312
Cash conversion
Cash conversion represents trading cash flow expressed as a percentage of trading profit. Cash conversion is a non-IFRS measure 
that we use as a measure of the efficiency of our businesses in converting their trading results into cash.
£m unless stated otherwise 2014 2013 2012
T rading cash flow 283 341 312
T rading profit 321 343 334
Cash conversion 88% 99% 93% 171
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Other measures
Underlying change in revenue 
Management uses the underlying change in revenue to measure the organic growth of our businesses relative to each other,  
to our markets and to our competitors. 
We define the underlying change as the year-on-year change excluding the effect of flow-through procurement, acquisitions  
and disposals of businesses and currency exchange rate movements.
Underlying change – 2014 compared with 2013
2013 
£m
Currency 
translation 
£m
Change in 
flow-through 
procurement 
£m
Acquisitions 
£m
Underlying 
change 
£m
2014 
£m 
Underlying 
change 
%
Continuing operations 
Americas 2,247 (193) (70) 17 71 2,072 +4%
Europe 1,227 (8) – 1 (101) 1,119 -8%
Growth Regions 536 (37) – – 91 590 +18%
Investment Services 6 – – – – 6 0%
Intercompany eliminations (42) – – – (26) (68) n/a
AMEC 3,974 (238) (70) 18 35 3,719 +1%
E&C Services 221
Global Power Group 53
Foster Wheeler 274
Amec Foster Wheeler 3,993
Underlying change – 2013 compared with 2012
2012 
£m
Currency 
translation 
£m
Change in 
flow-through 
procurement 
£m
Acquisitions 
£m
Underlying 
change 
£m
2013 
£m 
Underlying 
change 
%
Continuing operations 
Americas 2,500 (10) (200) 13 (56) 2,247 -2%
Europe 1,080 1 – 29 117 1,227 +11%
Growth Regions 531 (13) – 8 10 536 +2%
Investment Services 9 – – – (3) 6 0%
Intercompany eliminations (32) – – – (10) (42) n/a
AMEC 4,088 (22) (200) 50 58 3,974 +2%
Adjusted diluted EPS
Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items, the 
amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect 
of those items, divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares. 
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations is an indicator of the underlying trend in the Group’s ability to generate 
earnings and may be useful to investors in assessing the value of the Company’s ordinary shares (for example, by way of price 
earnings multiples). 
Whilst IFRS does not define any adjusted EPS measures, the presentation of such measures is permitted in financial statements 
prepared in accordance with IFRS. Accordingly, reconciliations of adjusted diluted EPS to diluted EPS from continuing operations 
for each period presented are included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 172
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Dividend cover
Dividend cover is a non-IFRS measure that represents adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations as a multiple of the 
dividend per ordinary share. 
Whilst dividend cover is an indicator of the sustainability of future dividend payments in the context of the Group’s underlying 
trading performance, we can only pay dividends to the extent of the Company’s accumulated distributable reserves. 
2014 2013 2012
Dividend per ordinary share 43.3p
1
42.0p 36.5p
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations 79.5p 87 .2p 78.6p
Dividend cover 1.8x 2.1x 2.2x
1 Includes the proposed final dividend for 2014 of 28.5 pence per ordinary share.
Order book
Our order book represents the total remaining value of secured projects to be executed up to any break point in the relevant 
contracts. Contracts are included in our order book only when they are signed and we do not include contracts won by joint 
ventures. 
Our order book and order intake are significant indicators of our future revenues. As at 31 December 2014, our order book was 
£6.3bn (2013: £4.1bn). We discuss significant recent contract wins in the strategic report on page 18.
 
P erformance measures continued 173
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Continuing operations
£m unless stated 2013 2012
1
Change 
Underlying 
 change
2
Reported under IFRS
Revenue 3,974 4,088 -3%
Profit before net 
financing expense 243 243 0%
Profit before tax 255 254 0%
Profit for the year 186 207 -10%
Adjusted measures
2
Scope revenue 3,854 3,768 -2% +2%
T rading profit 343 334 +3%
T rading margin 8.9% 8.9% 0bps
Adjusted profit before tax 332 327 +2%
1  Restated for the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ 
and the reclassification of the UK conventional power business as a 
discontinued operation.
2  See Performance measures on pages 169 to 172.
Revenue
Revenue for the year declined by 3% compared with 2012 
to £3,974m (2012: £4,088m). 
Revenue declined across all regions in the mining market to 
£493m (2012: £682m). Revenue from unconventional oil and 
gas (oil sands) in Canada declined to £510m (2012: £668m), 
primarily the result of reduced service and flow-through 
procurement activity at the Kearl oil sands facility. 
Revenue from conventional oil and gas increased by £237m, 
primarily as a result of growth in the number of brownfield 
projects across the world. 
Currency exchange rate movements reduced revenue by £22m 
in 2013 compared with 2012.
Excluding flow-through procurement, underlying revenue 
increased by 2%, driven by growth in oil and gas and 
renewables. 
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses were £293m (2012: £289m), including 
intangibles amortisation and exceptional costs totalling £65m 
(2012: £68m). 
Administrative expenses before intangibles amortisation and 
exceptional costs increased by 3% to £228m (2012: £221m), 
principally due to the inclusion for a full year of the administrative 
expenses of ESRC, which was acquired during 2012, and 
increased corporate costs. 
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs of operating central 
corporate functions and certain regional overheads, increased 
by £2m to £35m (2012: £33m). 
Profit before net financing expense
Profit before net financing expense was unchanged compared 
with 2012 at £243m.
Prior year operating results
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise goodwill and identifiable 
intangible assets that were recognised in relation to acquired 
businesses. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an annual 
impairment test. No impairment was recognised in either 2013 
or 2012. 
Intangibles amortisation was £47m (2012: £44m), the increase 
being due to the full-year impact of acquisitions completed 
in 2012 and accelerated amortisation of the intangible assets 
recognised on a prior year acquisition. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional costs and losses totalling £25m (2012: £24m) 
were recognised in arriving at profit before tax from continuing 
operations, as follows:
 X exceptional costs of £18m which comprised transaction costs 
of £4m and restructuring costs of £14m associated with the 
re-organisation of the management structure of the Group 
into geographical business units.
 X a loss of £7m arising from adjustments to provisions made in 
respect of disposals and closures of businesses in prior years.
Additionally, in 2013, there was an exceptional income tax 
expense of £16m due to the provision for potential withholding 
tax following a group restructuring that resulted in significant 
amounts of cash being repatriated from foreign subsidiaries.
Trading profit and trading margin
£m unless stated 2013 2012 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 3,974 4,088 -3%
Flow-through 
procurement (120) (320)
Scope revenue 3,854 3,768 -2% +2%
Profit before net 
financing expense 243 243
Intangibles 
amortisation 47 44
Exceptional items 25 24
Share of trading profit  
of joint ventures 28 23
T rading profit
1
 343 334 +3%
T rading margin
1
8.9% 8.9% 0bps
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172).
T rading profit increased by 3% to £343m (2012: £334m). 
T rading margin was unchanged at 8.9% (2012: 8.9%).  174
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Prior year operating results continued
In Americas, trading profit and trading profit margin increased 
as a result of the successful close-out (i.e. the settlement of 
final accounts) of a number of projects within the oil and gas 
and mining markets, which enabled the release of contingencies 
and provisions related to certain projects. T rading margin also 
benefited from the reduction in flow-through procurement. 
By contrast, in Europe trading profit and trading margin were 
adversely affected by the reduction in contribution from the 
NMP joint venture and losses incurred from contract delays 
at the T eesside Gas Processing Plant. T rading profit margin 
was also affected by changes in business mix. In the Growth 
Regions, the positive impact on trading profit and trading 
margin of cost efficiencies arising from integrating the business 
into the new geographic structure was offset by difficult market 
conditions in Australia.
Currency exchange rate movements reduced trading profit by 
£2m in 2013 compared with 2012. 
Net financing expense 
Net financing expense was £2m (2012: £1m) and comprised net 
bank interest payable of £2m (2012: £2m receivable), net foreign 
exchange losses of £1m (2012: £nil) and net interest income on 
pension assets and liabilities of £1m (2012: £3m expense). 
A net currency exchange loss of £1m (2012: gain of £1m) was 
recognised in the translation reserve in respect of derivatives 
held in designated net investment hedging relationships.
Share of results of joint ventures
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ profit for the year was  
£14m (2012: £12m).
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax was broadly unchanged at £255m 
(2012: £254m) after intangibles amortisation of £47m 
(2012: £44m), exceptional costs and losses of £25m 
(2012: £24m) and the Group’s share of joint ventures’ 
tax expense of £5m (2012: £5m). 
Adjusted profit before tax was 2% ahead at £332m 
(2012: £327m).
Taxation
Income tax on continuing operations was £69m (2012: £47m). 
During 2013, there was an exceptional income tax expense 
of £16m (2012: £nil) and a tax charge on other exceptional 
items of £6m (2012: tax credit of £9m), the effect of which was 
partially offset by an increase in the tax credit on intangibles 
amortisation to £20m (2012: £12m).
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ income tax expense was 
£5m (2012: £5m).
The Group’s effective tax rate on continuing operations 
(including its share of joint ventures’ income tax expense but 
before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation) declined 
to 21.9% (2012: 22.5%). The reduction principally reflected 
decreases in statutory tax rates, a reduction in the tax rate 
applied to the UK pension surplus, changes in the recognition 
of tax losses and the agreement of historical items with various 
tax authorities. 
Profit for the year from continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations was £186m  
(2012: £207m) after intangibles amortisation of £47m 
(2012: £44m), exceptional costs and losses of £25m  
(2012: £24m), an income tax credit on those items of £14m 
(2012: £21m) and, in 2013, an exceptional income tax expense 
of £16m.
Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 
increased by 2% to £265m (2012: £259m).
Results by operating segment
Americas
£m unless stated 2013 2012 Change 
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 2,247 2,500 -10%
Flow-through 
procurement (120) (320)
Scope revenue
1
2,127 2,180 -2% -2%
Profit before net 
financing expense 211 212
Intangibles 
amortisation 18 18
Exceptional items 10 1
Share of trading profit  
of joint ventures 2 2
T rading profit
1
 241 233 +3%
T rading margin
1
11.3% 10.7% +60bps
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172).
Revenue in Americas was £2,247m (2012: £2,500m), a decline 
of 10%. Growth of £49m across conventional oil and gas and 
renewables was outweighed by a decline in mining of £112m 
and in oil sands due to the phasing of work on certain major 
projects and the £200m reduction in flow-through procurement 
to £120m. Excluding flow-through procurement, underlying 
revenue declined by 2% compared with 2012.
T rading profit increased by 3% to £241m (2012: £233m). 
T rading margin was 11.3%, up 60 bps compared with 2012, 
largely as a result of the benefits of cost efficiencies following 
the geographical restructuring in 2012, favourable project  
close-outs and from increased grants from the US government 
for research and development activities.  175
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Europe
£m unless stated 2013 2012 Change
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 1,227 1,080 +14% +11%
Profit before net 
financing expense 63 61
Intangibles 
amortisation 17 16
Exceptional items 1 3
Share of trading profit 
of joint ventures 12 15
T rading profit
1
93 95 -2%
T rading margin
1
7.6% 8.8% -120bps
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172).
Revenue in Europe improved by 14% to £1,227m (2012: 
£1,080m), primarily due to the level of oil and gas activity in  
the North Sea and the inclusion of a full year’s revenue of ESRC 
in the clean energy market following its acquisition in 2012. 
T rading profit declined 2% to £93m (2012: £95m). T rading 
margin was 7 .6%, down 120 bps compared with 2012. T rading 
margin declined largely as the result of a reduced contribution 
from the Sellafield joint venture (£12m in 2013 compared with 
£15m in 2012) and losses incurred due to delays in the T eesside 
Gas Processing Plant contract.
Growth Regions
£m unless stated 2013 2012 Change
Underlying 
change
1
Revenue 536 531 +1% +2%
Profit before net 
financing expense 10 1
Intangibles 
amortisation 12 10
Exceptional items 7 18
Share of trading profit 
of joint ventures 4 3
T rading profit
1
 33 32 +3%
T rading margin
1
 6.2% 6.1% +10bps
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172).
Revenue in Growth Regions improved by 1% to £536m 
(2012: £531m), primarily driven by increased revenue from oil 
and gas activities in the Middle East which was partially offset 
by the decline in mining revenue in Australia.
T rading profit increased by 3% to £33m (2012: £32m) and 
the trading margin was 6.2%, up 10 bps compared with 2012. 
Cost efficiencies resulting from the geographical restructuring 
in 2012, were offset by the effect of weak market conditions 
in Australia.
Investment Services
During the periods under review, Investment Services 
principally comprised the Incheon Bridge PPP project in Korea 
and the Lancashire waste PFI project (which was subsequently 
exited in 2014), the Group’s insurance captive, the Group’s 
residual UK wind development activities and a range of other 
non-core activities. 
Revenue in Investment Services was £6m (2012: £9m). 
Profit before net financing expense was £11m (2012: £7m), 
of which £7m (2012: £2m) was derived from joint ventures. 
The Investment Services result increased significantly in 
2013 compared with 2012 due to the successful resolution of 
disputes relating to the Group’s former construction business 
in North America.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and 
retained obligations of businesses sold in prior years, together 
with the UK conventional power business that was classified  
as a discontinued operation during 2013. 
Discontinued operations generated a trading loss before  
tax of £10m (2012: loss of £4m) and after a tax credit  
of £2m (2012: £1m) generated a loss for the year of  
£8m (2012: loss of £3m). 
Discontinued operations included a loss on disposals of  
£6m (2012: loss of £11m) and, in 2012, an exceptional gain  
of £17m on the recognition of an insurance recovery in relation 
to mesothelioma liabilities following a judgement of the UK 
Supreme Court.
Discontinued operations generated an overall loss for the year 
of £8m (2012: profit of £2m). Before exceptional items and 
losses on disposals, discontinued operations showed a loss  
for the year of £8m (2012: loss of £3m).  176
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Our website
Our website, amecfw.com, is the best source of useful,  
up-to-date information about Amec Foster Wheeler and its 
activities, including annual reports, AGM documents and other 
shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange can 
be found on our website and you can arrange to receive email 
alerts of such announcements.
Information made available on our website, or other websites 
mentioned in this annual report, are not, and should not be 
considered as being, part of or incorporated into this annual 
report or our annual report on Form 20-F.
Financial calendar
We published the Group’s full-year 2014 results and the 
2014 annual report later than usual as a consequence of the 
acquisition of Foster Wheeler having completed so close to the 
Group’s year-end date. Management expects to move towards 
the Group’s normal financial calendar during 2015 as follows:
Annual General Meeting
1
14 May 2015
Payment of final dividend for 2014
2
2 July 2015
Half-year 2015 results issued 27 August 2015
Payment of interim dividend for 2015 January 2016
Full-year 2015 results issued 10 March 2016
2015 annual report published
3
March 2016
1 Information on the Company’s AGM is provided in the Directors’ report.
2 Subject to approval by shareholders.
3  Our annual report will be filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and periodic 
results announcements will be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K.
Where they have not yet been determined, the exact dates  
of the above events will be finalised as the year progresses  
and can be found on our website.
Share price
The latest price of the Company’s shares can be found on  
our website and may also be obtained from the London Stock 
Exchange’s website, www.londonstockexchange.com (in both 
cases the live share price is updated with a 15-minute delay).
Dividends
We usually announce our interim dividend for the year with our 
half-year results in August and it is paid in the following January. 
We propose our final dividend for the year with the full-year 
results and, subject to shareholder approval at the subsequent 
AGM, it is paid in the following July.
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building 
society account and can also be paid in local currency in 
certain overseas territories. Shareholders should contact the 
Company’s registrars to take advantage of these facilities.
We have a DRIP to allow shareholders to acquire more of  
the Company’s shares rather than receive cash dividends.  
The DRIP is only available to shareholders in certain countries. 
Y ou can find out more on our website or by contacting the 
Company’s registrars.
Registrars
The Company’s registrars are Capita Asset Services. They 
maintain the shareholder register on our behalf and handle  
all administration related to it. They should be your first port  
of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding  
in Amec Foster Wheeler. 
For DRIP , electronic communications and general enquiries
Email shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Website www.capitaassetservices.com
Postal address Capita Asset Services 
 The Registry 
 34 Beckenham Road 
 Beckenham 
 Kent BR3 4TU 
 United Kingdom
T elephone
1
 UK  0871 664 0300
2
 
 Others +44 20 8639 3399
Payment of dividends overseas
T elephone
1
 +44 20 8639 3405 
Email ips@capita.co.uk
1  Lines open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday  
(excluding public holidays).
2 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras.
Electronic shareholder communication
The majority of our shareholders now receive information from 
us electronically. If you have elected to do so and have provided 
an email address, you will receive an email from us whenever 
any new shareholder information is published. If you have not 
provided an email address, you will be sent a letter that includes 
details of where the information can be found on our website.
Y ou can register for electronic shareholder communication  
and also manage your personal shareholding online at  
www.capitashareportal.com. Y ou will need your Investor Code 
(IVC) which can be found on your proxy card, share certificate 
or dividend tax voucher.
Printed copies of the annual report
Shareholders may receive a printed copy of the Company’s 
latest annual report on request by writing to our registered 
office or by filling in the form on our website.
Unauthorised brokers (boiler room scams)
Shareholders are advised to be wary if they receive any 
unsolicited calls or correspondence making claims of highly 
profitable investment opportunities. T ypically these investments 
turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist. Such 
approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and 
individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or offers to buy 
shares from a source that is unknown to you, we recommend 
that you obtain the name of the person and organisation 
that has contacted you and check whether they are properly 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority by visiting its 
website at www.fca.org.uk/register.
If you think that you have been approached by an unauthorised 
organisation, you are advised to contact the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s consumer helpline on +44 (0)800 111 6768 or email 
consumer.enquiries@fca.org.uk.
Information for shareholders 177
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Holders of ADSs
ADSs and ADRs
The Company’s ordinary shares are traded in the form of ADSs 
on the NYSE. Each ADS represents one ordinary share.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by Deutsche Bank 
T rust Company Americas as Depositary under a deposit 
agreement dated 2 October 2014. The ADRs are issued in 
respect of ordinary shares deposited with State Street Bank 
& T rust Company, as custodian for the Depositary.
ADSs may be held directly by having an ADR (a certificate 
evidencing a specific number of ADSs) registered in your 
name or by holding ADSs in the Direct Registration System, 
or indirectly through a broker or other financial institution. If you 
hold ADSs directly, you are an ADS holder. The Company’s ADSs 
are issued through the Direct Registration System unless the 
investor specifically requests to receive certificated ADRs.
A registered holder is one whose name appears on the books of 
the Depositary. The registered holder is considered the owner of 
record. A beneficial holder is one whose holdings are registered 
in a name other than their own, such as the name of a broker, 
bank or nominee.
ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct 
the Depositary on the exercise of voting rights relative to the 
number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs. 
Role of the Depositary
The Depositary performs the following roles for ADS holders:
 X distributes company circulars and documents in relation 
to general meetings of the Company (including the AGM);
 X distributes dividends in US dollars;
 X facilitates the voting process and the exercise of voting rights 
of ADS holders at any general meeting of the Company;
 X issues and cancels the Company’s ADSs;
 X acts as the stock transfer agent; and
 X records and maintains the register of ADS holders.
The Company provides to the Depositary all notices of 
meetings of the Company’s shareholders and other reports 
and communications that are made available to the Company’s 
shareholders. The Depositary makes such notices, reports and 
communications available for inspection by recorded holders of 
ADSs and sends voting instruction forms by post to all recorded 
holders of ADSs.
Investors who are not registered with the Depositary because 
their ADRs are held through a nominee account may need to 
make arrangements with their nominee if they wish to receive 
such documents and to be able to exercise their vote through 
the Depositary at general meetings of the Company. 
ADS holders may receive a printed copy of the Company’s 
 latest annual report on request by writing to our registered 
office or by filling in the form on our website.
Dividends
The Depositary will pay to ADS holders cash dividends or other 
distributions it or the custodian receives on the Company’s 
shares after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders 
will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of 
the Company’s shares the ADSs represent at the record date 
(which will be as close as practicable to the record date for the 
Company’s ordinary shares) set by the Depositary with respect 
to the ADSs.
The Depositary will usually convert any cash dividend or other 
cash distribution on the Company’s shares or any net proceeds 
from the sale of any ordinary shares, rights, securities or other 
entitlements into US dollars. Before making a distribution to 
ADS holders, any taxes or other governmental charges that 
must be paid, together with the fees and expenses of the 
Depositary, will be deducted.
ADS enquiries
All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment 
of dividends should be addressed to the Depositary:
Deutsche Bank Shareholder Service 
American Stock T ransfer & T rust Company 
Peck Slip Station 
P .O. Box 2050 
New Y ork, NY 10272-2050 
US
T elephone (toll free): +1 866 706 0509 
T elephone (international): +1 718 921 8137 
Email:  db@amstock.com
DB Global Direct
US residents may enrol in DB Global Direct, enabling them to 
invest directly in the Company’s ADSs with reduced brokerage 
commissions and service costs. Registered ADS holders may 
reinvest all or a portion of their dividends in the Company’s 
ADSs through DB Global Direct.
For further information on DB Global Direct, please contact 
Deutsche Bank (as above) or visit www.adr.db.com.
ADS price
The latest price of the Company’s ADSs can be found on 
our website and may also be obtained from the NYSE’s website, 
www.nyse.com (in both cases the live ADS price is updated 
with a 15-minute delay). 
Fees payable by ADS holders
ADS holders are required to pay certain service fees to the 
Depositary.
The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of 
ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering 
ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries 
acting for them. The Depositary collects fees for making 
distributions to investors, including payment of dividends 
by the Company, by deducting those fees from the amounts 
distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property 
to pay the fees. The Depositary may collect its annual fee for 
depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by 
directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system 
accounts of participants acting from them. The Depositary may 
generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees 
for those services are paid.
Other information 178
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Other information continued
Service Fees
T o any person to whom ADSs are issued 
or to any person to whom a distribution 
is made in respect of ADSs pursuant to 
share dividends or other free distributions 
of shares, bonus distributions, stock 
splits or other distributions (except where 
converted to cash) 
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS issued
Cancellation of ADSs (including in the case 
of termination of the deposit agreement)
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS cancelled
Distribution of cash dividends Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Distribution of cash entitlements  
(other than cash dividends) and/or cash 
proceeds, including proceeds from the sale 
of rights, securities and other entitlements 
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise 
of rights
Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held
Depositary services Up to US$0.05 
per ADS held on 
the applicable 
record date(s) 
established by  
the Depositary
ADS holders are also responsible for paying certain fees and 
expenses incurred by the Depositary such as:
 X fees for the transfer and registration of the Company’s shares 
charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the shares in 
the UK;
 X expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into US 
dollars; and 
 X expenses for cable, telex, fax and electronic transmission and 
for delivery of securities.
Since the Company’s ADSs were first issued in November 
2014, a fee of US$0.01 per ADS was levied on the 2014 interim 
dividend that was paid in January 2015. 
Fees paid by the Depositary to the Company
The Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company for a 
portion of certain expenses the Company incurs that are related 
to establishment and maintenance of the ADR programme, 
including, but not limited to, investor relations expenses and 
expenses associated with being a company listed in the US. 
There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the 
Depositary will reimburse the Company. Further, the Depositary 
has agreed to reimburse the Company with certain fees payable 
to the Depositary by ADS holders.
In the period from 2 October 2014 (the date of the deposit 
agreement with the Depositary) to 25 March 2015, the 
Company did not receive any amounts from the Depository but 
it expects to receive reimbursement of certain costs incurred in 
that period during the fourth quarter of 2015. 
Share capital
As permitted by English law, the Company has no authorised 
share capital. The Company’s share capital may be increased, 
consolidated or sub-divided by ordinary resolution at a general 
meeting of the Company. 
As at 25 March 2015, the Company’s issued share capital  
was £196,565,907 divided into 393,131,813 ordinary shares  
of 50 pence each. Of this number, 4,291,115 ordinary shares 
were registered as treasury shares, leaving a balance of 
388,840,698 ordinary shares with voting rights. 
All of the Company’s ordinary shares are fully paid or were 
issued as fully paid. Accordingly, no further contribution of 
capital may be required by the Company from the holders  
of those shares.
The Company has neither authorised nor issued any conditional 
share capital and has not issued convertible or exchangeable 
bonds, warrants or other securities granting rights to the 
Company’s shares, other than securities granted to directors, 
senior management and employees under the Company’s 
share-based compensation plans. Information on these plans  
is provided in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
As at 25 March 2015, there were 5,976,299 share options 
outstanding under the Company’s UK and International SAYE 
schemes and 5,783,597 shares reserved for share awards under 
the Company’s share-based compensation plans (in relation to 
which 2,015,070 shares were held in the Company’s Employee 
Share T rust).
The Articles authorise the Company to purchase its own  
shares. A resolution passed at the Company’s General Meeting 
on 23 October 2014 provides the directors with the authority  
to purchase up 35,896,172 of the Company’s ordinary shares 
in the market, such authority to expire at the end of the 
Company’s next AGM or 1 June 2015, whichever is earlier.  
A resolution will be proposed at the Company’s AGM in May 
2015 to extend the authority of the directors to make market 
purchases of up to 10% of the Company’s ordinary shares 
within prescribed limits. The Company may repurchase shares 
only if the shares are fully paid and out of distributable profits 
or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose 
of the repurchase. The UKLA requires that purchase of 15% or 
more of any class of the Company’s share capital must be by 
way of a tender offer to all shareholders of that class.
The Company may reduce its share capital, share 
premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other 
undistributable reserve only by special resolution of its 
shareholders and having obtained the consent of the High 
Court of Justice in England and Wales.
Markets
The primary trading market for the Company’s ordinary shares 
is the London Stock Exchange, on which they have been listed 
since the Company’s formation in 1982. The Company has a 
premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and its ordinary 
shares are admitted to the main market. The Company’s SEDOL 
number is 0028262 (ISIS Code GB0000282623) and its 
trading symbol is AMFW.  179
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
As at 25 March 2015, the Company’s total market capitalisation 
was approximately £3.8bn and it was a constituent of The 
Financial Times Stock Exchange 250 Index (FTSE 250).
Since November 2014, the Company’s ordinary shares have 
been traded in the form of ADSs on the NYSE. The Company’s 
CUSIP code is 00167X205 (ISIN Code US00167X2053) and its 
ticker symbol is AMFW.
Share price history
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the highest and 
lowest middle market quotation for the Company’s ordinary 
shares on the London Stock Exchange (as derived from the 
Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority) and the highest 
and lowest sales price of its ADSs on the NYSE (as reported  
on the NYSE composite tape) were as follows: 
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
1
Y ear ended 31 December High Low High Low
2010 11.68 7 .34 n/a n/a
2011 12.51 7.41 n/a n/a
2012 11.72 9.23 n/a n/a
2013 12.07 9.66 n/a n/a
2014 12.62 7.89 16.97 14.47
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
1
Quarter High Low High Low
2013
First quarter 11.24 10.10 n/a n/a
Second quarter 10.98 9.66 n/a n/a
Third quarter 11.10 10.02 n/a n/a
Fourth quarter 12.07 10.40 n/a n/a
2014
First quarter 11.24 10.20 n/a n/a
Second quarter 12.62 11.65 n/a n/a
Third quarter 12.45 10.59 n/a n/a
Fourth quarter 11.05 7.89 16.97 12.25
2015
First quarter
2
9.95 7.77 14.83 12.75
£ per ordinary share US$ per ADS
1
Month High Low High Low
September 2014 11.20 10.59 n/a n/a
October 2014 10.92 9.90 n/a n/a
November 2014 11.05 9.35 16.97 14.47
December 2014 9.36 7 .90 14.47 12.25
January 2015 8.62 7.77 13.11 11.89
February 2015 9.03 8.31 13.83 12.39
March 2015
2
9.95 8.73 14.79 13.00
1 From 13 November 2014.
2 Up to and including 25 March 2015.
Shareholdings
As at 25 March 2015, 17 ,130,827 ADSs equivalent to 4.4% of 
the number of the Company’s ordinary shares in issue were 
outstanding and were held by 1,321 registered holders.
As at 25 March 2015, 154,517 ordinary shares were held 
by 386 registered holders with a registered address in the 
US. Since certain of the ordinary shares were registered in 
the names of nominees, the number of shareholders with 
a registered address in the US may not be representative 
of the number of beneficial owners of ordinary shares who 
are resident in the US. 
In accordance with the DTRs of the UKLA, major shareholders 
are considered to be those that have a beneficial interest in  
3% or more of the Company’s issued ordinary shares. 
On the basis of notifications received under the DTRs (DTR 5)  
and other notifications received by the Company from 
shareholders, shareholdings of 3% or more of the voting  
rights in the Company were as follows:
Percentage of voting rights held
As at 31 December 2014 2013 2012 2011
Artisan Partners 
Limited Partnership n/a 5.20% n/a n/a
Mondrian Investment 
Partners Limited 5.28% 5.15% n/a n/a
BlackRock, Inc. 5.01% n/a 9.97%
1
9.94%
Legal & General 
Assurance n/a n/a 3.98% 3.96%
1  In response to a disclosure request under Section 793 of the Companies 
Act 2006, Blackrock, Inc. advised the Company on 19 December 2012 that 
their holding had reduced to 5.52%. 
On 23 March 2015, pursuant to DTR 5, BlackRock, Inc. notified 
the Company of their interest in 5.63% of the voting rights in 
the Company. Otherwise, there were no notifications received 
under DTR 5 between 31 December 2014 and 25 March 2015.
Each of the Company’s ordinary shares, including those held 
by major shareholders, carries equal voting rights.
Purchase of ordinary shares
In February 2013, the Company completed a £400m share buy-
back programme. During 2014, the Company did not purchase 
any of its own shares in the market and no purchases of the 
Company’s shares were made by trustees of the Company’s 
employee share schemes.
Options and awards made under the Company’s employee 
share schemes that were exercised or vested during 2014 were 
satisfied by the transfer to the participants of the shares held 
by the Company in treasury or by the trustee of the relevant 
scheme. Details of the Company’s employee share schemes 
are set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 180
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Other information continued
Articles of Association
We summarise below certain provisions of the Articles 
and applicable English law. The summary is qualified in its 
entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the 
Articles. Please refer to Documents on display on page 187 for 
information on where copies of the Articles can be obtained.
In the following description, a ‘shareholder’ is the person 
registered in the Company’s register of members as the holder 
of a share or shares.
Principal objects
The Articles of Association do not restrict the Company’s 
objects or purposes.
Directors
The board
Under the Articles, the board shall consist of not less than three 
nor more than 15 directors, who shall manage the business and 
affairs of the Company subject to the requirements of English 
law, the Articles and any resolutions of shareholders. 
Appointment, retirement and re-election
Directors may be appointed by the board at any time. Any 
director appointed since the last AGM holds office only until 
the conclusion of the next AGM and then shall be eligible for 
election by shareholders. 
Under the Articles, all directors retire by rotation and are 
eligible for re-election every three years. However, in line with 
the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
each of the directors who wishes to continue in office, and is 
considered eligible by the board, actually offers himself or 
herself for re-election at every AGM. 
Under the Articles, there are no age limits relating to a person’s 
qualification to hold office as a director.
Restrictions on voting
Under the Articles, a director may not vote in respect of any 
contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he or 
she, or any person connected with him or her, has any material 
interest other than by virtue of that person’s interests in the 
Company’s ordinary shares or other securities. However, this 
restriction on voting does not apply to proposals:
 X giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security 
or indemnity in respect of obligation incurred at the request  
of or for the benefit of the Company;
 X giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or  
a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which 
the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity 
or guarantee; 
 X relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the 
director is entitled to participate as a holder of shares or other 
securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities; 
 X concerning any other company in which the director (together 
with any connected person) is a shareholder or an officer or 
is otherwise interested, provided that the director (together 
with any connected person) is not interested in 1% or more of 
any class of such other company’s equity share capital or the 
voting rights available to its shareholders; 
 X relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which 
the director will share equally with other employees; and 
 X relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or 
renews for its directors or any group of people including 
directors.
Compensation awarded to the executive directors is 
determined by the remuneration committee.
A director shall not vote nor be counted in any quorum present 
at a general meeting of the Company’s shareholders in relation 
to a resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Borrowing powers
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the 
Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the 
borrowings of the Company and its subsidiaries may not exceed 
two times the ‘adjusted capital and reserves’ (as defined in the 
Articles).
Shareholding requirements
Directors are not required under the Articles to hold any shares 
of the Company as qualification to act as a director.
Any director who is not a shareholder is entitled to attend and 
speak at general meetings of the shareholders.  181
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Rights attaching to ordinary shares
In accordance with English law, the Company’s ordinary shares 
rank equally in all respects.
Dividends
The Company’s ordinary shares carry the right to receive 
dividends and distributions that have been declared by the 
Company. Except in relation to dividends that have been 
declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, ordinary 
shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the 
Company. 
English law requires that dividends are paid only out of profits 
available for distribution, as determined in accordance with  
UK GAAP and by the Companies Act 2006, and additionally 
restricts a public company from making a distribution if 
that would reduce the net assets of the company below the 
aggregate amount of its called-up share capital and certain 
undistributable reserves.
Dividends are proposed by the directors. Dividends are 
declared following approval by ordinary resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders at a general meeting of the Company. 
Shareholders may not declare a dividend in excess of the 
amount proposed by the directors. The directors may declare 
and pay interim dividends if they believe that the Company’s 
financial position justifies such payments.
Any unclaimed dividend may be invested or otherwise applied 
for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed. 
Any dividend that remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date 
on which it was declared, or became due for payment, shall be 
forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
If authorised by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the 
directors may offer to shareholders the right to elect to receive 
a dividend, in whole or in part, by way of an allotment of new 
ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
Voting rights 
Holders of the Company’s ordinary shares have the right to 
receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings 
of the Company.
Any shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the 
meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any  
of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
Voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a 
poll is duly demanded and held. Under English law, shareholders 
of a public company are not permitted to pass resolutions by 
written consent.
On a show of hands, each shareholder who is present in  
person at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number  
of shares held. 
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or  
by proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by him.  
A poll may be demanded by the following:
 X the chairman of the meeting; or
 X not less than three members present or by proxy entitled  
to vote; or
 X a member or members present in person or by proxy and 
representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights 
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting; or
 X a member or members present in person or by proxy and 
holding shares in the Company conferring a right to vote at the 
meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been 
paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid 
up on all the shares conferring that right.
Unless the directors determine otherwise, if any sum remains 
unpaid in relation to a member’s shareholding, that member 
is not entitled to vote in relation to that holding.
Rights in a winding up
If the Company is liquidated (whether the liquidation is 
voluntary or court-supervised), the liquidator is obliged to 
realise the assets of the Company to its creditors and, subject 
to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares that 
may be in issue at the time, any surplus would be distributed to 
the ordinary shareholders according to the amounts paid-up  
on the shares held by them.
Pre-emption rights 
English law provides for statutory pre-emption rights that 
apply on an allotment of equity securities (which include the 
Company’s ordinary shares or securities convertible into the 
Company’s ordinary shares). 
Pre-emption rights can be disapplied by a special resolution 
passed by shareholders at a general meeting. Such a 
resolution was passed at the Company’s General Meeting on 
23 October 2014 and provides the directors with the authority 
to allot equity securities or grant rights to subscribe for or 
to convert any security to shares up to a nominal amount of 
£59,228,684.5, of which up to £8,974,043 could be allotted for 
cash without offering the shares to existing shareholders, such 
authority to expire at the end of the Company’s next AGM or 
1 June 2015, if earlier. 
Variation of rights
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into 
different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class  
can only be changed either:
 X with the written consent of the holders of three-quarters in 
nominal value of the issued shares of that class (excluding 
shares held as treasury shares); or
 X with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate 
meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
The rights attached to any class of shares are not, unless 
otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue, deemed 
to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking 
equally with them. 182
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Other information continued
General meetings
An AGM of the Company must be held each calendar year 
and within a period of six months of the day following the 
Company’s accounting reference date (which is 31 December).
Otherwise, the directors may call a general meeting whenever 
they think fit or where required to do so by shareholders holding 
at least 10% of the voting rights of the paid-up capital of the 
Company carrying voting rights (excluding shares held as 
treasury shares). 
General meetings may be held at such place, date and time 
as may be decided by the directors. 
An AGM must be convened by giving not less than 21 days’ 
notice. Other general meetings must also be convened by giving 
not less than 21 days’ notice unless shareholder approval has 
been given for such meetings to be convened on giving only 
14 days’ notice (such approval has been given by the Company’s 
shareholders and is effective until the next AGM when it is 
proposed that it should be renewed).
General meetings may be called on shorter notice if, in the 
case of an AGM, all of the members entitled to attend and vote 
at that meeting so agree, or if, in the case of other general 
meetings, 95% of the members entitled to attend and vote 
at that meeting so agree.
For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to 
attend or vote at a meeting, and how many votes such persons 
may cast, the Company must specify in the notice of the 
meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for 
the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the register 
in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless 
a quorum is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to 
business. T wo shareholders present in person or by proxy shall 
be a quorum.
The directors may require attendees to submit to searches 
or put in place such arrangements or restrictions as they think 
fit to ensure the safety and security of attendees at a general 
meeting. Any member, proxy or other person who fails to 
comply with such arrangements or restrictions may be refused 
entry to, or removed from, the general meeting.
Limitations on voting and shareholding
Neither English law nor the Articles impose any limitation on the 
rights of non-UK residents or foreign shareholders to own the 
Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs, including the rights to hold 
or exercise voting rights on those shares or ADSs.
Disclosure of interests in the Company’s ordinary shares
Under the DTRs, a person is required to notify the Company in 
writing within two days of becoming aware that the voting rights 
which he holds as a shareholder or through his direct or indirect 
holding of financial instruments reaches or exceeds 3% of the 
voting rights in the Company and reaches, exceeds or falls 
below each 1% threshold thereafter.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may send a 
notice to any person whom it knows or believes to be interested 
in the Company’s shares requiring such person to confirm 
whether he has such an interest and, if so, the details of the 
interest and any other interest in the Company’s shares of 
which he is aware. 
Under the DTRs, ‘persons discharging managerial 
responsibilities’ (primarily directors and some senior 
executives) and their connected persons are required to notify 
the Company in writing of the occurrence of all transactions 
conducted on their own account in the Company’s shares, 
or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to 
those shares within four business days of the day on which the 
transaction occurred. 
Mandatory bids
The Articles contain no provisions that would have an effect 
of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the 
Company. 
However, under the UK City Code on T akeovers & Mergers, if an 
acquisition of the Company’s shares increases the aggregate 
holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying 
30% or more of the voting rights in the Company, the acquirer 
and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties, 
would be required (except with the consent of the Panel on 
T akeovers & Mergers) to make a cash offer for the remainder of 
the Company’s shares at a price not less than the highest price 
paid for the Company’s shares by the acquirer or its concert 
parties during the previous 12 months. Such an offer would also 
be triggered by any acquisition of shares by a person holding 
(together with its concert parties) shares carrying between 
30% and 50% of the voting rights in the Company if the effect 
of such acquisition were to increase that person’s percentage  
of the voting rights.
Amendments
Under English law, the Company’s shareholders may, by special 
resolution, alter, delete, substitute amend or add to the Articles. 
The directors are not authorised to change the Articles.
Material contracts
During the last two years, the Group entered into the following 
material contracts (other than contracts entered into in the 
ordinary course of business):
Acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG
Pursuant to an implementation agreement between AMEC 
and Foster Wheeler entered into on 13 February 2014 (as 
amended by the letter agreement dated 28 March 2014, 
the deed of amendment dated 28 May 2014 and the 
deed of amendment dated 2 October 2014, together, the 
Implementation Agreement), AMEC commenced an offer to 
acquire all outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares on 6 October 
2014 (the Offer). The Offer closed on 13 November 2014 and, 
upon completion of the Offer, AMEC had acquired 95.3% of the 
outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares. 183
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Following completion of the Offer, on 8 December 2014, AMEC 
(through its subsidiaries) and Foster Wheeler entered into a 
merger agreement, which provided for the squeeze-out merger 
of Foster Wheeler AG under Swiss law. The squeeze-out merger 
was subject to the approval of the merger agreement by at least 
90% of the outstanding voting rights of Foster Wheeler AG, 
which was received on 19 January 2015.
Agreements with former Foster Wheeler directors
Pursuant to the Implementation Agreement, AMEC entered into 
letters of appointment with Kent Masters and Stephanie Newby 
regarding their appointment as non-executive directors of Amec 
Foster Wheeler following the completion of the acquisition. 
Amec Foster Wheeler also entered into a co-ordination and 
settlement agreement with Kent Masters relating to his 
termination arrangements as CEO of Foster Wheeler.
Credit facility agreement
In February 2014, the Group entered into a US$2,160m 
credit facility agreement with Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
International Limited as facility agent and Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch International Limited, Bank of T okyo Mitsubishi 
UF J, Ltd., Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc as original lenders. In July 2014, the facility was amended 
to increase the financing available to US$2,260m. The credit 
facility comprises three loan facilities totalling US$1,910m 
and a multi-currency revolving credit facility of US$350m. 
Further details of the terms and conditions of the credit 
facility agreement are set out in note 19 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting  
security holders
There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that 
restrict or affect the export or import of capital or that affect the 
payment of dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK 
resident holders of the Company’s securities, except for certain 
restrictions imposed from time to time by the UK T reasury 
pursuant to legislation, such as the United Nations Act 1964 
and the Emergency Laws Act 1964, against the government or 
residents of certain countries.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or 
under the Articles, restricting the right of non-UK residents to 
hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of the Company’s 
ordinary shares, except that where any overseas shareholder 
has not provided a UK address for the service of notices, the 
Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other 
document to an overseas address. It is, however, the Company’s 
current practice to send every notice or other document to all 
shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register 
of members, with the exception of details of the Company’s 
DRIP , which are not sent to shareholders with recorded 
addresses in the US or Canada.
Taxation information for US Holders
Background
A summary is provided below of the material US federal income 
tax and UK tax consequences for a US Holder (defined below) 
of owning or disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs of the 
Company. This section addresses only the tax position of a US 
Holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
This section does not consider the provisions of the IRC known 
as the Medicare Contribution tax or the tax consequences for 
holders subject to other special rules, such as:
 X certain financial institutions;
 X insurance companies;
 X dealers and traders in securities who use a mark-to-market 
method of tax accounting;
 X persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, 
conversion or other integrated transaction or wash sale or 
persons entering into a constructive sale with respect to the 
ordinary shares or ADSs;
 X persons whose functional currency for US federal income tax 
purposes is not the US dollar;
 X partnerships or other entities classified as partnerships for  
US federal income tax purposes;
 X persons liable to the alternative minimum tax;
 X persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs in individual 
retirement accounts or other tax-deferred accounts;
 X persons who have ceased to be US citizens or lawful 
permanent residents of the US;
 X tax-exempt organisations;
 X persons who acquired the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs 
pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options  
or otherwise in connection with employment; or 
 X persons who, directly, indirectly, or by attribution own 10%  
or more of the Company’s voting stock.
Except where expressly stated to the contrary, this section 
does not deal with the position of a US Holder who is resident 
or domiciled in the UK for UK tax purposes or who is subject 
to UK taxation on income or capital gains by virtue of carrying 
on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, 
agency or permanent establishment to which ordinary shares 
or ADSs are attributable, i.e. those who are referred to below as 
trading in the UK. 184
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Other information continued
As used herein, a ‘US Holder’ is a person who, for the purposes 
of US federal income tax and UK tax, is a beneficial holder of 
ordinary shares or ADSs and is:
 X a citizen or individual resident of the US;
 X a corporation (or other entity taxable as a corporation) 
created or organised in or under the laws of the US or any 
political subdivision thereof; 
 X an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax 
regardless of its source; 
 X a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over 
the trust’s administration and one or more US persons are 
authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust; or
 X a trust that has validly elected to be treated as a domestic 
trust for US federal income tax purposes.
This section is based on the IRC, its legislative history, existing 
and proposed regulations, published rulings and court 
decisions, and on UK tax laws and the published practice of 
HMRC, all as at 25 March 2015. These laws, and that practice, 
are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section is further based in part upon the representations of 
the Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit 
agreement and any related agreement will be performed in 
accordance with its terms. For US federal income tax purposes, 
the owner of ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated 
as the owner of the underlying shares represented by those 
ADSs. For UK tax purposes, it is likely that HMRC will also regard 
holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of the ordinary shares 
represented by those ADSs.
Generally, exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for 
ordinary shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or 
UK taxation on capital gains, although UK stamp duty reserve 
tax may arise as described below.
The US T reasury has expressed concerns that parties to 
whom ADRs are pre-released may be taking actions that are 
inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by US 
Holders of ADSs. Such actions would also be inconsistent with 
the claiming of the preferential rates of tax, described below, 
for qualified dividend income. Accordingly, the availability of 
preferential rates of tax for qualified dividend income could be 
affected by actions taken by parties to whom ADRs are pre-
released.
The following discussion assumes that the Company is not, and 
will not become, a PFIC. We outline below the consequences for 
US Holders should the Company become a PFIC in the future.
Investors should consult their own tax advisers regarding 
the US federal, state, and local, the UK and other tax 
consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares 
or ADSs of the Company in their particular circumstances.
T axation of dividends 
UK taxation
Under current UK tax law, the Company is not required to 
withhold tax at source from its dividend payments.
A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and who is not trading in the UK will generally not be liable for 
UK taxation on dividends received in respect of the Company’s 
ADSs or ordinary shares.
US federal income taxation
A US Holder is subject to US federal income tax on the gross 
amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its current 
or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for US 
federal income tax purposes). Distributions in excess of the 
Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits will 
be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US Holder’s 
basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain. 
Because the Company has not historically maintained, and 
does not currently maintain, books in accordance with US tax 
principles, the Company does not expect to be in a position 
to determine whether any distribution will be in excess of the 
Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits as 
determined for US federal income tax purposes. As a result, the 
Company expects that the amounts distributed will be reported 
to the IRS as dividends.
Subject to applicable limitations, dividends paid to certain 
non-corporate US Holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may 
be taxable at the favourable tax rates applicable to long-term 
capital gain if the dividends constitute qualified dividend 
income. A US Holder will be eligible for these rates only if it has 
held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during 
the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend 
date. The Company expects that the dividends paid by the 
Company with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will 
constitute qualified dividend income. US Holders should consult 
their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject 
to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these 
favourable rates.
Dividends must be included in income when the US Holder, 
in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, 
actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be 
eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed 
to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other 
US corporations. For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, 
dividends paid by the Company will be income from a source 
outside the US.
The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling will be the 
US dollar value of the sterling payments made, determined 
at the spot sterling/US dollar exchange rate on the date the 
dividend is included in income for federal income tax purposes, 
regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into 
US dollars. If the dividend is converted into US dollars on 
that date, a US Holder should not be required to recognise a 
foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income. 
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency fluctuations 
during the period from the date the dividend payment is 
included in income to the date the payment is converted into US 
dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss from sources 
within the US. 185
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
T axation of capital gains
UK taxation
A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and who is not trading in the UK will not generally be liable for 
UK taxation on capital gains, or eligible for relief for allowable 
losses, realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of the 
Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs. A US Holder who is an 
individual and has temporarily ceased to be a resident in the 
UK or has been temporarily treated as non-resident in the UK 
for UK tax purposes for a period of not more than five years 
and who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs 
during that period may, for the year of assessment when the 
individual becomes resident again in the UK, be liable for UK tax 
on capital gains (subject to any available exemption or relief), 
notwithstanding the fact that the individual was not treated as 
resident in the UK at the time of the sale or other disposal.
US federal income taxation
A US Holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares 
or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal 
income tax purposes equal to the difference, if any, between 
the amount realised on the sale or other disposal and the 
adjusted tax basis of the securities. Any capital gain or loss will 
be a long-term capital gain or loss where the holder has held 
the securities for more than one year. The capital gain or loss 
will generally be income or loss from sources within the US 
for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. The deductibility of 
capital losses is subject to limitations.
PFIC status
Management believes that the Company was not a PFIC for 
US federal income tax purposes for its taxable year ended 
31 December 2014. Management reviews the Company’s 
PFIC status annually and it is subject to change. 
If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC, any gain realised 
on the sale or other disposal of the Company’s ordinary 
shares or ADSs would, in general, not be treated as capital 
gain. Instead, any gain would be treated as if the US Holder 
had realised the gain rateably over the period during which the 
ordinary shares or ADSs were held. Any gain that is allocated 
to the taxable year of the disposal, and to any taxable year 
before the Company became a PFIC, would be taxed as ordinary 
income. Any gain allocated to each other taxable year would 
be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for the taxable year 
to which the gain was allocated and an interest charge in 
respect of the tax attributable to each such year would also 
apply. Similar rules would apply to any ‘excess distribution’ 
(as determined for US federal income tax purposes) received 
on the ordinary shares or ADSs. The preferential rates for 
qualified dividend income received by certain non-corporate 
US Holders would not apply to dividends received in any year 
in which the Company was a PFIC or in any year immediately 
following a year in which the Company was a PFIC.
If the Company was to be treated as a PFIC certain elections 
may be available to US Holders that would result in alternative 
treatments of the ordinary shares or ADSs. If the Company were 
to be treated as a PFIC in any taxable year in which a US Holder 
held ordinary shares or ADSs, the holder may be required to file 
annual reports with the IRS containing such information as may 
be required by the US T reasury Department.
Inheritance and estate taxes
UK inheritance tax may apply to a deemed transfer which 
occurs on death, and to gifts to individuals within the seven 
years preceding death. For UK inheritance tax purposes, a 
transfer of shares at less than full market value may be treated 
as a gift and particular rules apply where the donor reserves or 
retains some benefit in the shares. Special UK inheritance tax 
rules also apply to companies and to trustees of settlements.
An individual who is neither domiciled nor deemed domiciled 
in the UK is only chargeable to UK inheritance tax to the extent 
the individual owns assets situated in the UK. Whilst UK tax law 
is unclear as to whether the Company’s ADSs are considered 
to be situated in the UK for inheritance tax purposes, HMRC 
is likely to take the view that they, as well as the Company’s 
ordinary shares, are situated in the UK.
However, HMRC considers that the US/UK Double T axation 
Convention on Estate and Gift T ax applies to inheritance tax. 
Consequently, a US Holder who is domiciled in the US for 
the purposes of the US/UK Double T axation Convention and 
is not for such purposes a UK national will not be subject to 
UK inheritance tax on their death or on a lifetime transfer of 
the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs, provided that any 
applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the 
ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property of 
a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in the 
UK or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance of 
independent personal services. Where the ordinary shares 
or ADSs have been placed into trust by a settlor, they may 
be subject to UK inheritance tax, unless, when the trust was 
created, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a UK 
national.
A UK national who is domiciled in the US will be subject to both 
UK inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled 
to a credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of the 
Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability  
to UK inheritance tax. Similarly, a US citizen who is domiciled  
or deemed domiciled in the UK will be entitled to a credit for  
UK inheritance tax charged in respect of the Company’s 
ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability for US  
federal estate tax.  186
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Other information continued
US information reporting and back-up withholding
Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US Holder 
with respect to the Company’s ordinary shares or ADSs by 
a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be reported 
to the IRS and to the US Holder as may be required under 
applicable regulations. 
Unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient, back-up 
withholding tax may apply to these payments if the US Holder 
fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number or 
certification of exempt status or fails to comply with applicable 
certification requirements. 
Any back-up withholding tax deducted may be credited against 
the US Holder’s US federal income tax liability, and, where the 
back-up withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, the US 
Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing the appropriate 
refund claim with the IRS.
Foreign financial asset reporting
US taxpayers that own certain foreign financial assets, including 
debt and equity of foreign entities, with an aggregate value 
in excess of US$50,000 at the end of the taxable year or 
US$75,000 at any time during the taxable year (or, for certain 
individuals living outside the US and married individuals filing 
joint returns, certain higher thresholds) may be required to file 
an information report with respect to such assets with their US 
federal income tax returns. 
The Company’s ADSs or ordinary shares constitute foreign 
financial assets subject to these requirements unless they 
are held in an account at a financial institution (in which case 
the account may still be reportable if maintained by a foreign 
financial institution). 
UK stamp duty and SDRT
UK stamp duty is charged on certain documents, including 
instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary 
shares. T ransfers of ordinary shares are generally subject to UK 
stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration (rounded 
up to the nearest £5).
SDRT is charged where there is an unconditional agreement to 
transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money or 
money’s worth. SDRT is generally charged at the rate of 0.5% 
of the agreed consideration (rounded up to the nearest penny). 
The charge to SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already 
paid will be refunded, if within six years of the unconditional 
agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HMRC and 
the appropriate stamp duty paid. 
Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on any purchase 
or transfer of the Company’s ADSs, provided that the ADSs and 
any separate instrument or written agreement to transfer are 
executed and remain at all times outside the UK. 
UK legislation does, however, provide for stamp duty or SDRT 
to be charged at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of 
the consideration (or, in some circumstances, the value of the 
shares concerned) on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares 
to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance 
service (or their nominees or agents) for the conversion into 
ADRs. In accordance with the deposit agreement, any tax or 
duty payable on deposits of ordinary shares by the Depositary 
or by the custodian of the Depositary will be typically charged to 
the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
Following litigation on the subject, HMRC has accepted that it 
will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% SDRT charge when new 
shares are issued to a clearance service or depositary receipt 
system on the basis that the charge is not compatible with 
EU law. In HMRC’s view, however, the 1.5% SDRT or stamp 
duty charge will continue to apply to transfers of shares into a 
clearance service or depositary receipt system unless they are 
an integral part of the issue of share capital. HMRC’s view is 
currently being challenged in further litigation. 
Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on a transfer of 
ordinary shares where no beneficial interest passes, including 
the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary 
to a holder of the Company’s ADSs.
Foreign currency translation
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the average 
exchange rate between Sterling and the US dollar, calculated by 
using the average of the exchange rates at the close of business 
in London on the last trading day of each month in the period, 
were as follows:
Y ear ended 31 December £1=US$
2010 1.54
2011 1.60
2012 1.59
2013 1.57
2014 1.65
For the periods indicated in the table below, the high and low 
exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar were as 
follows: 
£1=US$
Month High Low
September 2014 1.66 1.61
October 2014 1.62 1.59
November 2014 1.60 1.56
December 2014 1.57 1.55
January 2015 1.54 1.50
February 2015 1.55 1.50
March 2015
1
1.54 1.47
1 Up to and including 25 March 2015.
At the close of business in London on 25 March 2015, the 
sterling/US dollar exchange rate was £1=US$1.49. 187
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Significant differences between corporate governance 
practices and NYSE listing standards
Background
Our corporate governance practices are designed to be 
compliant with the principles and provisions specified by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Our statement of compliance with 
the principles and provisions of the Code is set out on page 44.
We have also adopted the corporate governance requirements 
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related listing 
standards of the NYSE, to the extent that they are applicable 
to a foreign private issuer. We disclose below the significant 
differences between our corporate governance practices and 
those that are required of US companies that are listed on the 
NYSE. 
Corporate governance guidelines
The Code contains a series of principles and provisions. It is not, 
however, mandatory for companies to follow these principles. 
Instead, companies must disclose how they have applied 
them and, if applicable, must disclose and explain the reasons 
for any areas of non-compliance. By comparison, the NYSE 
listing standards require US companies to adopt and disclose 
corporate governance guidelines.
Independence 
Different tests of independence for directors are applied under 
the Code and the NYSE listing standards. The Board has carried 
out an assessment based on the independence requirements 
of the Code and has determined that, in its judgement, each of 
the non-executive directors except Kent Masters is independent 
within the meaning of those requirements. As the Company is 
a foreign private issuer, the Board is not required to take into 
consideration the definition of independence set out in the 
NYSE’s listing standards. 
Committees
NYSE listing standards require US companies to have a 
nominating/corporate governance committee, an audit 
committee and a compensation committee, each composed 
entirely of independent directors. Each of these committees 
is required to have a written charter which addresses 
the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and the 
compensation committee must have sole authority and 
adequate funding to engage compensation consultants, 
independent legal counsel and other external advisers.
We have terms of reference for our Nominations Committee, 
Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, each of which 
complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for 
inspection on our website. Whilst these terms of reference are 
generally consistent with the requirements of the NYSE listing 
rules, they may not address all aspects of those rules. 
NYSE listing standards specify that the nominating/corporate 
governance committee is responsible for identifying individuals 
qualified to become members of the Board and to recommend 
to the Board a set of corporate governance principles. The 
Code requires companies to have a nominations committee 
but does not require a corporate governance committee. 
Our Nominations Committee is concerned only with the 
membership of the Board. Corporate governance issues 
are discussed and decided upon at meetings of the Board.
NYSE listing standards require the audit committee to 
comprise at least three independent directors. Whilst our Audit 
Committee comprises independent non-executive directors 
(and currently has five members), it should be noted that only 
two members of the committee need be present for there to 
be a quorum. 
Compliance certification
NYSE rules require that the CEO of a US company must 
certify to the NYSE each year that he or she is not aware of 
any violation by the Company of any of the NYSE’s corporate 
governance listing standards. As the Company is a foreign 
private issuer, the CEO is not required to make this certification. 
However, the CEO is required to notify the NYSE promptly in 
writing if any of the Company’s executive officers become aware 
of any non-compliance with those NYSE corporate governance 
listing standards that are applicable to the Company. 
Documents on display
The Company is subject to the information requirements of 
the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign 
private issuers. In accordance with these requirements, the 
Company files an annual report on Form 20-F and other related 
documents with the SEC. Certain other announcements made 
by the Company are furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. 
Information submitted by the Company to the SEC may be 
inspected at the SEC’s public reference rooms located at 
100 F Street NE, Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the 
operation of the public reference room can be obtained by 
calling the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy  
on +1 800 732 0330. 
Y ou may also access information submitted by the Company  
to the SEC through the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov
  188
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Item Form 20–F caption Location in this document Page
1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers Not applicable n/a
2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable n/a
3 Key information
A – Selected financial data Five-year record 192
Foreign currency translation 186
B – Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable n/a
C – Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable n/a
 D – Risk Factors Risk Factors 164-168
4 Information on the Company
A – History and development of the Company History and Development 163
Note 24 – Acquisitions and disposals 148-151
B – Business overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance 2-5
Chief Executive’s statement 8-11
Our business model 14-15
Delivering excellence 16-19
Our markets 26-27
Financial review – Seasonality 31
C – Organisational structure Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 190-191
 D – Property, plant and equipment Financial review – Property, plant and equipment 38
4A Unresolved staff comments None
5 Operating and financial review and prospects
A – Operating results Financial review – Operating results 30-35
Prior year operating results 173-175
B – Liquidity and capital resources Financial review – Liquidity and capital resources 35-37
Note 19 – Capital and financial risk management 134-139
Note 23 – Analysis of (net debt)/cash 147
C – Research and development, patents, licences etc Financial review – Research and development 37
D – T rend information Global market trends 25
Financial review – Operating results 30-35
E – Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review – Off-balance sheet arrangements 39
Note 25 – Commitments – Operating lease 
commitments
152
Note 26 – Contingent liabilities 153
F – T abular disclosure of contractual obligations Financial review – Contractual obligations 39
 G – Safe harbor Forward-looking statements 194
6 Directors, senior management and employees
A – Directors and senior management Our board of directors 45-47
B – Compensation Directors’ remuneration report 68-73
Note 27 – Related party transactions 154
C – Board practices Our board of directors 45-47
Directors’ remuneration report 66
Audit committee 51
Remuneration committee 60
D – Employees Note 6 – Staff costs and employee numbers 117
E – Share ownership Note 22 – Share capital and reserves  
– Share-based payments
144
  Note 27 – Related party transactions 154
7 Major shareholders and related party transactions
A – Major shareholders Other information – Shareholdings 179
B – Related party transactions Note 27 – Related party transactions 154
 C – Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable n/a
Cross reference to F orm 20-F 189
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Item Form 20–F caption Location in this document Page
8 Financial information
A –  Consolidated financial statements and other Consolidated financial statements 96-155
  financial information Report of independent registered public 
accounting firm
95
 – Legal proceedings Note 26 – Contingent liabilities 153
 – Dividends Financial Review – Dividend 33
 B – Significant changes None n/a
9 The offer and listing
A – Offer and listing details Other information – Share price history 179
B – Plan of distribution Not applicable n/a
C – Markets Other information – Markets 178-179
D – Selling shareholders Not applicable n/a
E – Dilution Not applicable n/a
 F – Expenses of the issue Not applicable n/a
10 Additional information
A – Share capital Not applicable n/a
B – Memorandum and articles of association Other information – Articles of Association 180-182
C – Material contracts Other information – Material contracts 182-183
D – Exchange controls Other information – Exchange controls and other 
limitations affecting security holders
183
E – T axation Other information – T axation information for US 
Holders
183-186
F – Dividends and paying agents Not applicable n/a
G – Statement by experts Not applicable n/a
H – Documents on display Other information – Documents on display 187
 I – Subsidiary information Not applicable n/a
11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Note 19 – Capital and financial risk management 134-139
12 Description of securities other than equity securities
A – Debt securities Not applicable n/a
B – Warrants and rights Not applicable n/a
C – Other securities Not applicable n/a
 D – American depositary shares Other information – Holders of ADSs – Fees 
payable by ADS holders
177-178
13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies None n/a
14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders 
 and use of proceeds None n/a
15 Controls and procedures Accountability – Internal controls 82
16A Audit Committee financial expert Audit committee – Members 51
16B Code of ethics Leadership – Board role and responsibilities 49
16C Principal accountant fees and services Audit committee – External audit 54
16D Exemptions from the listing standards for audit 
committees
Not applicable n/a
16E Purchase of equity securities Other information – Purchase of ordinary shares 179
16F Change in registrant’s certifying accountant Not applicable n/a
16G Corporate governance Other information – Significant differences 
between corporate governance practices and 
NYSE listing standards
187
16H Mine safety disclosure Not applicable n/a
17 Financial statements Not applicable n/a
18 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 96-155
19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC 190
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
We set out below details of the Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and joint ventures. Except where indicated, all subsidiaries 
listed below are wholly owned, incorporated in England & Wales and carry on their activities principally in their countries of 
incorporation. Except where marked with an asterisk, the Company’s shareholdings are held indirectly through subsidiaries. A full 
list of the Company’s subsidiaries and joint ventures will be filed with the Company’s annual return to the Registrar of Companies. 
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
As at 31 December 2014
Subsidiaries
AMEC CADE Ingenieria y Desarollo de Proyectos Limitada 
(Chile)
AMEC Canada Holdings Inc. (Canada)
Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Holding Company Pty Ltd 
(Australia)
†Amec Foster Wheeler AES, Inc. (US)
†Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited (Canada) 
Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Pty Limited (Australia)
Amec Foster Wheeler Asia KK (Japan)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd (Singapore)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Bimas Birlesik Insaat vs Muhendislik 
A.S. (T urkey)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Constructors, Inc. (US)
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Consulting Poland Sp. Z.O.O. (Poland)
Amec Foster Wheeler Earth and Environmental (UK) Limited
^Amec Foster Wheeler Energi Aktiebolag (Sweden)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Energia GmbH (Germany)
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Energia, S.L.U. (Spain)
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Limited 
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Management (Shanghai) 
Company Limited (China)
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure Pty Limited 
(Australia)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Construction Design 
(Shanghai) Co, Ltd (China)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Consulting (Shanghai) Co 
Ltd (China)
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Holdings Pty Limited 
(Australia) 
Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Pty Limited (Australia)
Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure UK Limited
†Amec Foster Wheeler Environment & Infrastructure, Inc. (US)
†Amec Foster Wheeler E&C Services, Inc. (US) 
Amec Foster Wheeler E & I GmbH (Germany)
*Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Limited
Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited
^†Amec Foster Wheeler France S.A. (France)
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Global E&C S.r.l. (Italy)
*Amec Foster Wheeler Group Limited
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Iberia, S.L.U. (Spain)
†Amec Foster Wheeler Inc. (Canada)
^Amec Foster Wheeler India Private Limited (India)
^†Amec Foster Wheeler International T rading (Shanghai) 
Company Limited (China) 
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Italiana S.r.l. (Italy)
†Amec Foster Wheeler Kamtech, Inc. (US)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Martinez, Inc. (US)
†Amec Foster Wheeler NCL Limited (Canada)
^Amec Foster Wheeler North America Corp. (US)
†Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Czech Republic, a.s. (Czech 
Republic)
†Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear France SAS (France)
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Holdings Limited
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear International Limited
†Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear RO SRL (Romania)
†Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear Slovakia s.r.o. (Slovakia)
Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear UK Limited
†Amec Foster Wheeler Oil & Gas, Inc. (US)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Power Group Asia Limited (China)
^†Amec Foster Wheeler Power S.r.l. (Italy)
^Amec Foster Wheeler Power Systems, Inc. (US)
*Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas 
Investments Limited
†Amec Foster Wheeler s.r.o. (Czech Republic)
^Amec Foster Wheeler T alcahuano, Operaciones y 
Mantenciones Limitada (Chile) 
†Amec Foster Wheeler Ventures, Inc. (US)
Amec Foster Wheeler Zektin Architecture Pty Limited
Amec Foster Wheeler Zektin Pty Limited
AMEC Holdings, Inc. (US)
AMEC International Limited 
AMEC International Ingenieria y Construcción Limitada (Chile) 
AMEC Liberia Inc. (Liberia)
AMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (Malaysia)
AMEC NSS Limited (Canada)
AMEC Operations Ghana Limited (Ghana)
AMEC Operations S.R.L. (Romania)
AMEC (Peru) S.A. (Peru)
^Foster Wheeler Chile, S.A. (Chile) 191
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
Subsidiaries continued
^Foster Wheeler Colombia S.A.S. (Colombia)
^Foster Wheeler E&C (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) (70%) 
^Foster Wheeler Energia Oy (Finland)
^Foster Wheeler Energia Polska Sp. z.o.o. (Poland)
^Foster Wheeler Engineering A.G. (Switzerland)
^Foster Wheeler Hellas Engineering & Construction Societe 
Anonyme (Greece)
^Foster Wheeler Inc. (US)
^Foster Wheeler Intercontinental Corporation (US)
^Foster Wheeler International Corporation (US)
^Foster Wheeler Limited 
^Foster Wheeler LLC (US)
^Foster Wheeler (Philippines) Corporation (Philippines)  
(99.962%)
^Foster Wheeler South Africa (PTY) Limited (South Africa) 
(70%)
^Foster Wheeler (Thailand) Limited (Thailand)
^Foster Wheeler Services (Thailand) Limited (Thailand)
^Foster Wheeler USA Corporation (US)
Kromav Engenharia S.A. (Brazil) (50%)
^OOO Foster Wheeler (Russia)
^Martinez Cogen Limited Partnership (US) (99%)
^Mossel Bay Energy IPP Limited (South Africa) (90%)
^†PT Amec Foster Wheeler Indonesia (Indonesia) (55%)
^PT Foster Wheeler O&G Indonesia (Indonesia) (90%)
QEDI Commissioning and Completions (Canada) Limited 
(Canada)
QED International (UK) Limited (Scotland)
Rider Hunt International Limited
Rider Hunt International (USA) Inc. (US)
T erra Nova T echnologies, Inc. (US)
*Directly owned.
^ Entity acquired with Foster Wheeler in November 2014. The Company 
initially acquired a 95.3% interest in Foster Wheeler but acquired the non-
controlling interest on 19 January 2015. In the above table, the interest shown 
is that owned by the Company as at 19 January 2015. In each case, the 
Company owned only 95.3% of the interest shown as at 31 December 2014.
† Name shown is the entity’s name at 25 March 2015, which is different from 
its name at 31 December 2014. 
Joint ventures
AMEC Black Cat LLC (Qatar) (49%) 
AMEC Black & McDonald Limited (Canada) (50%) 
AMEC Larastia Sdn Bhd (Malaysia) (49%) 
AMEC Samsung Oil and Gas LLC (US) (49%) 
^Centro Energia Ferrara S.p.A (Italy) (41.65%)
^Centro Energia T everola S.p.A (Italy) (41.65%)
Clough AMEC Pty Ltd (Australia) (50%) 
^Construccion e Ingenieria Chile FI Limitada (Chile) (50%)
^Construccion e Ingenieria FIM Chile, Limitada (Chile)  
(33.33%)
Core T ech-AMEC-SKEC, LLC (Guam) (50%)
^Foster Wheeler and Partners Engineering Company 
(Saudi Arabia) (50%)
^Foster Wheeler Energy FAKOP Sp. z.o.o. (Poland) (53.35%)
^Foster Wheeler Kentz Energy Services DMCC (UAE) (50%)
^Foster Wheeler Power Machinery Company Limited (China) 
(52%)
^FW (Hebei) Engineering Design Co Ltd (China) (49%)
^FWP Joint Venture (Singapore) (50%)
Incheon Bridge Co. Ltd (Korea) (23%) 
^Lomellina Energia S.r.l. (Italy) (39.2%)
Nuclear Management Partners Limited (UK) (36%)
Paragon Angola Engenharia E Serviços, Limitada (Angola) 
(60%) 
^Petropower Energia Limitada (Chile) (85%)
^Project Management Holdings Limited (Ireland) (25%)
PT AMEC Berca Indonesia (50%) 
Shanghai Zone Petrochemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (China) 
(50%)
^Socar-Foster Wheeler Engineering LLC (Azerbaijan) (35%)
^Voreas S.r.l. (Italy) (50%) 192
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Consolidated income statement data
Y ear ended 31 December
£m unless stated 2014 2013
Restated
1
2012
Restated
1
2011
Restated
1
2010
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,993 3,974 4,088 3,133 2,786
Adjusted profit before tax
2
317 332 327 316 282
Exceptional items (98) (25) (24) (6) 11
Amortisation of intangible assets (49) (47) (44) (39) (25)
Net asbestos-related expense (9) – – – –
Share of tax of joint ventures (6) (5) (5) (7) (7)
Profit before tax 155 255 254 264 261
Income tax (49) (69) (47) (53) (25)
Profit from continuing operations 106 186 207 211 236
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (27) (8) 2 16 (9)
Profit for the year 79 178 209 227 227
Earnings per ordinary share
Continuing operations:
– Basic 36.1p 63.8p 65.2p 64.4p 73.0p
– Adjusted diluted
3
79.5p 87 .2p 78.6p 71.6p 62.6p
T otal operations:
– Basic 27.2p 61.1p 65.8p 69.2p 70.1p
– Diluted 26.5p 59.8p 64.6p 67.8p 68.5p
Dividends per ordinary share
4
43.3p 42.0p 36.5p 30.5p 26.5p
Dividend cover
5
1.8x 2.1x 2.2x 2.3x 2.4x
Consolidated balance sheet data
As at 31 December
£m unless stated 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Goodwill and other intangible assets 3,319 907 969 848 621
Other non-current assets 593 253 245 203 199
Current assets 2,066 1,224 1,304 1,404 1,443
Total assets 5,978 2,384 2,518 2,455 2,263
Current liabilities (2,237) (1,004) (1,151) (828) (746)
Non-current liabilities (1,717) (256) (284) (253) (242)
Net assets 2,024 1,124 1,083 1,374 1,275 
Share capital 194 152 154 169 169
Other reserves 1,801 970 925 1,204 1,103
Equity attributable to holders of the parent 1,995 1,122 1,079 1,373 1,272 
Non-controlling interests 29 2 4 1 3 
Total equity 2,024 1,124 1,083 1,374 1,275 
Number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 389 304 308 338 338
Net working capital 23 99 54 55 (43)
Net (debt)/cash (803) 121 99 521 740
1  The selected financial data set out above has been extracted from the consolidated financial statements for the relevant year prepared in accordance with 
IFRS except that the income statement data for 2012, 2011 and 2010 has been restated to reflect the reclassification in 2013 of the UK conventional power 
business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ .
2  Adjusted profit before tax represents profit before tax before exceptional items, the amortisation of intangible assets, asbestos-related costs and interest 
expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the Group’s share of tax on the results of joint ventures.
3  Adjusted diluted earnings per share represents profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation of intangible assets, 
asbestos-related costs and interest expense (net of insurance recoveries), and the tax effect of those items, divided by the diluted number of ordinary shares. 
4  The dividend for 2014 includes the proposed final dividend for the year of 28.5p per ordinary share. 
5  Dividend cover represents the dividend per ordinary share as a multiple of adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
Five-year record (unaudited) 193
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
ADSs American Depositary Shares, evidenced 
by ADRs, the form in which the 
Company’s ordinary shares are traded 
on the NYSE 
ADRs American Depositary Receipts, issued 
in respect of ordinary shares deposited 
with State Street Bank & T rust Company, 
as custodian for the Depositary
AGM Annual General Meeting of the 
Company’s shareholders
AMEC used for convenience to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries prior to 
the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, unless 
the context requires otherwise 
Amec Foster Wheeler used for convenience to refer to the 
Company and its subsidiaries, unless 
the context requires otherwise
the Articles the Company’s Articles of Association, 
which set out the Company’s 
constitution
Basis point one hundredth of one percentage point
the board the collective term for the executive and 
non-executive directors of the Company 
CEO Chief Executive 
CFO Chief Financial Officer
the Code the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the FRC (formerly the 
Combined Code)
the Companies Act 
2006
the Companies Act 2006 of England and 
Wales, as amended
the Company Amec Foster Wheeler plc, formerly 
AMEC plc
the Depositary Deutsche Bank T rust Company 
Americas, the Depositary for the 
Company’s ADR programme 
Downstream the refining or processing of crude oil 
into finished fuel products
the DRIP the Dividend Re-Investment Plan 
operated by the Company
the DTRs the Disclosure & T ransparency Rules of 
the UKLA 
E&C Engineering & Construction
E&I Environment & Infrastructure
EPC Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction (conducted on a fixed 
price basis)
EPCM Engineering, Procurement & 
Construction Management (conducted 
on a cost- reimbursable basis)
the EU the European Union
Glossary
Euro or € the common currency used in the 
majority of the member countries  
of the EU
the FCA the UK Financial Conduct Authority
Foster Wheeler used for convenience to refer to Foster 
Wheeler AG and its subsidiaries, unless 
the context requires otherwise
the FRC the UK Financial Reporting Council 
GPG the Global Power Group, one of the 
Group’s business units
the Group the Company and its subsidiaries
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs, the 
UK taxation authority
the IASB the International Accounting Standards 
Board
IFRS International Financial Reporting 
Standards, comprising accounting 
standards issued by the IASB
the IRC the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
as amended
the IRS the Internal Revenue Service, the US 
taxation authority
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate, a 
benchmark interest rate for instruments 
of the specified currency and maturity
NASDAQ the National Association of Securities 
Dealers Automated Quotations
the NYSE the New Y ork Stock Exchange
a PFIC a Passive Foreign Investment Company 
for US federal income tax purposes
Pound sterling, £, 
pence or p
the currency of the UK
SDRT Stamp Duty Reserve T ax
the SEC the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission
SOX the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland
UK GAAP accounting practice generally accepted 
in the UK
UKLA UK Listing Authority
Upstream the exploration, production and 
transportation of oil and gas
US the United States of America
US dollars, US $,  
cents or c
the currency of the US
US GAAP accounting principles generally 
accepted in the US 194
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2014
This annual report contains a number of ‘forward-looking 
statements’ with respect to the Group’s financial condition, 
results of operations and certain of the Group’s plans 
and objectives.
In particular, such forward-looking statements include 
statements with respect to: 
 X our expectations regarding the Group’s financial and operating 
performance, including statements contained within the 
strategic report on pages 1 to 41 of this document, including 
the Outlook statement on page 39, and the performance of 
joint ventures and newly-acquired businesses; 
 X intentions and expectations regarding the contracts entered 
into by the Group or by third parties, including new services, 
such as the supply of consultancy, engineering and project 
management services; 
 X expectations regarding the global economy and the Group’s 
operating environment, including future market conditions 
and trends; 
 X revenue and growth expected from Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
business and its expectations with respect to long-term 
shareholder value growth; 
 X our ability to acquire new contracts, expected growth 
prospects and growth in our customer base generally; and
 X expected benefits associated with the acquisition of Foster 
Wheeler. 
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, 
identified by their use of a date in the future or such words 
as ‘will’ , ‘anticipates’ , ‘aims’ , ‘could’ , ‘may’ , ‘should’ , ‘expects’ , 
‘believes’ , ‘intends’ , ‘plans’ or ‘targets’ . By their nature, forward-
looking statements are inherently predictive, speculative and 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and 
depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. There 
are a number of factors that could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors 
include, but are not limited to, the following:
 X global economic conditions or other macro-economic 
developments in the geographic regions and markets in which 
the Group operates, including fluctuations in exchange rates;
 X changes in commodity prices which may impact demand 
for the Group’s services;
 X the Group’s exposure to the risks associated with operating 
in emerging markets;
F orward-looking statements
 X the failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery, 
which could result in damage to reputation and/or loss of 
repeat business and potentially lead to litigation;
 X long-term contracts which may be subject to early 
termination, variation or non-renewal provisions;
 X projects included in the Group’s order book which may be 
delayed or cancelled;
 X lump-sum contracts, which are subject to the risks associated 
with unanticipated modifications, technical problems and 
delays;
 X the loss of senior management or difficulty in attracting and 
retaining appropriately skilled personnel;
 X the failure to comply with health, safety and environmental 
laws;
 X the possibility of major safety incidents that can lead to 
reputational damage and increase potential liabilities;
 X obligations and liabilities relating to the Group’s divested and 
non-core businesses;
 X the failure or security breaches of its information technology 
systems and/or data security; and
 X the failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, 
economic sanction programmes or other laws and regulations, 
which may result in the Group becoming subject to fines or 
penalties and the disruption of its business activities.
A review of the reasons why actual results and developments 
may differ materially from the expectations disclosed or implied 
within forward-looking statements can be found under the 
heading ‘Risk factors’ on pages 164 to 168 of this document. 
All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements 
attributable to the Company or any persons acting on its 
behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors 
referred to above. No assurances can be given that the forward-
looking statements in this document will be realised. Subject to 
compliance with applicable law and regulations, the Company 
does not intend to update these forward-looking statements 
and does not undertake any obligation to do so. This report is printed using vegetable-based inks by Pureprint Group,  
a company totally committed to reducing the impact printing has on the  
environment. The production of this report is carbon neutral and Pureprint  
Group is certified to ISO 14001, registered to EMAS (Eco Management Audit  
Scheme) and holds the FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) Chain of Custody;  
number SCS-COC-000620 as well as the Queen’s Award for Enterprise: 
Sustainable Development.
This report is printed on Olin Smooth Absolute White, a paper produced from 
100% ECF (elemental chlorine free) wood pulps from well managed forests  
certified in accordance with the rules of the FSC®. The producing mill is  
certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental management systems.
Designed and produced by Langsford +44 (0) 20 7378 1457 www.langsford.co.uk Registered office
Booths Park 
Chelford Road 
Knutsford 
Cheshire  
WA16 8QZ 
UK
Head office
Old Change House 
128 Queen Victoria Street 
London 
EC4V 4BJ 
UK
T elephone: +44 (0) 20 7429 7500
www.amecfw.com
Amec Foster Wheeler plc
Annual report and accounts 2014
