 ‘It all
makes
sense…’
Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 ‘We’ve 
brought our
businesses closer 
together…
Our business idea 01
Our products and markets 10
Group at a glance 11
Businesses at a glance 12
Market report–medical
diagnostics/radiotherapy 14
Market report–life sciences 17
Report & Accounts 21
Financial highlights 22
Chairman’s statement 23
Chief Executive’s review 24
Financial review 31
Social responsibility and
environment 34
Board of Directors 36
Report of the Directors 38
Corporate governance 
statement 40
Directors’r emuneration report 43
Group profit and loss account 51
Statement of total 
recognised gains and losses 52
Reconciliation of movement 
in equity shareholders’funds 52
Group and parent company
balance sheets 53
Group cash flow statement 54
Accounting policies 55
Notes to the financial 
statements 58
Directors’responsibilities for
financial statements 87
Report of the auditors 88
Supplemental financial
information 89
Five year summary 92
Shareholder information 93
Financial calendar 93
Glossary 94 Amersham plc 1
It all makes sense … Our business idea
…let us show 
how it will
benefit you’
In March 2002 we bought the
remaining stake in Amersham
Biosciences, giving us sole
ownership of this business 
as well as Amersham Health.
We now have full control of
the three key areas of our
business – protein separations,
discovery systems and medical
diagnostics. As a unified
company we can work closer
together than before, with
greater teamwork and co-
ordination. Together, we can
use our resources to the full.
We occupy a new high ground.
We can see the totality of
technologies, skills and
intellectual capital we’ve built
up over the past five years.
We can sharpen our focus 
on the scientific, commercial
and financial factors that 
will help us exploit our many
growth opportunities. 2 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
‘ Aligning science
with market
Which opportunities do we
pursue? Where, within the
many strands of our business,
will new investment create
the most positive return?
Over to our Portfolio
Committee. Composed of
senior company executives
drawn from science and
commercial management, as
well as outstanding external
scientists, the committee is
charged with maximising 
our investments in science,
commercially and strategically.
As part of this role, it identifies
the wider market opportunities
that spring from our cross-
business co-ordination. Amersham plc 3
It all makes sense … Our business idea
Amersham’s 
Portfolio Committee
Andrew Carr
President, Amersham
Biosciences
Bill Castell
Chief Executive
Bill Clarke
EVP R&D, Amersham Health
Jean-Michel Cosséry
EVP Product Strategy,
Amersham Health
Peter Ehrenheim
President, protein separations 
Mike Hayes
Chief Technology Officer,
Amersham Biosciences
Giles Kerr
Finance Director
Peter Loescher
President, Amersham Health
Keith Peters
Regius Professor of Physic,
Cambridge and Non-Executive
Director, Amersham plc
Tony Rollins
VP, Group Intellectual Property
James Rothman
Vice Chairman, Sloan-
Kettering Institute and Chief
Scientist, discovery systems
Mike Stevens
Director, Corporate
Development
Mathias Uhlén
Professor of Biotechnology,
Royal Institute of Technology,
Stockholm and Non-Executive
Director, Amersham plc
The Portfolio Committee
meets at least twice a year.
It monitors the progress of
our total science portfolio,
and reviews and approves 
our investment in research.
Through the Chief Executive,
the committee also
recommends to the Board the
overall balance of investment
in science within the group.
The range of opportunities
available from our science 
and commercial base is
virtually unmatched within
the total healthcare market
we cover. Our discovery systems
business area, for instance, is
looking at significant new
opportunities in the diagnostic
field. Similarly, our medical
diagnostics business area is
rapidly giving us greater insight
into changes in the body at the
molecular level. The Portfolio
Committee’s task is to make
sure we make the most of
these exciting opportunities.
opportunities’ 4 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
‘Our breadth
creates new
We have an extraordinary
breadth of knowledge and
skills in functional biology,
informatics, chemistry, physics
and diagnostic medicine.
This breadth is a valuable
strategic asset, enabling us 
to stay abreast of, and to
some extent drive, advances
in biomedical research. It also
gives us a broad exposure 
to customers in academic 
and pharmaceutical research,
biopharmaceutical
manufacturing and the medical
profession. This is a vital benefit
as our businesses sharpen
their focus on key customers
in the markets they share.
The pharmaceutical industry
is a key customer for each 
of our businesses. In protein
separations we have an Amersham plc 5
It all makes sense … Our business idea
especially direct relationship,
providing a service to major
pharmaceutical companies.
We provide the essential
manufacturing technologies
used in more than 90 per cent
of the biopharmaceutical
drugs and vaccines currently
on the market. We also 
provide the protein separation
technologies used in laboratory
research and drug development.
Within medical diagnostics,
we aim to collaborate with
pharmaceutical companies 
on the development of linked
diagnostics and therapeutics.
In the area of discovery
systems, we provide enzyme
technology and screening
systems to help these
companies develop and test
new drugs.
Our broad interaction with
the pharmaceutical industry
gives us unique insight into
their needs. This helps us
develop distinctive, cutting
edge products to help
pharmaceutical companies
achieve their goals more
effectively, and bring medical
discoveries more quickly 
to patients.
opportunities for
our customers’ 6Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
products by conducting new
clinical trials and obtaining new
indications for key products.
Our heart diagnostic,
Myoview™, has recently been
approved for breast tumour
imaging, and a new study of
our X-ray product, Visipaque™,
shows that it provides
increased renal safety
for at-risk patients.
In the longer term, we’re
focusing on the development
of molecular diagnostics, which
are able to detect cellular
changes that are the first signs
of disease. We’re also working
with GE Medical Systems to
develop synthesis systems for
producing proprietary PET
(positron-emission tomography)
We’re the market leader 
in medical diagnostics and 
we intend to maintain this
position. In the short to
medium term, we’re managing
the business through life cycle
management. This means
extending the life of our
‘Maintaining
leadership Amersham plc 7
It all makes sense … Our business idea
radiopharmaceuticals of
consistently high quality.
A most exciting initiative 
is the Imanet™ network of
research centres, where we
partner with pharmaceutical
companies such as Pfizer.
It’s a win-win situation.
Using our advanced imaging
technologies to show the
effect of new compounds 
on cells in the body, we help
companies test potential new
drugs and speed up their drug
development. And, importantly,
we gain access to new
molecules that provide
important leads for new
molecular diagnostic products,
fuelling our future flow of 
new products.
through
innovation’ 8 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Investigating the role 
of genetic variation in 
disease, microarrays are being
used to study patient
populations to more accurately
predict the prognosis for
individual patients.
Similarly, through
understanding life at the
molecular level, molecular
diagnostics in our pipeline
show promise for detecting
pulmonary embolism, brain
tumours and angiogenesis with
greater accuracy and sensitivity
than is currently possible.
As we turn our imagination
into reality, it’s no longer a
question of if personalised
medicine will happen. It’s 
a question of how quickly 
it will evolve.
Our discovery systems
business generates the new
knowledge that feeds advances
in diagnostics, protein
separations and our basic
understanding of disease.
These advances are helping us
identify the next steps towards
personalised medicine and
bring genetic discoveries into
clinical practice.
This fundamental change 
in healthcare is already
happening. DNA sequencing
instruments such as
MegaBACE™ are now used 
to study BRCA1 and BRCA2
genes in women genetically
predisposed to breast cancer.
‘Everyone’s 
health is a 
personal matter’ Amersham plc 9
It all makes sense … Our business idea
Amersham and
personalised medicine 
Amersham’s long-term 
vision is to enable
personalised medicine, in
which the diagnosis and
treatment of disease will be
tailored to individuals based
on their genetic makeup.
Our company is well
positioned to play a key role
in this development.
Personalised medicine will
require increased under-
standing of the role of genes,
proteins and cellular processes
in disease and how these
affect response to treatment
– knowledge being enabled 
by the discovery systems
business area in Amersham
Biosciences. It will require
molecular diagnostics that
can detect disease before
symptoms show, and link
diagnosis more closelyto
targeted therapeutics – the
kind of diagnostics being
developed by Amersham
Health. It will require protein
purification and bioprocess
systems – supplied by the
protein separations business
area of Amersham Biosciences 
– for manufacturing the new
biopharmaceutical drugs and
vaccines that will result 
from biomedical research. 10 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Our protein separations and
medical diagnostics business
areas are growing strongly
and generating good revenues.
We’re expanding
manufacturing capacity in
both these areas to meet
market needs, and we’ll
continue to invest in our core
businesses to sustain their
profitability in the short and
long term. We’re now taking
steps to bring discovery
systems into profit, focusing
on a smaller number of 
high-value systems and
product lines.
We’ll obviously continue to
manage our shareholders’
assets responsibly and trans-
parently, following the rules 
of good corporate governance.
There’s been an extraordinary
acceleration of technologies in
our business areas. Investing
to keep pace with these
changes, we’ve expanded our
technology base in protein
separations and increased our
focus on molecular diagnostics
in medical imaging. We’ve
also built up our informatics
capability, a key part of our
enabling technologies as it
helps make sense of the
enormous amounts of data
coming out of genomics,
proteomics and molecular
biology research. These moves
strengthen our position in the
global marketplace, under-
pinning future growth.
‘Well
positioned…’ Amersham plc 11
It all makes sense … Our products and markets
Our medical diagnostics
business, Amersham Health,
provides diagnostic imaging
agents which highlight organs,
tissues and cells inside the
human body, for the early
detection, diagnosis and
management of disease.
Our life sciences business,
Amersham Biosciences,
provides enabling technologies
for gene and protein research,
drug screening and testing, and
protein separations systems 
for the manufacture of
biopharmaceutical medicines.
We serve a broad range of
customers in the healthcare
market, from physicians,
hospitals and purchasing
groups to academic research
laboratories,biotechnologyfirms
and pharmaceutical companies.
Our innovative products and
technologies help our customers
to diagnose and treat disease,
to carry out research and to
develop new treatments.
Bringing vision to 
medical discovery
Amersham is a world leader 
in medical diagnostics and in
life sciences. Headquartered 
in the UK, we employ over
10,000 people around the
world. Amersham shares (AHM)
are traded on the London,
New York and Oslo stock
exchanges, and we are part 
of the FTSE Index of Britain’s
100 largest public companies.
Group at a glance 12 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Myoview™ 
(kit for preparation 
of 
99m
Tc tetrafosmin)
Sales £133 million,
up 26%
Our fastest-growing medical
diagnostic product, this
radiopharmaceutical imaging
agent is used for visualising
blood flow to the heart, and
may also be used in breast
tumour imaging. Patents
to 2009-2010.
Omniscan™ (gadodiamide)
Sales £96 million,
up 17%
Our leading product for MRI
(magnetic resonance imaging),
primarily used for imaging 
the central nervous system
(brain tumours, stroke, spinal
lesions); use being extended
to cardiovascular disease.
Patents to 2007-2009.
Visipaque™ (iodixanol) 
Sales £91 million,
up 18%
An advanced non-ionic
X-ray/CT (computed
tomography) product for the
diagnosis of coronary artery
disease and to aid in stent
placement, whose isotonic
formulation provides an
extra margin of safety and
patient comfort. Patents
to 2008-2011.
Omnipaque™ (iohexol)
Sales £222 million,
up 6%
A non-ionic X-ray/CT
diagnostic, launched 20 years
ago and still the world’s best-
selling diagnostic imaging
product for a wide range of
indications in cardiology,
neurology and oncology.
Off-patent.
Amersham
Health
Medical diagnostics – 55% of total Amersham sales
Pharmaceutical products used during medical scanning procedures to enhance images and provide information about the
structure and functioning of organs, tissues and molecules in the body, for early, accurate diagnosis and management of heart
disease, circulatory disorders, lung disease, brain disease and cancer.
Therapy products – 4% of total Amersham sales
Products using radioactive isotopes for the treatment of cancer.
Performance 2002
Sales Operating profit R&D expenditure Employees
£948 million, £256 million, £95 million, 5,300
up 8% up 9% up 14%
Key products
Optison™ (human albumin
microspheres containing
perflutren)
The leading ultrasound
product for the emerging
market of contrast-enhanced
ultrasound, for visualising the
borders of the heart muscle.
Patents to 2012-2013.
DaTSCAN™ (ioflupane I
123
)
A molecular diagnostic
radiopharmaceutical, this is
the first product that enables
an objective diagnosis of
Parkinson’s disease and related
syndromes. Marketed only in
Europe. Patents to 2012.
Research platform Imanet™
Imanet is an expanding
network of imaging research
centres where Amersham
Health works in collaboration
with the world’s top
pharmaceutical companies.
It uses innovative imaging
solutions to accelerate drug
discovery and development,
and to create new molecular
diagnostics that will enable
physicians, in the future, to
more accurately predict and
diagnose disease and to tailor
treatment accordingly.
Brachytherapy products
Our leading line of radioactive
iodine and palladium seed
products – OncoSeed™,
Rapid Strand™, EchoSeed™,
TheraSeed™ – implanted in
the prostate gland to treat
prostate cancer.
Business at a glance Amersham plc 13
It all makes sense … Our products and markets
Protein separations – 17% of total Amersham sales
Chromatography purification systems, membrane products and media used in the manufacture of biopharmaceuticals 
(any biologically-derived drug, eg. insulin, vaccines, DNA-based medicines, monoclonal antibodies, interferon), and for the
laboratory scale separation of proteins for research and drug development.
Discovery systems – 24% of total Amersham sales 
High throughput systems (instruments, reagents, software) for genomics (DNA sequencing, gene expression and gene
variation), proteomics (study of proteins and their role in biological function), and bioassays (analysis of cellular processes 
in metabolism and disease, used for screening and testing of potential new drugs).
Performance 2002
Sales Operating profit R&D expenditure Employees
£670 million, £75 million, £88 million, 4,650
up 6% flat* up 3%
*Up 9% excluding the £8 million dilutive impact of the CodeLink™ and Cimarron acquisitions.
Protein separations – key platforms Discovery systems – key platforms
Bioprocessing – columns 
Our bioprocess systems
(instruments, media and
software) are used by leading
pharmaceutical and biotech
companies for the industrial
manufacture of over 90 per
cent of the biopharmaceuticals
on the market or in develop-
ment. The wide range of
chromatography columns
includes Chromaflow™ and
Streamline™ brands.
Bioprocessing – membrane
separation
Hollow fibre filtration
membranes used in
bioprocessing – an essential
step for removing impurities
in biologically-based drugs.
Bioprocessing – separations
media
Consumables used in
bioprocessing. Leading brands
include Sepharose™,
MabSelect™, and Source™.
Laboratory separations 
ÄKTA™ platform – the gold
standard in chromatography
systems for laboratory
purification of proteins before
scale-up to manufacturing.
Amersham
Biosciences
Genomics 
DNA sequencing: MegaBACE™
DNA sequencer for decoding
the genetic structure of human,
animal and plant species.
TempliPhi™ template
preparation kit for producing
DNA samples. Gene expression:
CodeLink™ pre-arrayed slides
and Lucidea™ custom slides
platform, on which thousands
of DNA samples are scanned 
to identify differences in the
way genes are expressed.
Proteomics
Ettan™ high throughput
protein analysis platform
utilising systems such as mass
spectrometry and electro-
phoresis to identify and
characterise proteins, and to
compare protein expression 
in diseased and normal
tissues, enabling drugs to be
targeted to diseases. Products
also include the CyDye™
range of fluorescent dyes.
Bioassays
Instruments include
LEADseeker™, which has 
the ability to screen up to
1,000,000 new drug
compounds a day, and
IN Cell Analyzer, which enables
scientists to study the effects
of a potential new drug on
living cells in real time.
Products also include a range
of custom-labelled reagents
for toxicology testing.
Informatics
Scierra™ platform of software
solutions for managing and
organising the vast amounts
of data being generated in life
sciences research.
Business at a glance 14 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Market report – medical
diagnostics/radiotherapy
Note: Market numbers within text represent internal
company estimates unless stated otherwise.
Despite significant advances in the understanding of the
underlying causes of disease in recent years, medicine still
revolves primarily around the treatment of existing conditions
following the appearance of symptoms. To select the most
appropriate course of treatment for each individual patient, the
physician first needs to make a correct diagnosis but must also
establish the location, extent and severity of disease and
determine a prognosis.
Medical imaging is uniquely able to provide this information
and is a key component of modern healthcare. In 2002,
approximately 800 million medical imaging procedures were
performed worldwide. Of these, approximately 120 million
scans were enhanced or made possible with medical diagnostic
products, generating revenues of over £2.8 billion. Medical
diagnostics markets are demonstrating strong year on year
growth and this is expected to continue.
There are four main imaging modalities – X-ray including
computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI), radiopharmaceutical imaging and ultrasound.
Radiopharmaceutical imaging always requires the use of a
diagnostic product, while the other modalities may or may not
use a contrast medium to enhance the image, depending on
the procedure. The choice of technique depends upon a number
of factors including the type of diagnostic information needed,
instrument availability, physician preference, and cost/benefit
considerations.
For the management of heart disease, for example, the
cardiologist might use radiopharmaceutical imaging to
determine how well the heart muscle is being perfused with
blood, contrast-enhanced ultrasound to improve endocardial
border delineation, and X-ray to perform a coronary
angiography of the blood vessels. All of these examinations
would normally use a medical diagnostic product.
Market developments in 2002
In the US, the rapid growth of the over-50 population where more
diagnostic procedures are required, combined with the growing
ability to do more procedures due to technological advances in
the equipment sector, are expanding the need for medical
diagnostics. Pricing has been maintained at fairly stable levels.
In Europe, the tough reimbursement environment continues to
affect pricing. The markets are still dominated by state funding, Amersham plc 15
It all makes sense … Our products and markets
although the private market is increasing. However, the
installed hardware base in Europe is expanding and this will
allow further volume growth.
The Japanese diagnostic pharmaceutical market continues 
to show modest volume growth but the overall environment
remains challenging due to ongoing healthcare reform measures
and government-mandated reimbursement price cuts.
Amersham Health, Bracco, Tyco Healthcare (Mallinckrodt
Imaging), Schering and Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) Medical
Imaging (formerly Dupont), together with their respective
licensees, are the major players in the medical diagnostics
market, with more than 90 per cent share between them.
Company Global market share (%)
Amersham Health 38
Bracco 18
Tyco/Mallinckrodt 14
Schering 12
BMS/Dupont 12
Guerbet 2
Others 4
Market drivers
Increasing demand for medical diagnostics is being driven by
the ageing population and the rise in prevalence of age-related
diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease,
stroke and heart failure. These diseases represent the highest
cost burden to healthcare systems in industrialised nations, and
there is tremendous pressure to develop tests that can assist in
earlier diagnosis and aid selection of the most appropriate
treatments in order to reduce costs.
Prevalence and economic cost of major diseases in the US
(Source: Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, 2000)
Cardiovasculardisease 68.8
$148
Cancer 8.0
$107
Neurological disease 25.6
$196
Alzheimer’s disease 4.0
$100
Depression 17.0
$44
Stroke 4.0
$43
Annual prevalence in US (million persons)
Annual economic cost in US ($ billion)
This has led Amersham Health to focus its product development
on disease states, rather than a modality-driven approach, and
to include cardiologists, neurologists, oncologists and internal
medicine physicians in its customer base, in addition to
radiologists, hospitals and purchasing organisations. The aim is
to enable physicians and their patients – who are becoming
better informed and expect to be included in decisions about
managing their disease – to select the imaging procedure and
diagnostic product they feel is most appropriate in each case.
Scanner technology is also making significant advances.
The emphasis is on improving the speed and functionality 
of instrumentation, allowing increased numbers of procedures
per unit.
Looking further ahead, our rapidly increasing knowledge of
genomics raises the very real prospect of being able to be 
truly proactive in predicting and preventing disease, and to
determine which medication is best suited for each individual.
Medical imaging technologies which can identify pre-
symptomatic disease, increasingly through monitoring of the
expression of genes and the function of the proteins for which
they code within cells, will be key to delivering personalised
medicine: finding the right therapy, for the right patient, at the
right time, with the right outcome.
X-ray/CT medical diagnostics
Total scans approx 630m
Enhanced scans approx 75m
Market size approx £1.4bn
X-ray is the most frequently performed imaging procedure
covering all body areas and is often the entry point for the
diagnostic work-up. X-ray computed tomography, or CT scanning,
has had the greatest impact on the medical diagnostics market.
CT scanning allows cross-sectional imaging of the body with
exquisite depiction of anatomic detail, and is finding growing
use in coronary angiography and interventional procedures.
Approximately 40 per cent of CT scans currently involve the
use of medical diagnostic products.
The development of multi-slice CT machines, which are capable
of performing sub-second imaging of millimetre-thin slices of
body tissues, has opened up a host of new applications such as
blood vessel imaging and blood clot imaging, many of which
require large volumes of medical diagnostic contrast media.
MRI medical diagnostics 
Total scans approx 40m
Enhanced scans approx 10m 
Market size over £320m 
Number of MRI machines over 15,000
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is often the method of
choice for imaging the central nervous system, particularly for
detecting cancers in the brain and lesions in the spinal canal
and spinal column. More recently, MRI has found use in imaging
the blood vessels and depicting brain regions affected by stroke.
Roughly 25 per cent of the MRI scans use a medical diagnostic
product with every segment of contrast-enhanced MRI
experiencing growth, and this trend is expected to continue.
New MRI contrast media are being developed for vascular
imaging, cardiac imaging, visualisation of air spaces in the lungs,
and for targeting specific tissues such as lymph nodes and blood
clots. The ability to identify high-risk patients in the foreseeable
future,along with the need for accurate anatomical and functional
information, will drive the market for these new products. 16Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Only a fraction of the ultrasound scans currently use a medical
diagnostic product, the primary use being to improve the
assessment of heart wall motion through endocardial border
delineation, or visualisation of the surface of the heart muscle.
The true utility of ultrasound in cardiology could be realised
with the visualisation of myocardial perfusion. This will require
advances in instrumentation along with advanced ultrasound
diagnostic products, in order to obtain a reliable and robust
imaging procedure. In radiology, contrast-enhanced ultrasound
has the potential to differentiate between benign and
malignant tumours in various tissues. Developments such as
these would expand the ultrasound medical diagnostics market.
Radiotherapy market 
The most significant therapeutic market for radioisotopes is
prostate brachytherapy, a minimally invasive outpatient
procedure in which radioactive iodine or palladium seeds are
implanted within the prostate gland to irradiate the tumour.
The mounting clinical evidence supporting the efficacy of this
treatment was further underpinned in 2002 through two
important studies, one relating to the treatment of high-risk
patients with palladium
103
seeds in combination with external
beam radiation, and the other demonstrating the benefits of
Amersham’s Rapid Strand™ iodine
125
delivery system.
In the United States, around 40,000 patients each year, or 25
per cent of those presenting with early stage prostate cancer,
are treated with brachytherapy seed implants. Slower market
growth and increased competition, with the number of
competitors rising from two in 1998 to 14 today, have resulted
in significant pricing and market share pressure. In 2002,
the US Medicare reimbursement system set a fixed cost for
brachytherapy procedures and further changes will take effect
in 2003, further intensifying the price pressures.
Brachytherapy is gaining acceptance in Europe and while only 
a small percentage of early stage prostate cancer patients
currently receive seed implants, the market has substantial
development potential.
Radiolabelled monoclonal antibodies are being developed for
the treatment of several types of cancer. The antibodies target
specific tumour cells and then attach to them, allowing the
radioactive component to destroy tumour cells while sparing
the surrounding healthy cells. 2002 saw the first of these
compounds licensed by the US FDA for the treatment of non-
Hodgkins lymphoma patients who have failed to respond to
previous therapies.
Other radiotherapy products include strontium
89
, which can
target growing bone cancers and help to alleviate pain, and
iodine
131
for the treatment of thyroid tumours.
Radiopharmaceutical medical diagnostics 
Scans (enhanced) approx 28m 
Market size over £1.1bn 
Number of gamma cameras over 15,000
Radiopharmaceutical imaging provides metabolic and functional
information about diseases such as stroke, dementia, coronary
artery disease and cancer that complements anatomical
imaging such as CT or MRI. Radiopharmaceutical imaging
always requires the use of a radiolabelled medical diagnostic
product, which binds to and accumulates in the cells or tissues
being studied, and the image is obtained with the aid of a
gamma camera.
Recent innovations in radiopharmaceutical imaging enable 
the visualisation of precise cellular activities and subtle changes
in organ function, such as changes in brain function due 
to Parkinsonism.
The latest advance in radiopharmaceutical imaging is positron-
emission tomography (PET). PET, an advanced molecular
imaging technique, can provide images of the entire body 
and visualises biochemical events at the cellular level. It is an
extremely sensitive technique for the early detection of tumours
and metastases, and PET procedures are now reimbursed by
Medicare in the US for seven types of cancer. The clinical
application of PET technology is a rapidly growing emerging
market, with around 300,000 procedures performed in the 
US in 2002. Continued advances in instrumentation and
improvements in PET chemistry could expand its use into 
other significant markets, eg. the management of neurological
conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease.
Another significant development is the advent of compound
modality instruments combining high-resolution CT images of
the anatomy with low-resolution functional (PET or SPECT)
images during parts of the same imaging procedure. These enable
more accurate localisation of disease and assist the planning of
surgical interventions and radiotherapy. Such developments in
so-called ‘fusion imaging’ are expected to fuel the growth of
both CT and PET imaging.
Ultrasound medical diagnostics
Total scans approx 140m
Enhanced scans approx 0.5m 
Market size over £10m
Number of instruments over 150,000
Ultrasound is used extensively by both hospital and office-
based cardiologists to evaluate patients with known or
suspected coronary artery disease. The vast majority of cardiac
patients are screened by ultrasound, and in 2001 over 
25 million ultrasound scans of the heart were performed
throughout the world. However, results are often equivocal with
patients frequently referred on to more reliable and expensive
techniques (eg. CT and MRI). Amersham plc 17
It all makes sense … Our products and markets
Market report – life sciences 
Note: Market numbers within text represent internal
company estimates unless stated otherwise.
Fifty years have passed since the discovery of the double helix
structure of DNA heralded a new era of medicine. At the
beginning of the 21st century, catalysed by the completion 
of the human genome, life science continues to be seen as a
major driver towards improved healthcare for all. Having the
map of the human genome enabled life scientists to move into
a new era of understanding biological processes at the cellular
level. This new precision in biology will lead to a fundamental
shift in the practice of medicine, enabling delivery of the goal
of personalised medicine by facilitating better understanding,
profiling, prediction and treatment of disease. In addition to
technological advances, our knowledge-based society feeds a
more informed and responsive public who continue to expect
availability of cost-effective healthcare to improve their lives.
Research work in academia is critical for understanding the
mechanisms of disease and underpinning improved healthcare;
this has been reflected by generally stable sector funding during
2002. Government and charity spending to support the
academic segment continued to be strong with double-digit
growth. In the US, for example, the National Institutes of
Health budget increased 14 per cent to approximately 
$23 billion in 2002, but it is anticipated that growth in funding
will be decreased in future years.
Capital funding of start-up biotechnology companies has been
under significant pressure this year, and sources of funding are
now shifting from the public markets to a combination of the
venture capital community and other private sources. Following
the sequencing of the human genome, the market is uncertain
about where the next frontier will be found. Companies are
now turning towards functional biology, where the interest is in
deciphering what the genes and their protein products actually
do. In addition, companies that previously commercialised
software and genomic data have developed new business
strategies, moving from discovery companies to therapeutic
developers, eg. Celera’s acquisition of Axys Pharmaceuticals 
and Millennium’s acquisition of Cor Therapeutics. Consolidation
is likely to continue, frequently in association with large
pharmaceutical companies through marketing alliances,
to create powerful biotechnology players.
Despite the availability of far more potential targets than
previously, there has still been a reduction in the number of
innovative drugs being registered by pharmaceutical companies.
Escalating R&D costs are lessening productivity and placing a
greater importance on steps to limit the possibility of failure 
in the later stages of development. By better understanding 
the function and variation of genes and proteins in disease 
and health, pharmaceutical companies will increase their
opportunity of identifying disease-relevant targets leading 
to better-targeted molecular drugs. In an attempt to maximise
returns, companies have refocused some of their resources 
to later stage development to support life-cycle management.
These companies also faced additional pressures such as
market pricing and increased generic competition. In 2002
these significant issues were coupled with a backdrop of global
recessionary pressure, increased focus on corporate governance
and contraction of capital budgets.
Notwithstanding the global market challenges of 2002, dynamism
and change remain the hallmarks of the biosciences market. Growth in number of licensed biopharmaceuticals
(Source: IMS data)
18 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
The market in which Amersham Biosciences competes has a
value of approximately £5 billion; selected application segments
are shown in the accompanying table. Customers include
research and development groups within academic and clinical
research laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, biotech
companies and biopharmaceutical manufacturing groups.
Key market drivers are the sourcing and allocation of funds in
these customer segments and the number of biopharmaceuticals
in clinical trials. Total worldwide pharmaceutical/biotech R&D
spend increased by approximately nine per cent in 2001;
growth has slowed to an estimated six per cent for leading
companies in 2002.
The biosciences market is fuelled by integrated systems,
instruments, consumables and informatics, to support
customers to achieve their goals faster and more efficiently.
Increasingly, sophisticated platforms such as biochips are being
applied across genomics and are starting to enter proteomics.
These technologies generate large amounts of data in a much
shorter time than previously achieved, and have high potential
in general research as well as in other applications such as 
in vitro clinical diagnostics.
Biologically-based drugs (eg. insulin, monoclonal antibodies,
vaccines, DNA medicines) continue to grow in importance.
Nine out of the 26 drug approvals by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) during 2002 were biologics.
Protein separations
Bioprocess
The number of biopharmaceutical candidates in clinical trials
and gaining regulatory approval has continued to increase.
There are now over 100 such biopharmaceuticals from
companies such as Amgen, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson and
NovoNordisk. The key purification steps in the production of
these drugs require systems, membranes and chromatography
media designed and manufactured to the highest standards.
Biotechnology drug candidates in clinical trials comprise a wide
range of compounds including anti-sense DNA, monoclonal
antibodies, DNA-based gene therapies, growth factors,
interferon and vaccines. The growth rates in this area are
expected to be maintained or to rise in the future as an
increasing number of novel proteins, peptides and anti-sense
drugs are brought to market as therapeutic products. There are
currently more than 500 biopharmaceuticals in phase I, II and
III clinical trials worldwide. The market growth for bioprocess
products will be underpinned by the increasing propensity of
pharmaceutical companies to look for manufacturing
technologies that further improve overall production economy.
Because of the relatively large doses required in their use, the
increased number of monoclonal antibodies in later stage
development has triggered investment in manufacturing
capacity to meet the expected demand.
Laboratory separations
Chromatography is one of the core technologies used in protein
analysis, and although affected by the slowdown in capital
spending on tools, the longer-term growth in this market is being
fuelled by the overall market expansion in proteomics.
Laboratory chromatography techniques are also used in method
development and scale-up for biopharmaceutical manufacturing.
Overview of selected market segments for Amersham Biosciences
Market
size
Selected application segment (£m) Competitors 
Bioprocess (industrial protein separations) 590 Millipore, Merck KgaA, Tosoh Bioscience
Laboratory protein separations 345 Bio-Rad, Applied Biosystems
Genomics – sequencing 500 Applied Biosystems
Genomics – gene expression 400 Affymetrix, Agilent
Proteomics 740 Applied Biosystems, Bio-Rad, Waters
High throughput drug screening 1,200 Cellomics, Molecular Devices, Perkin-Elmer
Growth in pharmaceutical and biotechnology R&D expenditure (£ billion)
(Source: Pharmaceutical R&D compendium, SCRIP Reports, company filings)
60
45
30
15
0
94 95 9697 98 99 00 01 02
Number first marketed
Cumulative to date Amersham plc 19
It all makes sense … Our products and markets
Genomics
The genomics market is heterogeneous and is composed of
sub-segments such as gene sequencing, gene expression and
genetic variation, which are growing at different rates.
Sequencing efforts are now increasingly focused on exploration
of genetic differences in the four nucleotide bases within, and
between, a variety of species. Technologies are being applied 
to improving sample preparation prior to sequencing as well 
as reducing sample volumes, providing greater ease of use 
and increasing overall efficiencies.
Measuring and monitoring the level to which different genes
are expressed is increasingly performed using microarray
platforms with pre-arrayed nucleic acids (biochips) or with
technologies to allow researchers to prepare their own arrays.
T ailoring of drug treatments is an important goal of
personalised medicine. Analysis of single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) should facilitate a better understanding
of individual susceptibility to disease and response to drug
treatment. The market is currently very small, but with
technological advances it could show dramatic growth.
Proteomics
Proteomics – studies to discover the identity, function and
interaction of proteins in living organisms – is experiencing
good growth. Proteins are responsible for cellular structure,
metabolism and function including signalling and growth, and
are therefore the targets of most drug discovery efforts.
In contrast to genomics, the ‘industrialisation’ of proteomics is
in its infancy. Unlike DNA, proteins cannot be readily amplified
to aid detection and analysis. Also, in contrast to the 35,000 to
45,000 human genes, there may be up to two million different
types of proteins, and these have complex differences in their
three-dimensional structure which affect their function.
Current trends include the drive towards integrated approaches
to provide increased sample throughput, sensitivity and accuracy.
Technologies such as microarrays are just starting to be applied
for protein analysis, but are considerably more complex than
their DNA counterparts.
Bioassays
Researchers use bioassays to measure and quantify the biological
processes involved in cellular activities, metabolism and disease.
Bioassays are involved at almost every stage of the preclinical
drug discovery research and development process. Validation of
target molecules, primary screening of possible drug candidates,
secondary screening to select lead candidates and finally, testing
of the lead candidates to validate their metabolic/toxicological
properties are among the hurdles that must be passed before
a potential drug candidate can move into clinical trials.
The success of primary screening approaches has now led to
development of the market for ‘high information’ secondary-
screening formats. Researchers are now starting to use such
formats to examine how modification of selected genes within
cells is translated into physiological changes.
Informatics
The integration of the vast amounts of data generated from
increasingly large numbers of sample studies and multiple
technology platforms represents one of the key challenges 
for life science research in the 21st century. While major
corporations such as IBM are becoming active in this segment,
current market needs are focused on laboratory information
management systems (LIMS) which integrate platforms, sample
and reagent logistics and enable production research by
handling data from sample to end result. The LIMS market is
predicted to grow to over £0.5 billion by 2007. (Source: Frost
and Sullivan). 20 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
‘Creating
value… Amersham plc 21
It all makes sense … Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Financial highlights 22
Chairman’s statement 23
Chief Executive’s review 24
Financial review 31
Social responsibility and
environment 34
Board of Directors 36
Report of the Directors 38
Corporate governance 
statement 40
Directors’ remuneration report 43
Group profit and loss account 51
Statement of total recognised
gains and losses 52
Reconciliation of movement in
equity shareholders’ funds 52
Group and parent company
balance sheets 53
Group cash flow statement 54
Accounting policies 55
...through
science’
Notes to the 
financial statements 58
Directors’ responsibilities for
financial statements 87
Report of the auditors 88
Supplemental financial
information 89
Five year summary 92
Shareholder information 93
Financial calendar 93
Glossary 94 22 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Financial highlights
Throughout this report, results are stated before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation. Trading profit represents operating
profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and before R&D. Growth rates are at constant exchange unless
otherwise indicated.
12 months 12 months Growth at constant Growth at actual
to 31 Dec 2002 to 31 Dec 2001 exchange rate exchange rate
restated*
£m £m % %
Sales 1,618.2 1,602.5 7
#
1
Amersham Health 947.7 922.0 8 3
Amersham Biosciences 670.5 680.5 6
#
(1)
Trading profit 494.0 466.3 7 6
Research and development (184.2) (173.8) 6 6
Operating profit 309.8 292.5 7 6
Profit before tax 300.3 279.4 8 8
Earnings per share 29.9p 26.6p 15 12
Statutory earnings per share
1
26.1p 33.2p (21)
Dividend per share 7.8p 7.1p 10
*Restated for the introduction of Financial Reporting Standard 19 ‘Deferred taxation’
#
Comparable growth excluding disposed businesses
1
After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
North America
Sales £799 million,
up 8%
Employees: 2,900
Europe
Sales £428 million,
up 8%
Employees: 6,200
Japan*
Sales £264 million,
up 1%
Employees: 250
Rest of World
Sales £127 million,
up 3%
Employees: 700
*Includes share of sales in joint venture, Nihon Medi-Physics (NMP), but does not include NMP employees
Geographical breakdown Amersham plc 23
Chairman’s statement
Amersham delivered a solid financial performance in 2002,
with good sales growth and double-digit growth in earnings per
share. Turnover reached £1,618 million, up seven per cent over
2001 at constant exchange rates. Earnings per share before
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 29.9 pence,
a growth of 15 per cent at constant exchange rates. The Board
is recommending a final dividend of 5.15 pence per share,
giving a full year dividend of 7.8 pence per share, a growth 
of 10 per cent.
In a year of challenging economic and market conditions, the
breadth and balance of our global businesses continued to be 
a strong asset. In Amersham Biosciences, our protein separations
business area grew sales by 15 per cent, and we achieved good
sales of reagents in all areas of the life science market. This
helped offset a slowdown in instrument sales in discovery
systems, due primarily to reductions in capital spending in the US
market. Similarly, in Amersham Health our portfolio of patented
medical diagnostic products grew sales by 22 per cent, more 
than offsetting lower bulk sales into Japan. Overall, sales in North
America, our largest market, were up by eight per cent to 
£799 million, sales in Europe rose eight per cent to £428 million,
and sales in Japan were up by one per cent at £264 million.
In March, we achieved a key strategic objective. Completing the
merger process which began in 1997, we purchased Pharmacia
Corp’s 45 per cent stake in Amersham Biosciences to take
full ownership of our life sciences business. The purchase was
partially financed through the issue of 57.5 million new shares,
raising £397 million towards the purchase price of £704 million,
with the remainder being drawn from existing bank facilities
and cash reserves. Having full ownership of Amersham
Biosciences and Amersham Health opens new and exciting
opportunities, particularly in research and development, for
incorporating genetic knowledge into diagnostics – taking 
us a big step further towards our long-term vision of enabling
personalised medicine.
2002 also saw heightened awareness of corporate governance
issues for companies following revelations of corporate
mismanagement and accounting fraud, primarily in the US.
This has served to focus attention on the role of independent
Non-Executive Directors in protecting the interests of
shareholders. It has also resulted in new legislation (Sarbanes-
Oxley Act) in the US, and a series of recommendations 
(the Higgs Review) which may be adopted during 2003 in the
UK. Amersham’s Board is committed to high standards of
corporate governance and we believe our current practices
demonstrate this. We have always believed that using the Board
to manage the company, exposing it to issues and a wider cross
section of our managers provides an indispensable framework
of business understanding, without which our corporate
governance risks being a theoretical and unsubstantial activity.
In this Annual Report, we have supplemented our disclosure
and control procedures as required by the US legislation; and
we shall review the proposed UK recommendations to ensure
that our company continues to follow best practices.
We were extremely pleased to welcome a new Non-Executive
Director to the Board this year. Professor Mathias Uhlén,
Professor of Biotechnology at the Royal Institute of Technology
in Stockholm, Sweden and an internationally recognised expert
in proteomics, is a strong addition. Andrew Carr, President of
Amersham Biosciences, and Peter Loescher, who has recently
joined the company as President of Amersham Health, are 
new Executive Directors on the Board. We also wish to thank 
Dr John Padfield for his valuable contributions to the company.
John retired from the Board and as the Chief Executive of
Amersham Health in December, having delivered strong sales
growth in Amersham Health during his three years with our
company. John is now pursuing a portfolio of other
opportunities and we wish him every success in the next 
stage of his career.
I shall retire from the Amersham Board at the Annual General
Meeting in May 2003, having served as a Non-Executive
Director for 14 years including four years as Chairman.
Amersham has undergone an amazing transformation during
my tenure, evolving from a small spin-off of the UK Atomic
Energy Authority into a global leader in medical diagnostics
and life sciences, achieved through a consistent application 
of strategy and two transformational mergers in 1997 with
Nycomed and Pharmacia Biotech. We are now a driving force
in medical innovation. Being a Director of this company, and
playing a role in its development, has been a source of intense
pleasure and pride.
On behalf of the Board, I want to express my sincere
admiration and appreciation to all Amersham employees.
Their dedication and talents have built a great company. I now
pass the Chairman’s baton to Donald Brydon, a Non-Executive
Director since 1997 and currently Chairman of the Audit
Committee. Donald has had an illustrious career in investment
management – 32 years and counting! – and he is eminently
qualified to guide Amersham on the next stage of its
development. My very best wishes to Donald, the Board and
management, and to a great team of employees.
Richard Lapthorne Chairman 24 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s review 
2002 was a watershed year for Amersham. We achieved our
goal of becoming one company focused on enabling molecular
medicine. The process of transformation began in 1997, when
we merged Amersham’s businesses with Nycomed, now
Amersham Health, and Pharmacia Biotech, now Amersham
Biosciences. This gave us the global franchise and breadth of
skills in medical diagnostics and life sciences that are critical 
for delivering our strategy in molecular medicine – skills that
we have since built on and strengthened in two fully-fledged,
profitable businesses. Our purchase of the remaining equity in
Amersham Biosciences in March 2002 completed the merger
process. We now have full ownership of our three main
business areas in medical diagnostics, protein separations and
discovery systems. This enables us to draw on the total skills
base in molecular medicine across the company to drive
towards our long-term vision of enabling personalised medicine.
Our newly formed Portfolio Committee plays an important 
role in enabling innovation across the company. Composed 
of colleagues at the most senior level in the company as well
as distinguished external scientists, the Portfolio Committee
oversees the direction of science in Amersham and approves
the investment in research, ensuring that we stay on track 
both commercially and strategically as we go forward.
Amersham’s business maintained the good momentum 
we have seen in previous years. Our turnover, at constant
exchange rates, grew seven per cent, with sales in Amersham
Health up by eight per cent to £948 million and Amersham
Biosciences sales up six per cent to £670 million. Trading profit
increased by seven per cent to £494 million. After an
investment in R&D of £184 million, corresponding to
approximately 11 per cent of total sales, we had an operating
profit, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, of
£310 million, up seven per cent at constant exchange rates.
We continue to drive our businesses for profits and cash, and
we saw strong performance in 2002 in medical diagnostics,
with over 20 per cent growth in sales of our patented
diagnostic products, and in protein separations, driven by
excellent growth in bioprocess systems for the manufacture of
biopharmaceuticals. Each of these business areas has a global
market share of 35 to 40 per cent
1
in growing markets, and
they consistently deliver good sales and profits.
Our discovery systems business area is fundamental to our
focus on molecular medicine, as it develops the innovative
technologies that will feed future advances in life sciences 
1
Company estimates
Sir William Castell
Chief Executive Amersham plc 25
and medical diagnostics. We intend for this business area to
contribute to profits as well as innovation. In 2002, discovery
systems’ financial performance did not improve as rapidly as
we would like, due to market developments in the life science
market, and a restructuring programme has been put in place
to accelerate its move into profitability during 2004. The R&D
portfolio will be refocused on a smaller number of high-value
products and systems and we will drive cost efficiencies by
reducing the number of employees and consolidating activities
on fewer sites. Amersham will incur one-off costs in the range of
£45-50 million, which are expected to result in savings running
at the rate of £30-35 million per annum by the end of 2004.
We continue to invest in our businesses to expand capacity
and support growth. In medical diagnostics, we expanded
manufacturing capacity at several sites in 2002, increasing
manufacturing efficiencies and enabling us to meet the growing
demand for our diagnostic products. A new £47 million
expansion of the Lindesnes (Norway) contrast media plant has
been approved, to be completed in 2005. Protein separations
also benefited from capacity expansion in 2002 and further
investments are planned in 2003. Acquisitions in Amersham
Biosciences during the year included a controlling stake in
Cimarron in informatics, two filtration companies which added
membrane separation to our bioprocess product offering in
protein separations, and the CodeLink™ pre-arrayed slides
business, which in addition to its use in gene expression has
significant further potential for leverage into proteomics 
and diagnostics.
Amersham Health is a global leader in medical diagnostics 
and our four leading brands – Omnipaque™, Visipaque™,
Omniscan™ and Myoview™ – account for 65 per cent of sales.
Our patented portfolio of medical diagnostic products grew
sales by 22 per cent in 2002, surpassing sales of our
unpatented products, for the first time, in the second half of
the year. Amersham Health’s operating profit was up nine per
cent to £256 million, growing at a faster rate than sales, and
operating margins improved over those of 2001, driven by
product mix and manufacturing efficiencies.
New studies are supporting or extending the clinical usefulness
of our top three patented medical diagnostic products. In
cardiac angiography, Visipaque has been shown to have a
significantly improved renal safety profile compared to other
X-ray products. Our heart diagnostic, Myoview, is now
approved for use in breast tumour imaging, and our magnetic
resonance agent, Omniscan, is being developed for the
diagnosis of cardiovascular disease. In addition to life cycle
projects, Amersham Health has implemented changes in its
R&D organisation to improve productivity and significantly
reduce the time to market for projects in the pipeline. This has
also involved reallocating resources to projects with the
greatest commercial opportunities.
Our research in medical diagnostics is focused on the
development of molecular diagnostics, targeted towards major
diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s disease and heart disease.
These new molecular diagnostics will improve the way
medicine is delivered in the future and our company is among
the leaders, working not only in our own research laboratories
but also, through our Imanet™ network of imaging research
centres, in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies such
as Pfizer. Eventually, as we learn more about genetic variation,
we will have diagnostics that can identify individuals at high
risk for development of particular diseases or side-effects of
given drugs. Further we can monitor the expression of genes
and proteins within cells. Together this will allow physicians 
to segment patient populations according to their genetic
makeup, leading to tailored prevention and therapies.
Our protein separations business area grew sales by 15 per cent
in 2002, accelerating throughout the year as new production
plants for manufacturing biopharmaceuticals were brought on
stream and new drugs entered clinical trials. There are over 
100 biopharmaceuticals on the market and our bioprocess
instruments and media are used in the manufacture of over 
90 per cent of these products. In addition, two new areas
contributed to the progress, the rapid growth in development
of DNA medicines and sales of our membrane separation
systems. The operating profit was £107 million, up from
£96 million in 2001. To increase the visibility of this business
area, Peter Ehrenheim, President of protein separations, now
reports directly to me.
In discovery systems, we have an excellent technology base 
in genomics, proteomics and bioassays, backed by a growing
informatics capability. Genomics moved into profit in 2002,
benefiting from restructuring steps taken at the beginning of
2002 and the Applera litigation settlement. Discovery systems
experienced a significant decline in instrument sales as a result
of reduced capital spending by pharmaceutical companies.
Overall, although sales of reagents, consumables and software
remained good, sales in discovery systems were down one per
cent and this business area had an operating loss of £32 million.
Andrew Carr, President of Amersham Biosciences, is focusing 
on discovery systems and this will strengthen performance
management as it moves towards profitability.
In December 2002, Peter Loescher joined the company as
President of Amersham Health. Peter, most recently head of
Aventis’ business in Japan and with many years of experience 
in the international pharmaceutical industry, brings additional
strength and diversity to our executive management team.
He is also an Executive Director on the Board and a member 
of our Portfolio Committee.
2002 marked the 20th anniversary of Amersham’s privatisation,
and it is illuminating to consider just how dramatically our
world has changed since 1982. Twenty years ago, Amersham
had a turnover of £63 million from its core business in
radioactive products. Today, our turnover exceeds £1.6 billion
and we are world leaders in medical diagnostics and in life
sciences. We played a part in the sequencing of the human
genome – a monumental scientific achievement, science fiction
20 years ago. In 1982, there were no biopharmaceutical drugs.
No one imagined being able to screen 1,000,000 potential drug
compounds a day. Formal confirmation of Parkinson’s disease
was only possible at post-mortem, there was no molecular
diagnostic to aid in diagnosis. Our innovation has enabled
these advances in healthcare and many more.
Innovation, combined with focused management attention 
on the commercial opportunities in our global marketplace,
has enabled us to make good progress in 2002, as the following
detailed review of our business shows. 26Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Amersham Health
Amersham Health is a market-leading, global business
specialising in the field of in vivo diagnostic products for the
early and accurate detection of disease. Today our products 
are primarily used to aid in the diagnosis of anatomical and
functional abnormalities of soft tissue within the body.
Increasingly, however, Amersham is developing products that
detect changes in cells at the molecular level. Such changes
usually occur well before symptoms or functional changes
become apparent.
We focus on the management of heart disease, circulatory
disease and stroke; degeneration of the brain such as is seen 
in Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease; lung disease 
and a range of cancers. In addition, we are a major provider 
of therapy products to treat prostate and thyroid cancer.
As the cost of healthcare continues to rise and populations age,
governments and healthcare providers increasingly recognise
the value of investment in early and accurate diagnosis, in
order to most effectively manage therapeutic intervention and
its associated costs. This, together with increased capability and
numbers of scanning machines, greater incidence of disease
and improved medical practices (which rely on the
identification of the underlying cause of disease), continues 
to drive growth and demand for our products.
In 2002, turnover increased by eight per cent to £948 million,
driven by sales of our portfolio of patented diagnostic products,
up 22 per cent to £354 million. In the second half of the year,
sales of patented diagnostics surpassed those of our unpatented
products for the first time, even though sales of our unpatented
diagnostic products also grew by five per cent in 2002.
Trading profit increased 10 per cent to £351 million, driven 
by growth in higher margin products and manufacturing
efficiencies. Our total spend on researching new molecules,
developing new products and extending established products
into new indications rose 14 per cent to £95 million. After R&D
expenses, our operating profit was £256 million, up nine per
cent. Excluding profits from the sale of the TARC research
facility in 2001, operating profit grew 11 per cent. The
operating margin of 26.9 per cent was slightly higher than 
the 26.1 per cent achieved in 2001.
Excluding Japan, total sales of medical diagnostic products were
good in all regions, growing by £60 million to £723 million.
In Japan, despite a modest volume increase, sales fell six per
cent following a reduction in in-market prices as a result of the
Japanese government’s biennial pharmaceutical price review. This
affected bulk sales of iohexol (the raw material for Omnipaque™
X-ray diagnostic) into Japan, which were down 13 per cent.
In X-ray diagnostics, sales were £335 million, up eight per cent.
Sales in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) totalled £97 million,
up 17 per cent. The radiopharmaceutical diagnostic business
grew 14 per cent to £269 million.
Therapy sales were down by £9 million to £62 million in 2002,
impacted by continuing price pressure in the US market for
brachytherapy seed implants for prostate cancer treatment.
However, sales in Europe continued to grow strongly through
the opening of new centres using our patented stranded seed
product, Rapid Strand™.
Production
We achieved further significant milestones in bringing more 
of our production in house, which improves process control 
as well as manufacturing cost efficiency.
In September, we opened the extension to our secondary
manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland and the first shipment 
of Omnipaque™ and Omniscan™ products into the US started
the same month. A major upgrade for the production of our
leading radiopharmaceutical, Myoview™, was successfully
completed at Gloucester, UK at mid-year and we also received
FDA approval to supplement Myoview production at our Oslo,
Norway facility in May.
In primary manufacturing, the investment in bulk iohexol
capacity completed in 2001 at Lindesnes, Norway showed
major volume benefits with record yields achieved by the end
of the year. A major £47 million project at Lindesnes to source
increased volumes of a significant intermediate for contrast
media production in-house was approved in June and will,
when completed, help to deliver further unit cost reductions.
In North America, we added five new radiopharmacies to our
radiopharmacy distribution network, bringing the number of
Amersham owned pharmacies to 30 and the total to 187,
giving us excellent customer reach and coverage.
Portfolio development 
Our four largest products – Omnipaque™ and Visipaque™ 
in X-ray, Omniscan™ in MRI and Myoview™ in
radiopharmaceutical imaging – are used in a number of disease
areas. Life cycle management of these products is key, and we
continue to extend their usefulness through new indications
and innovative packaging and presentations.
Significant progress was made during the year in refocusing our
R&D efforts towards molecular diagnostics, and we now have 
a higher number of projects for molecular diagnosis of human
pathology in development than at any time in the past. We are
Peter Loescher
President, Amersham Health Amersham plc 27
concentrating on products that can aid the detection and gauge
the effectiveness of ongoing treatment in our four areas of
focus: cardiology, neurology, oncology and pulmonology.
Cardiology
Cardiovascular disease continues to be one of the most rapidly
expanding disease areas globally and a major cause of death in
North America and Europe. Amersham offers a broad range of
products across the range of modalities to enable physicians 
to understand the health of a patient’s heart.
Myoview is our leading radiopharmaceutical diagnostic for
visualising the supply of blood to the heart, with sales of
£133 million in 2002, up 26 per cent. In 2001, this product was
approved for use with pharmacological stress agents. In 2002
we completed a phase III trial with Myoview for a new cardiac
indication, left ventricular function, and the file has been
submitted to the US regulatory authorities.
The safety profile of our third generation X-ray diagnostic,
Visipaque, was further strengthened through a landmark study
carried out by the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden in
2002 and published in the prestigious New England Journal of
Medicine in February 2003. The NEPHRIC study showed that
Visipaque significantly reduces the relative risk of developing
contrast media-induced impairment of renal function, a serious
clinical problem in some patient groups. Sales of Visipaque
grew 18 per cent to £91 million in 2002. The X-ray diagnostic
Omnipaque, which remains the world’s best selling in vivo
diagnostic product after 20 years in the market, reached sales
of £222 million, up six per cent.
We successfully completed phase II trials to extend the use 
of our MRI product Omniscan in cardiac perfusion and for
monitoring blood flow through the renal arteries. Phase III
studies in the US and Europe are being planned and should
commence towards the end of 2003.
In the US and Europe, myocardial perfusion has been the
primary target market for the development of Sonazoid™,
a third generation ultrasound product. The use of ultrasound 
for this indication has been limited by the slow development 
of sufficiently robust imaging procedures. Therefore, although
Sonazoid has shown excellent safety data, a decision has been
taken to suspend work in the US and Europe and to continue
to focus on Optison™, our ultrasound product which is marketed
for improved visualisation of the surfaces of the heart muscle.
In Japan, the development of Sonazoid by our partner, Daiichi
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., continues. The first use of Sonazoid
imaging in Japan will be established in the liver disease market.
In its first full year under Amersham’s ownership, Optison
achieved excellent results with sales of £9 million in the new,
yet emerging, ultrasound contrast media market. In North
America, we have built a specialised sales force for developing
this new market through focused education and by working
with key opinion leaders. EU marketing authorisation for
Optison was granted in June.
Neurology
Omniscan, our leading MRI product, is used in neurology to
detect stroke, brain tumours and other brain abnormalities.
Omniscan continues to be a market leader in this area and 
is the number one non-ionic MRI contrast medium sold
throughout the world, achieving sales of £96 million in 2002,
up 17 per cent.
DaTSCAN™, a molecular diagnostic, is Amersham’s newest entrant
to the field of neuro-imaging. It is the only registered product
enabling physicians to objectively identify Parkinson’s disease
through cellular change in the brain, and to distinguish this
from a similar disease, Essential Tremor. DaTSCAN is also being
developed for the differentiation of Lewy body from other forms
of dementia. Based on supporting proof-of-concept data from
external studies, a revised development programme has been
initiated to greatly reduce time-to-market and we will proceed
directly to phase III studies of DaTSCAN for this new indication.
A technetium-based product, Trodat, also for the diagnosis of
Parkinson’s disease, is being developed for the US market and
all pre-clinical milestones have been met to date.
Cancer
Myoview, our radiopharmaceutical diagnostic, obtained
approval for a new indication in Europe for use in breast
tumour imaging in 2002. Breast cancer is one of the most
common cancers in women, and while advances have been
made in breast cancer treatment, the success of these
treatments is highly dependent upon early and accurate
diagnosis of the functional status of the disease. Such diagnosis
can now be achieved with the use of Myoview.
The new chemical entity NC100692 for the imaging of
angiogenesis (blood supply to a tumour) and other potential
indications has progressed well in its pre-clinical safety,
pharmacology and formulation stages.
Pulmonology
Lung disorders involve a range of problems, from chronic
conditions such as asthma to sudden death due to pulmonary
embolism. We are beginning to see excellent results from our
Thrombus agent, NC100668, which moved into phase II trials
in April. This radiopharmaceutical agent has the potential 
to identify patients with pulmonary embolism earlier than
other diagnostic techniques. We also continue to develop the
technology relating to Spin Signal™, using Helispin™ to enable
early detection of lung disease through high-resolution
ventilation imaging of gases using MRI.
Developments in PET imaging 
The use of positron-emission tomography (PET) for the early
detection of tumours is becoming widely accepted, using
fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) as the imaging agent. Progress is
being made in our collaboration with General Electric Medical
Systems on the development of a solid-phase chemistry
delivery system for use in an FDG ‘cassette’. Through this
collaboration, we will be able to provide hospitals and clinics
with PET imaging products such as FDG, with consistently high
quality. We are also working to develop new PET diagnostics for
neurological indications. 28 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Nihon Medi-Physics (NMP), our joint venture with Sumitomo
Chemical in Japan, is planning to invest £68 million in
manufacturing facilities to deliver PET diagnostic products to
key medical centres in Japan. NMP aims to construct six new
manufacturing facilities to supplement its three existing sites.
Under current regulations NMP expects to gain a six-year
exclusivity period in the Japanese market for its first PET
diagnostic product.
We continue to expand our Imanet™ network of imaging
research centres, which began in 2001 with the formation of 
a joint venture with the Medical Research Council in the UK.
In 2002 we added a second Imanet centre in conjunction with
the University of Uppsala, Sweden. In February 2003, we
established a new centre in Finland, TRIS (Turku Research
Imaging Solutions Oy), which will work in partnership with
Turku PET Centre. Imanet provides diagnostic services, including
PET, to assist the pharmaceutical industry in monitoring the
effectiveness of new drugs during the development stage.
This helps us identify new diagnostic molecules for use in 
very specific therapeutic applications, and in January 2002 
we announced a major research collaboration with Pfizer to
achieve this. With contractual work for the majority of the
world’s top pharmaceutical companies in addition to the
strategic collaboration with Pfizer, Imanet is progressing well
financially as well as scientifically. The R&D expenditure in
Imanet, which in 2002 included an incremental spend of 
£3 million, is fully recovered by its revenues.
Amersham Biosciences
Amersham Biosciences is a leading global provider of products
and services used in gene, protein and cell research, drug
discovery and development, and biopharmaceutical
manufacturing. Comprising two business areas, discovery
systems and protein separations, we bridge the gap between
life sciences and healthcare. In discovery systems, we provide
high throughput systems to help researchers in industry and
academia understand the genetic and molecular basis of
disease and speed up their drug development. In protein
separations, we provide research and manufacturing
technologies that enable pharmaceutical and biotech
companies to bring new biological drugs to the market.
Together, our activities cover the entire gene to drug spectrum.
In 2002, we undertook a number of strategic initiatives. We
acquired two filtration companies in the US, adding membrane
separation to our product range in industrial-scale protein
separations. We strengthened our capability in informatics
through the acquisition of a controlling stake in our long-term
partner, Cimarron. We bought the CodeLink™ pre-arrayed 
slides technology from Motorola, building our strength in gene
expression and providing us with further opportunities in
genotyping, proteomics and diagnostics. In addition, we
launched important new products in proteomics and bioassays.
Market conditions were difficult in the life sciences discovery
systems market in 2002. Pharmaceutical companies,
particularly in the US, saw their sales and profits threatened 
by patent expirations, generic competition and market pricing,
and as a result they spent markedly less on life science research
instrumentation. We also saw fewer start-up companies
emerging from the biotech sector, reduced later stage public
funding and more caution on spending by companies in new
areas such as high throughput proteomics.
Importantly, customer spending on consumables, reagents and
software remained good for all areas of our business, helping to
offset a significant decline in instrument sales. Pharmaceutical
companies continued to invest in research and development,
and we saw good take-up of new instruments that were
viewed as truly enabling and that significantly improved the
drug development process, particularly in the later stages.
Across the breadth of our global franchise, we saw good sales
growth in Europe and Japan.
The market picture was quite different for protein separations,
where continued strong demand for biopharmaceutical drugs
led to good growth in sales of both engineering-based
bioprocess systems and the separations media used in the
manufacture of these drugs. Indeed, one of the biggest concerns
for our biopharmaceutical customers has been the lack of
Dr Andrew Carr
President, Amersham Biosciences Amersham plc 29
Sales in 2002 were £394 million, down one per cent, impacted
by market conditions, notably the slowdown in pharmaceutical
company spending on capital equipment. Instrument sales,
representing about one quarter of discovery systems sales,
were down significantly compared with 2001. However,
customer spending on consumables, reagents and software
remained good. Discovery systems had an operating loss of
£32 million, including the dilutive impact of the CodeLink and
Cimarron acquisitions. Excluding this, the operating loss was
unchanged from 2001.
The steps taken in our genomics business at the beginning of
2002, together with the Applera litigation settlement, moved
genomics into profit for the year. We are the market leader in
enzymology as applied in genomics, and our good sales of
reagents and consumables not only reduce our exposure to the
market slowdown in instrumentation sales, but also underpin
our vision of developing technologies to enable personalised
medicine. TempliPhi™, the DNA template preparation kit,
continued to make good progress. All of the five major public
genome centres now use TempliPhi, with three of them – the
Joint Genome Institute, the Whitehead Institute, and Baylor
College of Medicine – using it in daily sequence production.
It is also seeing very good acceptance in Japan. New products
based on this technology are in development, and the first of
these, GenomiPhi™, will be launched in 2003 for use in whole
genome amplification.
In July, we acquired the CodeLink pre-arrayed slides business
from Motorola Life Sciences. The acquisition takes us into the
pre-arrayed (ready-to-use) chip market, building on our well-
established business of spotters and scanners for researchers 
to make their own arrays. CodeLink has a unique, patented
manufacturing process that produces arrays of high quality,
sensitivity and reproducibility, and with more useable data
points than any other pre-arrayed slide. There are currently 
six CodeLink products on the market, with several more in
development including higher density chips with 20,000 DNA
spots per slide. CodeLink has been undergoing comparison tests
in customer laboratories and the feedback has been very
positive. As anticipated, the pre-arrayed slide distribution
agreement with Affymetrix in Japan ended in December.
The proteomics product area also saw good sales growth 
in reagents and consumables. Our market-leading 2D DIGE
technology, which allows the protein content of several
samples to be simultaneously analysed and compared,
continued to grow well and development work is ongoing 
to expand further the range of DIGE reagents and software.
During 2002, we launched our new MALDI mass spectrometer,
the Ettan™ MALDI-TOF Pro for protein characterisation, as part
of the complete Ettan range of systems for stand alone or
integrated protein analysis. In February 2003 we entered into
an alliance with Thermo Electron Corporation to co-market
mass spectrometry products to life science researchers.
The collaboration enables us to offer customers a complete 
and user-friendly solution, combining our strong franchise and
knowledge of the proteomics market with Thermo Electron’s
portfolio of mass spectrometry products and extensive sales
and support infrastructure.
Bioassays products are used by researchers to quantify the
biological processes involved in cellular activity, metabolism
and disease. Pharmaceutical customers use our products 
to identify drug targets and develop potential new drugs,
eliminating poor drug candidates and those with side effects as
early as possible, thus reducing the time and cost spent in drug
development. We launched two new instruments in 2002.
The latest generation LEADseeker™ was launched in September
manufacturing capacity, and new plants are being commissioned
or existing facilities expanded to meet the growing demand.
With protein separations continuing to be a strong growth
driver, total sales in Amersham Biosciences in 2002 were
£670 million, up six per cent. Trading profit increased by 
one per cent to £163 million. As planned, the rate of growth in
R&D expenditure was held back, with investment of £88 million,
up three per cent. Operating profit was flat at £75 million.
Excluding the dilutive impact of the CodeLink and Cimarron
acquisitions, operating profit grew nine per cent, benefiting
from the excellent margins in protein separations and the
settlement in February of the Applera patent litigation.
Protein separations
Our protein separations business area is the market leader in
chromatography systems (instruments, software and media) for
the purification of proteins on a laboratory and manufacturing
scale. The good growth in this market is driven by the increasing
number and volume of biopharmaceuticals (such as insulin,
monoclonal antibodies and vaccines) on the market or in
clinical trials. Our products are used in the manufacture of 
over 90 per cent of these biologically-based drugs.
Protein separations sales in 2002 were £276 million, up 
15 per cent, driven by excellent growth in bioprocess sales 
and including first-time benefit from filtration or membrane
separation products. Operating profit was up from £96 million
to £107 million. Our operating margin was 39 per cent.
As anticipated, our sales accelerated through the year, with 
the fourth quarter being particularly strong as biotech and
pharmaceutical companies purchased manufacturing
instruments and media for new production plants and for new
drugs going into clinical trials. We also saw good replenishment
sales of media for existing biopharmaceuticals.
In addition, two further areas contributed to the growth for
industrial-scale bioprocess systems in 2002. First, the market
for products used in the manufacture of DNA-based
pharmaceuticals began to grow rapidly, driving sales of our
OligoProcess™ systems. Second, the membrane separation
businesses, acquired in January, delivered good sales as
biopharmaceutical customers took advantage of our broader
product offering. Membrane separation has been successfully
integrated into Amersham Biosciences and a new site in
Massachusetts, USA, will be completed early in 2003.
The laboratory separations area saw lower instrument sales,
following the exceptionally high growth in 2001, and as a result
of more cautious spending by pharmaceutical companies.
Media sales continued to be good, and a new instrument,
ÄKTApilot™, launched in December for the production of
clinical grade proteins on the benchtop, has been well received
by customers.
We continue to innovate to maintain our market share and
leadership, and in 2003 we will be increasing our R&D
investment in protein separations. During 2002, a new R&D
laboratory was established at our site in Uppsala, Sweden.
Good progress was made with a number of new products that
will be launched in 2003, including a new Streamline™ resin
and column and new filtration membranes.
Discovery systems
Our discovery systems business area provides high throughput
systems to improve the effectiveness of life science and
pharmaceutical R&D, as well as a broad range of laboratory
research tools and technology to purify, detect and analyse
biological molecules. 30 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
and enables researchers to screen over one million drug
compounds a day, in a number of different modalities including
radiometric, luminescent and fluorescent. The IN Cell Analyzer
high throughput system enabling researchers to study the
effects of a potential new drug in living cells in real time,
continued to be well received by customers, and a number of
systems were sold in the last quarter of the year. As well as its
use by pharmaceutical companies, the IN Cell Analyzer is also
being used in a collaboration between Amersham and the
Sloan-Kettering Institute to study the human genome for
disease-related genes. We also saw particularly good growth 
in custom-labelled products used in the drug development
process, as pharmaceutical companies began to outsource more
of this work.
Informatics and software continue to be critical elements of
the life science market, with researchers needing tools to help
them manage, store and analyse the vast amounts of data
being generated. In May 2002, we announced an agreement to
acquire a controlling stake in our long-term partner, Cimarron,
an informatics company based in Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.
This has given us increased synergy and flexibility in the
development of informatics products, and enabled us to better
integrate these products with our existing platforms.We launched
a number of new products – Laboratory Workflow Systems for
sequencing, microarrays and genotyping – towards the end of
the year. Total software sales across Amersham Biosciences
grew well in 2002.
Restructuring of discovery systems
Discovery systems is a business area with good long-term
growth prospects, and its market franchise and strong portfolio
position it well for the future. In light of developments in the life
sciences market, a restructuring programme has been put in
place to accelerate the move into profitability during 2004.
The research and development portfolio will be refocused 
on a smaller number of high-value, systems-based products
linking instruments with reagents, and on high-value, stand-
alone consumables. Our sales and marketing team will 
increase efficiency by more effectively targeting the high
growth customer segments. Driving to deliver a more 
efficient manufacturing cost base and focusing research 
and development on fewer sites will result in the loss of
approximately 400 jobs.
Outlook
Following the good performance in 2002, Amersham is well
placed to achieve further good growth in 2003. The following
guidance is given before the impact of foreign exchange, which
is discussed in the Financial review on page 33.
Amersham Health is expected to continue the good growth in
medical diagnostics excluding Japan, and operating margins are
anticipated to be at similar levels to those achieved in 2002.
Amersham Health sales in Japan are expected to decline at 
a lower rate than in 2002.
Within Amersham Biosciences, protein separations is expected
to see good growth, with sales growth again expected to be
stronger in the second half of the year. Increased investment 
in R&D will bring operating margins down slightly.
Discovery systems is expected to see good sales growth 
in reagents, consumables and software. Visibility for capital
expenditure on instrumentation remains low. The restructuring
plans are expected to bring benefits in 2003 moving the
business to profitability during 2004.
Sir William Castell Chief Executive Amersham plc 31
Financial review
2002 has proved to be both a challenging and exciting year for
Amersham.We have again shown our resilience to the difficult
economic conditions,posting a solid set of results with good sales
growth and double digit growth in earnings per share.Amersham
Health and the protein separations business area in Amersham
Biosciences have again delivered strong performance.
In March 2002 we purchased Pharmacia Corp’s 45 per cent
shareholding in Amersham Biosciences for £704 million, taking
Amersham’s ownership of the business to 100 per cent. This
represents a significant development for Amersham and
completes the merger process started in 1997. For the first
time we have the opportunity to share fully our managerial
skills and technical competence across the whole of Amersham.
The purchase was financed by the proceeds of an issuance of
57.5 million new shares, which generated £397 million,
together with existing cash resources and drawings under our
committed bank facilities. The transaction has had a small
accretive impact on earnings in the year.
Following the purchase of Pharmacia Corp’s 45 per cent stake
in Amersham Biosciences our net debt is £182 million at
31 December 2002, up from £25 million last year end, but
down from the £259 million reported at 30 June 2002.
We continue to assess the performance of the business on a
like for like basis with the impact of exceptional items, goodwill
amortisation, foreign exchange and disposed businesses removed.
Results overview
Sales during 2002 were £1,618 million, up seven per cent at
constant exchange rates, excluding the impact of disposed
businesses. The sales growth was broadly distributed across both
businesses, with Amersham Health up eight per cent on last year
and Amersham Biosciences up by six per cent. Our businesses
continue to benefit from the geographical breadth and robustness
of their market positions. Within Amersham Health the patented
product portfolio achieved over 20 per cent growth. Within
Amersham Biosciences, protein separations sales grew by 
15 per cent with sales accelerating through the year. Sales in
discovery systems fell by one per cent, with the challenging
conditions seen in the life sciences industry impacting in particular
on instrument sales, which were down significantly on 2001,
whilst sales of consumables and reagents remained good.
Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation was £310 million, seven per cent higher than last
year. Following a number of years of significant increases
in R&D investment, we have reduced our R&D expenditure
growth to six per cent to match more closely the general
growth in the business. This continued investment in R&D
reflects our strong commitment to the development of the
product portfolio. In Amersham Health there have been new
initiatives in life cycle projects, partnerships and in-licensing,
as well as internal research and development. In Amersham
Biosciences, the rate of growth in R&D was lowered to three
per cent following significant investment in discovery systems
over the last three years. The total operating profit before
R&D costs, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was
£494 million, also up by seven per cent from last year.
Interest costs have been reduced this year as the net debt has
been held in currencies with lower interest rates. We have also
taken a charge of £2.4 million against the carrying value of
listed investments following a reduction in their market value
during the year. We hold a small number of equity positions
in companies with which we have collaboration agreements,
with the total value of our listed trade investments standing
at £6 million at the year end.
Profit before tax was £300 million before exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation, up from £279 million in 2001.
The impact of foreign exchange, after hedging, in the year
was neutral when compared to 2001. Profit before tax including
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was £264 million,
down from £314 million in 2001. Goodwill amortisation
increased by £25 million in 2002 and in 2001 there were 
net exceptional credits of £47 million.
In 2002 we have recognised as an exceptional item a deferred
tax asset of £9.2 million, relating to the utilisation of prior
period tax losses following the formation of a consolidated
tax group in the US. In 2001, we realised a pre-tax exceptional
profit of £47 million. Included within the £47 million is
£55 million profit generated by the sale in September 2001 
of our remaining 29 per cent stake in Nycomed Pharma.
Exceptional operating costs incurred in 2001 totalled £9 million
and these are analysed in note 3 to the financial statements.
Giles Kerr
Finance Director 32 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
net liability, while significant, can be managed comfortably
within the liquidity of the group going forward. Had we
adopted FRS 17 in 2002, then the charge would have been
broadly the same as under the current accounting standard
SSAP 24. It should also be noted that the net liability required
to be disclosed under FRS 17 is not necessarily the basis on
which the funding decisions of the pension plans within the
group are made. In particular, the triennial valuation of the
company’s UK plan will be made in 2003 and we expect the
outcome of the valuation to be adopted in 2003.
Cash flows and investment activities
2002 2001
£m £m
Cash flow from operations before 
exceptional items 346 342
Capital expenditure and investments 
(prior to disposal of Nycomed Pharma) (152) (106)
Asset disposals 3 22
Dividends received, taxation and interest (58) (54)
Free cash flow 139 204
Disposal of Nycomed Pharma (net of costs) (3) 118
Acquisitions (749) (4)
Exceptional items – 12
Shares issued 408 16
Equity dividends paid (52) (42)
Other 8 –
Cash flow before (drawdown)/repayment 
of debt (249) 304
Whilst cash flow in 2002 is lower than in the particularly strong
year of 2001, cash flow from operations before exceptional
items was slightly higher than in 2001, resulting from profit
growth offset by additional working capital through the building
of inventories in Amersham Health. Amersham continues to
generate operating cash in excess of operating profits. Capital
expenditure has been increased in 2002 with a large investment
in manufacturing capacity in Amersham Health. Asset disposals
in 2001 included the cash realisation on the sale of the group’s
US research facility (TARC). T ax paid was lower in prior periods
due to the availability of tax credits which reduced the payments
required, but there were lower interest payments in 2002. Overall
free cash flow is therefore £65 million lower than in 2001.
Acquisitions include the £709 million (including costs) paid
to purchase the 45 per cent holding in Amersham Biosciences.
There are also a number of other acquisitions that are detailed
in note 24 to the financial statements which make up the
£40 million balance of acquisitions. These relate primarily to
the acquisition of new technologies in filtrations, informatics
and the CodeLink™ arrays. The company issued 57.5 million
new shares, to help finance the purchase of the 45 per cent
minority holding in Amersham Biosciences.
Net cash outflow before repayment of debt was £249 million,
compared to a cash inflow of £304 million in 2001. With the
The group’s tax rate, before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation, was 31.4 per cent (35.8 per cent after goodwill
amortisation). Following the introduction of FRS 19 ‘Deferred
T axation’ during 2002, the 2001 tax charge has been restated 
to 34.7 per cent (previously 33.1 per cent). The 3.3 per cent
reduction in effective tax rate reflects the tax efficiencies derived
following the purchase of the minority stake in Amersham
Biosciences and the favourable settlement of a number of prior
year items, which contributed approximately 1.1 per cent to 
the reduction.
Earnings per share were 29.9p before exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation, compared with 26.6p last year (restated
to reflect the impact of FRS 19 ‘Deferred T axation’ on EPS),
representing a growth of 12 per cent at actual exchange rates
and 15 per cent at constant exchange rates. The average number
of shares increased from 634.4 million to 684.7 million, primarily
as a result of the issue of shares to finance the minority stake
acquisition in Amersham Biosciences. Overall, basic earnings per
share, after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, have
decreased from 33.2p (as restated following the introduction of
FRS 19) in 2001 to 26.1p in 2002.
We paid an interim dividend of 2.65p per share and the Board is
recommending a final dividend of 5.15p per share, bringing the
total dividend to 7.80p for the year, an increase of ten per cent.
This is in line with our policy of growing dividends progressively
in line with earnings providing dividend per share cover does not
fall below three times or exceed four times. Given that exchange
rate fluctuations often have a significant and unpredictable
impact on our results, it has also been part of our policy to grow
dividends in line with the underlying growth rate in earnings
rather than actual earnings including exchange effects.
Financial Reporting Standards
During 2002 we implemented Financial Reporting Standard
(FRS) 19 ‘Deferred T axation’, and have included the further
relevant disclosure requirements of FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’.
Prior to implementing FRS 19 provision was made for deferred
taxation, using the liability method, on all material timing
differences to the extent that it was probable that a liability 
or asset would crystallise. Following the implementation of 
FRS 19, liabilities will be recognised for most types of timing
differences regardless of whether they are anticipated to reverse
in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets will be recognised
to the extent that it is more likely than not they will be
recoverable. The introduction of FRS 19 has not had any
significant impact on the group’s balance sheet. We have
however restated the effective tax charge for 2001 to take
account of the new accounting standard, increasing last year’s
effective tax rate from 33.1 per cent to 34.7 per cent and
reducing 2001 earnings per share before exceptional and
goodwill amortisation from 27.2p to 26.6p.
FRS 17 will change the way that companies account for pensions
and other retirement benefits. During 2002 the introduction of
the standard was deferred until accounting periods ending after
1 January 2005. However, the transition disclosure period has
been extended until this time and so there are further new
disclosures required for the first time in 2002, which are
contained in note 29 to the financial statements. In common
with many of our peer companies, the fall in equity markets
has had a significant impact on our net liability under FRS 17,
which has increased from £24 million to £127 million taking
into account provisions we have on our balance sheet for
pensions, primarily for unfunded plans in territories where it is
not normal practice to have funded arrangements. This level of Amersham plc 33
purchase of the minority holding in Amersham Biosciences
partially financed by using existing cash resources and drawings
under committed bank lines, net debt at 31 December 2002 is
£182 million. This is reduced from the net debt of £259 million
reported at 30 June 2002. Net debt is £92 million lower as a result
of exchange movements following the significant weakening of
the US dollar in which we have borrowings and the strengthening
of the Norwegian krone in which we have monetary assets.
The cash flow generated by our businesses is analysed in the
following table:
2002 2001
£m £m
Business cash flows
Amersham Health 142 175
Amersham Biosciences 51 91
Corporate (54) (62)
Free cash flow 139 204
Amersham Health continues to provide good solid cash flow 
for the group. Cash generation this year was £33 million lower
than in 2001 after building inventory and increasing capital
expenditure to expand manufacturing capacity and support our
strategy of packaging differentiation. Amersham Biosciences’
cash flow is lower in 2002, following an increase in working
capital from a low base in 2001 and a modest growth in capital
expenditure. Corporate cash flow includes interest and taxes
paid and the dividend received from the NMP joint venture.
Treasury policy and liquidity
Treasury policy and objectives
Our treasury activities are co-ordinated and managed by
the group treasury department in accordance with policies
approved by the Board. These policies are reviewed regularly
and have not changed significantly over the past year. The
department operates under close management supervision 
and is subject to review by the risk and operational review
department. It does not operate as a profit centre and no
speculative transactions are undertaken.
Financial instruments
The group uses financial instruments, primarily forward foreign
exchange contracts and interest rate swaps, in the management
of currency and interest rate exposures. Clear procedures have
been established, including levels of authority, regarding the
type and use of financial instruments to manage these exposures.
The Board has approved these procedures. The group controls
credit risk by entering into transactions involving financial
instruments only with authorised counter-parties of strong
credit quality. Counter-party positions are monitored regularly.
Funding
Group treasury manages the group requirement for debt
funding. The group finances its operations through a variety 
of instruments and maturities. In general, subsidiaries’
borrowing requirements are funded by loans from group
treasury, except where precluded by local regulations. In
February 2002 the company entered into a new $750 million
syndicated bank facility committed to February 2007. In 
March the company issued 57.5 million ordinary shares at
700 pence each, raising £397 million after expenses. The
principal borrowings during the period were $193 million
(£123 million) of private placement loan notes and drawings
under the new revolving bank credit facility. At 31 December
2002, the group had net debt of £182 million and undrawn
committed facilities of £404 million.
Interest rate management
The group’s interest charge is exposed to movements in
interest rates as well as debt levels. We maintain a policy of
holding between 30 and 70 per cent of debt at fixed rates.
The group uses currency and interest rate swaps to manage its
interest rate exposures on debt and cash positions. The interest
rate profile of the group is shown in note 20 to the financial
statements. At 31 December 2002, after taking into account
interest rate swaps, 45 per cent of debt was at fixed rates.
The average maturity of this fixed rate debt was 1.5 years.
Currency management
The group’s manufacturing activities and costs are
concentrated in a small number of countries, primarily the US,
Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Sales income is
spread more widely. Overall we have net income in US dollars,
euros and Japanese yen and net costs in sterling, Swedish
kronor and Norwegian kroner.
The group’s principal financial exposures are to movements 
in currency exchange rates. These comprise transaction
exposures arising from currency cash flows and translation
exposures arising from the conversion of the results of foreign
subsidiaries. Transaction exposures are hedged on a rolling 
six-month basis, primarily by forward foreign exchange
transactions. In addition, where sterling has deviated
significantly from its long-term purchasing power parity rates,
strategic hedging is undertaken for periods of up to three years.
We took advantage of the strength of the US dollar in the early
months of the year, by selling forward a proportion of our
anticipated US dollar income for the next three years in
accordance with our strategic hedging policy. Translation
exposures on the net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries
are generally hedged by borrowings and deposits with group
treasury. An analysis of net monetary assets by functional
currency is shown in note 20 to the financial statements.
Translation exposures on the results of foreign subsidiaries 
are not hedged. Equity investments in certain subsidiaries 
and associated companies are hedged by financial instruments
in the currencies of those investments.
During 2002, reported sales growth in sterling was adversely
impacted by the weakening of the dollar and the yen against
sterling, but the impact on reported profit before tax was
neutral as a result of the currency hedging programme.
Assuming current rates of exchange prevail for the remainder
of 2003, there will be an adverse impact on Amersham’s sales
of £40 million and on profit before tax of £30 million.
Giles Kerr Finance Director 34 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Social responsibility 
and environment
Social responsibility
During 2002 the profile and importance of corporate social
responsibility (CSR) continued to grow, particularly in Europe
and the USA. Well-publicised cases of corporate financial
mismanagement and fraud have threatened to undermine
investors’ and the public’s confidence in business. Amersham
is alert to the threat such a climate of distrust might pose 
to its long-term success and has acted to ensure that its
reputation as a responsible and socially aware company is
maintained and protected. We describe elsewhere in this
Annual Report our approach to Corporate Governance and
the manner in which the company is managed. We have also
worked to provide greater transparency on aspects of our
operations, and focused on the integration of the principles 
of CSR throughout our business.
Enhanced transparency was demonstrated with the publication
in July of our first full Environment and Social Report. This is
available both in print and on our website and provides
information on our performance in managing health, safety
and the environment during 2000-2001, as well as commentary
on a range of employment, community and social issues
including our positions on animal testing and stem cell research.
A web based update to our Environment and Social Report
providing key data and information from 2002 will be
published in summer 2003.
The report also provided a platform for publication of
Amersham’s Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all 
of our employees worldwide and sets out the standard of
business behaviour that the company expects of its people.
In August, the publication of our interim results was also used
to provide further information to stakeholders on our progress
in managing the challenges posed by CSR.
In the second half of 2002, Amersham conducted a review of
its performance in the key areas embraced by CSR. Specialist
consultants were engaged to interview staff and key external
audiences, including customers, ethical and mainstream
financial investors and non-governmental organisations.
The assessment covered a wide range of issues including
Amersham’s management of our people, environment, health
and safety, risk and corporate governance as well as our
engagement with customers and suppliers, the communities
around our facilities and other external stakeholders. The results
have enabled Amersham to assess its CSR strengths, identify
good practice and indicate areas for improvement. A CSR
Steering Committee reporting to the Chief Executive, who 
has taken Board level responsibility for CSR, has now been
established. The Committee will co-ordinate the application 
of best practice throughout the company, prioritise areas where
we may need to improve or amend our existing procedures 
and ensure that the company integrates CSR appropriately
throughout its operations. This work will be conducted
progressively and will focus on areas that impact upon our
people, our customers, the communities around our facilities
and our investors. We intend to report on our progress in
managing CSR in summer 2004.
During 2002 Amersham maintained its listing in the FTSE4
Good ethical trading index and was pleased to gain entry for
the first time to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, widely
regarded as a leading indicator of good performance by ethical
and socially responsible investors. Amersham also completed 
its submission for Business in the Community’s new Social
Responsibility Index, the first major attempt to provide 
a benchmarking index for companies’ application of CSR,
published in March 2003. Amersham hopes that indices such 
as these will provide sufficient information to guide investment
decisions in this rapidly expanding investment sector.
Corporately and at individual sites, Amersham continued to
demonstrate social responsibility, especially in our core areas 
of science and education. The successful Genes, Medicine and
Society series at the Royal Institution, London was concluded 
in November following seven topical and well-received lectures.
Similar lectures on biomedical science were held at the
Rikshospital in Oslo, Norway. Amersham’s Board approved a
new Charity and Community Engagement Policy that will be
implemented at our sites throughout 2003 and beyond. The
policy determines our areas of focus in support for good causes
and encourages local sites to harness the resource and
expertise of their staff in the local community. As an example,
the SET to Help school support programme in place at our sites
in the Amersham (UK) area continued to expand and now
involves some 40 schools. We have also developed formal links
with a local school specialising in the teaching of science to
help extend the school’s outreach into other schools and the
local community. Education of the general public and students
was also the principal goal of a week-long festival of science 
in Oslo where our staff arranged lectures and educational
programmes and took science onto the streets of Oslo as part
of a major public exhibition. In Piscataway (New Jersey, USA)
our staff supported a scholar programme at the local university,
providing time, equipment and reagents.
Throughout the world, Amersham’s staff continued to help
good causes and those less fortunate. In the UK, two hospices
and a treatment centre for children with cerebral palsy were
chosen by staff for their fundraising activities, which raised
almost £50,000. Donations of money, gifts in kind and staff
time in the UK were valued at over £330,000, enabling the
company to maintain its membership of Business in the
Community’s PerCent Club in the UK. In Norway, community
engagement was also improved with a financial contribution
excluding staff time of £140,000 including a donation of
approximately £30,000 to help the poor and homeless. In the
USA, our Arlington Heights, Illinois facility participated in food
and toy collections for underprivileged families, local sports,
education and science programmes and also made a $14,000
donation to support service men and women separated from Amersham plc 35
their families. Over a third of our staff in Princeton, New Jersey,
participated in the Race for the Cure for cancer research, raising
$12,500. Amersham Health sponsored the Father’s Day Race 
in Central Park, New York, to raise awareness of prostate 
cancer. Amersham Biosciences continued to sponsor Science
magazine’s Young Scientist Prize competition. Two regional
winners were awarded in each of Japan, Europe and the USA
plus one from Israel, all for work in the molecular biology field.
The grand prize winner, who received a $25,000 grant and
publication of his essay in Science, was Jared Rutter, for his
work describing the cellular sensing mechanism that responds
to environmental factors and affects the body’s daily rhythm.
Environment
Our Environment and Social Report provides data on emissions
to the environment, energy and water use, waste generation,
accidents at work, exposure to radiation and a number of other
parameters of particular significance to our operations. The
report, together with our broader work on CSR, has identified
areas, such as the management of our supply chain and
verification of our data, that we need to carefully examine 
and consider whether improvements can be made.
Overall, 2002 was a year of further improvement in our health,
safety and environmental performance and we are pleased to
report that no prosecutions were brought against the company
in these areas during the year. The new wastewater treatment
facility at our Arlington Heights (USA) facility gained the 16th
Annual Illinois Governor’s Pollution Prevention Award – given 
to companies that demonstrate outstanding efforts in
environmental protection. A similar liquid effluent plant has
now been installed at the Maynard Centre (Cardiff, UK) where,
in addition, good progress was made in the designs for the
recovery and recycling technology that will capture a high
proportion of the facility’s waste carbon
14
and tritium. Effluent
treatment improvements were also made at Shanghai (China).
Our Lindesnes (Norway) contrast media production site gained
ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) accreditation and our
Nihon Medi-Physics joint venture facility in Chiba (Japan)
successfully passed the first inspection review of its ISO 14001
certification. The Grove Centre (UK) and Shanghai both
received safety commendations from external organisations
and a new risk assessment, management and training system
implemented at our production plant in Cork (Ireland) resulted
in a significant reduction in lost time accidents.
Amersham’s commitment to improved resource management
also continued with increases in the amounts of material
recovered and recycled at many locations. Solvent recovery 
at Lindesnes (Norway), Staffanstorp (Sweden) and Uppsala
(Sweden) totalled over 30,000 tonnes and the Swedish sites
also supplied more than 1,000 tonnes of used solvents and
fructose for reuse by other industries. As part of the company’s
return chain project that takes back unused or returned
products for recycling, Lindesnes processed 33 tonnes of
material for iodine recovery, and recovered 26 tonnes of X-ray
contrast media bulk substance. A new office paper recycling
scheme at Amersham Place Head Office, the Grove Centre and
other sites in the Amersham area, recovered over 92 tonnes of
paper and card, enabling the recycling contractor to donate 12
trees to the local community. The Gloucester (UK) site reduced
its generation of waste glass vials by 37 per cent and Piscataway
and Sunnyvale in the USA both benefited from enhanced
recycling programmes. While the diversion of this material from
disposal is welcome, the focus is now turning to reducing the
volume of waste generated in the first place. New energy
conservation measures implemented at Arlington Heights
resulted in a 17 per cent increase in the production of their
most energy intensive product with only a 1.2 per cent
increase in overall energy use.
Amersham Biosciences sales and commercial staff in Freiburg
(Germany) participated for the ninth year in their annual
purchase and planting of 5,000 trees in the Ester mountains 
in Bavaria. In Japan, the company was pleased to support the
World Wildlife Fund in its programmes for nature and habitat
conservation. Amersham continues to support the global
conservation research organisation, Earthwatch, and is now
part-funding six study fellowships on global projects in 2003.
Through Earthwatch’s facilitation, the company is also engaged
in an environmentally friendly land management plan for 60
acres of farmland it owns adjacent to the Grove Centre. The
plan will restore natural flora and fauna to the area and
promote biodiversity.
Major public consultations were conducted during the year 
by the UK’s Environment Agency as part of the process of
determining new authorisations for emissions from the Grove
and Maynard Centres. At both sites, Amersham’s applications
provide for significant reductions in discharges to the
environment. The company participated fully in the extensive
public consultation process, speaking at meetings, making
presentations to local interest groups, and distributing
explanatory literature to local residents and the media.
We welcome greater public scrutiny of our operations. This
involvement improves the understanding of our business and
allows us to demonstrate the ways we work to protect health,
safety and the environment. Our open door policy for local
communities has resulted in visits to our facilities by the public
in the UK, Germany, Norway, the USA and Ireland. We view 
this approach to our operations as an integral part of our
commitment to CSR and we will continue to explore new
opportunities to improve our stakeholders’ understanding 
of our work and our environmental impact.
Sir William Castell Chief Executive 10
36Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
01 03
07
09
14
02
05
11
04
12
08
06
13
01
Mr Richard D Lapthorne CBE
Bcom, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, CBIM
Non-Executive Chairman 
   
Chairman of the Board in 1996 and again since 1999, Deputy
Chairman from 1997 to 1999 and a Board member since
joining Amersham International plc as a Non-Executive Director
in 1988. Mr Lapthorne will be retiring from the Board after the
Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2003. Recruited as Finance
Director of British Aerospace plc in July 1992, becoming Vice
Chairman in April 1998. Retired from British Aerospace in
September 1999. Also serves as Non-Executive Chairman of
Cable and Wireless from 10 January 2003, Morse plc, Avecia
Limited, Tunstall Holdings Limited, TI Automotive Limited and 
a Non-Executive Director of Oasis International Leasing in 
Abu Dhabi. Age 59.
02
Mr Johan Fr Odfjell Siv.øk., MBA
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 
   
Deputy Chairman of the Board since 1999. From 1997 to 1999
served as Chairman of the Board, and from 1996 as a non-
executive board member of Nycomed ASA. Served as Chief
Executive of Vesta Insurance Group from 1986 to 1994. From
1994 has combined his own consultancy and investment firm
with several non-executive board positions. Also Chairman of
Orkla ASA, Star Shipping A/S and Nera ASA. Co-Chairman of Det
Norske Veritas; and a board member of Bergesen ASA. Age 54.
03
Mr Donald H Brydon OBE, BSc
Non-Executive Director 
   
Chairman Designate
A Non-Executive Director since 1997 and will succeed Richard
Lapthorne as Chairman following the Annual General Meeting
in May 2003. Joined AXA Group in 1997 after a 20-year career
with the Barclays Group. Now serving as Chairman of AXA
Investment Managers, and a non-executive director of Allied
Domecq and Chairman of the Financial Services Practitioner
Panel. Age 57.
Board of Directors Amersham plc 37
04
Mr George Battersby BSc
Human Resources Director
Joined the company in 2000 as Human Resources Director.
Previously with Laporte plc from 1996 to 2000 as Human
Resources Director, and Fisons plc from 1985 to 1996 as Group
Human Resources Director. Earlier career included sales and
marketing, consulting and human resources appointments in
companies including International Computers Limited and Air
Products and Chemicals Inc. Age 56.
05
Dr Andrew Carr Ph.D
President, Amersham Biosciences
Joined the company in 1987 as Senior Development Scientist
and has held a number of senior management positions in
research and development, manufacturing, and sales and
marketing. Appointed President of Amersham Biosciences 
in 2000 and joined the Board in May 2002. Age 43.
06
Sir William Castell BA, FCA
Chief Executive
Chief Executive since1989, when he joined Amersham International
plc. Previously Commercial Director Wellcome plc 1987-1989,
following a career in Wellcome spanning over twentyy ears.Also
serves as Chairman of The Prince’s Trust and Council Member 
of the Medical Research Council, and is on the External Advisory
Board for the Life Sciences Institute at Michigan. Knighted in
June 2000 for services to the life sciences industry. Age 55.
07
Mr John H Johansen MSc
Non-Executive Director
A Non-Executive Director since 1997, having served on the
Hafslund Nycomed ASA board since 1994 as an elected
employee representative. Joined the Norwegian organisation 
in 1980 as a Research Scientist, peptide chemistry, holding
management positions in chemistry research and development.
A Senior Research Scientist in Amersham Health from 1991 to
the present. Appointed a member of the board of Playboard
Magazine AS in 2001. Age 56.
08
Mr Giles F B Kerr BA, ACA
Finance Director
Appointed Finance Director in 1997. Joined Amersham
International plc as Group Financial Controller 1991 to 1994,
Commercial Controller 1994 to 1996, Company Secretary and
Director of Corporate Development 1996 to 1997. Worked for
Arthur Andersen & Co from 1981, in positions including Audit
and Accounting Manager and Partner, Corporate Finance and
Investigations. Age 43.
09
Mr Peter Loescher MBA
President, Amersham Health 
Joined the company in December 2002. Previously with
Hoechst AG and its successor company Aventis working in a
variety of roles in Germany, Japan, Spain, UK, and USA. From
1999 to 2002 served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of Aventis Pharma in Japan, having previously served as Chief
Executive Officer of Hoechst Marion Roussell Limited in the 
UK from 1997. Age 45.
  MembersoftheRemunerationCommittee,whichischairedbyMrRichardDLapthorne.
  Members of the Nomination Committee, which is chaired by Mr Johan Fr Odfjell.
  Members of the Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr Donald H Brydon.
10
Dr John S Patterson FRCP
Non-Executive Director 
   
A Non-Executive Director since 2001. Appointed Vice President
for Clinical Research and Medical Affairs of ICI Pharmaceuticals
for the USA in 1988 after a long career with the company. In
1990 joined its board as Medical Director. Appointed Executive
Vice President Product Strategy and Licensing for AstraZeneca in
1999 and currently serves as Chair on its Portfolio Management
and Licensing Executive subcommittees. Also serves as a Director
of the British Pharmaceuticals Group and is President of the
Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry. Age 55.
11
Sir Keith Peters MB BCh, FRCP, FRCPath, FRS
Non-Executive Director
A Non-Executive Director since 2000. Also Chairman of the
Amersham plc Science Advisory Board and a member of the
Amersham plc Portfolio Committee. Became Regius Professor
of Physic at the University of Cambridge in 1987. President,
Academy of Medical Sciences; Honorary Consultant Physician
at Addenbroke’s NHS Trust. Governing Trustee, The Nuffield
Trust; Trustee, Strangeways Research Laboratory. Member of
Council of Heads of Medical Schools and Deans of UK Faculties
of Medicine; member of Scientific Advisory Boards of the
Gairdner Foundation, Merck Institute, Merck Sharp & Dohme
Research Laboratories Neuroscience Research Centre and
Cambridge Antibody Technology. Age 64.
12
Mr Jacques F Rejeange MBA
Non-Executive Director 
   
A Non-Executive Director since 1997, having been a non-
executive board member of Hafslund Nycomed ASA since 1994.
From 1966 to 1992 was employed by the Sandoz Group, rising
from Management Trainee to President and Chief Executive of
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Inc in the USA. Became President and
Chief Executive of Sterling Winthrop Inc in 1994 and in 1998
until June 2002 was Chief Executive of NMT Management AG.
Also a non-executive director of Antares Inc and Pozen Inc,
both in the USA. Age 63.
13
Professor Erik Thorsby MD
Non-Executive Director 
  
A Non-Executive Director since 1997, having earlier that 
year joined the Nycomed ASA board as a non-executive
member. Held a number of positions in medical institutions,
international scientific societies and committees and in 1983
was appointed Professor of Medicine at the University of Oslo.
Currently Head of the Institute of Immunology at The National
Hospital and University of Oslo. Also serves as President of 
the European Federation for Immunogenetics and is Chairman
of the Research Council at The National Hospital. Age 64.
14
Professor Mathias Uhlén
Non-Executive Director 
  
Appointed Non-Executive Director in May 2002, having served
as a Non-Executive Director of Amersham Biosciences since
1997 and a member of the Amersham plc Portfolio Committee.
Professor of Biotechnology at the Royal Institute of Technology
(KTH) Stockholm since 1988. Serves on the boards of Magnetic
Biosolutions AB, Prevas AB, Personal Chemistry AB, Skanditec
AB, Affibody AB, Pyrosequencing AB, Biovitrum AB and KTH
Holding AB. Age 48. Report of the Directors
38 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
The Directors present their report and the audited group accounts of Amersham plc for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activities and business review
The group is engaged in the worldwide development, manufacture and sale of specialised products for research-based
biotechnology supply and for the diagnosis and treatment of disease. The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review
and Financial review on pages 23 to 33 contain further information on the business activities of the group.
Results
Sales of continuing operations were £1,618 million, including a £81 million share of joint venture sales. Exports from the United
Kingdom amounted to £203 million.
The group proﬁt and loss account appears on page 51. Proﬁt for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to £179 million.
The Directors recommend that this be dealt with as follows:
£m
Ordinary dividends
– Interim paid (2.65p per share) 21.3
– Proposed ﬁnal (5.15p per share) 36.0
57.3
Transfer to reserves 121.4
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders 178.7
A ﬁnal dividend of 5.15p per share is recommended.
Research and development
Group policy is to invest in product innovation and process improvement at a level designed to enable it to be a market leader in
the diagnostic imaging and biotechnology supply businesses in which it competes. It is also group policy to seek out new business
opportunities by exploiting its skills and technological base.
Directors
The names and biographies of the present Directors are given on pages 36 to 37. Prof M Uhlén and Dr A Carr were appointed 
on 9 May 2002 and Mr P Loescher was appointed on 1 December 2002. Dr J M Padﬁeld retired on 31 December 2002 and
Mr R D Lapthorne will be retiring from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2003.
At the Annual General Meeting, Dr A Carr, Mr P Loescher, Prof M Uhlén, Mr G F B Kerr, Prof E Thorsby, Mr G Battersby and
Professor Sir K Peters will retire by rotation and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Board Committee membership details are given on pages 36 to 37.
Appointments to the Board are recommended by the Nomination Committee, details of which are given in the Corporate
governance statement on page 40.
Directors’ interests in shares of the company
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors in the shares of the company at 1 January 2002 and 31 December 2002 are shown
in the Remuneration report together with details of changes in the Directors’ share interests between 31 December 2002 and
26 February 2003.
No Director holds any non-beneﬁcial interests in shares of the company.
Interest in company’s shares
During the year, the company funded the purchase of its own ordinary shares, nominal value 5p, through the Amersham
Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust for the beneﬁt of employees under the group’s Sharesave scheme.
Percentage of
Number issued share Aggregate
of shares capital consideration
Trust %£
Amersham Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust 438,890 0.0625 2,497,284.10
Shares purchased under Amersham Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust will be used to satisfy the exercise of options
granted under the Sharesave (SAYE) scheme, which is more fully explained on page 44 of the Remuneration report. Amersham plc 39
Employee share schemes
Amersham plc operates share option schemes for senior executives throughout the group and all employees in the UK, US
and Norway. Details of the shares issued and options granted under these schemes are shown in note 25 to the accounts.
The company also has long term incentive plans. Details of grants to Executive Directors are given in the Remuneration report
on pages 49 to 50.
Employment of disabled persons
The policy of the group is to recruit, train and provide career development opportunities to disabled persons on the same basis
as other staff and to make every effort to retain and assist any individuals disabled in the course of their employment.
Employee involvement
There are extensive arrangements in the UK and in overseas subsidiary undertakings for consultation with staff on group
objectives, plans and progress and on matters of general or particular interest. Regular exchanges of information with staff take
place through formal consultative arrangements at corporate and local level. The employee share schemes approved by the
shareholders have been successful in encouraging employee share ownership.
Political and charitable contributions
Financial contributions to charities and good causes during the reporting period in the UK amounted to £257,708. Additional
contributions were made through staff time, equipment and gifts in kind. The Social Responsibility and Environment report on
page 34 provides information on donations to other good causes close to our facilities in Europe, Japan and America. No political
donations were made.
Supplier payment policy
The group applies a policy of agreeing and clearly communicating the terms of payment as part of the commercial arrangements
negotiated with suppliers and then paying according to those terms. In addition the UK-based businesses follow the guidance in
the DTI publication to the ‘Better Payment Practice’. A copy of the guide can be obtained from the Department of Trade and
Industry, DTI Publications, Orderline, Admail 528, London SW1W 8YT.
For UK businesses at 31 December 2002, trade creditors represented 26 days (2001 – 27 days), equivalent of aggregate amounts
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Substantial shareholdings
The company has been notiﬁed under the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 (as amended) that on 26 February 2003 the
following had a material interest in 3% or more of the company’s ordinary share capital:
Number of shares %
Legal and General Investment 21,453,876 3.06
Folketrygdfondet 21,620,300 3.08
Lazard Asset Management 21,658,981 3.09
Fidelity Investments 23,269,146 3.31
Wellington Management Company 26,023,580 3.71
Franklin Resources Inc. and its afﬁliates 34,629,982 4.93
Annual General Meeting
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2003, in addition to the routine business of the company, a resolution will
be proposed to allow the Directors to purchase Amersham plc shares. Further details are set out in the separate Chairman’s
Letter and Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Post balance sheet events
On 26 February 2003 the group announced a restructuring of its discovery systems business area. The restructuring programme,
which will deliver a more efﬁcient manufacturing cost base and focus research and development on fewer sites, will result in the
loss of approximately 400 jobs. The group will incur one off costs in the range of £45-50m, which are expected to result in savings
running at the rate of £30-35m per annum by the end of 2004.
Auditors
Following the conversion of our auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers to a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) from 1 January 2003,
PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned on 19 February 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
as auditors. A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting.
By order of the Board
R E B Allnutt
Company Secretary
26 February 2003 40 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Recent events have led to an increased focus upon the
operation of corporate governance in the UK and elsewhere.
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate
governance throughout the group. The Board is accountable 
to the company’s shareholders for good governance and this
statement describes how the Principles of Good Governance
and the provisions of the Code of Best Practice, identiﬁed in
the London Stock Exchange’s Combined Code, issued
on 25 June 1998, are applied by the company.
The Board believes that good governance is about more
than satisfying check lists and meeting legal obligations.
The Board seeks to increase understanding of the operation 
of its governance and in so doing demonstrate that it exceeds
the requirements as currently prescribed by law.
With the objective of ensuring successful creation of value
within a framework of acceptable risk, the Board sees its role 
as including:
– assisting value creation by the controlled and measured
management of a wide range of business risks
– encouraging the proper assessment and consideration
of business opportunity
– deciding, after proper consideration, the strategic direction
and future needs of the business
– representing the interests of shareholders and satisfying 
all statutory duties to them
– ensuring appropriate behaviour with respect to the various
codes of corporate governance and good business practices
– overseeing good corporate citizenship and ethical behaviour by
the company and its employees with regard to all its internal
and external stakeholders
– providing a challenging conﬁdential forum, free from conﬂicts,
in which the Chief Executive can test strategic thinking with
an informed group having broad continuity over time
– requiring the Chief Executive to report openly on the
operational performance of all parts of the company
– monitoring the effectiveness of the Chief Executive and
his executive team as set against a series of performance
objectives and benchmarks
– setting a control framework within which the Chief Executive
can operate, and making decisions on major issues and
investments where the cost exceeds the discretionary limit
of the Chief Executive
– setting objectives and appropriate authority levels for the
Chief Executive
– constituting subcommittees of the Board to address the
issues of remuneration, nominations and audit.
Each member of the Board brings different experience and skills
to the operation of the Board and its various subcommittees.
The Board composition is kept under review and when a new
appointment is to be made, consideration is given to the kind
of experience which a potential new member could add to the
existing mix. Each Non-Executive is encouraged to contribute
to both the full Board and where appropriate its subcommittees.
The Board met formally seven times during the year (including
a two-day annual review of strategy) and the full Board
attended all meetings except for two Directors who were
unable to attend one meeting due to other commitments.
Separate terms of reference delineate the work of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees as well as any
other subcommittees of the Board or ad hoc groups that the
Board authorises for any purpose.
The Non-Executive Directors meet privately as a group with
the Chairman, as necessary, at least once a year and similarly
with both the Chairman and the Chief Executive to consider
management and succession issues. Non-Executive Directors
also review each year the relationship between the Chairman
and the Chief Executive to ensure that this is working in a
manner to the beneﬁt of the business.
The Board meetings encourage open discussion, and management
brings issues to the Board seeking advice and approval where
appropriate. The Board also receives presentations from
advisers and where necessary, members have access to
independent advice.
The Board believes that its style of involvement with the
management through the Chief Executive and the Executive
Directors is the most effective way to provide conﬁdence in
the control environment of the company. Through openness
and discussion the Board endeavours to understand and
provide leadership as to the willingness of the company to
take appropriate risks in the interests of the shareholders.
Annually the Board considers its performance of each of the
roles it has set itself.
External communications
Amersham strives to maintain a good dialogue with shareholders
and regular meetings are held with institutional shareholders
throughout the year to discuss the progress of the company,
future growth prospects and strategy. The company maintains
an Investor Relations department to facilitate ongoing
communication with shareholders. Other channels of
communication include company presentations, seminars,
press releases and interim and Annual Reports. In addition, the
company website www.amersham.com provides information
on the company for all shareholders and the general public.
The Board
The Board comprises ﬁve Executive Directors and nine
Non-Executive Directors. Throughout the ﬁnancial year, the
ofﬁces of Chairman and Chief Executive have been held
separately. The Chairman, Mr R D Lapthorne, is an independent
Non-Executive Director, as deemed by the Board, who will be
retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on
7 May 2003. The role of Chairman will then be held by
Mr D H Brydon, who is also deemed an independent
Non-Executive Director.
The Deputy Chairman, Mr J Fr Odfjell, has been identiﬁed
as the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
Corporate governance statement Amersham plc 41
Biographies of the Board members appear on pages 36 to 37
which also show the membership of the Nomination,
Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Apart from John Johansen, who is an employee, all the Non-
Executive Directors were independent of management and free
from any business or other relationship which could materially
interfere with the exercise of independent judgement. All
Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision
and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is
communicated widely throughout the group. To enable the
Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge
their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all
relevant information and appropriate resources to discharge
their responsibilities.
Newly appointed Directors are given training appropriate to
the level of their previous experience. All are apprised of their
roles and duties as Directors of a public company.
The Board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy,
performance and management of the group. Authority for
implementing the Board’s policies is delegated to the Chief
Executive within certain limits authorised by the Board.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee met six times during the year to
review the composition of, and succession to, the Board and
makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment
of Non-Executive and Executive Directors. The Committee
comprises seven of the independent Non-Executive Directors
and is chaired by Mr J Fr Odfjell, the Deputy Chairman of the
Board. The Nomination Committee reviews the composition
of the Board in light of corporate governance regulation and
best practice, both current and proposed.
Members of the Committee abstain when matters affecting
their own appointments are discussed. The Committee has
available to it the services of external advisers as it deems
necessary and at the company’s expense. The Chief Executive
attends the meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining
the remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service
of the Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee also
determines group policy relating to share option plans and the
level at which share options are granted to senior executives
within the group. The Committee has available to it the
services of independent advisers. The Committee comprises
six of the independent Non-Executive Directors including the
Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board and is chaired
by Mr R D Lapthorne, the Chairman of the Board. Following the
retirement of Mr R D Lapthorne at the Annual General Meeting
to be held on 7 May 2003, the Remuneration Committee will
be chaired by Dr J S Patterson. The principal terms of reference
of the Remuneration Committee appear in the Remuneration
report on page 43. The Chief Executive and the Human
Resources Director attend the meetings of the Committee to
discuss the performance of the other Executive Directors and
to make proposals as necessary but they are not present when
their own remuneration is being considered.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the internal
controls and accounts of the group. It also considers the group’s
compliance with the Combined Code. The Committee is
chaired by Mr D H Brydon. The Committee comprises four
further independent Non-Executive Directors: Mr R D Lapthorne,
Mr J Fr Odfjell, Dr J S Patterson and Mr J F Rejeange. The
Committee can request the external auditors, who are normally
present, Executive Directors and other ofﬁcers of the group
to attend its meetings. The Audit Committee receives regular
reports from the Risk and Operational Review department on
all aspects of the group’s system of internal control. The Audit
Committee recommends the appointment of the external
auditors, reviews the external audit fee and audit plan and
pre-approves all non-audit work in respect of the external
auditors prior to commitment.
Disclosure Committee
As recommended in the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley
Act, a Disclosure Committee, chaired by Mr G F B Kerr and
comprising relevant senior managers, has been established
to ensure a robust veriﬁcation and disclosure control process
throughout the group. This will enable the Chief Executive
and the Finance Director (CFO) to make the certiﬁcations as
required by the legislation. The Disclosure Committee reports
directly into the Chief Executive.
Appointments to the Board
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the
provisions of the company’s Articles of Association, to retire
and seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual
General Meeting. The Articles also require that one-third of the
Directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-appointment
at the Annual General Meeting. The Directors required to retire
will be those in ofﬁce longest since their previous appointment
or re-appointment and this will usually mean that each Director
retires at least every three years. The Board has resolved that
each Director will retire at least every three years, even if this
is not strictly required by the application of the provisions
of the Articles of Association.
Compliance
In addition to the Principles of Good Governance, the Combined
Code also contains a Code of Best Practice detailing some
forty-ﬁve provisions. The Board has carried out a full internal
review of compliance with its provisions. The Board conﬁrms
that the company has complied with these provisions
throughout the ﬁnancial year. The company also complies
to the extent applicable for foreign registrants with the
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Any system of
internal control can only be designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss. 42 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
The Board conﬁrms that it has applied Principle D.2 of the
Combined Code in that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks faced by the
group, which has been in place for the year 2002 and up to the
date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts. The Board
also conﬁrms that this process is regularly reviewed by the
Board and is in accord with Internal Control: Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
In accordance with provision D.2.1 the Board, including the
appropriate subcommittees, regularly reviews the effectiveness
of the group’s internal control processes. Key elements of the
group’s system of internal controls are set out below:
Control environment
The group is committed to high standards of business conduct
and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations
throughout the world. The group has in place group ﬁnance
policies, a code of business conduct and employee procedures.
The group has an appropriate organisational structure for
planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business
operations in order to achieve objectives. Lines of responsibility
and delegations of authority are documented.
Identifying and evaluating risk
The identiﬁcation and evaluation of risk in the business is
approached at different levels. This encompasses both:
– senior management’s assessment of the group’s risk proﬁle
in terms of the achievement of strategic objectives; and
– a structured assessment of risks operating within entities
and functions.
This process also involves assessing the probability, impact and
the required actions for appropriately managing risks as identiﬁed.
The group seeks to understand the risks that it faces across the
following broad categories:
– external risks arising from, for example, market, competitor
or regulatory issues
– informational risks concerning the integrity and availability
of management information
– operational risks arising from, for instance, the management
of our supply chain or our manufacturing processes
– ﬁnancial risks associated with our budget and planning,
liquidity position or the management of our credit
– strategic risks relating to our product portfolio or our planning.
Operational management is responsible for the identiﬁcation
and evaluation of key risks applicable to their areas of business.
The group has a formal risk identiﬁcation and review process
facilitated by a dedicated function, which assists management
in the process. This function reports these risks to both the
Audit Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
Performance monitoring
Group businesses participate in periodic strategic reviews, which
include the consideration of long term ﬁnancial projections and
the evaluation of business alternatives. Operating units prepare
annual budgets and ﬁve-year strategic plans; performance
against plan is actively monitored at the Board and business
unit level supported by regular forecasts. Forecasts and results
are consolidated and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Control procedures
The group and its operating units have implemented control
procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting
for ﬁnancial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to
loss of assets or fraud. Measures taken include physical controls,
segregation of duties, reviews by management and operational
review, and external audit to the extent necessary to arrive at
their audit opinion.
A process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting
has been established which provides for a documented audit
trail of accountability. These procedures are relevant across
group operations and provide for successive assurances to be
given at increasingly higher levels of management and, ﬁnally,
to the Board. These documents are reviewed by the Risk and
Operational Review department for completeness and accuracy.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for
timely completion. These processes have been reviewed and
where necessary revised in light of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Going concern
After making enquiries the Directors have reasonable expectation
that the company and the group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future,
and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. In forming this view
the Directors have reviewed the Annual Proﬁt Plan for the year
ending 31 December 2003 and strategic plan projections for
subsequent years. The Directors have satisﬁed themselves that
the group is in a sound ﬁnancial position and that sufﬁcient
borrowing facilities will be available to meet the group’s
foreseeable cash requirements.
On behalf of the Board
R D Lapthorne, Chairman
26 February 2003
Corporate governance statement
continued Amersham plc 43
Directors’ remuneration report
This report sets out the policy and disclosures in relation to Directors’ remuneration. At the Annual General Meeting of the company
to be held on 7 May 2003, this Directors’ remuneration report will be submitted to shareholders for their approval. This Report ha s
been produced in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Composition and terms of reference of Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) is responsible for determining the remuneration and the terms and conditions
of service of the Executive Directors. At the end of the year, the Committee was made up of seven independent Non-Executive
Directors. The membership of the Committee comprised Mr R D Lapthorne (the Chairman of the Board) as Chairman, Mr J Fr Odfjell
(the Deputy Chairman of the Board and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director), Mr D H Brydon, Prof E Thorsby,
Dr J S Patterson and Mr J F Rejeange. Prof M Uhlén joined the Committee in June 2002. The Chief Executive and the Human
Resources Director also attend the meetings of the Committee, except when their own remuneration is being considered.
Details of the Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2003 are given in the Report
of the Directors on page 38. Of the Directors retiring, Prof M Uhlén and Prof E Thorsby are members of the Remuneration
Committee. Following the Annual General Meeting, Mr R D Lapthorne will retire from the Board and Dr J S Patterson will assume
the role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In 2002, the Board accepted all the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee without amendment.
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed by the Chief Executive who makes recommendations to the Board.
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
The responsibilities of the role and the level of fees paid in UK organisations of a similar size and complexity to Amersham ar e
considered in setting remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors.
The Report of the auditors on the ﬁnancial statements covers the disclosures contained in this report that are speciﬁed for aud it
by the Financial Services Authority.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors
In determining the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, the Committee has considered a number of factors including:
– the importance of attracting, retaining and motivating management of the appropriate calibre to further the success of
the business;
– the linking of reward to both individual and business performance; and
– ensuring that the interests of the Directors are aligned with those of the shareholders.
To this end, the Remuneration Committee seeks to pay Executive Directors base salaries at a median level and incentives (in the
form of bonuses and long term option arrangements) at an upper quartile level when compared to compensation levels and packages
in other companies of comparable size and complexity, and also in companies in the same business sector. The total package is
aimed to lie between the median and upper quartile. For 2003, the Committee aims to target 50% of total package in the form of
ﬁxed remuneration (base salary and beneﬁts) and 50% performance-related remuneration (target annual bonus and Black-Scholes
value of annual share option awards). In 2002, the ratio was 55% ﬁxed and 45% performance-related remuneration.
In 2002, the Remuneration Committee considered a valuation of all elements of Executive Directors’ remuneration to ensure that it
was aware of the total remuneration within the company and its selected comparators. This valuation approach included the use of
the Black-Scholes option valuation technique for assessing the value of long term incentives. The same approach will be used in 2003.
In establishing this policy, the Committee has appointed independent consultants, New Bridge Street Consultants, who provide
advice on remuneration and share plans both for Executive Directors and the wider executive population. The Committee has also
appointed Watson Wyatt who provide advice on pensions both for Executive Directors and advice to the company as a whole.
Neither New Bridge Street Consultants nor Watson Wyatt provide any other services to the company. In addition, the Committee
is advised on reward strategy by Mr Malcolm Safﬁn, Vice President of Compensation and Beneﬁts for Amersham.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the policy adopted in its remuneration of Executive Directors and senior managers
has contributed to the sustained ﬁnancial success and long term growth of the company. This policy has enabled the company
both to attract and keep a high calibre management team – essential for a well run and growing business. The strong shareholder
returns achieved by the company are a testament to this policy, which reﬂects best market practice. This policy will continue
to be reviewed in the light of changes in market practice and legislation, which impact upon the company.
The current elements of the remuneration packages can be summarised as follows:
Base salary and beneﬁts
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed by the Committee, normally annually, having regard to competitive market
practice and individual performance for the ﬁnancial year.
The general beneﬁts provided to the Executive Directors are a fully-expensed car, pension, life, disability and health insurance
and where appropriate relocation expenses. Annual performance-related bonus
The annual performance-related bonus is dependent upon a number of factors. The level of bonus is payable on a sliding scale
between 0% and 100% of the base salary. Bonus payments totalling £1,135,930 (2001 – £1,125,420) have been achieved, based
on the ﬁnancial performance measures attained for 2002, namely sales and operating proﬁt, cash ﬂow, growth in earnings per
share and performance against a number of personal objectives for each Executive Director. In addition, the company has agreed
to pay Mr P Loescher an amount equivalent to the bonus he would have received from his previous company had he not joined
Amersham. The precise amount is not yet known, but is expected to lie within the range of euros 300,000 to euros 650,000.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2003, it is proposed to pay a bonus on a sliding scale of 0% to 150% of base salary.
The actual payment will be based on the same ﬁnancial performance measures as used in 2002. Two-thirds of the bonus shall be
paid in cash and one-third in the form of restricted shares, which will vest 50% on the second anniversary of the bonus payment
date and 50% on the third anniversary of the bonus payment date.
In conjunction with the increased annual bonus opportunity, the company has introduced Share Ownership guidelines, which will
require the Executive Directors to hold shares equivalent in value to two times their base salary. This holding must be acquired
within ﬁve years.
Share option schemes
T ax approved and unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS) are available to Executive Directors and senior managers.
Options granted to Executive Directors prior to 2001 under the terms of the 1993 Executive Share Option Scheme are subject
to the attainment of growth in the group’s earnings per share of at least 6% more than the increase in the Retail Prices Index
over any three consecutive ﬁnancial years prior to the exercise of the option.
Options granted to Executive Directors from 2001 under the terms of the 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme are not normally
exercisable until the third anniversary of the date of grant and to the extent that the performance conditions speciﬁed prior t o
the grant of the option have been satisﬁed. For options granted to Executive Directors in 2001 and 2002 (which are detailed in
the Interests in share options table on page 49), 50% of each option grant will vest if the company’s normalised earnings per
share growth (as determined by the Remuneration Committee) matches or exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 
3% per annum. The entire option grant will vest if the company’s normalised earnings per share growth matches or exceeds the
growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum. There is proportionate vesting between 3% and 5%. Performance is always
measured from the end of the ﬁnancial year prior to the grant of the option. 25% of the options may vest after one year with 
a further 25% after two years and a further 50% after three years. To the extent that these targets are not achieved by those
times, the performance period will be extended, one ﬁnancial year at a time. To the extent that the performance conditions have
not been met by the ﬁfth anniversary of the grant, the option lapses. Option grants made to Dr A Carr in 2001 and 2002 are not
subject to performance conditions as he was not an Executive Director at the date of grant. Option grants made to all Executive
Directors in 2003 are subject to the same performance conditions as applied to Executive Director option grants in 2001 and 200 2.
Although performance conditions are not a common feature of option plans operated by our international competitors, we recognise
that as a company with our primary listing in the UK, it is appropriate that options granted to our Executive Directors are subj ect
to performance conditions. The performance conditions we have chosen mean that options will only vest when there has been
a correspondingly good return for our shareholders. More demanding performance conditions would mean that the Black-Scholes
valuation of share options awarded would be lower and therefore in order to maintain the same Black-Scholes value of award,
higher option grants would need to be given.
The beneﬁcial interests of the Executive Directors in share options are shown on page 49.
The following graph shows the value by the end of 2002 of £100 invested in Amersham on 31 December 1997 compared with
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 index. Amersham has been a constituent of this index for most of this period and
therefore this index is deemed to be the most appropriate comparator.
Executive Directors are also entitled to participate in the UK Inland Revenue approved Sharesave (SAYE) share option scheme
which is available to all UK employees. The scheme is subject to a cumulative maximum investment of £250 per month for each
individual. The share option runs for three, ﬁve or seven years. At the end of the chosen period the shares may be purchased by
the employee at a 20 per cent discount to the share price at the start of the period.
44 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Amersham plc 45
Pensions
Sir William Castell is entitled to a total target pension upon retirement at age 60 of 60% of the average of the last three yea rs’
basic salary. The pension payable by the company will be this target pension, less pension beneﬁts earned in previous
employments. This pension will also include the pension which could be notionally secured by Sir William Castell from past
remuneration supplements.
Approximately two-thirds of the total target pension is being funded, through a combination of approved and unapproved
arrangements. With effect from December 2002, this proportion will be increased over time with the objective that at retirement,
the whole of the target pension will be funded. Details of the accrual of his pension are provided below.
Mr G W Battersby, Mr G F B Kerr and Mr P Loescher accrue pension beneﬁts through a combination of approved deﬁned beneﬁt
arrangements and unapproved deﬁned contribution arrangements. Dr J M Padﬁeld also accrued pension beneﬁts through a
combination of approved deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements and unapproved deﬁned contribution arrangements up to his retirement
on 31 December 2002. Details are shown below of the deﬁned beneﬁt accrual. The contribution to the Funded Unapproved
Retirement Beneﬁts Scheme (‘FURBS’) element is identiﬁed in the column headed ‘pension contributions’ in the table on page 47.
Dr A Carr accrues a deﬁned beneﬁt pension through both UK and US pension arrangements.
In previous years’ accounts, disclosures of the accrual of deﬁned beneﬁts have been made under the requirements of the
Stock Exchange Listing Rules. These Rules are still in place, but it is now also necessary to make disclosure in accordance with
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The information below sets out the disclosures under the two sets
of requirements.
Increase Increase
Increase in accrued Transfer Transfer in transfer
in accrued pension value of value of Director’s value over
Accrued pension during the accrued accrued contribution the year, net
pension at during the year (net of pension at pension at during of director’s
31.12.02 year inﬂation) 31.12.02 31.12.01 the year contribution
Name Age £ pa £ pa £ pa £ £ £ £
W M Castell 55 202,987 44,887 42,199 2,747,681 2,272,171 – 475,510
G W Battersby 56 3,764 1,662 1,626 54,093 31,523 4,838 17,732
A Carr 43 89,233 15,189 14,093 479,131 554,573 – (75,442)
G F B Kerr 43 26,233 5,212 4,855 189,651 186,208 4,838 (1,395)
P Loescher 45 275 275 275 2,081 – 405 1,676
J M Padﬁeld 55 5,377 1,700 1,637 74,857 54,060 4,838 15,959
Notes:
1 The accrued pensions are the amounts which would be paid if the Director left service at the relevant date, but ignoring any vesting periods.
2 The transfer value represents the lump sum capital value of the Director’s pension beneﬁts as at the year end, calculated using assumptions certiﬁed by our actuary in accordance with actuarial guidance
note GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries. These assumptions include a link to current stockmarket levels for younger members and bond markets for older members.
Stockmarkets have fallen during the year and the transfer values for younger Directors have fallen accordingly.
Further information about the Directors’ pension beneﬁts is given below.
Name Normal retirement age Early retirement terms Dependant’s pension Pension increases
RPI up to 7.5% plus
50% of RPI in excess
subject to maximum
of 8.75%
50% of Member’s
Pension
Unreduced from age 60 and
between age 50 and 60 reduced
by 4% each year earlier than 60
(pro-rata for months)
63 J M Padﬁeld
RPI up to 7.5% plus
50% of RPI in excess
subject to maximum
of 8.75%
50% of Member’s
Pension
Unreduced from age 60 and
between age 50 and 60 reduced
by 4% each year earlier than 60
(pro-rata for months)
63 P Loescher
RPI up to 7.5% plus
50% of RPI in excess
subject to maximum
of 8.75%
66% of Member’s
Pension
Unreduced from age 60 and
between age 50 and 60 reduced
by 4% each year earlier than 60
(pro-rata for months)
63 G F B Kerr
RPI up to 7.5% plus
50% of RPI in excess
subject to maximum
of 8.75%
50% of Member’s
Pension
Unreduced from age 60 and
between age 50 and 60 reduced
by 4% each year earlier than 60
(pro-rata for months)
UK: 63 A Carr
Nil Any dependant’s
pension is provided
by reducing the
Director’s own pension
by an actuarially
equivalent amount
Unreduced from age 62 and
between age 55 and 62 reduced
by 4% each year earlier than 62
US: 65 A Carr
RPI up to 7.5% plus
50% of RPI in excess
subject to maximum
of 8.75%
50% of Member’s
Pension
Unreduced from age 60 and
between age 50 and 60 reduced
by 4% each year earlier than 60
(pro-rata for months)
63 G W Battersby
RPI up to 5% 66% of Member’s
Pension
Reduced by 4% for each year
earlier than 60
60 W M Castell Directors’ remuneration report
continued
46 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Service contracts
Each of the Executive Directors is employed on a rolling contract subject to one year’s notice if given by the company and
six months’ notice if given by the Executive Director. This notice period was reduced in 2002 from two years and new
service contracts have been entered into as follows:
Director Employing company Date of contract
W M Castell Amersham plc 1 March 2002
G W Battersby Amersham plc 1 March 2002
A Carr Amersham Biosciences UK Limited 16 December 2002
G F B Kerr Amersham plc 1 March 2002
P Loescher Amersham plc 1 December 2002
The Committee believes that in order to attract Executive Directors of the right calibre and to compete for talent with our
competitors, it is necessary to offer service contracts with notice periods of one year, which explicitly set out the provisions
relating to termination of the contract.
Under the terms of the Executive Directors’ service contracts, on termination of employment by the company, except in the
case of dismissal for cause, the company shall make a payment to the Executive Director equal to 95% of:
a) the Executive’s basic salary for the period of notice,
b) the cost of provision of pension and beneﬁts for the notice period and
c) the bonus applicable for the notice period, based on the actual bonus paid in the previous three years.
Such payment shall be reduced proportionately in the event that the Executive works part of his period of notice. When the
company has given notice of termination, such payment shall be made within three months of the date of notice. Any payment
shall be entirely discretionary when the Executive has given notice of termination. In the event that the employment is
terminated for any other reason, such payment shall be made forthwith. There are no special provisions in the event of a change
of control of the company except for Mr Battersby. In the event of a change of control of the company, which leads to Mr Battersb y
leaving the company within a period of 12 months following such change of control, the pension element of the Agreed Payment
detailed above may be enhanced by up to ﬁve years’ contributions. This enhancement shall reduce progressively to zero by 2008
and was agreed at the time of his recruitment.
On 31 December 2002, Dr J M Padﬁeld retired from the Board in order to facilitate succession planning. He received a payment 
of £841,035 in respect of his contractual entitlements, comprising 95% of the total of his salary (£390,000), bonus (£300,300),
pension beneﬁts (£156,000) and other beneﬁts (£39,000). These ﬁgures are included in the remuneration table and notes on 
page 47.
During the year, Mr P Loescher joined the company from Japan. The costs of his relocation, his housing and his children’s education
are being met by the company in line with the company’s expatriate policy. In addition, he received a signing-on bonus of
euros 500,000 (£316,455). All amounts are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 47. The company has agreed to
compensate Mr Loescher for the loss of the bonus he would have received from his previous company had he not joined Amersham.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to subsequent renewal by agreement. Details 
of when each Director was appointed are shown in the Directors’ biographies on pages 36 to 37. There are no compensation
provisions for early termination of Non-Executive Director appointments. Amersham plc 47
Directors’ detailed emoluments
The remuneration of each Director for the period ended 31 December 2002 is analysed as follows:
Total
remuneration Total Total
for 12 months remuneration remuneration
to 31 Dec 2002 Compensation for 12 months for 12 months
Salary before pension Pension for loss to 31 Dec to 31 Dec
and fees Beneﬁts
1
Bonus contributions contributions of ofﬁce 2002 2001
££££££££
Executive Directors
W M Castell
(Chief Executive) 575,000 88,395 397,200 1,060,595 – – 1,060,595 963,485
G W Battersby 266,250 32,659 182,050 480,959 85,747 – 566,706 589,030
A Carr
2
(appointed 9 May 2002) 261,558 23,275 91,600 376,433 2,349 – 378,782 –
G F B Kerr 302,500 93,717 198,710 594,927 10,056 – 604,983 557,739
P Loescher
3
(appointed 1 December 2002) 353,955 104,855 – 458,810 – – 458,810 –
J M Padﬁeld
4
386,364 46,925 266,370 699,659 129,518 841,035 1,670,212 788,173
Total – Executive 2,145,627 389,826 1,135,930 3,671,383 227,670 841,035 4,740,088 2,898,427
Non-Executive Directors
R D Lapthorne (Chairman) 155,000 – – 155,000 – – 155,000 120,000
J Fr Odfjell 66,353 – – 66,353 – – 66,353 60,000
D H Brydon 41,667 – – 41,667 – – 41,667 30,000
J H Johansen
5
35,833 – – 35,833 – – 35,833 30,000
J Patterson 35,833 – – 35,833 – – 35,833 29,348
K Peters
6
71,483 – – 71,483 – – 71,483 67,500
J F Rejeange 35,833 – – 35,833 – – 35,833 30,000
E Thorsby 35,833 – – 35,833 – – 35,833 30,000
M Uhlén
7
(appointed 9 May 2002) 25,141 – – 25,141 – – 25,141 –
Total – Non-Executive 502,976 – – 502,976 – – 502,976 396,848
Past Directors
M J Crumpton
8
61,500 10,304 – 71,804 – – 71,804 90,823
T V Jacobsen
9
– 77– 77–– 77 136,866
R E Long
10
343,763 15,934 – 359,697 – – 359,697 275,754
T F W McKillop –––––– – 2,500
Total – Past Directors 405,263 26,315 – 431,578 – – 431,578 505,943
Total 3,053,866 416,141 1,135,930 4,605,937 227,670 841,035 5,674,642 3,801,218
1 The ﬁgures shown for beneﬁts include amounts payable in respect of private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, the pr ovision of company cars and fuel and amounts received in cash for
pensions.
2 In addition to the ﬁgures shown in the table above in respect of Dr A Carr, he received $196,153.83 (£130,769.22) in respect of his employment as President of Amersham Biosciences prior to his
appointment to the Board on 9 May 2002 {2001 – $879,229 (£582,271)}.
3 Mr P Loescher received a signing-on bonus of euros 500,000 (£316,455) shown in salaries. This amount is included in the ﬁgures shown in the table above. The ﬁgure for Mr P Loescher’s beneﬁts include
the costs of his relocation from Japan and the costs for his housing and children’s education. In addition, the company has agreed to compensate Mr Loescher for the loss of the bonus he would have
received from his previous company had he not joined Amersham. The precise amount is not yet known but is expected to lie within the range of euros 300,000 to euros 650,000.
4 Dr J M Padﬁeld received £841,035 in respect of his contractual entitlements following his retirement on 31 December 2002. This amount is included in the ﬁgures shown in the table above and explained 
in detail on page 46.
5 In addition to the fees shown in the table above Mr J H Johansen received NOK 511,923 (£45,973) in salary and NOK 18,161 (£1,6 31) in beneﬁts as an employee.
6 Professor Sir Keith Peters received fees of £35,650 in respect of his services on the Science Advisory Board. This amount is included in the ﬁgures shown in the table above.
7 In addition to the ﬁgures shown in the table above in respect of Prof M Uhlén, he received £7,141 in respect of his services as a Non-Executive Director of Amersham Biosciences Limited before his
appointment to the Board on 9 May 2002. In addition 1,200,000 SEK (£86,894) was payable to MU Bioteknik AB, a company of which Prof Uhlén is the sole director and sole shareholder in respect of royalty
payments on patent rights. Payments have been made for the past seven years. They are not regarded as material. The Board accordin gly regards Prof Uhlén as independent for corporate governance purposes.
8 Mr Crumpton received consultancy fees during the year of £45,000 and £16,500 in respect of his services on the Science Advisory Board. In addition, he received £10,304 in beneﬁts.
9 Mr Jacobsen resigned as a Director of the company on 16 June 1999. During the year he received NOK 859 (£77) in beneﬁts.
10 Mr R E Long resigned as a Director of the company on 23 March 2001. During the year, Mr R E Long has provided consultancy services to the company for which he has received £80,592 as fees and
£15,934 in beneﬁts. In addition, £263,171 has been paid in consultancy fees to Scicona Limited, a company of which he is a director. These ﬁgures are disclosed in the above table. Directors’ remuneration report
continued
48 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Directors’ interests
There were no contracts of signiﬁcance subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a Director of the company is or was
materially interested.
Interests in shares
The Directors’ and their families’ beneﬁcial interests in the share capital of the company are shown below:
As at 31 Dec 2001
31 Dec 2002 or at date of appointment
Ordinary 5p shares Ordinary 5p shares
W M Castell 243,570 243,570
G W Battersby 25,000 25,000
D H Brydon 2,585 2,585
A Carr 1,958 1,566
J H Johansen 11,610 11,610
G F B Kerr 10,000 10,000
R D Lapthorne 105,170 105,170
P Loescher – –
J Fr Odfjell 53,150 53,150
J M Padﬁeld 3,564 3,564
J Patterson 2,923 2,923
K Peters 3,111 –
J F Rejeange – –
E Thorsby 17,800 17,800
M Uhlén – –
480,441 476,938
Details of interests in conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are detailed on page 50 of this Report. Eac h
Director is deemed to be interested in all of the shares held by the Amersham ESOP Trust which at 31 December 2002, amounted
to 545,282 Ordinary 5p shares (1 January 2002, 550,287 Ordinary 5p shares). Each Executive Director is deemed to be interested
in all of the shares held by Amersham Trustees Limited (the trustee of a UK Inland Revenue tax approved QUEST) which
amounted to 770,057 Ordinary 5p shares at 31 December 2002 (1 January 2002, 1,607,294 Ordinary 5p shares).
There has been no change since the year end in the interest of Directors in the company’s shares. Amersham plc 49
Interests in share options
The interests of the Directors in Amersham plc share options held under the Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and the
Sharesave Scheme (SAYE) are set out below. These options are exercisable from November 1996 to September 2012 and are
held under the company’s plans referred to in note 25 to the accounts. No options lapsed during the year.
Option interests
1
At 31 Dec 2001
or date of appointment Granted during the year Exercised during the year At 31 Dec 2002
Weighted Weighted Weighted Market Weighted
Number of average Number of average Number average price on Number of average
ordinary 5p subscription ordinary 5p subscription ordinary 5p subscription date of ordinary 5p subscription
shares price shares price shares price exercise shares price
W M Castell ESOS 1993 116,988
a
£4.82 ––––– 116,988 £4.82
186,934
b
£6.23 ––––– 186,934 £6.23
ESOS 2001 –
a
–––––– ––
178,572
b
£5.60 ––––– 178,572 £5.60
– – 139,864
b
£7.15 – – – 139,864 £7.15
SAYE 2,679
a
£3.30 1,001 £4.49 – – – 3,680 £3.62
G W Battersby ESOS 1993 –
a
–––––– ––
128,618
b
£6.22 ––––– 128,618 £6.22
ESOS 2001 –
a
–––––– ––
85,716
b
£5.60 ––––– 85,716 £5.60
– – 67,136
b
£7.15 – – – 67,136 £7.15
SAYE 3,402
a
£4.96 ––––– 3,402 £4.96
A Carr ESOS 1993 83,654
a
£4.43 ––––– 83,654 £4.43
–
b
–––––– ––
ESOS 2001 –
a
–––––– ––
289,948
b
£5.60 ––––– 289,948 £5.60
– – 102,756
b
£7.15 – – – 102,756 £7.15
SAYE 3,045
a
£4.47 ––––– 3,045 £4.47
392
a
£2.46 – – 392 £2.46 £5.52 ––
Options for All 1,000
b
£6.35 ––––– 1,000 £6.35
G F B Kerr ESOS 1993 244,918
a
£4.18 ––––– 244,918 £4.18
37,913
b
£6.23 ––––– 37,913 £6.23
ESOS 2001 –
a
–––––– ––
100,000
b
£5.60 ––––– 100,000 £5.60
– – 78,324
b
£7.15 – – – 78,324 £7.15
SAYE ––––––– ––
P Loescher ESOS 2001 –
a
–––––– ––
– – 309,280
b
£5.82 – – – 309,280 £5.82
J M Padﬁeld ESOS 1993 349,662
a
£4.29 ––––– 349,662 £4.29
57,785
b
£6.23 ––––– 57,785 £6.23
ESOS 2001 –
a
–––––– ––
121,432
b
£5.60 ––––– 121,432 £5.60
– – 95,108
b
£7.15 – – – 95,108 £7.15
SAYE 5,568
a
£3.30 ––––– 5,568 £3.30
1 Options granted under ESOS and ESOS 2001 are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant and options granted under SAYE are exercisable, three, ﬁve or seven years from the date
of grant. These options are subject to the performance conditions explained on page 44.
Options granted where the market share price on 31 December 2002 (£5.56) was above the grant price are marked with a.
Options granted where the market share price on 31 December 2002 (£5.56) is below the grant prices are marked with b.
No other Directors have been granted options over the shares of the company or any other group companies.
Restricted shares
On 4 December 2002, 77,320 restricted shares were awarded to P Loescher on his joining the company. 50% of these shares vest
on 4 December 2004 and the remaining 50% vest on 4 December 2005, subject to his still being an employee of the company.
The share price on the date of the award was £5.69. The shares for the award to P Loescher will be supplied by the Amersham
ESOP Trust. The Remuneration Committee concluded that such awards were necessary to recruit P Loescher and therefore,
the committee made such an award relying on the exemption in chapter 13.13A of the UKLA Listing Rules. In the event that
P Loescher ceases to be employed by the company, his awards will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee determine
otherwise, except in the circumstances of his death, when his personal representatives may exercise his awards. The Remuneration
Committee will not make amendments to the arrangements established for P Loescher that are to his advantage, without seeking
the consent of shareholders. No beneﬁts under the arrangements are pensionable. Directors’ remuneration report
continued
50 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Interests in awards under the LTIP
In previous years, the company has operated a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which was intended to provide a long term
incentive to Executives and to further align their interests with those of the shareholders.
Following the introduction of the new Executive Share Option Scheme in 2001, it is not proposed to make any further awards
under the LTIP. No awards were made under this Plan in 2002.
The following grants of awards of ordinary shares each have been made to Executive Directors under the LTIP:
Number of
Market awards
Market value on vesting Market value
Number of Date value on Date vesting during the Date on exercise
awards
1
granted date of grant vested
2,3
date year
4
exercised date
W M Castell 27,041 17-Jun-99 £4.8075 17-Jun-02 £5.80 24,336 N/A N/A
29,878 31-Mar-00 £5.1544 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
G W Battersby Nil N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
A Carr 8,381 31-Mar-00 £5.1544 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
G F B Kerr 15,939 22-Apr-98 £4.2656 22-Apr-01 £4.77 Nil N/A N/A
15,809 17-Jun-99 £4.8075 17-Jun-02 £5.80 14,228 N/A N/A
17,461 31-Mar-00 £5.1544 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
P Loescher Nil N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
J M Padﬁeld 23,281 31-Mar-00 £5.1544 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Under the LTIP, awards of ordinary shares have been made to participants in the LTIP by the trustees of the Amersham plc ESOP Tr ust, a trust established by the company and operated by an independent
ﬁrm of trustees.
1 No awards were made in 2002.
2 Awards vest three years from the date of grant, subject to performance conditions. The receipt of shares by the participants dep ends upon the performance of the company over a three year period,
which is measured by the growth in the total shareholder return of the company relative to the FTSE 100 index of companies.
3 Awards will only vest if the company’s Total Shareholder Return would place it in at least 60th position amongst the FTSE 100 companies ranked by Total Shareholder Return and the maximum number
of shares will vest only if the performance would rank it at 20th place or better.
4 The awards made in 1999 vested as to 90% in 2002 as the company was ranked 25th out of the 100 companies in its comparator gro up.
The company’s register of Directors’ interests, which is open for inspection, contains full details of Directors’ share interests,
options to subscribe for shares and awards of restricted shares.
London share prices
The market price of the company’s ordinary 5p shares at the end of the ﬁnancial period was 556p. The range of market prices
during the year was as follows:
1 Jan 2002 to 31 Dec 2002
Low High
Ordinary 5p shares 455.5p 768.5p
The following sections of the Directors’ remuneration report are auditable:
Pensions
Directors’ detailed emoluments
Directors’ interests
Interests in share options
Restricted shares
Interests in awards under the long term incentive plan
On behalf of the Board
R D Lapthorne
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
26 February 2003 Group proﬁt and loss account
Amersham plc 51
12 months to 31 Dec 2002 12 months to 31 Dec 2001
Restated
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sales including share of joint venture 1,2 1,618.2 – 1,618.2 1,602.5 – 1,602.5
Less share of joint venture sales (80.5) – (80.5) (87.3) – (87.3)
Group turnover 1,537.7 – 1,537.7 1,515.2 – 1,515.2
Group operating proﬁt before exceptional 
items and goodwill amortisation 286.6 – 286.6 266.4 – 266.4
Exceptional items 3 –– .– – (8.7) (8.7)
Goodwill amortisation 11 (36.6) – (36.6) (11.7) – (11.7)
Group operating proﬁt 4 250.0 – 250.0 254.7 (8.7) 246.0
Share of operating proﬁt of joint venture
and associates 23.2 – 23.2 26.1 – 26.1
Total operating proﬁt 1,2,4 273.2 – 273.2 280.8 (8.7) 272.1
Proﬁt on sale of ﬁxed asset investment 3 –– .– – 55.3 55.3
Amounts written off investments (2.4) – (2.4) (4.4) – (4.4)
Net interest payable 7 (7.1) – (7.1) (8.7) – (8.7)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 263.7 – 263.7 267.7 46.6 314.3
T ax on proﬁt on ordinary activities 3,8 (94.3) 9.2 (85.1) (97.0) 0.5 (96.5)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities after taxation 169.4 9.2 178.6 170.7 47.1 217.8
Loss/(proﬁt) attributable to equity minority interests 0.7 – 0.7 (6.2) 2.0 (4.2)
Proﬁt attributable to non-equity minority interests (0.6) – (0.6) (2.9) – (2.9)
Loss/(proﬁt) attributable to minority interests 0.1 – 0.1 (9.1) 2.0 (7.1)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable 
to shareholders 169.5 9.2 178.7 161.6 49.1 210.7
Dividends paid and proposed 9 (57.3) – (57.3) (45.2) – (45.2)
Retained proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 112.2 9.2 121.4 116.4 49.1 165.5
Earnings per ordinary share 10
– basic 26.1p 33.2p
– before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 29.9p 26.6p
– average number of shares 684.7m 634.4m
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
– after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 25.9p 33.0p
Dividends per ordinary share 9 7.80p 7.10p
Share of operating proﬁt of joint venture and associates includes income from the group’s joint venture interest in Nihon 
Medi-Physics (NMP) of £23.2m (2001 – £26.1m).
Figures for the 12 months to 31 December 2001 have been restated following the introduction of FRS19 as explained in note 36.
All results are derived from continuing operations. Statement of total recognised gains and losses
52 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
Notes £m £m
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable to shareholders 178.7 210.7
T ax (charge)/credit on foreign currency hedge loan 26 (5.4) 0.3
Foreign currency translation of net investment in subsidiaries 53.4 (4.0)
Foreign currency translation of net investment in joint venture (0.2) (0.2)
Total recognised gains for the year 226.5 206.8
Prior year adjustment 36 4.4
Total gains recognised since last Annual Report 230.9
Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
Notes £m £m
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable to shareholders 178.7 210.7
Dividends 9 (57.3) (45.2)
Retained earnings 121.4 165.5
Foreign currency translation 26 47.8 (3.9)
New share capital and premium (net of issue costs of £5.5m) 25,26 407.7 25.2
(Loss)/gain relating to Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) 26 (1.2) 1.6
Contribution to Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) – (9.0)
Net increase in equity shareholders’ funds 575.7 179.4
Equity shareholders’ funds at the start of the year as previously reported 591.9 408.4
Prior year adjustment 36 4.4 8.5
Restated 596.3 416.9
Equity shareholders’ funds at the end of the year 1,172.0 596.3 Group and parent company balance sheets
Amersham plc 53
Group Group Company Company
At 31 Dec At 31 Dec At 31 Dec At 31 Dec
2002 2001 2002 2001
Restated
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 11 751.2 152.7 0.6 0.8
T angible assets 12 640.8 533.1 176.7 138.1
Investments:
Investment in joint venture: – Share of gross assets 105.2 93.7 –
– Share of gross liabilities (32.2) (26.6) – –
– Share of net assets 13 73.0 67.1 – –
Investments in associates and other investments 13 26.4 35.0 – –
13 99.4 102.1 884.4 208.0
1,491.4 787.9 1,061.7 346.9
Current assets
Stocks 14 208.0 180.6 17.8 17.4
Debtors – amounts due within one year 15 349.2 360.8 553.0 576.4
Debtors – amounts due after one year 16 61.3 55.4 212.6 11.6
Short term deposits and investments 17 22.1 99.4 21.6 95.4
Cash at bank and in hand 32 32.7 56.9 8.9 8.8
673.3 753.1 813.9 709.6
Creditors – amounts due within one year
Loans 18 (44.6) (30.8) (884.7) (550.7)
Other creditors 18 (482.2) (452.5) (134.2) (126.1)
(526.8) (483.3) (1,018.9) (676.8)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 146.5 269.8 (205.0) 32.8
Total assets less current liabilities 1,637.9 1,057.7 856.7 379.7
Creditors – amounts due after one year
Loans 19 (192.5) (148.0) (181.5) (133.1)
Other creditors 19 (11.5) (6.4) (3.7) (6.7)
(204.0) (154.4) (185.2) (139.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (253.5) (240.8) (73.4) (67.2)
Accruals and deferred income (3.5) (3.6) (2.8) (3.0)
Total net assets 1,176.9 658.9 595.3 169.7
Equity capital and reserves
Share capital 25 35.1 32.1 35.1 32.1
Share premium account 26 469.0 64.3 469.0 64.3
Other reserves 26 94.0 94.0 17.1 13.5
Proﬁt and loss account 26 573.9 405.9 74.1 59.8
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,172.0 596.3 595.3 169.7
Minority interests
– Equity 4.9 20.0 – –
– Non-equity 20 – 42.6 – –
4.9 62.6 – –
1,176.9 658.9 – –
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2003.
Sir William Castell G F B Kerr
Chief Executive Finance Director Group cash ﬂow statement
54 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Notes £m £m
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities before exceptional items 31 345.5 342.3
Exceptional items – 12.0
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 31 345.5 354.3
Dividend received from joint venture 5.4 4.8
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance
Interest paid (9.2) (19.7)
Interest received 4.9 10.3
Dividends paid by subsidiary undertakings to minority interests (1.7) (1.7)
(6.0) (11.1)
T axation (57.2) (47.6)
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment
Purchase of tangible ﬁxed assets (143.4) (91.6)
Purchase of intangible ﬁxed assets (4.8) (10.2)
Sales of tangible ﬁxed assets 1.3 22.1
Purchase of trade investments (3.4) (4.9)
Cash received on disposal of investment in Nycomed Pharma – 123.0
Costs associated with disposal of investment in Nycomed Pharma (3.5) (4.9)
Sale of trade investments 1.4 –
(152.4) 33.5
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of 45% minority in Amersham Biosciences 24 (704.1) –
Costs associated with the purchase of 45% minority in Amersham Biosciences 24 (4.5) –
Other acquisitions (40.6) (4.9)
Other disposals – 1.0
(749.2) (3.9)
Equity dividends paid (51.6) (41.7)
Net cash ﬂow before management of liquid resources and ﬁnancing (665.5) 288.3
Management of liquid resources* 32,33 74.5 (91.4)
Financing
Issue of share capital 25 413.2 16.2
Costs associated with issue of share capital (5.5) –
Loans and ﬁnance leases 32,33 161.9 (205.3)
Repayment of long term loan 32,33 (13.6) –
Capital contribution by minority interest in Amersham Biosciences 8.7 –
564.7 (189.1)
Cash ﬂow in the year 32,33 (26.3) 7.8
Analysis of free cash ﬂow before exceptional items
Free cash ﬂow from:
Operating activities before exceptional items 31 345.5 342.3
Dividend received from joint venture 5.4 4.8
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance (6.0) (11.1)
T axation (57.2) (47.6)
Free cash ﬂow after taxation and returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance 287.7 288.4
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment prior to the disposal of Nycomed Pharma (148.9) (84.6)
Free cash ﬂow before equity dividends 138.8 203.8
Free cash ﬂow after equity dividends 87.2 162.1
*Liquid resources are deﬁned as short term deposits with banks and current asset investments in bonds and equities. These total £22.1m (2001 – £96.5m) and are shown in the balance sheet within the total
of short term deposits and investments. Accounting policies
Amersham plc 55
Basis of preparation
The group’s main accounting policies are set out below. The ﬁnancial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical
cost convention, except for the company’s investments (see below), and all applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
As the group proﬁt and loss account is already at historical cost no separate note of historical cost proﬁt and loss is included
as allowed by Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 3. No proﬁt and loss account is presented for the company as permitted
by S230(2) of the Companies Act 1985.
New accounting standards
The following new accounting standard issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board, has been adopted this year:
Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 19 Deferred T axation
The change to existing accounting policies arising from the adoption of FRS 19 is described in note 36.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated group proﬁt and loss account and balance sheet include the ﬁnancial statements of the company and its
subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December 2002. The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the
consolidated proﬁt and loss account up to, or from, the date control passes. Intra-group sales and proﬁts are eliminated fully
on consolidation.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiary’s assets and liabilities that exist at the date of acquisition are recorded at their
fair values reﬂecting their condition at that date. All changes to those assets and liabilities, and the resulting gains and loss es, that
arise after the group has gained control of the subsidiary are dealt with in the post acquisition proﬁt and loss account.
Foreign currencies
The results of the overseas subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings are translated at the average exchange rates o f
the period during which they arise. Overseas subsidiary undertakings’ assets and liabilities and the net investments in joint ven ture
and associated undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates. Differences arising on translation, together with
differences on foreign currency loans of the group which match investments, are dealt with through reserves.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The group enters into derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to ﬂuctuations in interest rates and foreign currenc y
exchange rates. Interest differentials under interest rate swap instruments and forward rate agreements (FRAs) are recognised on
an accruals basis.
It is the group’s policy, where appropriate, to protect the sterling value of its estimated future foreign currency net receivabl es
through the use of forward contracts or currency options. Net revenues and related net receivables covered by forward exchange
contracts or options are translated into sterling at contract rates. No account is taken of proﬁts or losses on forward exchange
contracts or options which are intended as a hedge against future transactions; such proﬁts and losses are accounted for so as
to match the exchange differences arising on the underlying currency transactions.
Research and development expenditure
Research and development expenditure is written off as it is incurred.
Fixed assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment, where appropriate. Cost includes appropriate labour
and directly attributable costs. Finance costs on borrowings used to ﬁnance the construction of tangible ﬁxed assets are written
off to the proﬁt and loss account as incurred.
Directly acquired intangible assets, comprising patents, patent applications, trademarks and know-how, are stated at cost less
amortisation. Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired in a business combination, which are not separable and measurable
are not capitalised.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the ident iﬁable
net assets acquired. Goodwill and negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, joint venture and
associated undertakings prior to 31 December 1997 was written off immediately against reserves. Goodwill arising on acquisitions
after 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life where the goodwill is regarded as hav ing
a limited useful economic life. In accordance with the requirement of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 10, capitalised goodwill
is reviewed for evidence of impairment at the end of the ﬁrst full ﬁnancial year following the initial date of recognition. Accounting policies
continued
56 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Depreciation and amortisation are calculated as follows:
Intangible assets Amortised on straight-line basis at rates from 5% to 36% p.a.
Goodwill Amortised on a straight-line basis at rates currently from 5% to 14% p.a.
T angible assets Depreciation is calculated by the straight-line method at the following annual rates:
Land Nil
Buildings 2.5%
Plant and machinery, ﬁxtures, ﬁttings, At varying rates calculated to write off the assets over their expected useful lives.
tools and equipment A substantial part of the group’s plant represents production support facilities 
depreciated at the same rate, 2.5% p.a., as the buildings in which they are contained.
Most of the other assets are depreciated at rates currently from 9% to 12% p.a.
Assets under construction Nil
Investments
(a) Trade investments
Trade investments are valued at cost, less any provision for impairment, restated to year end exchange rates if the underlying
investment is denominated in foreign currency.
(b) Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings
A joint venture is an undertaking which the group controls jointly with one or more other venturers.
An associated undertaking is one in which the group has a long term participating interest and over which it exercises
signiﬁcant inﬂuence.
The group’s share of the proﬁts less losses of joint venture and associated undertakings is included in the consolidated proﬁt
and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
(c) Company investments
Investments in subsidiary and other undertakings are held at original cost less any provision for impairment, except where they
are foreign currency investments hedged in whole or part by related foreign currency borrowings or other hedging instruments.
Hedged investments are held at cost less provision for impairment but are retranslated for foreign exchange movements to the
extent that they are hedged. Where the amount of foreign currency hedge is in excess of cost, the investment is stated at the
underlying foreign currency net asset value.
Turnover
Turnover consists of royalties and sales of goods and services at invoiced values net of discounts, returns and value added tax.
Revenue generated under Technology Transfer agreements is recognised evenly over the life of the agreement. Sales between
group companies are excluded.
Revenues are recognised once the realisation of the consideration is reasonably assured and the provision of goods or services is
substantially complete with respect to the delivery of the speciﬁc product or performance of the related service. This will norm ally
be the case when there are no material uncertainties or performance duties outstanding which could prevent the group from
enforcing the sales transaction, and collectability is reasonably assured.
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a ﬁrst in, ﬁrst out basis and includes all
direct expenditure and, in the case of manufactured items, production overheads based on the normal level of business activity.
Net realisable value is the price at which the stocks can be realised in the normal course of business after allowing for the c osts
of realisation and, where appropriate, the costs of conversion. Provision is made for obsolescent and slow moving stocks and for
radioactive decay. Amersham plc 57
Efﬂuent costs
The costs associated with radioactive waste arising from operations for which an authorised disposal route is available, princip ally
low level and very low level waste, are written off in the year in which they are incurred. Provision is also made as incurred fo r the
eventual disposal costs of the group’s intermediate level waste which arises from its operations. These provisions are based on the
latest technical assessment of the process and methods likely to be used to dispose of this waste and on industry estimates of
the likely costs of the necessary disposal facilities under the relevant Government’s preferred disposal route. They are stated in the
balance sheet at current price levels, with the restatement of provisions made in prior years to reﬂect current price levels inc luded
as a charge in the proﬁt and loss account for the year.
Radioactive decommissioning costs
The group recognises in full a provision, (discounted), for the cost of radioactive decommissioning when the relevant ﬁxed asset
becomes operational and an equivalent asset is also recognised. The cost of radioactive decommissioning is determined on a
going concern basis assuming that the manufacture or handling of radioactive products continues at the relevant site or facilit y
on which the asset is operated for the foreseeable future. In the unlikely event that the company is required to totally disconti nue
activities at one of its nuclear operating sites the full costs of exiting and decommissioning would be higher. The relevant
decommissioning asset is capitalised in the balance sheet in association with the ﬁxed asset to which it relates and is amortised
over the life of the asset. The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision is charged in the proﬁt and loss
account as part of the interest charge.
Government grants
Investment grants have been treated as deferred income and are released to the proﬁt and loss account at the same rate as the
depreciation charge on the assets to which they relate. Revenue grants are matched with the related expenditure.
T axation
T axation charged against proﬁts is calculated at the appropriate local rate of tax for each group company. Except for timing
differences relating to revaluations, rolled over taxable gains and unremitted income, provision is made for all timing differenc es
that would give rise to a deferred tax liability. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely than n ot they
will be recoverable.
Pensions
The group operates deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution pension schemes under arrangements which have been separately
established by the relevant group company. In respect of the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, actuarial valuations are made regularly and
the contributions payable are adjusted as appropriate. Pension costs are accounted for on the basis of charging the expected cost
of providing pensions over the period during which the group beneﬁts from the employees’ services. The effects of variations from
regular cost are spread over the expected remaining service lives of members of the scheme. In respect of deﬁned contribution
pension schemes, costs are charged as incurred.
Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged over the lease term on a straight-line basis or on the basis of actual renta ls
payable where this fairly reﬂects usage. Rentals receivable are treated as income in the periods to which they relate.
Where assets are ﬁnanced by leasing arrangements that give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if
they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under
ﬁnance leases. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
58 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
1 Segmental analysis by business sector
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Sales
Amersham Health 947.7 922.0
Amersham Biosciences 670.5 680.5
1,618.2 1,602.5
Included within Amersham Health is the group’s share of Nihon Medi-Physics (NMP) joint venture sales during the year of
£80.5m (2001 – £87.3m).
Total operating proﬁt before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
Amersham Health 255.6 240.9
Amersham Biosciences 75.3 72.4
Corporate and other (21.1) (20.8)
309.8 292.5
The following table shows operating proﬁt after allocation of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation. The exceptional
items charged in 2002 relate £nil (2001 – £8.5m) to Amersham Health, £nil (2001 – £2.6m) to Amersham Biosciences and £nil
(2001 – £2.4m income) to Corporate and other. Amortisation charged on goodwill in 2002 relates £0.9m (2001 – £1.4m)
to Amersham Health, and £35.7m (2001 – £10.3m) to Amersham Biosciences.
Total operating proﬁt after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
Amersham Health 254.7 231.0
Amersham Biosciences 39.6 59.5
Corporate and other (21.1) (18.4)
273.2 272.1
Included within Amersham Health is the group’s share of the NMP joint venture proﬁt before interest and tax for the year of
£23.2m (2001 – £26.1m).
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
£m £m
Net assets
Amersham Health 559.9 451.5
Amersham Biosciences 1,032.6 413.2
Corporate and other (33.7) (20.2)
Net operating assets 1,558.8 844.5
Unallocated net liabilities
Current and deferred taxation (163.6) (129.9)
Dividends payable (36.0) (30.3)
Net debt (182.3) (25.4)
1,176.9 658.9
The net assets of Amersham Biosciences include goodwill at a net book value of £630.6m at 31 December 2002 arising from
the purchase of the 45% minority interest in Amersham Biosciences.
Included within the net operating assets of Amersham Health is the group’s share of the NMP joint venture assets of £73.0m,
(2001 – £67.1m). Amersham plc 59
2 Segmental analysis by geographical sector
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
By origin £m £m
Sales
Europe 903.9 722.1
North America 871.8 853.7
Japan 187.8 202.1
Asia Paciﬁc 84.0 77.5
Rest of the world 5.2 6.7
2,052.7 1,862.1
Less inter-segment sales (434.5) (259.6)
1,618.2 1,602.5
Included within Japan is the group’s share of NMP joint venture sales of £80.5m (2001 – £87.3m).
Total operating proﬁt before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
Europe 219.3 193.0
North America 80.3 89.7
Japan 31.9 30.4
Asia Paciﬁc (0.9) (0.3)
Rest of the world 0.3 0.5
Corporate and other (21.1) (20.8)
309.8 292.5
The following table shows operating proﬁt after allocation of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation. The exceptional items
charged in 2002 relate £nil (2001 – £1.1m) to North America, £nil (2001 – £10.0m) to Europe and £nil (2001 – £2.4m income)
to Corporate and other.
Total operating proﬁt after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
Europe 210.4 182.7
North America 57.6 77.2
Japan 26.9 30.4
Asia Paciﬁc (0.9) (0.3)
Rest of the world 0.3 0.5
Corporate and other (21.1) (18.4)
273.2 272.1
Included within Japan is the group’s share of NMP joint venture proﬁt before interest and tax for the year of £23.2m (2001 – £2 6.1m).
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
£m £m
Net assets
Europe 709.3 383.1
North America 603.0 322.4
Japan 228.9 107.8
Asia Paciﬁc 49.5 49.8
Rest of the world 1.8 1.6
Corporate and other (33.7) (20.2)
Net operating assets 1,558.8 844.5
Unallocated net liabilities
Current and deferred taxation (163.6) (129.9)
Dividends payable (36.0) (30.3)
Net debt (182.3) (25.4)
1,176.9 658.9
The net assets include goodwill at a net book value of £630.6m at 31 December 2002 arising from the purchase of the 45%
minority interest in Amersham Biosciences. The goodwill is allocated to Europe (£207.1m), North America (£304.1m) and Japan
(£119.4m), based on expected revenues arising in those territories.
Included within the net operating assets of Japan is the group’s share of the NMP joint venture assets of £73.0m, (2001 – £67.1m ). Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
60 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
2 Segmental analysis by geographical sector continued
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
By destination £m £m
Sales
Europe 427.8 392.0
North America 798.5 767.7
Japan 264.1 290.7
Asia Paciﬁc 80.6 80.4
Rest of the world 47.2 71.7
1,618.2 1,602.5
Included within Japan is the group’s share of NMP joint venture sales during the year of £80.5m (2001 – £87.3m).
3 Exceptional items 
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Cost of the proposed ﬂotation of Amersham Biosciences – (3.4)
Transfer of pension assets – 9.0
Costs of exiting the disease proﬁling project – (5.8)
Costs of exiting Harwell site – (8.5)
Charged to operating proﬁt – (8.7)
Proﬁt on disposal of 29% of Nycomed Pharma – 55.3
Proﬁt on sale of ﬁxed asset investment – 55.3
T ax credit relating to group reorganisation 9.2 –
Total exceptional items 9.2 46.6
T ax credit related to exceptional items – 0.5
As a result of the formation of a consolidated tax group in the US on 31 July 2002, the group has recognised a deferred taxation
asset of £9.2m primarily related to the future utilisation of tax losses arising from prior periods.
During 2001, costs of £3.4m were incurred in relation to the proposed partial ﬂotation of Amersham Biosciences. The costs
related primarily to adviser fees and other similar costs in preparing the prospectus for ﬂotation and in relocating the business 
to the US.
During 2001, the company received £22.5m related to a transfer of assets from former pension plans. Of this amount, £13.5m
was applied against ongoing liabilities primarily for employees who have transferred into Amersham pension schemes and the
balance of £9.0m was recognised as exceptional income, where the company has no further liability.
Cash costs of £4.1m and non-cash write offs of £1.7m were incurred in the second half of 2001 in concluding research on, and
winding up the operation of an early stage investment in, disease proﬁling. An investment of £4.0m was made in the research
project in the ﬁrst half of 2001, which has been charged to operating activities.
In 2001, costs of £8.5m were accrued in relation to the decision to terminate the group’s lease at the Harwell site following
a complete cessation of the group’s activities at this location. The costs relate primarily to asset write offs and
decommissioning costs.
During 2001, the group sold its 29% interest in Nycomed Pharma. The group recorded a proﬁt on the transaction of £55.3m
after charging costs associated with the disposal.
In 2001, the minority impact was £2.0m relating to exceptional items charged to operating proﬁt. In 2002, no exceptional
items have been charged to operating proﬁt. Amersham plc 61
4 Total operating proﬁt
12 months to 31 Dec 2002 12 months to 31 Dec 2001
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Group turnover 1,537.7 – 1,537.7 1,515.2 – 1,515.2
Cost of sales (481.0) – (481.0) (500.1) 0.5 (499.6)
Gross proﬁt 1,056.7 – 1,056.7 1,015.1 0.5 1,015.6
Distribution and selling costs (419.7) – (419.7) (401.8) – (401.8)
Administrative expenses (387.0) – (387.0) (358.6) (9.2) (367.8)
Group operating proﬁt 250.0 – 250.0 254.7 (8.7) 246.0
Share of operating proﬁts of joint venture and associates 23.2 – 23.2 26.1 – 26.1
Total operating proﬁt 273.2 – 273.2 280.8 (8.7) 272.1
Research and development costs included in administrative expenses relate to Amersham Health £95.1m (2001 – £83.0m),
Amersham Biosciences £88.0m (2001 – £86.4m), and Corporate and other £1.1m (2001 – £4.4m). Total research and development
costs amounted to £184.2m (2001 – £173.8m).
Goodwill amortisation charged to administrative expenses in 2002 is £36.6m (2001 – £11.7m).
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Total operating proﬁt is arrived at after charging:
Remuneration of the group’s auditors
– Audit fees (company – £0.1m; 2001 – £0.1m) 1.6 1.3
– Other services to the group – in the UK 0.1 0.2
– in the rest of the world (primarily related to taxation) 0.4 0.2
Operating lease rentals
– Hire of plant and machinery 14.5 13.9
– Hire of land and buildings and other ﬁxed assets 15.1 14.3
Amortisation of government grants (0.2) (0.2)
Depreciation of tangible ﬁxed assets
– Owned 72.0 61.1
– Held under ﬁnance leases 0.3 0.4
Amortisation of intangible ﬁxed assets
– Goodwill 36.6 11.7
– Other intangibles 7.7 6.8
Loss on disposal of tangible ﬁxed assets 1.5 0.3
5 Directors’ emoluments
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Basic salary 2.2 1.4
Fees 0.5 0.4
Beneﬁts 0.4 0.3
Annual bonuses 1.2 1.1
Payments of pension contributions 0.2 0.2
Compensation for loss of ofﬁce 0.8 –
Payments to past Directors 0.4 0.4
5.7 3.8
Gains made on exercise of share options and long term incentive shares – 1.4
5.7 5.2
Detailed disclosures of Directors’ individual remuneration, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentives are given
in the Remuneration report on pages 43 to 50. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
62 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
6 Employee information
The weighted average number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the group during the year is analysed 
by type of work below.
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Number Number
Production and development 4,962 4,587
Distribution and selling 3,262 3,140
Administration 1,827 1,792
10,051 9,519
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Staff costs
Aggregate gross wages and salaries 376.2 337.3
Employer’s National Insurance contributions or foreign equivalents 72.5 55.3
Employer’s pension costs under group pension schemes 27.1 20.9
Total direct costs of employment 475.8 413.5
7 Net interest payable
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Interest payable and similar charges
On bank loans and overdrafts (1.9) (3.5)
On other loans (6.9) (13.3)
Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provision (2.8) (2.1)
(11.6) (18.9)
Interest receivable and similar income
Interest on short term deposits and interest bearing investments 4.5 10.2
Net interest payable (7.1) (8.7)
Included within interest payable and similar charges, relating to the unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision,
is £0.6m (2001 – £0.6m) attributable to the group’s joint venture in NMP.
8 T ax on proﬁt on ordinary activities
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
Note £m £m
UK corporation tax at 30% (2001 – 30%)
Current 4.0 23.0
Double tax relief (8.2) (15.4)
(4.2) 7.6
Overseas taxation 83.9 69.3
Over-provision in respect of prior years (18.6) (0.6)
Share of joint venture and associates 10.1 11.7
Total current tax 71.2 88.0
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences 7.1 13.8
Prior year deferred tax movement 16.0 (4.8)
Total deferred tax 23.1 9.0
T ax before exceptional items 94.3 97.0
Exceptional items 3 (9.2) (0.5)
85.1 96.5
The group’s tax charge has beneﬁted from a net over-provision in respect of prior years of £2.6m (net movement between current
and deferred tax). This is principally as a result of the favourable settlement of earlier years’ taxation issues. Furthermore, as a
result of the purchase of the 45% minority interest in Amersham Biosciences in the year and the subsequent formation of a US
consolidated tax group, it has been possible to recognise certain tax losses in the US. The deferred tax beneﬁt arising has been
treated as an exceptional item. Amersham plc 63
8 T ax on proﬁt on ordinary activities continued
The current tax charge for the period is lower (2001 – higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30%.
The differences are explained below:
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
£m £m
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax before exceptional items 263.7 267.7
Proﬁt on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2001: 30%) 79.1 80.3
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of prior period (18.6) (0.6)
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 7.4 4.6
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes:
Non tax deductible goodwill 11.7 5.1
Other 1.7 0.8
Timing differences:
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (8.0) (0.8)
T ax deductible goodwill (3.8) (3.8)
Unrealised stock proﬁt 4.8 (0.1)
Research and development credits (3.9) (3.9)
Unutilised tax losses 0.8 6.4
71.2 88.0
Exceptional items – (0.5)
71.2 87.5
9 Dividends paid and proposed
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Paid – interim dividend of 2.65p per share (2001 – 2.35p per share) 21.3 14.9
Proposed – ﬁnal dividend of 5.15p per share (2001 – 4.75p per share) 36.0 30.3
57.3 45.2
Dividends paid of £21.3m contains £2.9m relating to the ﬁnal 2001 dividend paid to holders of the 57.5m new ordinary shares
which were issued by means of a placing on 18 March 2002.
A ﬁnal dividend of 5.15p per share is proposed, bringing the total dividend for the year to 7.80p.
10 Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted
average number of ordinary shares in issue in the year, excluding those held by employee share trusts. For diluted earnings per
ordinary share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive
ordinary shares. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
64 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
10 Earnings per ordinary share continued
The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on the following attributable proﬁt and weighted average number of shar es.
12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
£m p £m p
Attributable proﬁt
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders – basic 178.7 26.1 210.7 33.2
Add back the following items
Exceptional items –– (46.6) (7.3)
Goodwill amortisation 36.6 5.3 11.7 1.9
Adjust for related amounts of
T axation (9.2) (1.3) (0.5) (0.1)
Minority interest (1.3) (0.2) (6.7) (1.1)
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 204.8 29.9 168.6 26.6
Average number of ordinary shares
Basic 684.7m 634.4m
Dilution effect of outstanding share options 4.0m 4.3m
Diluted 688.7m 638.7m
Earnings per ordinary share
– basic 26.1p 33.2p
– before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 29.9p 26.6p
– diluted (after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation) 25.9p 33.0p
Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation is presented in order to show the impact on
earnings of non-recurring items and goodwill.
11 Intangible ﬁxed assets
Group Company
Other Other
Goodwill intangibles Total intangibles
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2002 146.9 73.0 219.9 1.8
Foreign currency translation (54.6) 11.5 (43.1) –
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 3.9 3.9 –
Goodwill subsumed on purchase of 45% minority in Amersham Biosciences (79.3) – (79.3) –
Additions 744.5 6.4 750.9 –
Disposals – (6.3) (6.3) –
At 31 December 2002 757.5 88.5 846.0 1.8
Amortisation
At 1 January 2002 35.3 31.9 67.2 1.0
Foreign currency translation (3.2) 6.4 3.2 –
Amortisation subsumed on purchase of 45% minority in Amersham Biosciences (15.4) – (15.4) –
Disposals – (4.5) (4.5) –
Charge for the year 36.6 7.7 44.3 0.2
At 31 December 2002 53.3 41.5 94.8 1.2
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 704.2 47.0 751.2 0.6
At 31 December 2001 111.6 41.1 152.7 0.8
Additions to goodwill during the year amounted to £744.5m; £692.3m arose on the purchase of the 45% minority interest in
Amersham Biosciences, (including 45% of Amersham Biosciences’ goodwill of £63.9m), and £52.2m arose on other acquisitions,
(see note 24).
Additions to other intangibles of £6.4m during the year comprise a number of license agreements entered into by the group. Amersham plc 65
12 T angible ﬁxed assets
Fixtures,
Land and Plant and ﬁttings, tools Assets under
buildings machinery & equipment construction Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2002 259.8 251.3 150.1 57.1 718.3
Foreign currency translation 9.7 14.3 0.7 3.2 27.9
Adjustments relating to fair value 10.2 3.2 – – 13.4
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 3.4 2.8 – 6.2
Transfers 12.1 18.2 2.2 (32.5) –
Transfers to current assets – – (2.4) – (2.4)
Additions 12.7 17.2 28.1 93.3 151.3
Disposals (1.2) (13.7) (13.3) – (28.2)
At 31 December 2002 303.3 293.9 168.2 121.1 886.5
Depreciation
At 1 January 2002 53.9 86.3 45.0 – 185.2
Foreign currency translation 3.9 8.2 1.9 – 14.0
Transfers – 0.7 (0.7) – –
Transfers to current assets – – (1.5) – (1.5)
Disposals (1.7) (10.9) (11.7) – (24.3)
Charge for the year 12.4 27.2 32.7 – 72.3
At 31 December 2002 68.5 111.5 65.7 – 245.7
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 234.8 182.4 102.5 121.1 640.8
At 31 December 2001 205.9 165.0 105.1 57.1 533.1
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2002 71.6 101.9 27.2 31.1 231.8
Transfers 11.4 6.0 2.5 (19.9) –
Additions 0.6 5.4 3.1 47.7 56.8
Disposals (0.4) (4.5) (2.4) – (7.3)
At 31 December 2002 83.2 108.8 30.4 58.9 281.3
Depreciation
At 1 January 2002 28.4 51.1 14.2 – 93.7
Disposals – (3.9) (2.4) – (6.3)
Charge for the year 3.4 10.0 3.8 – 17.2
At 31 December 2002 31.8 57.2 15.6 – 104.6
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 51.4 51.6 14.8 58.9 176.7
At 31 December 2001 43.2 50.8 13.0 31.1 138.1
The net book value of the group’s freehold land and buildings is £232.6m (2001 – £203.6m). Included in the cost of land and
buildings is £3.2m (2001 – £3.0m), plant and machinery £nil (2001 – £nil), and ﬁxtures, ﬁttings, tools and equipment £0.8m
(2001 – £0.8m), in respect of assets held under ﬁnance leases for the group, and £nil (2001 – £nil) for the company. Depreciation
on assets held under ﬁnance leases during the year amounted to £0.3m (2001 – £0.4m). Included in the net book value of land
and buildings is £2.2m (2001 – £2.3m), plant and machinery £nil, (2001 – £nil) and ﬁxtures, ﬁttings, tools and equipment £0.3m
(2001 – £0.5m), in respect of assets held under ﬁnance leases for the group, and £nil (2001 – £nil) for the company.
The £0.9m transferred to current assets relates to demonstration equipment reclassiﬁed to within ﬁnished goods stock. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
66 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
13 Fixed asset investments
Investment
in own Joint Trade
shares venture Associates investments Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2002 21.3 67.1 3.7 19.4 111.5
Foreign currency translation (0.9) (0.6) – (0.9) (2.4)
Transfer to subsidiary – – – (2.6) (2.6)
Fair value adjustments relating to the purchase of Amersham Biosciences – – – (1.2) (1.2)
Additions 1.8 – – 3.4 5.2
Disposals – – – (5.3) (5.3)
Transfer to employees (3.9) – – – (3.9)
Share of retained proﬁt – 6.5 – – 6.5
At 31 December 2002 18.3 73.0 3.7 12.8 107.8
Provision
At 1 January 2002 1.5 – 2.7 5.2 9.4
Foreign currency translation – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Charge to proﬁt and loss 0.4 – 1.0 1.0 2.4
Disposals – – – (3.2) (3.2)
At 31 December 2002 1.9 – 3.7 2.8 8.4
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 16.4 73.0 – 10.0 99.4
At 31 December 2001 19.8 67.1 1.0 14.2 102.1
Investment in own shares – group and company
Investment in own shares is held through a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST), through the Amersham ESOP
Trust (A ESOP), and by the Amersham US Stock Option Plan Trust 2000.
Shares held by the QUEST are issued by the company and held on trust for employees. The shares are transferred to employees
on the exercise of options under an authorised Save As You Earn Scheme (SAYE).
Shares held by A ESOP and the Amersham US Stock Option Plan Trust 2000 are purchased in the market using funds advanced
by the company and are held on trust for the employees eligible under the company’s long term incentive plan, cash options
under the Amersham Executive Share Option Scheme 1993 and options under the Amersham US Stock Option Plan 2000.
The cost of the funds advanced to A ESOP that relate to the company’s long term incentive plans (LTIP) is amortised in the proﬁ t
and loss account over the three year life of the scheme.
770,057 shares are held by the QUEST, with a market value at 31 December 2002 of £4.3m and a nominal value of £0.04m.
545,282 shares are held by the A ESOP, with a market valuation at 31 December 2002 of £3.0m and a nominal value of £0.03m.
2,251,315 shares are held by the Amersham US Stock Option Plan Trust 2000 with a market valuation at 31 December 2002
of £12.5m and a nominal value of £0.1m.
Dividends have been partially waived for all schemes. 100% of the shares held by the A ESOP and the Amersham US Stock
Option Plan Trust 2000 are under option to employees. None of the QUEST shares are under option to employees.
Transfer to subsidiary 
The £2.6m transfer to subsidiary relates to the existing trade investment in Cimarron Software Inc, which became a subsidiary
undertaking in the year.
Market value of listed investments
The market value of listed investments at 31 December 2002 is £3.6m, (2001 – £4.9m), and the carrying value after provisions
is £5.5m, (2001 – £6.3m). Amersham plc 67
13 Fixed asset investments continued
Investments Investments
in own in group
shares undertakings Total
Company Note £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2002 5.1 204.1 209.2
Foreign currency translation – (27.2) (27.2)
Revaluation of investments 26 – 3.6 3.6
Additions 0.5 1,260.8 1,261.3
Disposals – (559.4) (559.4)
Transfer to employees (1.5) – (1.5)
At 31 December 2002 4.1 881.9 886.0
Provision
At 1 January 2002 1.2 – 1.2
Charge to proﬁt and loss 0.4 – 0.4
At 31 December 2002 1.6 – 1.6
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 2.5 881.9 884.4
At 31 December 2001 3.9 204.1 208.0
Additions in the company primarily relate to the £708.6m purchase of the 45% minority interest in Amersham Biosciences.
Following the purchase, the group undertook a reorganisation which involved the acquisition and disposal of shares between 
the company and its subsidiaries.
14 Stocks
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
£m £m £m £m
Raw materials and consumables 53.0 46.5 6.9 7.9
Work in progress 56.7 45.5 6.9 7.6
Finished goods and goods for resale 98.3 88.6 4.0 1.9
208.0 180.6 17.8 17.4
The replacement cost of stocks is not materially different from original cost.
15 Debtors – amounts due within one year
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
Restated
£m £m £m £m
Trade debtors 301.7 298.2 8.2 7.9
Amounts owed by group undertakings – – 535.4 555.6
Amounts owed by joint venture and associates 1.0 1.3 1.0 1.3
Other debtors 21.2 34.7 4.2 6.7
Prepayments and accrued income 25.3 26.6 4.2 4.9
349.2 360.8 553.0 576.4
16 Debtors – amounts due after one year
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
Restated
£m £m £m £m
Amounts owed by group undertakings – – 201.9 –
Other debtors 17.3 16.7 – 2.9
Prepayments and accrued income 11.1 8.7 10.7 8.7
Deferred taxation assets 32.9 30.0 – –
61.3 55.4 212.6 11.6 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
68 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
17 Short term deposits and investments
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
£m £m £m £m
Short term deposits included in net debt (see note 32) 22.1 96.5 21.6 92.5
Loan notes – 2.9 – 2.9
22.1 99.4 21.6 95.4
18 Creditors – amounts due within one year
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
£m £m £m £m
Loans
Short term loans from group undertakings – – 857.6 532.5
Short term loan from joint venture and associates 26.2 – 26.2 –
Bank loans and overdrafts 16.2 14.8 0.9 4.4
Finance lease obligations 0.3 0.3 – –
Unsecured loan notes 1.9 15.7 – 13.8
44.6 30.8 884.7 550.7
Other creditors
Trade creditors 71.2 86.4 11.5 13.9
Amounts owed to group undertakings – – 18.2 15.8
Amounts owed to joint venture and associates 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
United Kingdom corporation tax 6.1 9.9 4.8 9.9
Overseas subsidiary taxation 128.9 108.1 – –
Other taxes and social security 27.0 19.7 2.6 2.1
Other creditors 63.0 42.9 9.8 6.4
Accruals and deferred income 149.9 155.1 51.2 47.6
Dividends payable 36.0 30.3 36.0 30.3
482.2 452.5 134.2 126.1
526.8 483.3 1,018.9 676.8
19 Creditors – amounts due after one year
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
£m £m £m £m
Loans
Bank loans and overdrafts 68.5 8.7 61.6 –
Finance lease obligations 2.5 2.7 – –
Unsecured loan notes 121.5 136.6 119.9 133.1
192.5 148.0 181.5 133.1
Other creditors 11.5 6.4 3.7 6.7
204.0 154.4 185.2 139.8
Repayments are due as follows:
Between one and two years 108.6 7.9 103.9 3.0
Between two and ﬁve years 84.3 134.3 71.6 125.8
In ﬁve years or more 11.1 12.2 9.7 11.0
204.0 154.4 185.2 139.8
The company has $193.0m, (2001 – $213.0m), equivalent to £123.4m, (2001 – £152.3m), of private placement unsecured loan
notes (see note 20). The carrying value of these notes includes a fair value adjustment of £3.5m, (2001 – £5.4m). The fair value
adjustment arose on the acquisition of the notes at the time of the merger with Nycomed. Of the carrying value, £1.9m,
(2001 – £15.7m), is reported in amounts due within one year. Amersham plc 69
20 Derivatives and other ﬁnancial instruments
A discussion of the group’s objectives and policies with regard to the use of ﬁnancial instruments is found in the Treasury Pol icy
and Liquidity section of the Financial review on page 33. Where permitted by FRS13, disclosures in this note exclude short term
debtors and creditors.
(a) Currency and interest rate composition of ﬁnancial liabilities of the group
The following table analyses the currency and interest rate composition of the group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December after
taking into account interest rate and currency swaps. The ﬁnancial liabilities comprise bank loans and overdrafts plus any long
term contractual obligations to deliver cash or other ﬁnancial assets to third parties.
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Non- Non-
Fixed Floating interest Fixed Floating interest
rate rate bearing Total rate rate bearing Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 0.3 15.6 0.1 16.0 42.6 4.2 – 46.8
US dollars 99.2 77.7 5.1 182.0 135.5 17.8 5.2 158.5
Euro 0.8 2.6 0.2 3.6 – 2.6 0.2 2.8
Danish kroner 1.4 0.3 0.8 2.5 3.6 0.1 0.8 4.5
Norwegian kroner 0.4 – 2.8 3.2 0.5 0.4 – 0.9
Swedish kronor – 0.3 – 0.3 ––––
Other currencies 13.3 0.2 – 13.5 11.3 0.8 0.2 12.3
115.4 96.7 9.0 221.1 193.5 25.9 6.4 225.8
Within ﬁnancial liabilities of £221.1m (2001 – £225.8m), £210.9m (2001 – £178.8m) is included within net debt, £nil (2001 –
£42.6m) represents the minority interest share of non-equity redeemable cumulative preference shares of Amersham Biosciences,
and £10.2m (2001 – £4.4m) represents other ﬁnancial liabilities. In addition a short term loan from the group’s joint venture of
£26.2m (2001 – £nil) is included within the analysis of net debt.
The average interest rates for the ﬁnancial liabilities of the group at 31 December, together with the periods for which the rat es
were ﬁxed, are set out in the table below:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Average A verage Average Average
interest rate years to Average years to interest rate years to Average years to
of ﬁxed rate maturity of maturity of non- of ﬁxed rate maturity of maturity of non-
liabilities ﬁxed rate interest bearing liabilities ﬁxed rate interest bearing
% liabilities ﬁnancial liabilities % liabilities ﬁnancial liabilities
Sterling 5.0 0.0 1.5 8.0 n/a –
US dollars 8.6 2.4 0.0 7.3 3.2 0.0
Euro 3.4 6.4 0.5 – – 1.3
Danish kroner 6.0 1.2 2.7 6.0 0.5 3.7
Norwegian kroner 3.9 1.5 2.4 4.3 1.1 –
Other currencies 5.5 1.2 – 5.9 2.3 –
4.2 1.5 0.9 7.3 2.4 0.5
Financial liabilities are analysed as:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Non- Non-
Fixed Floating interest Fixed Floating interest
rate rate bearing Total rate rate bearing Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 15.3 62.8 6.6 84.7 12.2 5.7 5.6 23.5
Finance lease obligations – 2.8 – 2.8 – 3.0 – 3.0
Unsecured loan notes 123.4 – – 123.4 152.3 – – 152.3
Currency and interest rate swaps (31.1) 31.1 – – (17.2) 17.2 – –
Other ﬁnancial liabilities 7.8 – 2.4 10.2 3.6 – 0.8 4.4
Non-equity minority interest – – – – 42.6 – – 42.6
115.4 96.7 9.0 221.1 193.5 25.9 6.4 225.8
Floating rate interest on bank loans and overdrafts is based on local bank base rates, and the ﬂoating rate interest on swaps is
based on LIBOR. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
70 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
20 Derivatives and other ﬁnancial instruments continued
The group’s principal ﬁxed rate debt obligations are three series of US private placement unsecured loan notes with the followi ng
rates and maturities:
Amount Interest rate
Series $m % Maturity
Series B 15 8.79 February 2005
Series C 163 8.77 November 2004
Series D 15 8.97 November 2009
The carrying value of Series C and D notes includes a fair value adjustment of £3.5m (2001 – £5.4m), which arose on the
acquisition of the debt instruments at the time of the merger with Nycomed. The interest rate of US dollar ﬁxed rate liabilities
is adjusted for the partial unwinding of this fair value adjustment during the periods reported.
(b) Currency and interest rate composition of ﬁnancial assets of the group
The following tables analyse the currency and interest rate composition of the group’s ﬁnancial assets at 31 December. The ﬁnancial
assets comprise cash at bank, short term deposits, trade investments and interest bearing investments plus any long term
contractual rights to receive cash or other ﬁnancial assets from third parties.
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Non-interest bearing Non-interest bearing
Equity Equity
Fixed Floating invest- Fixed Floating invest-
rate rate ments Other Total rate rate ments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 0.2 1.9 0.1 17.5 19.7 0.5 3.4 – 2.3 6.2
US dollars 0.8 7.9 8.0 7.4 24.1 0.9 71.5 11.8 13.7 97.9
Japanese yen – 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 – 7.5 – – 7.5
Euro 0.6 4.9 – 2.0 7.5 3.3 19.8 – 2.4 25.5
Norwegian kroner 0.1 6.5 – 0.1 6.7 18.9 6.3 – – 25.2
Danish kroner – 0.5 – – 0.5 0.7 0.2 – – 0.9
Swedish kronor 0.1 1.6 – 0.3 2.0 – 0.7 1.0 0.8 2.5
Other currencies 0.7 5.3 – 1.3 7.3 0.6 8.3 – 0.9 9.8
2.5 28.7 8.1 28.7 68.0 24.9 117.7 12.8 20.1 175.5
Within ﬁnancial assets of £68.0m (2001 – £175.5m), £54.8m (2001 – £153.4m) is included within net debt and £13.2m
(2001 – £22.1m), represents other ﬁnancial assets.
The interest rates on the majority of ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial assets are based on local market ﬂoating rates.
The average interest rates for the ﬁnancial assets of the group at 31 December, together with the period for which the rates
were ﬁxed, are as follows:
12 months to 31 Dec 2002 12 months to 31 Dec 2001
Average
years to Average years
Average Average maturity of Average Average to maturity of
interest rate years to non-interest interest rate years to non-interest
of ﬁxed rate maturity of bearing of ﬁxed rate maturity of bearing
assets ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial assets ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial
% assets assets % assets assets
Sterling 3.7 0.0 0.0 3.7 0.1 0.1
US dollars 3.9 0.3 0.4 8.2 1.8 0.6
Japanese yen –– 0.0 –––
Euro 2.0 0.0 0.2 6.8 4.3 0.0
Norwegian kroner 2.8 0.3 0.8 6.7 0.1 –
Danish kroner ––– 1.9 8.9 0.0
Swedish kronor 0.2 0.0 0.0 –––
Other currencies 3.8 0.0 0.0 1.8 0.1 0.0
3.3 0.1 0.1 6.4 1.0 0.4 Amersham plc 71
20 Derivatives and other ﬁnancial instruments continued
Financial assets are analysed as follows:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Non- Non-
Fixed Floating interest Fixed Floating interest
rate rate bearing Total rate rate bearing Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 1.7 24.3 6.7 32.7 1.2 43.3 12.4 56.9
Short term deposits 0.4 4.4 17.3 22.1 20.0 74.4 2.1 96.5
Interest bearing investments – – – – 2.9 – – 2.9
Equity investments – – 8.1 8.1 – – 12.8 12.8
Other ﬁnancial assets 0.4 – 4.7 5.1 0.8 – 5.6 6.4
2.5 28.7 36.8 68.0 24.9 117.7 32.9 175.5
In addition to the ﬁnancial liabilities and ﬁnancial assets disclosed above, the group has granted put options over shares in Co rixa
Corporation, Cimarron Software Inc. and Imaging Research Inc. and holds call options over shares in Cimarron Software Inc.,
Imaging Research Inc. and Analytica of Branford which meet the deﬁnition of ﬁnancial instruments. The maximum potential
aggregate cash consideration under these contracts is US$71.5m. These options expire by 2006.
(c) Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities
The maturity of the group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December is analysed as follows:
Bank Finance Other Non-equity
loans and lease Unsecured ﬁnancial minority
overdrafts obligations loan notes liabilities interest Total
31 December 2002 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis by year of repayment
Due within one year or on demand 16.2 0.3 1.9 1.5 – 19.9
Between one and two years 3.0 0.3 102.9 1.5 – 107.7
Between two and ﬁve years 65.2 0.6 9.8 7.2 – 82.8
In ﬁve years or more 0.3 1.6 8.8 – – 10.7
Due after more than one year 68.5 2.5 121.5 8.7 – 201.2
Total repayments 84.7 2.8 123.4 10.2 – 221.1
Bank Finance Other Non-equity
loans and lease Unsecured ﬁnancial minority
overdrafts obligations loan notes liabilities interest Total
31 December 2001 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis by year of repayment
Due within one year or on demand 14.8 0.3 15.7 2.2 – 33.0
Between one and two years 2.0 0.3 2.0 0.7 – 5.0
Between two and ﬁve years 6.7 0.7 124.7 1.5 – 133.6
In ﬁve years or more – 1.7 9.9 – 42.6 54.2
Due after more than one year 8.7 2.7 136.6 2.2 42.6 192.8
Total repayments 23.5 3.0 152.3 4.4 42.6 225.8
The group has undrawn committed borrowing facilities available to it at 31 December as follows:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Expiring within one year – 430.0
Expiring between four years and ﬁve years 404.3 –
404.3 430.0 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
72 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
20 Derivatives and other ﬁnancial instruments continued
(d) Currency risk exposure
The following table shows the currency exposure of the net monetary assets and (liabilities) of group companies at 31 December.
The exposures arise where monetary assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the
operating company in which they are held. The gains or losses on these monetary assets and liabilities are recorded in the proﬁt
and loss account.
Japanese Norwegian Swedish
Sterling US dollars yen Euro kroner kronor Other Total
31 December 2002 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency 
of operating company
Sterling – 8.9 1.8 (1.8) 7.6 (0.6) (3.2) 12.7
US dollars – – –––– (0.1) (0.1)
Japanese yen (0.3) 1.6 ––––– 1.3
Euro 0.9 5.6 – – (1.2) – 0.3 5.6
Norwegian kroner 7.5 1.8 (16.1) (6.5) – (0.1) (9.4) (22.8)
Swedish kronor (3.8) (9.8) (1.8) 7.4 – – 0.2 (7.8)
Other currencies (0.1) (13.5) – (0.7) (5.0) (0.1) – (19.4)
4.2 (5.4) (16.1) (1.6) 1.4 (0.8) (12.2) (30.5)
Japanese Norwegian Swedish
Sterling US dollars yen Euro kroner kronor Other Total
31 December 2001 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency 
of operating company
Sterling – 15.3 (0.9) (11.9) 7.0 9.7 (3.0) 16.2
US dollars 3.4 – –––– 1.6 5.0
Japanese yen – (1.7) ––––– (1.7)
Euro (0.4) 3.7 – – 0.1 0.3 0.1 3.8
Norwegian kroner 3.0 (5.5) 2.7 4.5 – (0.1) 0.4 5.0
Swedish kronor 4.0 (11.6) 3.9 3.3 (0.3) – (1.8) (2.5)
Other currencies – (3.2) – – 4.0 – – 0.8
10.0 (3.0) 5.7 (4.1) 10.8 9.9 (2.7) 26.6
(e) Fair values and disclosures
The estimated book values and fair values of the group’s ﬁnancial instruments at 31 December are set out below:
Primary ﬁnancial instruments held or issued to ﬁnance the group’s operations
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank
1
32.7 32.7 56.9 56.9
Short term deposits
1
22.1 22.1 96.5 96.5
Interest bearing investments
1
–– 2.9 2.9
Equity investments
2
8.1 6.2 12.8 11.4
Other ﬁnancial assets
3
5.1 5.1 6.4 6.6
Bank loans and overdrafts
1
(84.7) (84.7) (23.5) (23.5)
Non-equity minority interest
4
–– (42.6) (42.6)
Finance lease obligations
1
(2.8) (2.8) (3.0) (3.0)
Other ﬁnancial liabilities
5
(10.2) (10.2) (4.4) (4.4)
Unsecured loan notes
6
(123.4) (140.0) (152.3) (171.0)
1 The fair values of cash, short term deposits, interest bearing investments (excluding subordinated loan notes) and overdrafts ap proximate to carrying values due to the short maturity period of these
ﬁnancial assets. The difference between carrying value and fair value is also considered to be immaterial for ﬂoating rate bank loans and ﬁnance lease obligations. Interest bearing investments included
subordinated loan notes that were valued by discounting the associated future cash ﬂows to 31 December 2001. The difference betw een carrying value and fair value was considered immaterial.
2 Equity investments represent equity holdings in trade investments. The fair value of listed investments is equal to the year en d market price.
3 Other ﬁnancial assets include investments in unit trusts and capital funds that are valued at market value.
4 The non-equity minority interest represents 45% of the 8% non-equity redeemable cumulative preference shares of Amersham Biosc iences, which was extinguished in 2002 on the purchase of the 45%
minority in Amersham Biosciences.
5 Other ﬁnancial liabilities largely comprise discounted deferred consideration on acquisitions, for which book value is not mate rially different to fair value.
6 The book value of the unsecured loan notes includes a fair value adjustment of £3.5m (2001 – £5.4m), that arose as a result of the acquisition of the notes at the time of the merger with Nycomed.
The fair value quoted at 31 December is based on the present value of future cash ﬂows of the notes. Amersham plc 73
20 Derivatives and other ﬁnancial instruments continued
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency exposures
7
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2001
Notional Fair Notional Fair Notional Fair Notional Fair
principal value principal value principal value principal value
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps 31.1 – (31.1) 3.2 51.7 3.2 (34.5) (1.3)
Forward foreign exchange contracts 923.4 26.5 (890.6) 3.1 900.6 17.7 (873.1) (8.1)
Total for ﬁnancial assets 954.5 26.5 952.3 20.9
Total for ﬁnancial liabilities (921.7) 6.3 (907.6) (9.4)
7 Interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts are stated at current market values.
(f) Hedges
As explained in the Financial review on page 33, the group’s policy is to hedge exposures to interest rate risk and currency
exposures using a variety of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. Gains and losses on these instruments are not recognised until the
exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
Gains or losses on the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments are classiﬁed as unrecognised where they have not yet been recorded
in the ﬁnancial statements. Where gains or losses have crystallised, but are carried forward in the balance sheet pending their
recognition in the proﬁt and loss account in a future period, they are treated as deferred.
The following table analyses the movement in unrecognised and deferred gains or losses on hedge instruments during the year
to 31 December 2002.
31 Dec 2002
Unrecognised Deferred
Net Net
gains/ gains/
Gains Losses (losses) Gains Losses (losses)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains/(losses) on hedges 
At 1 January 2002 13.8 (8.3) 5.5 21.9 (10.8) 11.1
Gains/(losses) arising in previous years that were 
recognised in 2002 (12.0) 8.3 (3.7) (12.7) 6.0 (6.7)
Gains/(losses) arising before 1 January 2003 that were 
not recognised in 2002 1.8 – 1.8 9.2 (4.8) 4.4
Gains/(losses) arising in 2002 that were not recognised in 2002 17.5 (1.0) 16.5 14.2 1.0 15.2
Unrecognised gains/(losses) on hedges at 
31 December 2002 19.3 (1.0) 18.3 23.4 (3.8) 19.6
Of which
Gains/(losses) expected to be recognised in 2003 17.9 (1.0) 16.9 15.5 (3.8) 11.7
Gains/(losses) expected to be recognised in 2004 or later 1.4 – 1.4 7.9 – 7.9
As at 31 December 2002 the company has outstanding foreign exchange contracts with commercial banks, as set out in the
following table:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Principal Principal Principal Principal
receivable payable Total receivable payable Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Held to manage assets and liabilities 525.4 (507.9) 17.5 425.8 (416.9) 8.9
Held to manage transaction exposures 398.0 (382.7) 15.3 474.8 (456.2) 18.6
923.4 (890.6) 32.8 900.6 (873.1) 27.5 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
74 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
20 Derivatives and other ﬁnancial instruments continued
The contracts held to manage assets and liabilities at 31 December 2002, can be analysed as follows:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Principal Principal Principal Principal
receivable payable Total receivable payable Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
US dollars 43.5 (250.1) (206.6) 41.5 (197.8) (156.3)
Japanese yen 2.9 (79.2) (76.3) 5.2 (99.9) (94.7)
Sterling 58.2 (110.1) (51.9) 52.3 (35.7) 16.6 
Euros 36.0 (15.1) 20.9 99.7 (44.4) 55.3 
Norwegian kroner 372.6 (11.9) 360.7 154.3 (15.3) 139.0 
Other currencies 12.2 (41.5) (29.3) 72.1 (23.8) 48.3 
525.4 (507.9) 17.5 425.1 (416.9) 8.2
21 Financial commitments
The group has commitments to make research and development milestone payments and payments under licence agreements
to third parties subject to achievement of agreed stages of product development. At 31 December 2002 the maximum amounts
payable under these agreements was £10.2m (2001 – £24.2m).
22 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Pensions
Deferred Decommissioning and similar Disposal Other
tax and efﬂuent costs obligations costs provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 January 2002 as previously stated 21.1 63.2 88.2 19.7 27.8 220.0
Prior year adjustment 20.8 –––– 20.8
At 1 January 2002 as restated 41.9 63.2 88.2 19.7 27.8 240.8
Foreign currency translation (0.5) 1.1 0.2 (1.0) 0.2 –
Transfer of deferred tax assets 2.9 –––– 2.9
Transfer to current tax creditor (2.1) –––– (2.1)
Adjustment relating to fair value – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Charge to proﬁt and loss 23.1 5.1 14.7 0.2 2.3 45.4
Charge to statement of total recognised 
gains and losses 5.4 –––– 5.4
Utilised during the year – (3.9) (11.3) (9.3) (4.9) (29.4)
Exceptional item (9.2) –––– (9.2)
At 31 December 2002 61.5 65.5 91.5 9.6 25.4 253.5
Company
At 1 January 2002 – 51.9 8.6 6.7 – 67.2
Charged to proﬁt and loss 7.5 2.0 0.3 2.9 – 12.7
Utilised during the year – (1.1) (1.0) (4.4) – (6.5)
At 31 December 2002 7.5 52.8 7.9 5.2 – 73.4
A further analysis of the deferred taxation provision is given in note 23. The prior year adjustment relates to the introduction
of FRS19, ‘Deferred T axation’, as explained in note 36.
Provisions for decommissioning and efﬂuent costs relate to the costs, determined on a going concern basis, associated with
decommissioning radioactive facilities and with the eventual disposal of the group’s intermediate level waste which arises from
operations. Decommissioning costs will be incurred after the facilities are withdrawn from use in radioactive operations and
extend out to 2036. Total decommissioning and efﬂuent costs to be incurred in the next 10 years amount to approximately
£37.4m. The provisions are based on the latest technical assessment of the process and methods likely to be used, and are stated
at current prices and discounted using a real discount rate of 4%.
The provisions for pensions and similar obligations primarily relate to pension schemes, details of which are given in note 29.
The £9.6m provision for disposal costs related to sale of businesses comprises £0.8m for the disposal of the Tomojet business in
2002, £0.8m for the closure of the disease proﬁling project in 2001, £7.3m for the disposal of Nycomed Pharma in 2001, £0.3m
for the sale of Puerto Rico Plant in 1998 and £0.4m for the sale of Puridec arising in 1996. These provisions are for legal or
constructive obligations arising from the sale of businesses and are expected to be incurred within the next ﬁve years.
Other provisions are principally insurance claims, warranties and costs associated with the rationalisation of radiopharmaceutical
production within Amersham Health. The provision at 31 December 2002 of £25.4m (2001 – £27.8m) is made up of £8.0m
(2001 – £5.5m) relating to insurance reserves, £2.4m (2001 – £3.0m) relating to warranties, £3.8m (2001 – £4.5m) relating
to radiopharmaceutical rationalisation costs and £11.2m (2001 – £14.8m) of legal and other provisions. Amersham plc 75
23 Deferred taxation
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
Restated
Note £m £m £m £m
Provision for deferred tax comprises:
Accelerated capital allowances 22.4 10.7 7.0 –
T ax deductible goodwill 26.2 25.2 – –
Capital gains held over 6.6 2.2 4.3 –
Unrealised stock proﬁt (22.2) (18.1) – –
Other short term timing differences (4.4) (8.1) (3.8) –
28.6 11.9 7.5 –
Transfer to deferred taxation assets 16 32.9 30.0 – –
22 61.5 41.9 7.5 –
The group has a potential deferred tax asset of £28.8m in the US Biosciences business of which £9.2m has been recognised, as
an exceptional item, based on future ﬁnancial projections which forecast future taxable proﬁts in excess of those arising from the
reversal of deferred tax liabilities. The remaining £19.6m is not recognised as there is insufﬁcient evidence, at this time, that the
asset will be recoverable in the foreseeable future.
In addition, the group has further unrecognised deferred tax assets of £13.5m arising in other territories. These relate primarily
to tax losses in those territories. There is insufﬁcient evidence, at this time, that these assets will be recoverable. The unrecognised
assets will be recoverable when sufﬁcient evidence becomes available to support that recoverability.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing
differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
24 Acquisitions
During the year the group made acquisitions with a total consideration of £767.9m, of which £708.6m related to the purchase
of the 45% minority interest in Amersham Biosciences from Pharmacia Corp.
(a) Purchase of 45% minority interest holding in Amersham Biosciences
On 21 March 2002 the group completed the purchase of the 45% minority interest holding in Amersham Biosciences that
it did not already own.
The purchase consideration was £704.1m of cash, plus costs associated with the purchase of £4.5m. The purchase was ﬁnanced
by a placing of 57.5m new ordinary shares on 18 March 2002, which generated £397.0m after costs of issue, together with the
use of existing cash resources and drawings under the group’s committed bank facilities.
The transaction was accounted for using acquisition accounting.
Goodwill of £692.3m arose on the transaction, and will be amortised over 20 years from the date of the purchase. The 20 year
useful life reﬂects the continuing investment in the development of the business.
The values ascribed to the net assets acquired in Amersham Biosciences, and details of the fair value adjustments, which are
provisional, are set out below:
Book value Fair value
at 21 Mar at 21 Mar
2002 Revaluation Other 2002
£m £m £m £m
T angible ﬁxed assets (including investments) 205.0 27.2 – 232.2
Intangible ﬁxed assets 146.9 – (142.0) 4.9
351.9 27.2 (142.0) 237.1
Current assets (including intra-group deposits of £60m) 353.4 – – 353.4
Current liabilities (including intra-group loans of £339m) (482.1) – – (482.1)
Net current liabilities (128.7) – – (128.7)
Total assets less current liabilities 223.2 27.2 (142.0) 108.4
Non-current liabilities (25.2) – – (25.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (47.6) 0.6 – (47.0)
150.4 27.8 (142.0) 36.2
Net assets acquired (45%) 16.3
Cost of acquisition – cash consideration 704.1
Acquisition expenses – professional fees and tax costs 4.5
Goodwill arising on acquisition 692.3 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
76 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
24 Acquisitions continued
The other adjustment relates to goodwill in the Amersham Biosciences balance sheet eliminated on the purchase of the minority
interest. No accounting policy alignment adjustments are required as Amersham Biosciences’ accounting policies are consistent
with those of the Amersham group. T angible ﬁxed assets have been revalued to their fair value and listed investments have been
written down to their market value. Adjustments within provisions for liabilities and charges relate to the funded status of
pensions, primarily unrecognised actuarial gains. A 45% share of the revaluation and other adjustment has been recognised
in the group accounts.
As the purchase of Amersham Biosciences is an increase in stake, the proﬁts and cash ﬂows of Amersham Biosciences are already
contained within the consolidated proﬁt and loss account and cash ﬂow statement of the Amersham group for the current and
prior year.
The minority interest for the period to 21 March 2002 was £0.8m credit, represented by a £0.6m charge for non-equity minority
interests and £1.4m credit for equity minority interests.
The purchase of the 45% minority interest was partly achieved by the group acquiring a 100% interest in Pharmacia Biosystems
AB, (now known as Amersham Biosystems AB), a former trading company in the Pharmacia Corporation group. At the date of the
purchase this company had no assets or liabilities, apart from the investment in Amersham Biosciences. Full warranties and
indemnities were received from Pharmacia Corporation in respect of this company.
(b) Other acquisitions 
On 31 January 2002, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of two ﬁltration companies, AG Technology Corp and
InnovaSep Technology Corp. The fair value of the total consideration is £38.1m, of which £11.8m is deferred consideration and
£6.7m is the group’s best estimate of deferred contingent consideration. The deferred contingent consideration is dependent on
the acquired companies reaching technological milestones and on performance conditions. The ultimate amount of deferred and
contingent consideration payable is expected to be in the range of $15-33m. Goodwill arising of £36.9m is being amortised over
10 years.
On 29 April 2002, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Synthia Lab Systems (Sweden) AB. Goodwill arising
of £0.5m is being amortised over seven years.
On 10 May 2002, the group acquired a further 16% holding in Cimarron Software Inc, taking the group’s total holding at
acquisition to 35%. Cimarron Software Inc is being consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking as the group controls the company
through a shareholders’ agreement. Goodwill arising of £6.3m is being amortised over seven years.
Since 10 May 2002, the group has subscribed for additional allotted share capital in Cimarron Software Inc, taking its holding at
the year end to 44%. Goodwill recognised on the post-acquisition allotments of share capital amounts to £1.7m. The group has
obligations to subscribe for a further 7% of share capital over the next three years, and has options to acquire the remaining 4 9%
of the company for a maximum consideration of $33m, the total consideration payable being contingent on performance conditions.
On 11 July 2002, the group acquired the net assets of Motorola’s CodeLink pre-arrayed slide business. Goodwill arising of £6.8m
is being amortised over 10 years.
All transactions were accounted for using acquisition accounting. The group’s estimated useful life for these acquisitions reﬂects
the period over which the group expects to receive beneﬁt based on acquired patents and technology.
Set out below is a summary of the net assets acquired and provisional fair value adjustments:
Book value Revaluation Fair value
£m £m £m
Fixed assets 6.2 3.9 10.1
Net current assets 1.8 (2.8) (1.0)
Net assets 8.0 1.1 9.1
Net assets acquired 8.8
Cost of acquisition:
Cash consideration 38.2
Deferred consideration 18.5
Existing trade investment 2.6
59.3
Goodwill arising on acquisition 50.5
Adjustments to ﬁxed assets relate to recognition of intangible assets relating to patented technology acquired and the adjustment
to net current assets relates to the recognition of liabilities assumed on acquisition. No accounting policy alignment adjustments
have been recorded as the acquired entities accounting policies are consistent with those of the Amersham group. Amersham plc 77
24 Acquisitions continued
As discussed above, goodwill of £1.7m arose on the acquisition of additional holdings in Cimarron Software Inc. Total goodwill
arising on other acquisitions during the year was £52.2m.
Included within cash paid for acquisitions during the year of £40.6m in the group cash ﬂow statement is £2.4m for milestone
payments relating to prior year acquisitions.
25 Called up share capital
Ordinary 5p shares
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
m m
Authorised:
Value £45.0 £45.0
Number 900.0 900.0
Issued, called up and fully paid:
Value £35.1 £32.1
Number 701.8 641.7
During the year a total of 60,101,551 ordinary shares of 5p each (nominal value £3m) were issued for an aggregate net cash
consideration of £407.7m.
Of these, 57,500,000 shares were issued on 18 March 2002, in connection with the placing of shares on 12 March 2002, to
ﬁnance the purchase of the outstanding shares in Amersham Biosciences Limited for cash consideration of £397.0m, net of issue
costs of £5.5m.
The shares were issued at a price of £7.00 per share, and the market price on the 12 March 2002 was £7.365 per share.
The 57,500,000 shares were allotted, as follows:
– 50,000,000 placing shares to persons nominated by Morgan Stanley Securities Limited and Hoare Govett Limited;
– 7,500,000 shares issued to Morgan Stanley Securities Limited, pursuant to the exercise of an over-allotment option.
The 50,000,000 placing shares were ultimately allotted to institutional investors.
A further 438,890 shares were issued to the Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) for an aggregate net cash
consideration of £2.5m. The remaining 2,162,661 ordinary shares of 5p each were issued in connection with employee share
option schemes for an aggregate net cash consideration of £8.2m.
Share option schemes
The following options remained exercisable at the year end.
Ordinary Ordinary
Save As Y ou Earn Scheme 5p shares 5p shares
Option price Options exercisable 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£1.38 February 2000 or February 2002 – 170,812
£1.39 September 2000 or September 2002 3,304 204,865
£1.54 September 2001 or September 2003 215,058 262,363
£2.46 September 2002 or September 2004 185,302 1,137,938
£3.00 December 2003 or December 2005 1,463,643 1,551,095
£3.30 December 2004 or December 2006 855,627 898,809
£4.96 December 2005 or December 2007 910,294 975,260
£4.80 December 2004, December 2006 or December 2008 770,955 808,109
£4.49 December 2005, December 2007 or December 2009 1,077,315 – Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
78 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
25 Called up share capital continued
Ordinary Ordinary
Executive Share Option Scheme 5p shares 5p shares
Option price Options exercisable 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£1.13 November 1995 to November 2002 – 18,250
£1.49 June 1996 to June 2003 20,731 20,731
£1.83 November 1996 to November 2003 3,979 15,663
£1.87 July 1997 to July 2004 29,261 29,261
£1.72 November 1997 to November 2004 17,061 91,250
£1.74 June 1998 to June 2005 59,741 59,741
£1.69 November 1998 to November 2005 77,157 103,692
£1.89 July 1999 to July 2006 68,809 68,809
£3.42 July 2000 to July 2007 163,374 305,493
£3.92 December 2000 to November 2007 130,112 130,112
£3.80 May 2001 to April 2008 529,569 793,940
£3.56 September 2001 to September 2008 241,519 571,685
£4.38 May 2002 to May 2009 1,252,833 1,615,781
£4.66 June 2002 to June 2009 – 63,523
£3.74 August 2002 to August 2009 696,789 913,689
£4.11 September 2002 to September 2009 291,970 291,970
£4.12 September 2002 to September 2009 55,750 71,750
£5.20 March 2003 to February 2010 1,902,573 2,045,799
£6.19 April 2003 to April 2010 13,942 13,942
£6.23 August 2003 to August 2010 453,153 453,153
£6.22 September 2003 to September 2010 128,618 128,618
Nycomed Share Option Plan
$4.02 July 1997 to April 2002 – 83,910
Options awarded under the Nycomed Amersham Share Option Plan are denominated in US dollars.
Amersham US Stock Option Plan 2001
£6.19 March 2001 to March 2010 1,908,914 2,334,832
£6.19 June 2001 to June 2010 5,500 6,500
£6.23 August 2001 to August 2010 50,193 53,056
£6.31 October 2001 to October 2010 1,500 1,500
£5.45 December 2001 to December 2010 5,000 9,000
Amersham US Stock Option Plan options are subject to phased vesting of 25% per year from date of grant.
2001 Plan 
£5.60 May 2002 to May 2011 5,968,731 6,324,060
£5.61 May 2002 to May 2011 10,076 10,076
£5.57 June 2002 to June 2011 102,336 102,336
£6.09 August 2002 to August 2011 287,460 287,460
£6.06 September 2002 to September 2011 20,272 20,272
£5.95 September 2002 to September 2011 9,988 9,988
£7.15 March 2003 to March 2012 7,159,214 –
£7.28 March 2003 to March 2012 38,864 –
£7.63 April 2003 to April 2012 13,376 –
£5.58 August 2003 to August 2012 864,500 –
£5.68 September 2003 to September 2012 23,768 –
£5.82 December 2003 to December 2012 309,280 –
2001 Plan options are subject to 25% vesting from date of grant, except Directors’ options which usually vest three years after
date of grant. The exercise of options granted to Executive Directors is subject to performance conditions.
Options for All
£6.35 October 2004 to October 2007 8,581,352 9,150,000 Amersham plc 79
26 Share premium account and reserves
Share Proﬁt
premium and loss Merger Other Revaluation
account account reserve reserves reserve
£m £m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 January 2002 as previously stated 64.3 401.5 73.0 21.0 –
Prior year adjustment – 4.4 – – –
At 1 January 2002 as restated 64.3 405.9 73.0 21.0 –
Foreign currency translation – 47.8 – – –
Issue costs (5.5) ––––
Shares issued in the year 410.2 ––––
Loss relating to Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) – (1.2) – – –
Retained proﬁt for the year – 121.4 – – –
At 31 December 2002 469.0 573.9 73.0 21.0 –
Company
At 1 January 2002 as previously stated 64.3 59.8 – – 13.5
Issue costs (5.5) ––––
Shares issued in the year 410.2 ––––
Loss relating to Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) – (1.2) – – –
Revaluation of ﬁxed asset investment –––– 3.6
Retained proﬁt for the year – 15.5 – – –
At 31 December 2002 469.0 74.1 – – 17.1
The amounts included in other reserves relate to foreign subsidiary undertakings and represent amounts which cannot
be distributed under local company law, plus negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of Pharmacia Biotech.
The cumulative value of goodwill written off amounts to £1,439.9m (2001 – £1,439.9m).
The company’s proﬁt attributable to shareholders is £72.8m (2001 – £66.0m).
In accordance with the group’s accounting policy, an exchange gain of £46.4m (2001 – £6.4m) on the foreign currency loans
hedging group investments has been matched with the exchange loss on those investments in reserves. A related tax charge
of £5.4m (2001 – £0.3m credit) has also been offset in reserves.
27 Capital commitments
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
£m £m £m £m
Expenditure contracted 41.3 22.7 13.2 10.3
28 Operating and ﬁnance lease commitments
Payments which the group and the company are committed to make during the following year against operating leases are as follows:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
Operating leases £m £m £m £m
Land and buildings:
Expiring within one year 1.3 1.9 0.3 –
Expiring between two and ﬁve years inclusive 10.3 7.6 1.6 0.8
Expiring after more than ﬁve years 3.1 4.3 – 1.3
14.7 13.8 1.9 2.1
Other leases:
Expiring within one year 1.4 1.8 0.7 0.5
Expiring between two and ﬁve years inclusive 12.9 13.8 2.4 3.6
Expiring after more than ﬁve years 0.3 – – –
14.6 15.6 3.1 4.1 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
80 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
28 Operating and ﬁnance lease commitments continued
The ﬁnance lease obligations to which the group and the company are committed are as follows:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Group Group Company Company
Finance lease commitments £m £m £m £m
Payable within one year 0.5 0.4 – –
Payable between two and ﬁve years 1.4 1.5 – –
Payable after ﬁve years 1.9 2.1 – –
3.8 4.0 – –
Less ﬁnance charges allocated to future periods (1.0) (1.0) – –
2.8 3.0 – –
29 Pensions
UK schemes
The company participates in a variety of pension arrangements on behalf of its UK employees. The principal scheme is the
Amersham Pension Scheme, which is a deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement, the assets of which are held in a separate trustee
administered fund.
An actuarial valuation of this scheme as at 31 March 2000 was made by Watson Wyatt, an independent ﬁrm of actuaries, using
the projected unit method. The main assumptions adopted in that valuation for the purposes of the UK Statement of Standard
Accounting Practice SSAP 24, ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’, were that over the long term the rate of return on investments
would be 6.9% pa, the increase in pensionable pay 5% pa and pensions in payment 3% pa. On the basis of these assumptions the
market value of the scheme’s assets as at 31 March 2000 represented 112% of the value of the beneﬁts to members at that date
including allowance for future salary and pension increases. The market value of the scheme’s assets on 31 March 2000 was £209m.
The pension cost in the company’s ﬁnancial statements and the associated amounts of prepayment are set out below:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Prepayment at start of year 8.7 6.8
Regular cost (10.3) (9.0)
Variation from regular cost 1.6 1.6
Contributions paid 10.7 9.3
Prepayment at end of year 10.7 8.7
Overseas schemes
The group operates a number of pension schemes overseas, which have been developed in line with, and are funded under, local
practices. The principal overseas schemes are in the US, Norway and Sweden and are mainly of the deﬁned beneﬁt type funded
via separately administered trusts or guaranteed by insurance policies. The scheme in Sweden is an unfunded arrangement and
there is an unfunded arrangement in Norway in addition to the funded scheme. These are provided for in the group ﬁnancial
statements and secured on the ongoing business.
Watson Wyatt have prepared pension costs using actuarial valuations carried out in accordance with local requirements, for
the purposes of group reporting under SSAP 24, ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’. A surplus or deﬁcit is amortised over the average
remaining service lives of the relevant employees using the straight-line method. The review was made as at 1 January 2002,
using the projected unit method and using the following principal assumptions.
US Norway Sweden
%%%
Return on investment 7.5 6.5 7.0
Increase in pensionable salary 4.5 3.5 4.0
Increase in pensions in payment – 2.0 2.5
The pension cost in the group’s ﬁnancial statements and associated amounts of provision are set out below, in aggregate, for these
principal overseas funded and unfunded schemes. Amersham plc 81
29 Pensions continued
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
schemes schemes schemes schemes
£m £m £m £m
Provision at start of year 18.6 43.2 18.8 41.5
Foreign currency translation (1.6) 2.3 0.5 (1.6)
Pension cost 7.2 4.6 5.3 4.0
Contributions/pensions paid (8.2) (1.3) (6.0) (0.7)
Provision at end of year 16.0 48.8 18.6 43.2
On the basis of the above assumptions the actuarial value of the scheme assets for the principal overseas funded schemes was
£76.0m (2001 – £76.5m) and represents 80% (2001 – 87%) of the actuarial value of beneﬁts to members as at 1 January 2002,
including allowance for future salary and pension increases.
In addition to the schemes included in the above analysis the group also operates deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in other territories,
principally Japan and Germany.
FRS 17
In November 2000, the Accounting Standards Board published FRS 17 ‘Retirement Beneﬁts’ to replace the existing standard
SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for Pension costs’. Although the new standard does not become mandatory until accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2005, it sets down transitional arrangements which require footnote disclosures in the interim
period up to full adoption.
The most recent actuarial valuations have been updated by Watson Wyatt to take account of the requirements of FRS 17 in
order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at 31 December 2002. For the principal overseas schemes this latest valuation was
at 31 December 2001 including both the US and Norway and at 31 December 1999 for Sweden. Scheme assets are stated at
their market value at 31 December 2002.
The future agreed contribution rate for the UK scheme is currently 15.2%. This is subject to review during 2003. For the 
overseas schemes the contribution rate will be assessed on year on year basis. All of the group pension schemes are open 
as at 31 December 2002.
Main assumptions for FRS 17 purposes
UK US Norway Other
31 December 2002 % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase in salaries 4.25 4.25 3.50 3.75
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.25 0.00 2.00 2.00
Discount rate 5.50 6.75 6.50 5.50
Inﬂation 2.25 3.00 2.50 2.50
UK US Norway Other
31 December 2001 % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase in salaries 4.25 4.25 3.50 3.25
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.25 0.00 2.00 2.25
Discount rate 5.75 7.25 7.00 5.00
Inﬂation 2.25 3.00 2.50 2.50
The market value of assets in the schemes at 31 December 2002 and the long term expected rates of return at that date were:
31 December 2002 Equities Bonds Other Total
Long term rate of return expected at 31 December 2002 (% pa)
UK 8.50 5.00 6.00 –
US 8.75 6.25 4.50 –
Norway 8.75 6.00 5.00 –
Other 5.50 2.50 2.00 –
V alue at 31 December 2002 (£m)
UK 127.3 34.5 8.4 170.2
US 29.4 16.4 0.7 46.5
Norway 2.9 16.7 9.0 28.6
Other 4.9 3.4 0.7 9.0
Total 164.5 71.0 18.8 254.3 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
82 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
29 Pensions continued
The market value of assets in the schemes at 31 December 2001 and the long term expected rates of return at that date were:
31 December 2001 Equities Bonds Other Total
Long term rate of return expected at 31 December 2001 (% pa)
UK 8.00 5.50 5.00 –
US 8.75 7.00 4.50 –
Norway 8.25 6.75 6.00 –
Other 6.25 3.00 2.00 –
V alue at 31 December 2001 (£m)
UK 136.5 26.7 27.4 190.6
US 32.0 21.7 0.7 54.4
Norway 4.8 15.2 2.7 22.7
Other 4.4 3.2 0.7 8.3
Total 177.7 66.8 31.5 276.0
The following amounts at 31 December 2002 were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS17:
UK US Norway Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Total market value of assets 170.2 46.5 28.6 9.0 254.3
Present value of scheme liabilities (268.3) (102.2) (33.8) (58.3) (462.6)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (98.1) (55.7) (5.2) (49.3) (208.3)
Related deferred tax asset 7.5 22.3 1.4 15.4 46.6
Net pension liabilities (90.6) (33.4) (3.8) (33.9) (161.7)
The following amounts at 31 December 2001 were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS17:
UK US Norway Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Total market value of assets 190.6 54.4 22.7 8.3 276.0
Present value of scheme liabilities (212.4) (92.2) (26.3) (48.7) (379.6)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (21.8) (37.8) (3.6) (40.4) (103.6)
Related deferred tax asset – 15.1 1.0 12.5 28.6
Net pension liabilities (21.8) (22.7) (2.6) (27.9) (75.0)
If the above amounts had been recognised in the ﬁnancial statements, the group’s net assets and reserves at 31 December 2002
would be as follows:
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
£m £m
Net assets
Net assets 1,176.9 658.9
Add back SSAP 24 net pension liability and prepayments 80.8 79.5
Less effect of NMP joint venture scheme (0.2) (0.1)
Less FRS 17 net pension liability, including NMP (208.3) (103.6)
Net effect on related deferred tax asset 19.6 2.2
Impact on minority interest – (0.2)
Net assets including FRS 17 pension liability 1,068.8 636.7
Reserves
Reserves 1,136.9 564.2
Add back SSAP 24 net pension liability and prepayments 80.8 79.5
Less effect of NMP joint venture scheme (0.2) (0.1)
Less FRS 17 net pension liability, including NMP (208.3) (103.6)
Net effect on related deferred tax asset 19.6 2.2
Impact on minority interest – (0.2)
Reserves including FRS 17 pension liability 1,028.8 542.0 Amersham plc 83
29 Pensions continued
The amounts charged to operating proﬁt under FRS17 would have been:
UK US Norway Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 10.7 4.8 1.6 2.9 20.0
Past service cost – 0.3 – – 0.3
Total operating charge 10.7 5.1 1.6 2.9 20.3
The amounts charged to ﬁnancing under FRS17 would have been:
UK US Norway Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets (14.1) (4.3) (1.8) (0.4) (20.6)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 12.1 6.3 2.0 2.8 23.2
Total ﬁnancing charge/(income) (2.0) 2.0 0.2 2.4 2.6
The total pension charge for the group, including NMP, is £23.8m. Excluding items outside the scope of SSAP 24 of £0.6m,
the charge for the year is £23.1m. The effect on the charge of adopting FRS 17 would therefore be a decrease of £0.2m.
Analysis of the amount that would have been included within the statement of total recognised gains and losses under FRS17:
UK US Norway Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (44.8) (10.1) (1.4) (1.4) (57.7)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on the scheme liabilities 4.2 (2.7) 2.3 1.3 5.1
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value
of scheme liabilities
1
(37.7) (8.8) (2.9) (3.1) (52.5)
Actuarial loss recognised in group statement of total recognised
gains and losses (78.3) (21.6) (2.0) (3.2) (105.1)
1 Includes the impact of adopting Urgent Issues T ask Force (UITF) No 35 ‘Death-in-service and incapacity beneﬁts’.
The analysis of experience gains and losses, recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, is as follows:
UK US Norway Other Total
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (£m) (44.8) (10.1) (1.4) (1.4) (57.7)
Percentage of scheme assets at end of year (%) 26 22 5 16 23
Experience gains/(losses) arising on the scheme liabilities (£m) 4.2 (2.7) 2.3 1.3 5.1
Percentage of scheme liabilities at end of year (%) 2 (3) 7 2 1
Total actuarial loss recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (£m) (78.3) (21.6) (2.0) (3.2) (105.1)
Percentage of scheme liabilities at end of year (%) 29 21 6 5 23
The movement in the deﬁcit during the year under FRS 17 would have been:
UK US Norway Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Deﬁcit in the scheme at the beginning of the year (21.8) (37.8) (3.6) (40.4) (103.6)
Movement in the year:
Foreign currency translation – 5.2 (0.8) (2.9) 1.5
Current service cost (10.7) (4.8) (1.6) (2.9) (20.0)
Past service costs – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Contributions 10.7 5.6 3.0 2.5 21.8
Other ﬁnance income/(charge) 2.0 (2.0) (0.2) (2.4) (2.6)
Actuarial loss (78.3) (21.6) (2.0) (3.2) (105.1)
Deﬁcit in the scheme at the end of the year (98.1) (55.7) (5.2) (49.3) (208.3)
Opening related deferred tax asset – 15.1 1.0 12.5 28.6
Movement in the year 7.5 7.2 0.4 2.9 18.0
Closing related deferred tax asset 7.5 22.3 1.4 15.4 46.6 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
84 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
30 Shares in group undertakings
Information relating to subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings is given on those that, in the opinion of the Direc tors,
principally affected the proﬁts or assets of the group.
The primary activity of the majority of the undertakings shown below is the development and manufacture and/or sale of
specialised products for research-based biotechnology supply and the diagnosis and treatment of disease. Subsidiary, joint venture,
and associated undertakings are listed under the relevant business operation. Where the relevant company serves more than one
business it is listed under the dominant business operation.
With the exception of Amersham Buchler GmbH & Co. KG and Amersham Biosciences Limited, the company’s holdings in the
following undertakings are represented by ordinary shares. Amersham Buchler GmbH & Co. KG is a partnership in which the group’s
interest is in limited liability form. The company holds ordinary and non-voting preference shares in Amersham Biosciences
Limited in the proportion stated below.
All of the companies listed below operate principally in their country of incorporation or registration and have coterminous
year ends.
Proportion of nominal
value of issued shares held
Country of By the By subsidiary
incorporation company undertakings
or registration % %
Holding companies
Amersham Health Norge AS Norway – 100
Acam Overseas Holdings Ltd UK – 100
Acam Holdings (UK) Ltd UK 100 –
Amersham Benelux BV Netherlands – 100
Amersham Biosystems AB Sweden – 100
Amersham Biosciences
Amersham Biosciences Ltd UK 61 39
Amersham Biosciences Corp USA – 100
Amersham Biosciences UK Ltd UK – 100
Amersham Biosciences Europe GmbH Germany – 100
Amersham Biosciences AB Sweden – 100
Amersham Biosciences (SV) Corp USA – 100
Amersham Biosciences KK Japan – 100
Amersham Biosciences Ltd Hong Kong – 100
AG Technology Corp USA – 100
InnovaSep Technology Corporation USA – 100
Amersham Health
Amersham Buchler GmbH & Co. KG Germany – 60
Amersham Health AS Norway – 100
Amersham Health Ireland – 100
Amersham Health Inc USA – 100
Amersham Health Pte Ltd Singapore – 100
Nycomed Amersham Sorin Srl Italy 100 –
Amersham Health Ltd China – 80
Amersham Health Holdings Inc USA – 100
Joint venture
Amersham Health
Nihon Medi-Physics Company Ltd Japan 29 21
The investment in Nihon Medi-Physics Company Ltd relates to ordinary shares. The shares carry standard pre-emption rights.
A full list of all group undertakings will be appended to the annual return. Amersham plc 85
31 Net cash ﬂow from operating activities
12 months to 12 months to 
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
Total operating proﬁt before exceptional items 273.2 280.8
Share of operating proﬁt of joint venture and associates (23.2) (26.1)
Depreciation and amortisation 116.4 80.0
Loss on sale of tangible ﬁxed assets 1.5 0.3
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (6.8) 1.3
(Increase) in stocks (19.9) (12.1)
Decrease/(increase) in debtors 5.3 (16.8)
(Decrease)/increase in creditors (1.0) 34.9
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities before exceptional items 345.5 342.3
Exceptional items – 12.0
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 345.5 354.3
32 Analysis of net debt
As at Exchange As at
1 Jan 2002 Cash ﬂow movements 31 Dec 2002
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 56.9 (30.3) 6.1 32.7
Overdrafts (11.1) 4.0 (0.1) (7.2)
45.8 (26.3) 6.0 25.5
Liquid resources 96.5 (74.5) 0.1 22.1
Loans due within one year (19.7) (14.7) (3.0) (37.4)
Loans due after more than one year (148.0) (133.6) 89.1 (192.5)
Net debt (25.4) (249.1) 92.2 (182.3)
33 Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movement in net debt
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the period (26.3) 7.8
Cash (inﬂow)/outﬂow from liquid resources (74.5) 91.4
Cash (inﬂow)/outﬂow from (increase)/reduction in loans and lease ﬁnance (148.3) 205.3
Change in net debt resulting from cash ﬂows (249.1) 304.5
Exchange movements 92.2 (6.4)
Movement in net debt in the period (156.9) 298.1
Net debt at 1 January (25.4) (323.5)
Net debt at 31 December (182.3) (25.4)
34 Related party disclosures
Apart from the transactions noted below there were no other material items requiring disclosure.
Transactions with Nihon Medi-Physics Company Limited (NMP)
During 2002 the group made sales to NMP of £7.6m (2001 – £6.6m) and purchases of £0.1m (2001 – £0.1m). At the year end
the group was owed £1.0m (2001 – £1.3m) in respect of trading balances and the group owed NMP £26.2m (2001 – £nil)
relating to a short term loan balance.
Transactions with Reviss Services Limited (RSL)
During 1996 the group disposed of its Puridec business to RSL, then an associated undertaking, for a consideration of £5.9m payable
within a seven year period. At 31 December 2002 the group held a 10% trade investment in RSL. During 2002 the group recharged
RSL in relation to the provision of payroll and other services £0.8m (2001 – £1.1m) and made purchases of £2.9m (2001 – £4.7m)
in respect of normal trading activities. At 31 December 2002 the group owed RSL £0.2m (2001 – £0.1m) and was owed £0.6m
(2001 – £1.3m), comprising £0.6m (2001 – £0.6m) in respect of other services and £nil (2001- £0.7m) in relation to the sale
of the Puridec business. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
86 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
34 Related party disclosures continued
Transactions with Gyros AB
During the year the group made milestone payments of £nil (2001 – £1.0m) to Gyros AB. The group holds a 9.7% interest
in Gyros AB. At 31 December 2002 the group owed Gyros AB £nil (2001 – £nil).
Transactions with Cimarron Software Inc
From 1 January 2002 to 10 May 2002 the group held a trade investment in Cimarron Software Inc representing 19% of that company’ s
equity. During the period to 10 May 2002 the group paid £0.5m (2001 – £1.1m) to Cimarron Software Inc. in respect of normal
trading activities. From 10 May 2002 onwards Cimarron Software Inc has been consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking.
Transactions with Molecular Staging Inc
The group holds a trade investment in Molecular Staging Inc. During 2002, the group made sales of £nil (2001 – £0.2m)
to Molecular Staging Inc, and made purchases of £0.8m (2001 – £0.4m), in respect of normal trading activities.
Transactions with MU Bioteknik AB
During the year, the group made royalty payments to MU Bioteknik AB, a company of which Professor Uhlén is the sole Director
and shareholder, of SEK 800,000, with an additional SEK 400,000 accrued payments at December 2002. These payments were
made in respect of royalty agreements entered into prior to the appointment of Professor Uhlén as a Non-Executive Director.
Loan to Dr A Carr
In 2000, the group provided an interest free, secured loan facility to Dr A Carr, the Chief Executive of Amersham Biosciences, of
$300,000 to assist in the purchase of a house following his relocation to the US. The loan was repayable over ﬁve years in equal
fortnightly instalments or on his ceasing to be employed by the group, if earlier. The balance due on the loan at 31 December
2002 was $231,000 (2001 – $291,000). The maximum balance on this loan in the year was $291,000. The loan has been repaid
since the year end.
35 Contingent liabilities
The group is involved in various negotiations or disputes of a nature considered typical for its businesses, including those rel ating
to product liability and infringements and claims of intellectual property rights, validity of patents and taxation. Although the re
can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of these negotiations or disputes, the group believes that on the basis of curr ent
available information they will not have a material adverse impact on the group’s ﬁnancial position.
36 Restatement of prior periods
Following the introduction of Financial Reporting Standard 19, ‘Deferred T axation’ in 2002, the group has changed its accounting
policy with respect to deferred taxation. Under the previous policy, provision was made for deferred taxation, using the liability
method, on all material timing differences to the extent that it was probable that an asset or liability would crystallise. Under the
revised accounting policy, liabilities will be recognised for most types of timing differences regardless of whether they are anticipated
to reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred taxation assets will be recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that
they will reverse.
The adjustments required to shareholders’ funds are set out below:
12 months 12 months
to 31 Dec to 31 Dec
2001 2001
£m £m
Adjustment to opening shareholders’ funds 8.5 –
Effect of adoption of FRS19 at 1 January 2001 – 12.3
Reverse deferred tax provision under SSAP 15 4.5 –
Deferred tax provision under FRS 19 (9.0) –
Attributable to minority interest – FRS 19 0.4 (3.8)
Adjustment to closing shareholders’ funds 4.4 8.5
In the year ended 31 December 2001, deferred tax charged under FRS 19 amounted to £9.0m; this would have been £4.5m under
SSAP 15. For the year ended 31 December 2002, deferred tax charged under FRS 19 amounted to £23.1m; this would have been
£18.9m under SSAP 15.
37 Post balance sheet events
On 26 February 2003 the group announced a restructuring of its discovery systems business area. The restructuring programme, whic h
will deliver a more efﬁcient manufacturing cost base and focus research and development on fewer sites, will result in the loss of
approximately 400 jobs. The group will incur one off costs in the range of £45-50m, which is expected to result in savings running
at the rate of £30-35m per annum by the end of 2004. Directors’ responsibilities for ﬁnancial statements
Amersham plc 87
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the company and of the group at the end of the year and of the proﬁt or loss for the year. In preparing those
ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
– state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the ﬁnancial statements
– prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and the
group will continue in business.
The Directors conﬁrm that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial
position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. The Directors also have responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and
detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the ﬁnancial statements of the company and the group is placed on the website of Amersham plc. The Directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company’s website. Information published on the internet is accessible in
many countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. The work carried out by the auditors does not involve
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the
ﬁnancial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
On behalf of the Board
G F B Kerr
Finance Director
26 February 2003 Report of the auditors to the members of Amersham plc
88 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Amersham plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements which comprise the proﬁt and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash ﬂow statement,
the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have been prepared under the historical cost con vention
(as modiﬁed for the company’s ﬁnancial statements by the revaluation of certain ﬁxed assets) and the accounting policies set ou t
in the statement of accounting policies. We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies
Act 1985 contained in the Directors’ remuneration report (‘the auditable part’).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the ﬁnancial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial statements and the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the ﬁnancial statement s
and the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ report is not consistent with the ﬁnancial statements, if the company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the ﬁnancial statements. The other information comprises the
Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review, Financial review, Report of the Directors, Corporate governance statement, and 
the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reﬂects the company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the
Combined Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form
an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements and the auditable
part of the Directors’ remuneration report. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made
by the Directors in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements and the auditable part of the
Directors’ remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 December 2002
and of the proﬁt and cash ﬂows of the group for the year then ended;
– the ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
– those parts of the Directors’ remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
26 February 2003 Supplemental ﬁnancial information
Amersham plc 89
Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (unaudited)
The following is a summary of the adjustments to the group’s net income and shareholders’ equity of applying the signiﬁcant
differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP. These are summarised in the tabular reconciliation statements set out below and,
subject to any matters that may require adjustment, will be included in the group’s US Annual Report on Form 20-F which
provides further details.
Reconciliation of consolidated net income
12 months to 12 months to 
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
Notes £m £m
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders reported under UK GAAP 178.7 210.7
US GAAP adjustments:
Business combinations (i) (113.8) (107.7)
Goodwill, intangible and other assets (42.2) (107.7)
Effect of SFAS 142 ‘Goodwill and other intangibles’ 36.6 –
Purchase of minority interest in Amersham Biosciences (108.2) –
Accounting for investment in NMP – goodwill amortisation (ii) – (3.6)
Investment in Nycomed Pharma (i) – (0.3)
Disposal of Nycomed Pharma (iii) (1.2) (10.4)
Derivative hedging (iv) 66.4 5.6
Pension and post retirement costs (v) (4.4) 0.9
Transfer of assets from former pension plans (vi) (1.0) 6.0
Revenue recognition (vii) (1.2) (2.9)
Deferred taxation – application of full liability method (viii) 5.9 5.6
Other (ix) 0.3 (10.0)
T ax effect of US GAAP adjustments (viii) 29.7 20.5
Minority interest (xi) 1.1 10.0
Total US GAAP adjustments (18.2) (86.3)
Net income in accordance with US GAAP 160.5 124.4
Basic net income per share in accordance with US GAAP 23.4p 19.6p
Diluted net income per share in accordance with US GAAP 23.3p 19.5p
Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
Note £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds reported under UK GAAP 1,172.0 596.3
US GAAP adjustments:
Business combinations (i) 1,067.5 1,093.7
Goodwill, intangible and other assets 1,039.5 1,093.7
Effect of SFAS 142 ‘Goodwill and other intangibles’ 36.6 –
Purchase of minority interest in Amersham Biosciences (8.6) –
Accounting for investment in NMP (ii) 41.7 41.7
Investment in Nycomed Pharma (i),(iii) – 1.5
Derivative hedging (iv) 32.9 12.8
Pension and post retirement costs (v) (73.5) (26.1)
Transfer of assets from former pension plans (vi) 5.0 6.0
Revenue recognition (vii) (3.9) (2.9)
Deferred taxation – application of full liability method (viii) 27.6 28.7
Other (ix) (22.3) (23.7)
Ordinary dividend (x) 36.0 30.3
T ax effect of US GAAP adjustments (viii) (142.8) (55.7)
Minority interest (xi) – (75.6)
Total US GAAP adjustments 968.2 1,030.7
Shareholders’ equity in accordance with US GAAP 2,140.2 1,627.0
Figures reported under UK GAAP for the 12 months to 31 December 2001 have been restated following the introduction of FRS 19
as explained in note 36. Net income for the 12 months to 31 December 2001 and shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2001 in
accordance with US GAAP have been restated as outlined in notes (iv), (vi), (viii) and (ix) below. The effect of these restatements on
the 12 months to 31 December 2001 increases net income by £16.1m from £108.3m to £124.4m, with a corresponding 2.5p
increase in basic net income per share for the 12 months to 31 December 2001. The restatements have reduced shareholders’ equity
by £1.6m from £1,628.6m to £1,627.0m at 31 December 2001. Supplemental ﬁnancial information
continued
90 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
(i) Business combinations
Under both UK GAAP and US GAAP, acquisitions are accounted for as purchase business combinations. However, certain
differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP in the application of the purchase method of accounting for business combinations
are set out below.
Goodwill, intangible and other assets
Both UK GAAP and US GAAP require purchase consideration to be allocated to the net assets acquired at their fair value on the
date of acquisition, with the difference between the consideration and the fair value of the identiﬁable net assets recorded as
goodwill. Under the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 10 ‘Goodwill and Intangible Assets’, goodwill arising on
acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates during accounting periods ending on or after 23 December 1998 should
be capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life. This treatment of goodwill is similar to its treatment under US GAAP
prior to the introduction of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 142 ‘Goodwill and other intangible assets’.
The impact of the introduction of SFAS 142 is discussed below. However, because FRS 10 need not be applied retrospectively 
to goodwill written off against shareholders’ funds in earlier years, there will continue to be differences between the goodwill
calculated under UK GAAP and US GAAP. For the purposes of US GAAP, goodwill written off against shareholders’ funds under 
UK GAAP has been reinstated.
UK GAAP requires an allocation of purchase consideration to intangible assets, which are separable from the business. For UK GAAP
purposes, intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired in a business combination, which are not separable and measurable, are
not capitalised. US GAAP requires an allocation of consideration to identiﬁable intangible assets if they arise from contractual or other
legal rights; if intangible assets do not arise from contractual or legal rights, the asset is recognised apart from goodwill only if it is
separable. The intangible assets recognised for US GAAP are being amortised on a straight-line basis over periods up to 10 years .
Effect of SFAS 142 ‘Goodwill and other intangible assets’
Under US GAAP, following the introduction of SFAS 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives are not
amortised but reviewed annually for impairment. The 2002 amortisation charge on such goodwill recognised for UK GAAP has
been reversed for US GAAP purposes. The impact of the introduction of SFAS 142 on net income and net income per share is
analysed below:
12 months to 12 months to 
31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2001
Restated
£m £m
Net income
Net income as reported under US GAAP 160.5 124.4
Add back: Goodwill amortisation – 68.7
Adjusted net income under US GAAP 160.5 193.1
Net income per share – basic p p
Net income per share as reported under US GAAP 23.4 19.6
Add back: Goodwill amortisation – 10.8
Adjusted net income per share (basic) as reported under US GAAP 23.4 30.4
Net income per share – diluted p p
Net income per share (diluted) as reported under US GAAP 23.3 19.5
Add back: Goodwill amortisation – 10.8
Adjusted net income per share (diluted) as reported under US GAAP 23.3 30.3
Purchased research and development
Acquired in-process research and development recognised under US GAAP purchase accounting requirements is written off
directly to net income in the year of acquisition: the technological feasibility of such in-process technology not having been
established and not having an alternative future use. Acquired in-process research and development is not recognised as a
separate asset under UK GAAP.
Purchase of 45% minority interest in Amersham Biosciences
Under UK GAAP, fair value adjustments have been recognised for tangible ﬁxed assets, listed investments and the funded status 
of pensions. Under US GAAP, additional fair value adjustments have been recognised for separable intangible assets, in-process
research and development and the revaluation of inventory. Intangible assets are being amortised on a straight-line basis over
periods up to 10 years. The in-process research and development asset has been written off to income in the year. Following the
introduction of SFAS 142, goodwill amortisation recorded under UK GAAP has been reversed for US GAAP purposes.
Investment in Nycomed Pharma
The 29% investment in Nycomed Pharma was recorded under the cost method of accounting under UK GAAP prior to its disposal
as the company did not exert signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the entity. Under US GAAP, the investment was accounted for using the
equity method.
(ii) Accounting for investment in Nihon Medi-Physics (NMP)
Under UK GAAP the change from the cost method to the equity method in the year ended 31 March 1997, due to the
acquisition of an additional interest in NMP, did not require retroactive adjustment to the ﬁnancial statements. Under US GAAP
the investment, the results of operations, and shareholders’ equity of the group were adjusted retroactively in a manner consistent
with the accounting for a step-by-step acquisition of a subsidiary. Amersham plc 91
(iii) Disposal of Nycomed Pharma
In 2001, the group sold its trade investment in Nycomed Pharma. Under US GAAP, the investment was treated as an associate
company resulting in a lower proﬁt on disposal under the equity method of accounting. Certain costs associated with the sale
have been recognised in 2002 for US GAAP.
(iv) Derivative hedging
Under US GAAP, the group does not qualify for hedge accounting and so gains and losses arising on derivative instruments at the
year end have been booked directly to income under US GAAP.
During the year ended 31 December 2002, the group determined that the adjustment relating to gains and losses arising on
derivative instruments for the year ending 31 December 2001 had been incorrectly accounted for under SFAS 133 ‘Accounting
for derivative instruments and hedging activities’. Accordingly, the group has restated the 12 months to 31 December 2001.
The adjustment to net income in 2001 has correspondingly increased by £21.0m to £5.6m and the adjustment to shareholders’
equity has increased by £3.2m to £12.8m at 31 December 2001.
(v) Pensions and post retirement costs
Under both UK GAAP and US GAAP, pension and post retirement costs are based on actuarial assumptions. However, under UK
GAAP the cost is based on long term market and economic assumptions and under US GAAP the cost is based on current market
and economic assumptions. In line with SFAS 87 ‘Employers’ accounting for pensions’ an additional minimum liability equal
to the unfunded accumulated beneﬁt obligation is recognised when the accumulated beneﬁt obligation exceeds the fair value
of pension fund assets.
(vi) Transfer of assets from pension plans
A transfer of assets was received from former pension plans during 2001. Under UK GAAP, the proportion of the transfer relating
to current employees of the group is being spread over the remaining service life of the employees in line with SSAP 24.
Under US GAAP, this was taken to income in 2001.
During the year ended 31 December 2002, the group determined that income recognised in the year ending 31 December 2001
relating to the transfer of assets from former pension plans had been incorrectly accounted for under US GAAP. Net income in
the 12 months to 31 December 2001 has been restated and income recognised on the transfer of assets reduced by £1.0m to
£6.0m. The adjustments to shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2001 has also been restated, with a corresponding reduction
of £1.0m to £6.0m.
(vii) Revenue recognition
Under UK GAAP, contract revenue is recognised when it is earned and non-refundable and when there are no future obligations
under the contract terms. Under US GAAP, the group applies Staff Accounting Bulletin 101 (SAB 101). Under SAB 101, more
prescriptive criteria are applied to assess whether the culmination of the earnings process has occurred and the group has a
continuing obligation throughout the contract terms. As a result, certain non-refundable fees have been deferred over the contract
terms under US GAAP.
(viii) Deferred taxation
Under UK GAAP, provision for deferred taxation is recorded under FRS 19. Except for certain timing differences relating to
revaluations, rolled over taxable gains and unremitted income, provision is made for all timing differences that would give rise 
to a deferred tax liability. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not they will be recoverable.
Under US GAAP, deferred tax is provided for on a full liability basis. A valuation allowance is established when it is more likely
than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realised.
Following the adjustments to net income in the 12 months to 31 December 2001, as outlined in notes (iv) and (vi), the tax effects
of the US GAAP adjustments have been reduced by £3.9m to £20.5m. The adjustment to shareholders’ equity at 31 December
2001 has been correspondingly reduced by £0.7m to £55.7m.
(ix) Other
Other differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP relate to accounting for compensated absences, investments in equity securities,
ESOP transactions and stock based compensation.
Certain balances have been reclassiﬁed in 2001 from Business combinations to Other to conform to current year presentation.
During the year ended 31 December 2002, the group determined that the adjustment to shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2001
relating to ESOP transactions had been incorrectly calculated. Correspondingly, the adjustment to shareholders’ equity at
31 December 2001 has been restated with a reduction of £3.1m to £23.7m.
(x) Ordinary dividends
Under UK GAAP, dividends proposed are provided for in the period in respect of which they are recommended by the Board of
Directors for approval by the shareholders. Under US GAAP, dividends are recorded as a reduction to retained earnings when they
have been formally declared, and notice given to shareholders.
(xi) Minority interest
The amount represents the components of the US GAAP adjustments attributable to Pharmacia Corporation’s 45% interest 
in Amersham Biosciences. The minority interest was extinguished in 2002 on the purchase of the 45% minority interest in
Amersham Biosciences that the group did not already own. Five year summary
92 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
12 months to 12 months to 12 months to 12 months to 12 months to
31 Dec 1998 31 Dec 1999 31 Dec 2000 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002
(restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m
Key data
Sales 1,388.9 1,374.6 1,377.6 1,602.5 1,618.2
– continuing operations 1,113.7 1,271.0 1,377.6 1,602.5 1,618.2
– discontinued operations 275.2 103.6 – – –
Amersham Health 161.0 178.1 194.6 240.9 255.6
Amersham Biosciences 70.5 81.6 63.3 72.4 75.3
Corporate (9.9) (9.7) (16.7) (20.8) (21.1)
Operating proﬁt of continuing operations before exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation 221.6 250.0 241.2 292.5 309.8
Discontinued operations 37.7 10.3 – – –
Total operating proﬁt before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 259.3 260.3 241.2 292.5 309.8
Interest (33.3) (27.1) (10.0) (8.7) (7.1)
Amounts written off investments – – – (4.4) (2.4)
Proﬁt before tax and before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 226.0 233.2 231.2 279.4 300.3
Exceptional items (35.1) (55.2) (27.0) 46.6 –
Goodwill amortisation (2.4) (8.9) (10.7) (11.7) (36.6)
Proﬁt before taxation after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 188.5 169.1 193.5 314.3 263.7
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders 99.4 87.9 107.0 210.7 178.7
Employment of shareholders’ funds
Fixed assets 751.2 677.5 776.7 787.9 1,491.4
Net current assets 398.4 360.0 266.2 269.8 146.5
Non-current liabilities (incl. deferred income) (671.9) (412.9) (373.7) (158.0) (207.5)
Provisions (213.5) (199.3) (190.6) (240.8) (253.5)
Net assets 264.2 425.3 478.6 658.9 1,176.9
Shareholders’ funds 215.1 363.7 416.9 596.3 1,172.0
Minority interests 49.1 61.6 61.7 62.6 4.9
264.2 425.3 478.6 658.9 1,176.9
Net debt 523.8 298.9 323.5 25.4 182.3
Share statistics
Earnings per share
– basic 15.8p 13.9p 17.0p 33.2p 26.1p
– before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 19.2p 20.5p 21.9p 26.6p 29.9p
Dividends per share 5.30p 5.85p 6.40p 7.10p 7.80p
The period ending 31 December 1998 has been restated following the implementation of FRS 12. Sales have been restated
to reclassify Industrial Quality & Safety Assurance and Nycomed Pharma as discontinued operations.
Figures for periods ending 31 December 1998, 1999 and 2000 have been restated following the introduction of FRS18.
Figures for periods ending 31 December 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 have been restated following the introduction of FRS19,
as explained in note 36 to the ﬁnancial statements. Shareholder information
Amersham plc 93
Ownership structure
Holdings by size as at 31 December 2002
% of
Number of % of Number of ordinary
Size of shareholding holdings total holdings ordinary shares shares
Over 1,000,000 105 0.78 533,599,190 76.03
100,001 – 1,000,000 384 2.87 120,864,910 17.22
10,001 – 100,000 901 6.72 29,290,396 4.17
5,001 – 10,000 677 5.05 4,704,777 0.67
1,001 – 5,000 4,694 35.03 9,882,074 1.41
501 – 1,000 3,333 24.87 2,493,286 0.36
1 – 500 3,307 24.68 977,450 0.14
13,401 100.00 701,812,083 100.00
Directors
Mr R D Lapthorne CBE Chairman, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Mr J Fr Odfjell Deputy Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Sir William Castell Chief Executive
Mr G W Battersby Human Resources Director
Mr D H Brydon OBE Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee
Dr A Carr President, Amersham Biosciences
Mr J H Johansen Non-Executive Director, employee representative
Mr G F B Kerr Finance Director
Mr P Loescher President, Amersham Health
Dr J S Patterson Non-Executive Director
Professor Sir Keith Peters Non-Executive Director
Mr J F Rejeange Non-Executive Director
Professor E Thorsby Non-Executive Director
Professor M Uhlén Non-Executive Director
Full details of the Board and its Committees are given on pages 36 to 37.
Secretary and registered ofﬁce Sub-registrar, Norway
Mr R E B Allnutt Den norske Bank, ASA
Amersham Place Registrar Department
Little Chalfont Postboks 1171
Buckinghamshire Sentrum
HP7 9NA 0107 Oslo
Telephone + 44 (0) 1494 544000 Norway
Registered in England Wales/No 1002610 Telephone: +47 22 48 1050
http://www.dnb.no
Registrar and transfer ofﬁce US Depositary
Lloyds TSB Registrars Citibank N.A.
The Causeway 111 Wall Street
Worthing 21st Floor
West Sussex New York 10043
BN99 6DA Telephone: + 1 877 248 4237
Telephone +44 (0) 870 600 3998 (+1-877-CITIADR)
http://www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk http://www.citissb.com/adr
Shareholder services
Amersham plc offer a range of shareholder services including direct payment of your dividends into your bank account, payment
of dividends in foreign currencies, a dividend reinvestment plan, a corporate ISA, proxy voting on line and the ability to donate
unwanted shares to charity through ShareGift. Please see enclosed information leaﬂet for further details or call 0870 600 3998
or visit www.amersham.com for further information.
Financial calendar
25 April 2003 Record date in UK, Norway and USA for ﬁnal dividend
7 May 2003 Annual General Meeting
2 June 2003 UK, Norway and US payment of ﬁnal dividend of 5.15p for the year ended 31 December 2002
July 2003 Announcement of results for half year to 30 June 2003 and of interim dividend
November 2003 Payment of interim dividend
February 2004 Announcement of results for year to 31 December 2003 and of proposed ﬁnal dividend Glossary
94 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
angiogenesis the growth of new blood vessels supplying a tumour – a potential target for diagnostics and
therapies aimed at cutting off the blood supply and starving the tumour 
anti-sense drugs small molecules that interfere with the process of protein production. They are designed to 
bind to a speciﬁc region of the target messenger RNA, thus preventing the production of 
the protein molecule
bioassay a biological test or analysis, used in high throughput screening to test the effect of potential drug
compounds on target molecules implicated in disease, and to identify/validate lead compounds 
biopharmaceutical a drug (eg. insulin) based upon biological molecules such as proteins, which are produced in cell
culture and subsequently separated and puriﬁed through chromatographic and ﬁltration techniques 
bioprocess chromatography separations media and systems for purifying proteins – a necessary step in the
manufacture of biopharmaceuticals 
brachytherapy treatment of cancers by close range radiation, eg. through radioactive implants
chromatography a technique used to analyse or separate molecules, such as proteins and DNA 
coronary angiography a scanning procedure for visualising the arteries that supply the heart with blood 
CT (computed tomography) an X-ray technique that provides computer-generated sliced images of the body
cyclotron machine in which positively charged particles are accelerated in a spiral path in a vacuum
between poles of a magnet, energy being provided by a high frequency voltage across the
vacuum – used to produce radioisotopes for medical purposes 
2D DIGE two-dimensional ﬂuorescence difference in-gel electrophoresis, a proteomics research technology
for comparison of protein expression samples from normal and diseased tissues, and monitoring
the effect of drugs on the tissues
DNA the genetic material of most living organisms, which contains heritable characteristics packaged 
(deoxyribonucleic acid) in genes
electrophoresis separation technique based on the movement of suspended particles through a ﬂuid under the
action of an electric ﬁeld
EMEA European Medicines Evaluation Agency, the regulatory authority in the European Union 
endocardial border visualisation of the surface of the heart muscle, for improved assessment of heart wall motion
delineation in ultrasound imaging 
enzymes any of numerous complex protein substances that are produced by living cells and bring about 
or accelerate reactions; enzymology, the study of enzymes, their nature, activity and signiﬁcance 
external beam radiation treatment of cancer by irradiating the tumour from a source outside the body
FDA Food and Drug Administration, the regulatory authority in the United States
FDG ﬂuoro-deoxyglucose (a sugar molecule labelled with the radioisotope ﬂuorine-18), a highly
sensitive molecular diagnostic used in PET imaging 
gamma camera a scanning instrument that detects gamma rays emitted by radiopharmaceuticals, enabling the
visualisation of organ function; see SPECT
genomics the study of the genetic material on an organism-wide basis – eg. the human genome is the set
of genes that code for a human being. Genomics includes the analysis of gene function, gene
expression (see microarray) and genetic variation (see SNP)
high throughput screening simultaneous screening of large numbers of drug candidates against protein molecules implicated
in disease
informatics the use of powerful computer technology (software and data management systems) for the
collection, storage, analysis and organisation of very large amounts of biological data  Amersham plc 95
interferons a group of proteins produced naturally by the cells of our bodies, which increase the resistance 
of cells to viral infection
in vitro biological processes observed outside the body, eg. in a test tube 
in vivo biological processes observed in a living organism
left ventricular function how well the left ventricle of the heart is doing its job of pumping blood into the aorta, the 
great trunk artery that carries blood from the heart through the body 
mass spectrometry analysis instrument based on the mass-to-charge ratio of a substance
metastasis spreading of cancer from the primary tumour to other sites in the body
microarray a system consisting of thousands of minute samples of genetic material deposited or synthesised
on slides or biochips, for rapid identiﬁcation and analysis of gene expression – i.e. which genes
are expressed (or active) in normal and diseased tissue, or in response to drug treatment 
monoclonal antibody an antibody produced by a single type of immune cell which binds to a speciﬁc part of its
protein target
MRI (magnetic an imaging technology using radio waves and a magnetic ﬁeld to produce high resolution images
resonance imaging) of ‘slices’ through the body 
myocardium the middle muscular layer of the heart wall
myocardial infarction a term used to describe irreversible injury to heart muscle
neurology the study of the nervous system (brain, spinal cord and nerves)
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma a heterogeneous group of malignant cancers of the lymphatic system
non-ionic in contrast media, a compound which does not dissociate in solution and therefore has a low
osmolality (number of particles in a given volume of liquid). This reduces side effects and
discomfort upon injection, particularly for X-ray contrast media.
nucleotide the building block of DNA and RNA
oncology the study of tumours; cancer
peptide a short sequence of amino acids forming part of a protein
perfusion (cardiac) how well the heart is being supplied with blood
PET (positron-emission a highly sensitive radiopharmaceutical imaging technique eg. for cancer, where PET can detect
tomography) very early signs of the cancer spreading 
pharmacological drugs administered to make the heart work harder, used for testing heart function in patients 
stress agents who are unable to exercise on a treadmill
preclinical studies of a potential new drug to determine its safety, metabolic properties and effectiveness
before it can be administered to patients in clinical trials 
protein one of the myriad of complex molecules that control all cellular functions and are coded 
for by genes
proteome all the proteins produced from all the genes of a genome
proteomics the study of speciﬁc proteins expressed in cells and tissues, with the aim of determining their
function and their role in disease, and identifying potential new drug targets
pulmonary embolism the sudden obstruction of a blood vessel in the lung by a blood clot that has circulated in the
blood and lodged in the lungs 
radioisotope a radioactive form of a chemical element 96 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
radioimmunotherapy a cancer treatment that uses immune system antibodies to carry cancer-killing radioactive
agents directly to tumour cells
radiopharmaceutical radioactively-tagged compound necessary to produce a nuclear medicine image, also called 
a tracer or radionuclide
renal relating to the kidneys
RNA (ribonucleic acid) a chemical found in the nucleus and cytoplasm of cells, which plays an important role in protein
synthesis and other chemical activities of the cell. The structure of RNA is similar to that of DNA.
There are several classes of RNA molecules: messenger RNA, transfer RNA, and ribosomal RNA.
sequencing identifying the order of the ‘letters’ (nucleotides) in the DNA code
SNP (single nucleotide very small genetic differences between individuals, which may affect disease susceptibility and
polymorphisms) response to drugs 
SPECT (single photon a functional imaging technique producing computer-generated sliced images of the body based
emission computed on the detection of gamma rays (photons) emitted by radiopharmaceuticals 
tomography)
stenosis narrowing of the blood vessels. Restenosis is the re-narrowing of the blood vessels after initial
treatment of coronary artery disease
stent a small tube inserted into a blood vessel to prevent restenosis
thrombus a blood clot formed within a blood vessel and remaining attached to its point of origin
toxicology the study of the effect of foreign substances on the body and its functioning 
vascular relating to the blood vessels, as of the heart (cardiovascular) or brain (cerebrovascular)
Glossary
continued Amersham, Amersham Health, Amersham Biosciences, ÄKTA, ÄKTApilot,
Chromaflow, CodeLink, CyDye, DaTSCAN, EchoSeed, Ettan,
GenomiPhi, Helispin, Imanet, LEADseeker, Ludicea, MegaBACE,
MabSelect, Myoview, OligoProcess, Omnipaque, Omniscan,
OncoSeed, Optison, Rapid Strand, Scierra, Sepharose, Sonazoid,
Source, Spin Signal, Streamline, TempliPhi and Visipaque are
trademarks of Amersham plc
TheraSeed is a trademark of Theragenics Corp
© Amersham plc 2003 – All rights reserved
All goods and services are sold subject to the terms and conditions 
of sale of the company within the Amersham group which supplies
them. A copy of these terms and conditions is available on request.
Amersham plc, Amersham Place, Little Chalfont, Buckinghamshire,
England HP7 9NA
Mega Matt is made from 50% TCF and 
50% recycled fibre in accordance with 
the Nordic Swan Environmental Standard.
Designed by Merchant with navyblue
Typeset by Saffron Digital Production
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press
Cautionary statement for purposes of the ‘safe harbor’ provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides for a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. This Annual
Report contains words such as ‘believe’, ‘expect’ and ‘anticipate’ and similar expressions, that identify forward-looking
statements, which reflect the group’s views about future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements
relate to the outlook of Amersham plc, including in particular, the expected growth of certain of the group’s products or the
markets for those products and the impact of currency movements during 2003. Actual results could differ materially from
those projected in such forward looking statements as a result of various factors that may be beyond the control of the group.
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in any forward-
looking statements:
(i) changes in demand for the products of Amersham plc worldwide or the markets for those products as well as changes in
management’s expectation of the development of new markets and the timing of completion of various trials leading to
the introduction of new products;
(ii) changes in the cost or supply of raw materials, changes in interest rates and the impact of competition;
(iii) price controls and price reductions, fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currencies, changes in governmental
regulation, and the risk of loss of patents or trademarks.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. In any event, these
statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the group does not undertake any obligation to update or
revise any of them, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Amersham plc
Amersham Place
Little Chalfont
Buckinghamshire
HP7 9NA
England
www.amersham.com
Registered in England
and Wales 1002610
