 2006
Jarvis annual report and accounts Five Y ear Record
2006 2005
IFRS IFRS
£m £m
Revenue 401.2 509.7 
Operating profit/(loss) before non-recurring costs 11.1 (75.3)
Non-recurring costs (1.8) (288.2)
Operating profit/(loss) 9.3 (363.5)
Finance costs (67.8) (27.7)
Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures 0.3 0.2 
Loss before taxation (58.2) (391.0)
Tax on loss 0.1 2.6 
Loss for the period from continuing operations (58.1) (388.4)
Post-tax profit from discontinued operations 1.5 56.3 
Loss for the period (56.6) (332.1)
Equity
Equity Shareholders’ deficit (28.2) (414.3)
Basic earnings per share from continuing business (40.4)p (270.4)p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share from continuing business (40.4)p (270.4)p
Equity Shareholders’ (deficit)/funds per share (20)p (289)p
2004 2003 2002
UK GAAP* UK GAAP* UK GAAP*
£m £m £m
Group turnover 1,076.1 1,105.5 904.7 
Profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals 2.8 71.1 54.1 
Goodwill amortisation (8.3) (8.4) (8.1)
Exceptional items (250.5) – (0.2)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation (256.0) 62.7 45.8 
Taxation 13.0 (21.6) (14.5)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities after taxation (243.0) 41.1 31.3 
(Loss)/profit for the year (250.3) 20.5 14.5 
Capital and reserves
Equity Shareholders’ (deficit)/funds (16.1) 229.3 198.4 
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (171.6)p 27.7p 22.2p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (171.4)p 27.5p 21.9p
Basic earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 10.5)p 33.7p 28.2p
Dividends per share 4.5)p 13.0p 11.5p
Equity Shareholders’ (deficit)/funds per share (11)p 162p 141p
*The figures for 2002 to 2004 are prepared under UK GAAP and have not been restated for compliance with IFRS. If the figures had been restated
the main adjustments would have been in respect of goodwill amortisation; employee benefits; deferred taxation on timing differences; revenue
recognition on long-term contracts and presentation of discontinued businesses. The adjustments for IFRS compliance for 2005 and 2006 are
detailed in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
Analysis of Shareholders at 31 March 2006
Shareholders Shareholders Shares Shares
Number % Number %
Range of holdings of ordinary 5p shares
1 – 10,000 7,124 97.8 1,531,087 1.0
10,001 – 100,000 93 1.3 2,833,028 1.9
100,001 – 250,000 18 0.3 2,896,614 1.9
Over 250,000 46 0.6 144,865,512 95.2
7,281 100.0 152,126,241 100.0 Contents
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 1
Financial Highlights
For the year ended 31 March 2006
2006 Change 2006 2005
%£m £m £m
Revenue* (21) (108.5) 401.2 509.7
Operating profit/(loss) before non-recurring costs 115 86.4 11.1 (75.3)
Loss before taxation 85 332.8 (58.2) (391.0)
Operating cash outflow 73 155.1 (56.6) (211.7)
Net debt** 93 281.6 (22.2) (303.8)
Equity Shareholders’ deficit 93 386.1 (28.2) (414.3)
Basic and diluted earnings per share 85 230.0p (40.4p) (270.4p)
* Revenue is for continuing business and excludes revenue from joint ventures of £9.2m (2005: £9.2m)
** Net debt comprises borrowings less cash and cash equivalents
01 Financial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
05 Chief Executive’s Statement
07 Financial Review
10 Operating Review
15 Our Advisers
16 Biographies
18 Corporate Governance Statement
23 Corporate Social Responsibility
26 Directors’ Remuneration Report
31 Directors’ Report 
33 Independent Auditors’ Report
34 Consolidated Income Statement
35 Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
36 Consolidated Balance Sheet
37 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
38 Notes to the Financial Statements
86 Company Balance Sheet
87 Notes to the Company Financial
Statements 2 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Chairman’ s Statement
The year has seen a dramatic turnaround in
the fortunes of Jarvis plc as the Group has
successfully charted a course through a
complex financial restructuring. The year
started with the Group’s survival being in
question but has ended on a much more
optimistic note. In the full year results to 
31 March 2006 the core businesses 
recorded a profit of £16.2 million at the 
operating level, before non-recurring costs 
(2005: £59.1 million loss). The results are 
in line with the expectations of the Board,
though there is clearly further room for
improvement.
In last year’s statement, I said that there was
a practical strategy which the Group intended
to pursue to stem the financial losses. This
included divesting the Group of peripheral
businesses and focusing on our core
capabilities. During the past year we have
stuck to that strategy, delivering a solid result
and most importantly giving the Group, its
employees and Shareholders a foundation 
for growth and a sustainable future. 
Credit must go to the entire Jarvis
community, which under the careful guidance
of former Chief Executive Alan Lovell and his
successor Richard Entwistle, has achieved a
remarkable turnaround both in terms of
financial and business performance.
Alan Lovell, who joined us in October 2004
specifically to undertake the recovery task,
has now moved on from the Group to take up
a new challenge elsewhere. The Group, and
all associated with it, owe him a significant
debt and on behalf of everyone I wish to
record our sincere thanks to him for the 
work he has completed. The skill, enthusiasm
and good humour he has brought to Jarvis,
despite the considerable challenges he has
faced, have been hugely appreciated. He has
left a Jarvis that is transformed and with a
strengthened senior team in place. With his
help, the Group now has every reason to 
look forward to a positive future.
There is of course a significant amount of
work still to do to complete our recovery 
as Richard Entwistle takes on the role of
Chief Executive, based in Y ork. Across the 
business there continues to be a structured
programme of operational improvement in
place. We are now well placed to move
forward with a controlled but effective
strategy focused on our core competencies.
A better year
I reported at the half year the Group’s return
to operating profit and this trend continues
with our reporting a full year operating profit
of £11.1 million before non-recurring costs 
(2005: £75.3 million loss). The Group
recorded a loss for the year mainly due to
finance costs which include a one-off figure
incurred in the first half relating to the
financial restructuring process. 
Financial results
This year is the first full year in which 
we produce results under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
the comparatives have been adjusted
accordingly. Revenue for the year reduced
from £509.7 million to £401.2 million, due in
part to the careful pruning of the businesses
undertaken during the previous year to
ensure the survival of the Group. The Group
operating profit of £9.3 million reflects the
significant changes that have been brought
about in the Group compared with the 
£363.5 million loss in the previous full year
results. As indicated above, finance costs of
£67.8 million in the year, including charges 
of £61.9 million of non-cash adjustments 
in relation to the Debt for Equity Exchange,
produce a loss before tax of £58.2 million
(2005: £391.0 million). The overall loss for 
the period, after taking into account post 
tax profit from discontinued operations, 
is £56.6 million (2005: £332.1 million). 
Net debt at the year end was in line with 
the projections made at the time of the 
Debt for Equity Exchange at £22.2 million 
(2005: £303.8 million).
Refinancing
Documentation for a £67 million three-year
committed and secured credit facility has
been signed in July 2006 which is being
used to refinance the Group’s existing loan
facilities and provide liquidity. The new facility
is led by Burdale Financial Limited, the
secured asset-based lending subsidiary 
of the Bank of Ireland.  Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 3
The new facility is split into a senior tranche
of £55 million and a junior tranche of 
£12 million with an initial blended margin 
over LIBOR of approximately 4 per cent. The
senior tranche comprises term and revolving
loans. £10.4 million of the revolving portion is
subject to monthly reductions from January
2007 onwards. The junior tranche is subject
to reductions of £2 million in January 2008
and a further £2 million in September 2009,
subject to the satisfaction of performance
and headroom tests. Voluntary prepayment
of the junior tranche is not permitted for one
year. Subsequent prepayment of this junior
tranche is subject to performance and
headroom tests. 
The facility documentation contains a 
number of undertakings including a dividend
restriction. The Company can pay a dividend
only where, had the dividend been paid, 
the available but undrawn funding under 
the facility would have exceeded £25 million
for a period of 90 days prior to such payment.
The Company has agreed to issue 4,602,460
new ordinary shares, approximately 
3 per cent of its current issued share capital.
Dividend
The results for the year and the restructuring
that took place during this period have
significantly improved the Group balance
sheet. However, there remains a deficit 
on Shareholders funds of £28.2 million 
(2005: £414.3 m). Accordingly, the Board 
does not recommend a dividend be paid in
respect of the year.
Safety
Jarvis has always asserted that safety is the
number one priority. As far as our Rail and
Plant business is concerned this culture has
been maintained and observed. The business
performed particularly well in Network Rail’s
“365 Day Challenge” which set a target for 
all its contractors to remain RIDDOR* free
throughout the year. Network Rail recognised
the performance of the business when two
contract teams achieved 1.5 million
RIDDOR*-free man-hours between them.
Network Rail presented safety awards to our
West Coast Renewals Team and our Scottish
West Coast Main Line Route Modernisation
Team. Network Rail has also set an accident
frequency rate challenge of no more than 
0.3 RIDDOR reportable accidents per
100,000 hours worked on its projects. 
The Group was able to report a performance
of 0.21 against the target for the year which
placed the business at the forefront of 
the industry’s performance. This highly
developed safety culture is now being
exported to the other parts of the Group 
to strengthen their safety operations.
Operational recovery
The operating profit in the core businesses of
Rail and Plant and Roads has been a pleasing
£16.2 million, before non-recurring items
(2005: £59.1 million loss), on a slightly lower
than expected turnover of £312.4 million
(2005: £339.8 million). The core operating
margin of some 5.2 per cent is satisfactory
and in line with our expectations at the time
of the prospectus for the Placing and Open
Offer last year, with Rail and Plant showing 
a particularly healthy margin. While the
Accommodation Services division returned
losses, I am reassured that this was in line
with our expectations. The Roads division
also recorded a loss, which is disappointing. 
I am however pleased to report that we
continue to make progress in returning this
operation to an acceptable level of profit. 
Core businesses
The core businesses of Rail and Plant and
Roads continued to deliver high quality
services to our customers throughout a
particularly difficult and trying period at the
beginning of the year. With little or no money
for capital investment, the operational
management delivered an outstanding
turnaround from the significant losses of
previous years. 
The Rail and Plant business continues 
to deliver efficient, effective and safe 
rail network services across the UK for 
their major customer Network Rail, and
increasingly Transport Scotland. The Plant
element of this business has seen some
major developments, not the least of which 
is the new three-year contract with Network
Rail for the supply of On Track Machinery 
and the development of our freight business. 
The Roads business has, disappointingly,
proven more difficult to turnaround than 
was first expected. However, much 
work has progressed on identifying and
understanding the issues to be addressed
and a thorough improvement programme 
is well progressed. 
Non-core business / 
Accommodation Services
Steady progress has been made during 
the year on the critical task of exiting from
Construction and stabilising the Facilities
Management (FM) business. In Construction
14 contracts were the subject of Settlement
Deeds in January 2005. I am pleased to 
report that all but one of the 14 construction
contracts have now been handed over and
are in operational use. In addition, there has
been an intense period of work to remedy 
the outstanding issues on recently completed
construction contracts that have proved a
drain on the business.
The Company has refocused its Facilities
Management (FM) activities and has a
service improvement programme underway
to take the business to a level where it will
have a sustainable future.
Management
At the beginning of this report I mentioned
the work undertaken by Alan Lovell during
the previous 18 months which has laid the
foundations for the Group’s recovery. 
Alasdair Marnoch stepped in as Group
Finance Director at the time of the
restructuring last year. He had also joined 
as part of the turnaround team and left at the
end of May this year having paved the way 
for the new three-year working capital facility.
We are enormously grateful to Alasdair for his
contribution. The Group has had succession
plans in place for both Alan and Alasdair 
for more than six months. I was therefore
pleased that the Board confirmed the
appointment of Richard Entwistle, who joined
the Group last September as Chief Operating
Officer, as the Chief Executive of the Group 
in June this year. The Board also welcomed
John O’Kane who joined in April this year,
replacing Alasdair as Group Finance Director
in May. The Executive team supporting
Richard and John remain largely unchanged
from last year creating a stable, commercially
focused and highly skilled team. 
The core businesses of Rail, Plant and Roads
continued to deliver high quality services to
our customers 4 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Chairman’ s Statement
The contribution of our three Non-Executive
Directors also deserves recognition. They
have made themselves available to the
executive team during the year on many
occasions over and above the level normally
required from Non-Executive Directors. Their
advice on improvements to internal controls
and on issues arising from the Group’s
operations have been widely welcomed 
and appreciated within the business.
Future prospects
Our core businesses are now returning to 
a position of strength and we will carefully
evaluate the potential of the remaining 
non-core activities. As we continue to 
recover we will remain focused on our core
competencies and our drive for controlled
growth elsewhere. The UK and international
markets offer significant prospects for that
growth. The use of our Accutrack technology
in Holland is a successful example of this.
In the coming year, our view of the full year
remains in line with the forecast made at 
the time of the prospectus for Placing and
Open Offer. The year will be unevenly split
with the majority of the return being seen in
the second half. This is due to the change 
in the structure of the business, and the
slower than expected start to the year in 
Rail and Plant as a consequence of a number
of contracts being let later than expected. 
The prospectus for the Placing and Open
Offer stated that cash outflows associated
with the non-core businesses were expected
to be £36 million to £46 million. These
outflows are now expected to be at the
higher end of this range, and this, together
with the slow start in Rail and Plant, will
impact on the first half cash position.
Immediately following the completion of 
the new facility described above, proforma
net debt, excluding transaction costs, was
expected to be approximately £36 million. 
As was stated in the prospectus, net debt 
is still expected to peak in the first half of 
the current financial year.
With the financial restructuring now behind
us, and our operational performance vastly
improved, the Board believes the Group now
has a firm foundation from which to improve
Shareholder value in future years.
Steven Norris 
Chairman
14 August 2006
*The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations 1995. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 5
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Financial restructuring
The year under review witnessed the
completion of the financial restructuring
which enabled the Group to survive and 
gave it a solid base from which to grow again
in the future. This restructuring, described
fully in a circular to Shareholders dated 
12 July 2005, comprised a Debt for Equity
Exchange by the Group’s lenders, combined
with a Placing and Open Offer to raise 
£50 million. The successful completion of
these transactions on 29 September 2005
left the Group with a more manageable
balance sheet and with a much reduced 
net debt: £6.2 million at 30 September 
and £22.2 million at the year end.
The cash outflow in the second six months
was planned and expected. In the prospectus
dated 26 August 2005 we warned of a cash
outflow of £36 – 46 million on three legacy
issues: the repayment of two stakeholder
advances and the remaining costs associated
with Construction and Facilities Management
(FM). By March, one of the stakeholder
advances had been repaid in full and the 
other was 77 per cent cleared. Part of the
Construction and FM outflow had occurred,
but there will be a further outflow in 2006-07,
particularly during the first six months.
Overall the range of £36 – 46 million
described in September remains a valid
target, although I now believe it to be 
towards the top end.
At the time of the restructuring in September
we put in place a temporary and very
expensive revolving credit facility. I am
pleased to report that we have recently
refinanced that with a new three year facility
at more normal interest rates, which reflects
the good progress that the Group has made.
The new agreement is with Burdale Financial
Limited, a subsidiary of the Bank of Ireland.
Health and Safety
The business reviews in this report indicate
the progress we continue to make in our
safety practices across the Group. I would
like to pay tribute to all those who have
worked so hard to set exemplary safety
standards in the Group. Of particular note
was the Rail and Plant accident frequency
rate (AFR) in 2005-06 which was 0.21 serious
accidents per 100,000 hours. This was less
than half the rate of 2004-05 and well below
the Network Rail target rate of 0.30. 
The core business 
Critical to our survival has been the ability of
the Rail and Plant division to deliver excellent
results safely and efficiently, not only for 
our key customer, Network Rail, but also 
for a range of other customers. It has been
reassuring that at a time when so much 
of my time has been focused on the
restructuring, Jarvis Rail and Fastline have
continued to deliver solid results throughout
the year. There have been some notable
achievements such as the securing of the 
On Track Machine and Stoneblower contracts
with Network Rail. While Network Rail
continues to be a major focus for our
business, we also recognise the need to
diversify into new markets. We have already
begun extending into international markets
led by an experienced, international business
development team. Fastline’s entry into the
rail freight market is further evidence of
constructive new business development.
Having fully refurbished two Class 56
locomotives and leased one other, plus 
24 container flat wagons, Fastline Freight 
is now targeting customers currently using 
road haulage. 
The Roads division has, disappointingly,
proven more difficult to turnaround than 
was first expected. However, much 
work has been done on identifying and
understanding the issues to be addressed
and a thorough improvement programme is
well advanced. Prismo, our roads markings
and specialist surfacing business, has
recently received the first of its new road
painting specialist vehicles produced by our
Somerford Equipment business. These will
greatly improve the operational efficiency 
of our marking crews. The Chorley
manufacturing plant has also significantly
increased its production levels and is now
performing far more efficiently. I remain
confident in the core offerings provided by
Prismo. It is at the forefront of innovative
product development designed to improve
road safety and the quality and performance
As we move into the second quarter of the
current financial year, the Group continues
to make good progress 6 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Chief Executive’ s Statement
of our Prismo products, manufactured at
Chorley is outstanding. Having made the
decision to retain Herefordshire Jarvis
Services (HJS) in October last year the
management team there has been
strengthened and that business has now
moved into profitability. Our expectation is
that this business will make further progress
and that the underlying business model
developed here will be will be inherently
exportable. 
Non-core business / 
Accommodation Services
Steady progress has been made during 
the year on the critical task of exiting from
Construction and stabilising the Facilities
Management (FM) business.
In Construction,14 contracts were the
subject of Settlement Deeds in January 2005.
Work on 13 of these was either handed over
to another contractor or completed by the
year end, although defect clearance is still in
progress on four of them. The remaining one
is at Whittington Hospital in North London;
construction of phase one is progressing 
well and should be complete in late August.
The Group is likely to participate in the
delivery of the second phase.
Of the 21 old construction contracts where
there was outstanding work to clear defects
at the beginning of the year, only 11 remain
incomplete. However, since the Group’s
financial future was assured in September,
the pace has picked up, good progress has
been made and relationships with the
schools and local education authorities
concerned have improved considerably. 
Of these 11, the majority are likely to be
completed in the summer holidays this year. 
The other key focus of activity has been on
FM where the Group started the year with 
48 contracts, 17 of which were disposed 
of as part of a planned programme. The
remaining 31 include 28 PFI contracts, 21 of
these are schools contracts covering a total 
of 88 schools and five are hospital contracts.
Five PFI contracts perform poorly and are loss
making after allocation of overhead costs.
However, brought forward provisions cover
these contract losses. 
We aim to improve the results of this
business through a dedicated operational
improvement programme and by
benchmarking of charges (for some 
services) to market rates. This generally
occurs between five and seven years
from the start of the FM contract. Where
appropriate the business is also holding
discussions with the clients to revise the
most onerous contract conditions. 
Personnel
As the incoming Chief Executive I must pay
thanks to my predecessor in the role, Alan
Lovell who took charge of the Group in its
darkest days in October 2004 and only moved
on at the end of June of this year. This year’s
Annual Report is a testament to his success.
The Group is now in a much better state 
of health.
I would also like to record a great debt of
gratitude to Alasdair Marnoch who was
Finance Director of the Group for fifteen
months, during some very difficult times. 
The finances of the Group and the
performance of the function both improved
dramatically under his stewardship. I am
delighted to welcome John O’Kane as his
successor. John has had exceptional
experience as Finance Director of Kelda 
and Peterhouse and we are very pleased 
to have secured his services.
These are the major changes to the
management team over the past twelve
months and I am delighted to report that we
have achieved stability in the management
structures of the business with a strong team
capable of taking the Company forward.
The future
As we move into the second quarter of the
current financial year the Group continues to
make good progress. The finances of the
Group are in better shape and we have a high
quality and focused management team in
place. However, there remain significant
challenges. The award of new work in Rail 
and Plant has been slower than anticipated.
We need to continue our thrust to drive
operational improvement in the Roads
division and FM business and complete 
the exit from Construction.
Richard Entwistle
Chief Executive
14 August 2006 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 7
Financial Review
Key events during the year
Operational restructuring
During the year the Group continued to exit
from its remaining peripheral businesses,
with the disposal of the European Roads and
Techspan businesses, to focus on becoming
an Infrastructure Services business with
two divisions:
– Rail and Plant – which provides services for
track renewal and the delivery of electrical
and signalling projects and manages the
provision, operation and maintenance 
of self-propelled track maintenance and
renewal trains, as well as small plant hire.
– Roads – which is engaged in the
manufacture, marketing and application 
of specialised roads products.
The Group had previously announced its
intention to divest its Accommodation
Services operation. A programme is
underway to return this business to
profitability.
Financial restructuring
The Company completed its financial
restructuring, described fully in a circular 
to Shareholders dated 12 July 2005, on 
28 September 2005, with the successful
conclusion to the Share Placing and Open
Offer and the Debt for Equity Exchange. 
The impact on the Group’s balance sheet 
is described in note 24.4. 
Results for the year
Income statement
2006 2005 Change
£m £m £m
Revenue 401.2 509.7 (108.5)
Operating profit 
before non-
recurring costs 11.1 (75.3) 86.4
Non-recurring 
costs (1.8) (288.2) 286.4
Operating 
profit/(loss) 9.3 (363.5) 372.8
Finance costs (67.8) (27.7) (40.1)
Loss before tax (58.2) (391.0) 332.8
Key performance indicators
The Group’s management uses a range 
of performance measures to monitor 
and manage the business. Certain of 
these measures are particularly important 
in measuring our progress in creating
Shareholder value and are considered 
key performance indicators (KPIs). The 
KPIs measure past performance and also 
provide information to allow us to manage
the business into the future. Revenue,
operating profit before non-recurring costs,
operating margin, EPS, operating cash flow
and net debt indicate the volume of work
delivered, the profitability and the efficiency
with which the profits have been turned into
cash. KPIs for 2005-06 are shown in the
table below, along with prior year
comparatives.
2006 2005 Change
Revenue £401.2m £509.7m (£108.5m)
Operating 
profit before 
non-recurring 
costs £11.1m (£75.3m) £86.4m
Operating 
margin 2.8% (14.8%) 17.6%
Basic loss 
per share (40.4p) (270.4p) 230.0p
Operating 
cash flow (£56.6m) (£211.7m) £155.1m
Net debt £22.2m £303.8m £281.6m
The financial metrics are as reported in 
the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue for the year to 31 March 2006
reduced by £108.5 million to £401.2 million,
because of the following factors:
– The Roads business exit from the majority
of its Highways Maintenance contracts in
2006. 
– The delay to the commencement of some
rail projects and the expected reduction in
WCRM volumes in the Rail and Plant
business.
– The Accommodation Services business 
exit from Construction.
The Group has returned to profitability at 
the operating level, with an operating profit
before non-recurring costs of £11.1 million
(2005: £75.3 million loss). The operational 
turnaround of the Support Services
business and the reduction of losses 
caused by the Accommodation Services
business were key factors. 
Further factors included:
– Exit from the loss making Highways
Maintenance contracts in the Roads 
division.
– Improved trading and margins in most of 
the activities in Rail and Plant and Roads
divisions.
– Significant one-off provisions charged 
in 2005 against profits for contract
entitlements and receivables in the 
Rail and Roads businesses. 
– A reduction in central and divisional
overheads as a result of the overhead 
cost reduction exercise.
– Significant year end adjustments were
incurred in 2005, including provisions
against foreseeable losses, non-recurring
cost provisions and write down of
certain fixed and current assets.
The loss per share has fallen as a result 
of the conversion of operating losses in
2005 to profits in 2006, and the sharp
reduction in non-recurring costs. These
improvements were partly offset by an
increase in finance costs, which were
caused by the completion of the Debt for
Equity Exchange. 
Operating cash outflow was £56.6 million
(2005: £211.7 million), largely as a result of
the repayment of two stakeholder loans
from the previous year and the completion
of the majority of the construction contracts
for which losses have already been
provided. These factors turned operating
profits before non-recurring costs into
operating cash outflows. 
Net debt decreased from £303.8 million 
at 31 March 2005 to £22.2 million at 
31 March 2006 largely as a result of the
financial restructuring. 8 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Financial Review
Non-recurring costs 
The principal elements of the non-
recurring costs during the year were:
– Professional fees associated with
restructuring of £1.6 million.
– Redundancy costs of £1.5 million provided 
for the next phase of the overhead cost
reduction exercise. The costs in relation to
the overhead reduction exercise completed
in 2005 were adequately provided for in 
the 2005 financial statements.
– A credit of £1.3 million in relation to a
release of onerous lease provisions, where
property contracts were terminated or
assigned for less than provided for in the
2005 financial statements. 
Finance costs
Costs/(credits) 2006 2005 Change
£m £m £m
Debt-for-Equity 
conversion costs 61.9 15.9 46.0
IAS 19 returns on 
pension assets less 
interest costs of 
pension liabilities (1.7) (1.7) –
Corporate 
loans and 
other financing 7.6 13.5 (5.9)
Total 67.8 27.7 40.1
Net finance costs of £67.8 million for 
the year ended 31 March 2006 were
significantly higher than in the previous
year (2005: £27.7 million) as a result of the
financial restructuring and the changes to
the Group’s funding structure. 
The finance costs of £61.9 million 
(2005: £15.9 million) incurred in 
connection with the Debt for Equity
Exchange comprise deferred and 
payment in kind interest of £17.0 million
(2005: £14.4 million) to the principal
lenders agreed under the Override
Agreement, £19.3 million (2005: £nil) in
relation to the Smithfield lease liability
and £25.6 million (2005: £1.5 million) 
for various other loans in connection 
with the restructuring agreement.
The reduction of £5.9 million in respect of
the corporate loans was due mainly to the
successful financial restructuring, and 
the resulting lower debt levels since
September 2005. 
Taxation
At 31 March 2006 the Group had 
£108.7 million in tax losses to reduce 
tax payments in future years, subject to
continued taxable profits in certain Group
companies. However, no deferred tax
assets have been recognised, due to
uncertainty in the timing, quantum and
recoverability of those tax assets. The
Group paid no corporate tax in the financial
year, as it reported a loss of £58.2 million. 
The tax credit for the year was £0.1million.
Dividend
The Board will not recommend the payment
of a dividend.
Balance sheet
2006 2005 Change
£m £m £m
Non-current 
assets 54.7 36.8 17.9
Current assets 121.3 169.2 (47.9)
Current liabilities (174.5) (565.9) 391.4
Non-current 
liabilities (29.8) (71.6) 41.8
Net assets held 
for sale 0.1 17.2 (17.1)
Net liabilities (28.2) (414.3) 386.1
The reduction in the net liabilities was
mainly due to the completion of the
financial restructuring. The key factors in
the improvement are as follows:
– Debt for Equity Exchange reduced
borrowings by £280.1 million and
eliminated £24.5 million onerous lease
provision in relation to Smithfield.
– Share Placing and Open Offer proceeds of
£43.5 million received to repay borrowings
and fund working capital requirements.
– Pension deficit of £15.8 million converted
into an overall surplus of £4.1 million.
Risks and uncertainties
In order to manage our business effectively
we must identify and respond both to the
risks inherent in the business environment
and those particular to the fields in which we
operate. The Group has recently reviewed 
its risk management procedures for the
identification and monitoring of both strategic
and operational risks and this is reported in
the Corporate Governance Statement on
pages 18 to 22.The new structure enables
the operational management meetings and
the Board to regularly review material risks
that are identified by the embedded
structure. Risk reviews are also undertaken
as part of our budgeting and strategic
planning processes.
Changes in the market environment
The way in which our business operates 
is dependent on the market environment. 
The Company has a significant focus on the
UK Rail industry as a result of the Group’s
decision to exit the construction sector 
and the associated sales of part of the 
FM business in recent years. The Company,
as a track renewals contractor, is exposed 
to the demand for these services in the UK
market. This risk has focused the Board on
diversification from a single customer and 
the development of our small plant, transport
and freight businesses have been in
response to this risk. 
Changes in the competitive environment
The Company works in a highly regulated
environment, largely for the public 
sector in Roads, Rail and Plant and its
Accommodation Services division. 
Changes and developments in the regulatory
environment for these operations have to be
responded to with due expedition and this
now forms part of the tasks of the Board’s
Corporate Governance Committee. 
Pensions
The Group operates both defined benefit and
defined contribution pension schemes. The
major defined benefit scheme is effectively
closed to new members but continues to Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 9
accrue liabilities for existing contributing
members. As with all final salary schemes,
there is a risk that the scheme’s assets will
not match the liabilities, with the scheme
assets being largely invested in equity and
bonds where value can fluctuate. The liability
value can also change with the rate of
inflation and the longevity of the scheme
members amongst other factors.
Assumptions regarding these factors are
taken by the scheme trustees advised by
actuaries to identify appropriate funding
rates. Should these assumptions prove to be
inaccurate a material difference between a
scheme’s assets and liabilities can arise.
Health and Safety
The majority of our businesses are concerned
with engineering and facilities management
and these operations entail significant health
and safety risks. The Group’s policy and
practice in this area is explained in the
Corporate Social Responsibility Report on
pages 23 to 25. However should our policy
and practice prove to be inadequate in any
way there will be a consequential risk to
employees and contractors as well as to
clients and third parties. Safety is our number
one priority in the business and we ensure
that staff receive appropriate training and that
operational procedure is continuously
monitored and reviewed.
Financial risk management
The Group’s financial risks, and the
monitoring and management of them, are set
out in note 1.24 to the financial statements.
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS)
This is the first year in which the Group has
prepared its financial statements under IFRS
and the comparative financial information has
been restated from UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) to comply
with IFRS.
The most significant areas of impact are 
as follows:
– Pension costs are accounted for under 
IAS 19, which has changed the accounting
treatment of the defined benefit schemes.
This has resulted in the recognition of a 
net pension surplus of £4.1 million on the
balance sheet. This replaces the SSAP 24
pension prepayment of £15.7 million (net 
of deferred tax). The current service costs
of £4.2 million are charged to operating
profit and replace the cash contribution
costs of £2.8 million. In addition to the
operating charge there is net finance
income recognised of £1.7 million, which 
is the net of the expected return of plan
assets less the interest costs of the plan
liabilities. Overall profit before tax is
increased by £0.3 million in 2006.
– Revenue recognition has been revised to 
a more prudent basis, with revenue and
profit recognition taking place when
certified by the customer. This has resulted
in a cumulative reduction of £5.0 million to
net assets and reserves.
– Deferred tax is now provided on all timing
differences. However the Group has not
provided for deferred tax assets on timing
differences and cumulative taxable losses
where there is uncertainty as to the nature,
timing or probability of recoverability.
– IAS 36 stipulates that goodwill should no
longer be amortised but is instead subject
to an annual impairment test. The Group
had a significant goodwill balance in the
opening balance sheet as at 1 April 2004,
which was impaired during the year to 
31 March 2005.
– Under IAS there is no concept of linked
presentation. Financial instruments are only
offset if there is a right of offset and there is
an intention to settle net. The previous UK
GAAP method of presenting non-recourse
debt is no longer allowed under IAS. This
does not affect net assets.
John O’Kane
Finance Director
14 August 2006 10 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Operating Review
Rail and Plant
Overview of activities in the business
Rail and Plant comprises the wholly-owned
subsidiaries: Jarvis Rail Limited and sister
company Fastline Limited together with
Fastline’s specialist plant subsidiaries 
Jarvis Plant Hire Limited and On Track Plant
Limited. The division operates in the area of
track renewals, specialist rail plant provisions,
small plant hire, transport solutions and the
newly established freight operation.
Key performance indicators
2006 2005 Change
Revenue £255.2m £296.9m (£41.7m)
Operating 
profit/(loss) 
before non- 
recurring costs £27.7m (£20.7m) £48.4m
Operating margin 10.9% (7.0%) 17.9%
Revenue reduced in the year compared with
the prior year as anticipated because of the
reduction in the workload on the West Coast
Route Modernisation project and the delay 
in commencement of certain other Rail
projects. The loss of the Network Rail Small
Plant contract and reduction in internal sales
also contributed. This reduction in internal
sales was driven by the disposal of non-core
businesses and the reduction in scale of
activities in Construction and Highways
Maintenance.
One-off costs such as provisions for claims
and asset impairments, which were incurred
during the year to 31 March 2005, have 
not been repeated in 2006. Underlying
trading has improved due to operational
improvements, which have driven improved
margins. A reduction in overheads as a result
of planned cost saving exercises has also had
a significant impact.
Rail
As one of the major providers in the UK for
track renewal, development, and electrical
and signalling services, Jarvis Rail has
continued to strengthen its relationship 
with its major customer Network Rail. 
Safety is critical to the Rail business, and the
year saw the Company continue to better the
accident frequency rate (AFR) target of 0.30
set by Network Rail. At the year-end the
combined Jarvis Rail and Fastline AFR 
stood at a highly creditable 0.21 for trackside
incidents, a considerable step forward in 
the quest for zero accidents.
Against the backdrop of the Group’s financial
restructuring, Jarvis Rail has focused on
delivering high quality and safe products and
services on time, to budget and by utilising
innovative and efficient methods. Improved
operational performance has been central 
to Jarvis’ recovery, and in the Rail business
there is no better example of this than in 
the Company’s deployment of its patented
Accutrack track renewals system, which
takes a mechanised approach using
innovative technology. Accutrack was fully
utilised at Polesworth on the West Coast
Main Line (WCML) in October 2005. It
created a step change in the UK track
renewals industry by doubling the industry
standard for track renewals normally
completed in a single 54-hour possession.
Jarvis demonstrated the potential of the
innovative and safe approach offered by
Accutrack by completing 3,652 composite
yards of track renewals within the
possession, and handing back to Network
Rail at line speed. The continued
development and deployment of the
Accutrack technology, including the Slinger
(Track Renewals System or TRS) and Mole
(Rapid Ballast Excavator or RBE) is key to
Jarvis Rail’s competitive edge in the UK 
and overseas.
Teamwork has been central to Jarvis Rail’s
recovery and the 11 projects completed at
Christmas demonstrated the commitment of
the operational teams. Despite snowfall and
freezing conditions, the Jarvis team across
the UK worked around the clock to complete
signalling commissioning, overhead line
contact wire renewal, plain line renewal, 
and switch heating installation and
commissioning. The work included the
Doncaster Station – Sheffield Ladder 
switch and crossing renewals, which were
completed between Christmas Eve and New
Y ear’s Eve, and involved about 245 people
working across 22 shifts on the East Coast
Main Line (ECML).
As well as continuing to build the relationship
with Network Rail in the UK, and increasingly
Transport Scotland, Jarvis Rail began
extending its market reach internationally.
This is consistent with the Group’s strategy
for controlled growth. 
Jarvis in Scotland
Jarvis Rail in Scotland had a positive year
delivering key projects for Network Rail, 
and now also Transport Scotland. The West
Coast Route Modernisation team located 
at Shettleston and Guide Bridge achieved
500,000 man-hours RIDDOR*-free on a 
high output contract and was commended 
by Network Rail. Notable contract successes
included the Glasgow and South West Line
Upgrade, and the completion of the High
Output Renewals Works on the West Coast
Main Line in Scotland. Other key projects
were the switch and crossing renewals at
various locations including the Edinburgh 
and Glasgow route and the Scotland sector 
of the East Coast and West Coast Main Lines.
The ability of the Company to deliver projects
in all rail infrastructure disciplines was
demonstrated by the ongoing delivery of
overhead line renewal works on the Glasgow,
South and North Electric Lines and various
signalling and telecommunications projects
throughout Scotland. A key initiative nearing
completion at the end of the financial year
was the re-branding of the Scotland Rail
business to Scotland Track Renewals
Company (STRC). The re-branding 
recognised the market changes and
opportunities within the Scotland Rail sector.
One such opportunity is Network Rail’s
anticipated 15 per cent increase during the
next three years in the volume of switch and
crossing (S&C) renewals.  Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 11
West Coast Main Line (WCML)
The Jarvis Rail team working on the WCML
achieved a 72 per cent improvement on
safety performance compared to the
previous year and were commended by
Network Rail for hitting a target of one million
man-hours RIDDOR-free. From a delivery
perspective, the team completed a number
of contracts covering the length of the
WCML, amounting to 140,072 composite
yards of plain line renewals across 78 sites.
Besides the outstanding success of the
Accutrack implementation at Polesworth,
which was recognised by Network Rail,
Jarvis has continued to deliver strong results
on the WCML. Among the highlights was 
the delivery of 1,908 yards of renewal at 
Four Ashes (near Wolverhampton) and the
completion at short notice of more than 800
yards of re-sleepering works at Golborne in
the North West using the track renewals train
(TRT). This was only possible due to the level
of commitment and flexibility displayed by
the staff involved. 
The West Coast team also successfully
delivered a number of large multi-disciplined
S&C schemes at Ditton, Wigan, Hilmorton
and High Oakes and completed the track
realignment works in the North West and
Scotland to allow a revised line speed profile
for the new Virgin timetables. 
Electrical Projects Group (EPG)
The EPG is the specialist team which delivers
signalling, overhead line and electrical and
power solutions for internal and external
customers in the rail market. The year has
seen the construction and commissioning 
of key projects located in the North West,
North East and Midlands for Network Rail. 
London North Eastern (LNE)
The team working on the LNE territory track
renewal contract has performed well during
the year, having improved significantly in
safety performance and delivered more than
350,000 composite yards of plain track and
44 point ends of switch and crossings. Other
key activities have been the increased use 
of the specialist plant equipment owned 
and operated by sister company Fastline,
delivering high volume conventional track
renewals and challenging the industry’s unit
cost. The team remains focused on achieving
the cost reduction targets set for Network
Rail by the Office of Rail Regulation through
the efficient and cohesive delivery of
engineering operations, logistics and
specialist plant equipment.
Plant
Fastline, the plant, freight, and transport
solutions company, has made solid progress
during the year in securing a substantial
proportion of Network Rail’s national contract
awards. In particular, the award of Network
Rail’s three-year On Track Machine (OTM)
contract was a major achievement. 
At the same time, Fastline has further
diversified its customer base during the year
and its controlled entry into the event lighting
and rail freight transport markets is already
showing great potential. Customer service 
is paramount and Fastline provides its
customers with 24 hour – 365 days-a-year
support, via the control centre in Y ork. 
On Track Machines (OTMs)
In December, Fastline signed a multi-million
pound contract with Network Rail for the
provision of OTMs as part of a three-year
contract, with options to extend up to five
years. The contract together with additional
associated work in Scotland is worth 
£26 million in the first year and includes the
deployment of 46 machines covering the key
territories of London North West (LNW) and
London North Eastern (LNE). The remaining
machines in the fleet remain available for
deployment on individual projects and
blockade works. Following the success of 
the OTM contract win, in April 2006 Fastline
was awarded the operations contract for four
Stoneblowers assigned to the LNE and one
to Scotland. 
Fastline has continued to improve its OTM
efficiency, principally through its proactive
approach to maintenance. The benefits
include reduced operational risk and costs,
and improved reliability. The approach 
utilised the six sigma process improvement
methodology, which is an internationally
recognised method.
The year saw significant changes in the high
output contract, following completion of the
West Coast Route Modernisation project.
Fastline was awarded a two-year contract,
worth around £3.8 million in total, for the
maintenance and operation of the two
Medium Output Ballast Cleaners, to be
deployed around the network. The contract
has the facility to be extended by one year.
Specialist plant
The development and management of Jarvis’
patented Accutrack technology continues to
go from strength to strength. The Slinger
(Track Renewals System or TRS) and 
Mole (Rapid Ballast Excavator or RBE) have
been recognised by Network Rail for their
effectiveness, as demonstrated in the
Polesworth track renewals project on 
the WCML.
The Mole uses laser alignment and 
3.8 metre jaws to remove ballast and spoil 
up to 450 mm deep in a single pass, at a 
rate up to 1,000 tonnes per hour. The Slinger
has the capability to deliver and place steel 
or concrete sleepers, lift and remove or 
replace track panels in lengths up to 234 m.
Production rates using the Slinger can be
twice that of traditional methods. A second
Mole, which incorporated a range of
improvements evolving from the operational
use of the first Mole, has been successfully
deployed. It is currently being used on a
showcase project in Holland, where a
massive 26,000 linear metres of track 
is being excavated within a five week
timescale. There will also be investment 
in a fifth Slinger machine and continuous
development work will see next generation
renewals technology emerge. 12 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Operating Review
Rail and Plant
Small plant
Fastline has demonstrated its ability to rapidly
adapt to the changing business landscape.
Despite losing a major project with Network
Rail in early 2005, the business still managed
to achieve its financial objectives in the 
year by opening up new opportunities and
broadening its market base. An example 
of this is the recently awarded contract to
provide small plant to Metronet.
Significant investment in small plant has 
seen a wide range of new equipment added
to the hire fleet. Items including EGO 5
electric trolleys and self-powered high mast
lighting sets have proved extremely popular.
Fastline’s reputation for first-rate service was
underlined with several contractors entering
into framework agreements for the supply 
of a wide range of small plant.
The lighting solutions business has shown
consistent growth during the year and several
records have been broken for the deployment
of lighting, with more than 41 miles installed
in one weekend – the equivalent distance of
the entire Metropolitan Tube Line. As part 
of its strategy to diversify its business in a
controlled manner, Fastline entered the 
event lighting business, providing lighting 
for events such as a charity drive-in cinema
event at Harewood House, Leeds, in
December 2005. 
Logistics
During the year, Fastline continued to 
prepare for the June 2006 launch of its
Fastline Freight intermodal service between
Doncaster and Thamesport. Preparations
included the refurbishment of two Class 56
locomotives, two of which have been
purchased and one leased. In addition, the
business has leased 24 FEAB 60 foot
container flat wagons. Fastline Freight 
will target customers currently using road
haulage rather than competing with existing
rail freight customers. Its entry into the
freight market complements existing
competencies in the rail infrastructure market
and provides a natural extension to existing
operations. The potential for growth in this
market is significant and already plans are
being developed for further investment. 
Through its Transport division, Fastline
supplies a wide range of road vehicles to
more than 100 rail and general construction
companies, and it is also making inroads 
into the public sector with a number of local
government customers. The Crewmaster
range of vehicles, developed by the Group,
are being used by an increasingly diverse
range of customers. These customers
include the Environment Agency,
contractors and ‘blue light’ services, 
which require vehicles specially equipped
for health, safety and welfare purposes.
With improved confidence in the business,
the Transport team was able to negotiate
increased credit lines of £10 million. 
Around £3 million of this was committed 
to replacing 200 vehicles, 40 of them in 
the short-term hire fleet. Of the transport
team’s total 3,500 vehicle fleet,
approximately 1,800 are used by Jarvis,
1,400 are on long-term lease, and the
remaining vehicles are in use in 
short-term hire.
Innovation is at the very heart of the
Fastline business. Armed with an in-depth
understanding of customers’ current 
and future needs, the business is able to
develop mechanised solutions to improve
efficiency and safety. The Accutrack
process, with its Mole (Rapid Ballast
Excavator or RBE) and Slinger (Track
Renewals System or TRS) technology,
is a proven example of this.
There are a number of initiatives
progressing at any given time. 
At present we are focusing on:
– Further improving the Accutrack 
process and technology.
– Enhancing specialist white lining
equipment.
– Developing a rail bond technique.
*Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 13
Overview of activities in the business
The Roads division comprises the wholly-
owned subsidiary Prismo Limited together
with joint venture business Herefordshire
Jarvis Service Limited and some incorporated
overseas ventures. The main business of the
division is the manufacture and application of
specialist road surfaces including white lining
material and other reflective surfaces. The
division also has operations involved in the
manufacture of specialist application vehicles
and the distribution of traffic products.
Key performance indicators
2006 2005 Change
Revenue £67.5m £77.3m (£9.8m)
Operating loss
before non-
recurring costs (£7.1m) (£28.3m) £21.2m
Operating 
margin (10.5%) (36.6%) 26.1%
Revenue reduction in the year was due
primarily to the exit from certain Highways
Maintenance contracts.
One-off costs covering contract losses and
onerous contract provisions incurred during
the year to 31 March 2005 have not been
repeated in 2006. The underlying trading
has improved following operational
improvements in efficiencies. The improved
margins in most of the Roads activities have
benefited from reductions in overheads as 
a result of the cost-saving exercise. In line
with the Group’s strategy, the Roads
business completed its exit from Highways
Maintenance during the year. The disposal 
of several non-core businesses was also
finalised. 
Safety in the Roads division has received
considerable input in the year. This is now
yielding results but the accident frequency
rate (AFR) of 1.42 for the year was
disappointing. An aggressive improvement
target has been established for the current
2006-07 year.
Prismo
The Prismo business is an industry leader
in road markings and surfacing, providing
end-to-end road safety solutions primarily 
for local authorities. It currently holds 40 to 
50 per cent UK market-share in the specialist
road markings industry and is at the forefront 
of research and development. Prismo
Contracting Services (PCS) has won a
number of contracts during the year in 
which the quality of its submission, 
rather than the price, was the determining
factor. Additionally, PCS was named the 
2005 Contractor of the Y ear by Highways
magazine.
However, the Prismo business has had a
difficult year, particularly in the second half 
and this is reflected in the financial results.
The business has proven slower to
turnaround than was anticipated, although
significant progress has been made. The
senior management team has worked 
hard to identify the key issues and is now
mid-way through a rigorous performance
improvement programme assisted 
by specialist consultants.
Prismo’s purpose-built manufacturing plant 
in Chorley has undergone a transformation
achieving impressive production and
efficiency improvements and providing a
robust UK manufacturing base. However,
during the period of the Group’s difficulties
there is no doubt that sales volume was lost
to competitors. The task now is to recover 
that volume through sales in the UK and
internationally and the business has a
dedicated sales team pursuing this objective.
Progress is being made in the United States
of America and Canada where Prismo has
secured the use of its brand name as Prismo
USA Inc. Prismo had previously traded as
Jarvis Infrastructure USA (JIS USA). 
The challenges of the year were a particular
strain on the PCS business. Whilst the
underlying performance was poor (now the
subject of an improvement initiative) the
business was let down badly by mechanical
problems with aged specialist equipment.
Constraints on finances meant that for some
years there had not been any investment in
much-needed equipment. This issue is now
being addressed with the purchase of 13
specialist vehicles, which are being built by
the Group’s Somerford Equipment business. 
The first vehicle was delivered to the
business in May 2006. 
Customer relationship management (CRM)
has been an area of significant development
and improvement during the year, aimed at
ensuring customers are provided with a
Roads
professional, prompt and high quality service
at all times. By working closely with clients
through the CRM programme, the business
has been able to maintain confidence
throughout the restructuring process. On 
an individual customer basis, responses to
complaints and compliments are now dealt
with routinely as part of the ongoing CRM
process. While there are still improvements
to be realised, there are some very
encouraging signs. For instance, a recent
survey found that more than 80 per cent of
Prismo customers considered the Company
their preferred supplier.
There have been several notable
achievements within the Roads division,
including the successful retention of 
the certification for ISO9001, which
demonstrates continual improvement in
quality management systems. In addition,
PCS and Prismo Product Services (PPS)
received ISO14001 approval from Lloyds
Register Quality Assurance (LRQA),
recognising their commitment to
environmental improvement issues. Safety,
quality and environmental accreditation and
awards are proving increasingly important in
allowing the Roads businesses to compete
for work with large contractors and managing
agents. Prismo’s commitment to the
environment was recognised when it 
was short-listed for the 2006 Business
Commitment to the Environment Awards. 
Herefordshire Jarvis Services (HJS)
In October, Jarvis announced that it had
decided to retain its HJS business as part 
of the Group’s core operations. HJS is a 
joint venture between Prismo Limited and
Herefordshire Council and delivers a broad
range of council services to the county
through an innovative business model. 
It is now in its third year of operation.
The first two years were something of 
a struggle and certainly not aided by the
Group’s difficulties and the uncertainty
associated with whether the business 
would be retained or not. This year (2005-06)
the management team has worked hard to
address the issues and are pushing forward
with significant improvements. The result 
of this effort is a profit in the year for the 
very first time. There is more to do but the
business is well on its way to achieving 
its goals. 14 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Operating Review
Accommodation Services includes the
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Jarvis
Accommodation Services Limited (JAS) and
Jarvis Construction UK Limited which carry
on facilities management and construction
operations. The division has now almost
completed its exit from construction.
Overview of activities in the business
Key performance indicators
2006 2005 Change
Revenue £88.8m £169.9m (£81.1m)
Operating loss
before 
non-recurring 
costs (£5.1m) (£16.2m) £11.1m
Operating margin (5.7%) (9.5%) 3.8%
Revenue fell by £81.1 million, following the
decision to exit from construction. Volume
reduction resulted from the working out of
the remaining contracts.
Losses were reduced by £11.1 million year 
on year, led by stabilisation of the Facilities
Maintenance (FM) business and reduction 
in provisions against contract entitlements 
and receivables.
JAS - FM
JAS has benefited from a new, commercially
focused senior management team under the
operational direction of Managing Director
Stuart Laird. The team is leading an intense
period of service improvement within the FM
business, with the help of an expert business
consultancy. The 30-week service
improvement programme aims to take the
business to a level where it has a sustainable
future in FM. The JAS team across the
country is now focused on the service
improvement programme with a small
number of employees seconded full time to
work on the project. Customer relationship
management has also come under review
with a senior specialist briefed to implement
a more robust system for managing
customer relationships. This is already
achieving positive results. On safety, 
JAS performed to a satisfactory level and
safety improvement plans are in place 
going forward.
The year has nevertheless been a challenging
one for JAS, but the business is addressing
the issues and making the improvements
necessary to move forward. In its favour, 
JAS continues to have an enviable market
penetration within the education sector of 
the FM industry, and to a lesser extent 
within health. 
During the year there have been a number of
selected disposals aimed at rationalising the
estate and refocusing the business on niche
FM markets. This included the surrender of
the FM contract within the University Private
Partnership (UPP) to special purpose vehicle
Alma Mater. The agreement also released 
the Group from all construction liabilities 
on these projects. The Irish FM contracts
were also disposed of for logistical reasons.
The remaining FM business comprises 31
contracts, 28 of which are long-term PFI and
include 21 schools, five hospital contracts,
the Army Foundation College at Harrogate,
one district council office in Chippenham and
Tyne and Wear Fire Stations. Outside these
PFI contracts the business operates FM
contracts for Redcar and Cleveland Borough
Council, British Atlantic Surveys and GNER.
Trading remains challenging on a small
number of contracts in particular and specific
improvement programmes are in place. 
Accommodation Services Our Advisers
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 15
Registered Office
Meridian House
The Crescent
York
YO24 1AW
Company Registration
Registered in England
No. 2238084
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Auditors
RSM Robson Rhodes LLP
St George House
40 Great George Street
Leeds
LS1 3DQ
Bankers
Lloyds TSB
City Office
Bailey Drive 
Gillingham Business Park
Kent 
ME8 0LS
Stockbrokers
KBC Peel Hunt Ltd
62 Threadneedle Street
London
EC2R 8HR 16 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Biographies
Non-Executives Executives Chairman
Steven Norris (59)
Executive Chairman 
and Chairman of the
Nomination Committee
Steven has a degree 
in Law and spent 
most of his early life 
in the motor and
engineering business. 
He entered Parliament in
1983 and was Minister of
Transport in London from
1992 to 1996. He retired
from Parliament in 1997
and became Director
General of the Road
Haulage Association. 
He is now Senior 
Partner at Park Place
Communications, 
a consultancy
specialising in transport
policy and planning. He
joined the Jarvis Board 
in September 2000 
and was appointed 
as Chairman in 2003.
Steven is Chairman 
of the Nomination
Committee and is a
member of the Audit
and Remuneration
Committees.
Richard Entwistle (53)
Chief Executive
Richard has an
Engineering degree
from Leicester
University and is 
a chartered Civil
Engineer. Much of his
early career was spent
with Shephard Hill Civil
Engineering Ltd, a
company acquired 
by Jarvis in 1990.
He left the Group in
1994 to join Balfour
Beatty where he spent
two years developing
their fledgling Highway
Maintenance business
before joining Amey
plc in 1996 to manage
the rail business which
had been acquired 
as part of Rail
privatisation. He 
joined the main 
Board of Amey plc 
in 1997 with the
responsibility for 
both Amey Rail and
Amey Highways (and
latterly Tube Lines),
Joined Jarvis as 
Chief Operating Officer
with responsibility for
the Group’s core
operations. Appointed
as Chief Executive in
June 2006.
John O’Kane (47)
Group Finance
Director
John is a fellow of the
Institute of Chartered
Accountants in
Ireland. He joined the
Company after a brief
spell as Group Finance
Director at Eco-Bat
Technologies Limited.
Previously he was
Group Finance
Director of both
Peterhouse Group plc 
and Kelda Group plc. 
John has also
previously held senior
management roles
with ICI and Samsung
Electronics in the UK
and KPMG in South
Africa – appointed to
the Board as Group
Finance Director in 
April 2006.
Elizabeth Filkin (64)
Senior Non-Executive
Director
Educated at
Birmingham
University, Elizabeth
spent her early career
as a lecturer and
community worker
before becoming
Chief Executive of the
National Association
of Citizens Advice
Bureau. In 1988 she
became Deputy Chief
Executive of the
London Docklands
Development
Corporation, a post
she held until 1992. 
In 1993 she was
appointed Adjudicator
for the Inland
Revenue, and
consequently for
Customs and Excise
and the DSS
Contributions Agency
in the UK and
Northern Ireland. 
In 1999, Elizabeth
became Parliamentary
Standards
Commissioner, a 
role she held until
2002. Elizabeth was
appointed to the
Board in August 2003.
She is the Senior
Independent Director
and a member of the
Audit, Corporate
Governance,
Remuneration 
and Nomination
Committees.
Prof. Brian Mellitt (66)
Non-Executive 
Director 
Brian is Non-Executive
Chairman of BRE plc
and SIRA Ltd. He is 
Past President of the
Institution of Electrical
Engineers. 
Additionally, he has
acted as Rail Adviser 
to N M Rothschild 
and Sons Limited for
international railway
restructuring projects. 
He has previously held
positions as Professor 
of Electrical 
Engineering at 
the University of
Birmingham and
Director of 
Engineering for 
London Underground
Limited; from 1995 
to 1999 he was 
the Director of
Engineering and
Production and a main
Board member for
Railtrack plc. Brian 
was appointed to the
Jarvis Board in October
2002. He is a member
of the Audit and
Nomination
Committees and 
is Chairman of the
Remuneration
Committee. 
Christopher Rew (57)
Non-Executive
Director
Chris is a Chartered
Accountant and was
formerly a partner at
RSM Robson Rhodes
until March 2004,
where he was the
partner in charge 
of Market Sectors,
having led the design
and implementation 
of the programme to
refocus the firm onto 
a market sector basis.
Previously he was the
Managing Director of
the Corporate Group
with responsibility for
the core operations
(audit, accounting, tax,
corporate finance and
consultancy) of the
firm. Chris has also
been an audit and
advisory partner at the
firm with a wide range
of clients. He was
appointed to the Jarvis
Board in May 2004.
Chris chairs the Audit
and Corporate
Governance
Committees and 
is a member of the
Remuneration and
Nomination
Committees. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 17
Executive T eam
Bernard Westbrook (60)
Group Human 
Resources Director
Bernard is a qualified 
and seasoned 
personnel 
professional. Prior 
to joining the Jarvis
Group in 1997 he 
spent over 30 years in
the railway industry,
holding a number of
senior posts in the
personnel function 
of various engineering,
operational, corporate 
and subsidiary business
divisions of the former
British Railways Board. 
As Group Personnel
Director of British Rail
Infrastructure Services,
he was heavily involved 
in the railway
privatisation process.
Bernard is currently 
a member of the CBI’s
Employment Policy
Committee.
Geoff Mason (52)
Group Company
Secretary
Geoff has a degree in
Modern Studies
(Politics and History)
and spent the majority
of his working career
in the IT industry. He is
a qualified Chartered
Secretary and was
admitted as a Fellow
of the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries
in 1986. His previous
career includes Scicon
Limited, CAP Group
Limited and latterly
Sema Group plc
where he was
Company Secretary
from 1991 to 1999.
Geoff joined Jarvis 
in 1999 and has
responsibility for 
the legal, insurance,
property and internal
audit portfolios in
addition to the core
secretariat function.
Michael Houghton (44)
Group Managing
Director
Rail and Plant
Mike has a degree 
in Mechanical
Engineering and 
spent the majority 
of his working career 
in the Deep Mine 
Coal Industry. He is a
Chartered Mechanical
Engineer and also has
both professional 
safety and 
management
qualifications. His
previous career
included senior
engineering posts 
at Collieries in the
Midlands and Y orkshire.
Mike joined Jarvis in
September 2003 as
Train Operations
Director. He was
appointed as Managing
Director in February
2005 for the Plant
Division.
Kjell Karlsen (47)
Group Commercial
Director
Kjell has a business
degree from Syracuse
University in the US
and has, besides
positions in finance,
held senior
international
management
positions in the 
fields of procurement,
marketing and
contracts with
companies such as
Price Waterhouse,
United Technologies,
Champion Spark Plug
Company, ABB and
Bombardier. He joined
Jarvis in March 2005
after having worked in
several European
countries and in Asia.
Andrew Martin (47)
Group Managing
Director
Roads
Andrew spent his
formative years in
Import and Export 
in the South Pacific
before a full career 
in the New Zealand
Army, retiring at 
the rank of Colonel 
in 2000. Key
appointments
included operational
command in Bosnia,
Kuwait and East
Timor, Head of the
Army Training Depot
and Inspector General
for Capability Analysis
and Government
Capability Purchasing.
He is a graduate of 
the USA Army’s
command and
General Staff College 
and holds a Diploma 
of Business Studies
from Massey
University, New
Zealand. He was
involved in
professional sports
management after
retiring from the New
Zealand Defence
Force and joined
Jarvis as Managing
Director of Prismo in
early 2003. He has
recently taken on 
the wider role of
Managing Director,
Roads Division.
Patrick McHale (43)
Group Managing
Director
Operations
Pat, having started his
career in 1978, spent
the majority of his
career to date working
within the mining
industry. He held
numerous senior
management
positions reaching
Board level in 1996
and gaining chartered
membership of the
Institution of Mining
Engineers. He made
the transition into the
rail industry in
February 2000,
starting in a senior 
role within the Plant
Division where his
skills and leadership
ability led to promotion
into the post of
Managing Director,
Track Renewals in
2002. This post was
extended to Managing
Director, Jarvis Rail
during 2004 and his
portfolio of
responsibility now
includes all Plain Line
and Switch and
Crossing Renewal
Contracts and
Specialist Rail
Projects, both in the
UK and abroad.
Recently appointed as
Group Operations
Director.
Adrian O’Shea (41)
Group Director 
of Strategic Marketing 
and Planning
Adrian has an honours
degree in Engineering
(Industrial) with
experience in a
number of different
sectors. His previous
career includes
Quaker Oats Ltd and
the Unipart Group
where latterly he 
was responsible for
leading their business
improvement
activities. Adrian
joined Jarvis in 2000
and has held a number
of senior
management
positions. Currently 
he is responsible for 
Strategic Planning,
Communications,
Marketing and
Customer
Relationship
Management. 18 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Corporate Governance Statement
recommended by the Code. The Board
continues to pursue improvements in
internal controls in all areas of the business. 
Evaluation of business risks
Major changes to the Group organisation
structure have been followed by a review 
of the business risk identification and
evaluation process. At the year end we
reviewed the Risk evaluation and reporting
process by surveying the Board and senior
management. This identified that progress
had been made but there remained further
work to be done to improve and develop this
process further. The intention of the Board, 
as set out in last year’s report, to embed risk
identification and evaluation within the
operational process continues to be key.
During the year, business risk continued to 
be a formal consideration in the Monthly
Operating Review meetings for each division
as part of the Balanced Scorecard reporting
adopted by the businesses. Key issues are
reported to the Board and are addressed by
the Corporate Governance Committee. In 
line with the recommendations of the Smith
Report, the Audit Committee through the
Corporate Governance Committee continues
to review the risk control processes,
supplementing the Board’s formal review of
the outputs in this area. The Board confirms
that the process for identifying, evaluating and
managing significant risks (both financial and
non financial) faced by the Group accords with
the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control and
has been in place for the year under review
and up to the date of approval of the Annual
Report, and is regularly reviewed by the
Board.
Internal Audit
The Group Internal Audit function provides an
independent mechanism for monitoring and
reviewing internal control effectiveness
across the Group. The Head of Internal Audit
reports directly to the Audit Committee and
attends all Corporate Governance Committee
Meetings. Revised terms of reference for 
the function were approved by the Audit
Committee during the year, which includes
assessing the internal control environment.
Group Internal Audit provides risk assurance
within the business risk review currently 
Corporate Governance
This report explains the Board’s application of
the principles contained within the Combined
Code and best practice in governance matters.
The Board has adopted the “comply or
explain” approach and this report explains
where the Group does not fully comply with
the provisions, giving our reasons. The Board
believes that the Company has complied
throughout the year, and to the date of
signature, with the provisions of the 
current code save where explained here.
Internal control
In last year’s Corporate Governance report,
under the heading “Internal Control”, we
described the actions then taking place to
implement improvements in the Group’s
control environment. The Board is responsible
for the Group’s system of internal control and
reviewing its effectiveness. This responsibility
is delegated to the Corporate Governance
Committee (which comprises inter alia the
same members of the Board as are members
of the Audit Committee, CEO and the
Company Secretary) to monitor the
improvements in internal control and the
effectiveness of changes made. The work of
the Corporate Governance Committee has
focused on the governance environment and
its results have informed the whole of the
following report. Particular attention has been
devoted to business processes and controls
as the Company has changed and developed
its organisation during the year. The Board is
committed to ensuring that the Group has
sound and appropriate systems of internal
control. There is a continuous appraisal of
these controls and improvements to the
procedures adopted by the Group have
continued throughout the year. However, any
system of internal control can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss, as it is
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk. 
The Board has responsibility for the
management of the Company and specific
matters are reserved for the decision of the
Board under the Articles of Association, Group
policies and standing orders. The Board has
also adopted a set of corporate responsibility
principles, addressing both compliance and
aspiration that deal with health, safety,
environmental responsibility risk, Group
business methodology and relationships
with stakeholders. These responsibilities
are kept under review.
The improvements in internal control
initiated during the 2004-05 year were
implemented (and in some instances
further developed) to manage and mitigate
identified risks. Priority was given to
improving independent review and
challenge for complex commercial, legal 
and contractual issues, more robust
systems and more timely information 
flow. The following actions were taken:
– Three project areas were identified for 
focus – finance process improvements,
commercial process improvements and
Group functional process improvements;
– The organisational structure was developed
during the year to ensure it was appropriate
to achieving the redefined Company
objectives. Assessment of the internal
controls has ensured they are developed
appropriately, and in line with the revised
organisation structure;
– There were further appointments of new
senior management personnel in all areas 
of the Group’s business, with specific
strengthening in the finance and
commercial teams during the year;
– Each of these issues has been regularly
reported to the Corporate Governance
Committee, which has reviewed the speed
of implementation and the subsequent
quality and consistency of the control
environment in all areas of the business; and 
– Changes arising from the review of
business; and processes has led to a greater
process clarity for all commercial activities. 
The Board receives and reviews frequent
reports on performance against budget,
strategic planning and operational issues
and the ongoing process improvements
being developed within the business. The
quality of each report is the subject of critical
review. The monthly review process at both
the Board and Corporate Governance
Committees ensures that the review of
internal control throughout the year has
exceeded the annual review minimum Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 19
being completed. Audit Committee approval 
is required for any change in the appointment
of the Head of Internal Audit. 
The annual audit plan for the year ended 
31 March 2006 was developed and agreed
with the Audit Committee. During the current
year, there were some ad hoc projects
requested and approved by the Audit
Committee to help understand risks and
internal control issues associated with 
the changes taking place in the business.
Insurance
The Group obtains comprehensive insurance
cover for its operations, including third party
liability, employer’s liability and material
damage. From the beginning of the 2004-05
financial year Network Rail introduced an
industry-wide Third Party Legal Liability
insurance scheme to the level of £155 million
required by the Strategic Rail Authority which
covers all the work undertaken on Network
Rail infrastructure by Network Rail and its 
sub-contractors. The Group maintains
separate third party liability insurance for 
other work to a level of £60 million.
The Board
The Group Board has met 22 times during the
year under review, with a further 22 meetings
of a Committee of the Board to address
specific operational matters. This has
occurred because of the very high level of
activity involved in the Company’s financial
restructuring. In addition to the large number
of exceptional items of business to be dealt
with, the Board has continued to review
routine matters regularly. In accordance 
with a pre-agreed rotational agenda those
matters such as strategy and risk which are
reserved to the Board have been regularly
reviewed. It was reported last year that, a
review of Group policies has been instigated 
in order to satisfy the Board that top-level
values and policies are applied consistently
Group-wide. 
Decisions are taken by the Board as a whole,
based on detailed papers sent out in advance
of each Board meeting. The quality of Board
papers has improved during the year. Further
improvements in financial reporting are
underway as part of the Finance Process
Projects work. The first regular item on every
Board agenda is safety, with reports provided
on both operational and occupational safety
matters. Routine Board agenda items include
reports from the Chief Executive and Finance
Director and reports on Corporate Governance
and Shareholder matters. On a rotational
basis, the Board receives reports on specific
topics including risk management and
insurance, human resources and corporate
development issues as well as Corporate
Social Responsibility matters. 
Management of day-to-day operations is
delegated to the Chief Executive and to an
Operational Executive Committee comprising
the Executive Directors together with senior
executives of the Company including the
Company Secretary and the Group Director 
of Human Resources as well as the heads of
each operation and the core functions. Senior
managers of each of the businesses meet on
a weekly basis in a management meeting
which is attended by the Chief Executive,
Finance Director, Group Company Secretary
and Group Director of Human Resources.
Certain commercial matters are delegated 
to a Committee of any three Directors. 
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each director during the period was as follows: 
Executive Directors periodically attended Committee meetings by invitation.
Corporate
Remuneration Nomination Governance
Director Board Audit CommitteeCommittee Committee Committee
Number 
of Meetings held 22 8429
R Entwistle** 9 –––3
E Filkin 19 8428
A P Lezala * 6 1 – – 1
A C Lovell 21 3 – – 3
A Marnoch 15 2 – – 2
B Mellitt 20 8428
S Norris 21 4 – 2 6
C J Rew 20 8428
*A P Lezala resigned from the Board on 17 June 2005.
** R Entwistle was appointed to the Board on 8 September 2005.
In addition to the above meetings the Board met as a Committee to approve elements of the restructuring and other transactions on 22 further occasions during 
the period. 20 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Corporate Governance Statement
All matters considered in this way are
submitted for ratification at the next 
regular Board meeting.
The Chairman
Steven Norris was appointed as Executive
Chairman in September 2005. Steven had
been initially appointed as Non-Executive
Chairman in June 2004, and his other
commitments include a number of
directorships, some of a charitable nature, 
and his senior partnership in Park Place
Communications, which is a consultancy
specialising in transport and environment
matters. A written division of responsibilities
between Chairman and Chief Executive was
established last year. The Chairman has
responsibility for the effective operation of 
the Board’s proceedings and the management
of the relationship between Executive and
Non-Executive Directors. Richard Entwistle
was appointed as Chief Executive Officer 
on 30 June 2006 with the hand over from 
Alan Lovell having taken place since the end of
the period under review. Richard Entwistle is
responsible for the operation of the Company. 
Approximately quarterly, the Chairman holds
meetings with the Non-Executive Directors
without the Executive Directors being
present.
Directors
The Board currently includes three 
Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are
deemed independent, both according to the
criteria detailed in the Combined Code and by
the Board, the Chairman, and two Executive
Directors. During the year under review the
ratio of Non-Executive Directors to Executive
Directors has gone from more than 1:1 to 
1:1 due to the changed position of the
Chairman. 
The Group intends to maintain the ratio of
more than one half of the Directors, excluding
the Chairman, being independent Non-
Executives and maintains under review the
balance of skills currently available amongst
the Non-Executive Board members. Elizabeth
Filkin is the Senior Independent Director. 
John O’Kane was appointed Chief Financial
Officer in April 2006 and has subsequently
been appointed to the Board as Group 
Finance Director.
All Directors are appointed for a specific 
term and are subject to re-appointment 
by the Company in general meeting at the 
first Annual General Meeting after their
appointment by the Board and every three
years thereafter. Biographical material and 
the reasons for proposing a Director’s
reappointment are given to Shareholders prior
to the Annual General Meeting each year.
Attendance statistics at Board and Board
Committee meetings during the year are
shown in the table above. The figures include
attendance at Committee meetings by invited
Executive Directors, who do not normally 
form part of the Committee membership.
Whilst it is not policy to make the Non-
Executive Directors readily available, in
response to the increasing demands of the
investment community, their expertise and
knowledge have been utilised where relevant.
Additionally, as part of the regular reporting 
to the Board, information on the issues and
concerns of the investment community are
considered. At each regular meeting, the
Board receives a report from the Company
Secretary on the relative share price
performance of the Company in this
extraordinary year, including movement 
in institutional shareholdings.
Any Director may, if necessary, seek
independent external advice at the
Company’s expense and has access to 
the Company Secretary for his advice and
services and to procure such independent
advice if requested.
On appointment, Directors are entitled to
receive any training they consider necessary
on issues of relevance to their role and are
subsequently entitled and invited to attend
relevant training seminars. Site visits and
briefings are arranged to coincide with 
Board meetings, and meetings with Major
Shareholders are arranged on an ad hoc basis.
Changes to the composition of the Board
during the year under review are set out in 
the Directors’ Report on pages 31 and 32
and biographical details and Committee
memberships of each of the Directors 
appear on pages 16 and 17.
Performance evaluation
During the year an evaluation of the
performance of the Board and its members
was undertaken. Interviews with each Board
member, structured in accordance with a
template in questionnaire form, were
conducted by the Chairman, whilst the
Chairman’s own evaluation was carried out 
by the Senior Independent Director, also in
interview form. As required by the Code, 
the Non-Executives, led by the Senior
Independent Director, are responsible for
performance evaluation of the Chairman,
taking into account the views of Executive
Directors. The resultant report was
considered by the Board and adopted.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for
ensuring the timely flow of information and
provision of sufficient resources to the Board
and its Committees as well as ensuring that
Directors not only receive a suitable induction
to the Board, but also receive any ongoing
training, which they require. The appointment
and removal of the Company Secretary is a
matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Board Committees
The Board has appointed an Audit Committee,
a Remuneration Committee, a Corporate
Governance Committee and a Nomination
Committee. These meet regularly throughout
the year to scheduled agendas and are
discussed in detail below.
Audit Committee
As required by the Code, the Audit Committee
comprised at least three independent Non-
Executive Directors throughout the year. The
Committee has been chaired by Chris Rew
since his appointment to the Board in May
2004. Chris is a former partner of RSM
Robson Rhodes LLP and is deemed by the
Board to have invaluable and relevant financial
experience. Elizabeth Filkin, being a former
member of the Audit Commission and
currently Deputy Chairman of the FSA
Regulatory Decisions Committee, is also Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 21
regarded as having valuable experience 
and the remaining Committee Members;
Professor Brian Mellitt has extensive business
experience. All Committee members are
regarded as independent. The Board
considers that the attendance of all the 
Non-Executive Directors on each of the 
Board Committees provides important
continuity at the current time. The Finance
Director and Head of Internal Audit have 
been required to attend when requested.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to 
the Committee. On more than one occasion
during the last year, the Non-Executive
Directors have met without the presence
of the Executive Directors.
The Committee meets with the external
auditors to review the Group’s Annual Report
and Interim Results and has responsibility for
ensuring that appropriate accounting policies
and compliance procedures are in place.
Part of this meeting is held without the
presence of the executive team. The
Committee ensures that the principles of 
the Code relating to accountability and audit
are followed for financial reporting, internal
control and the relationship with the
Company’s auditors. The Committee also
reviews the fee ratio of non-audit work
undertaken by the external auditors and has
adopted a policy that it must give prior
approval for any non-audit services provided
by the external auditors with a fee in excess 
of £100,000. The Committee reviews all other
non-audit expenditure with the external
auditors. The Audit Committee also regularly
addresses the issue of auditor independence
and it is considered that adequate provision 
is made to ensure its protection.
This is the second year of RSM Robson
Rhodes LLP’s appointment, and consequently
for the purpose of compliance the Company
can confirm there was no need for a senior
partner change during the year under review.
As a former member of RSM Robson Rhodes
LLP , Chris Rew declared his interest and took
no part in last year’s appointment of RSM
Robson Rhodes and will continue not to
participate in the Board decision on any
appointment of RSM Robson Rhodes for 
non audit work.
The Committee met with the Corporate
Governance Committee in connection with
its review of the effectiveness of the system
of internal control, which includes monitoring
and reviewing the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal audit function. The
Committee also receives reports of the
activity of the Group’s Internal Audit
department. The Group Internal Audit function
continues to report directly to the Committee
with line management of the function being
provided by the Company Secretary. The 
Head of Internal Audit meets regularly with
the Chairman of the Audit Committee on 
Internal Audit matters. Audit Committee
minutes and reports are regularly provided 
to the Board.
In addition to the Audit Committee’s duties
described in the above paragraphs the
Committee reviews the scope and nature 
of the audit, reviews the auditor’s quality
control procedures and discusses any
problems or reservations arising from audits.
The Audit Committee considers that the
above description of its work adequately
meets the recommendations of the 
Combined Code as to disclosure.
Remuneration Committee
The Report of the Remuneration Committee
and the Group’s compliance with the
Combined Code in relation to Directors’
remuneration is given on pages 26 to 30.
The report will be submitted to the
Shareholders for their approval at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The
Remuneration Committee is responsible for
setting and monitoring the level and structure
of the remuneration of Executive Directors
and the senior management reporting directly
to the Chief Executive and consults the 
Chief Executive on their recommendations.
The level of fees payable to Non-Executive
Directors and the Chairman are set by the
Board as whole on the recommendations 
of the Chief Executive. In preparing these
recommendations, the Chief Executive
reviews the fees payable to Non-Executive
Directors of comparable companies to provide
a benchmark. The Committee comprises all
the Non-Executive Directors and was chaired
during the year by Professor Brian Mellitt. 
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the
Committee. The Chief Executive and Group
Director of Human Resources are invited to
attend as appropriate. No Executive Director 
is present at a meeting where his own
remuneration is discussed.
During the year to March 2006 the Board
reviewed the terms and conditions of
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors
and agreed that, given the importance of
continuity of the Non-Executive body to 
the Company, that the notice periods for 
Non-Executives should be extended to be
comparable with those of Executive Directors.
Additionally provision was made in the
agreements for additional fees to be paid to
Non-Executive Directors where the workload
of meetings exceeded that identified as
normal in their letter of appointment. In the
year under review additional fees were paid 
to the Non-Executive Directors under this
provision and this is disclosed in the Report 
of the Remuneration Committee.
As required by the Code, Shareholders are
invited specifically to approve all new long
term incentive schemes and significant
changes to existing schemes, save in the
circumstances permitted by the Listing 
Rules.The Committee’s terms of reference
are available on the Company’s website and
have been made available throughout the year.
Nomination Committee
Nominations for appointments to the Board
are dealt with by a Nomination Committee
consisting of all the Non-Executive Directors
and the Chairman, who is also the Chairman 
of the Committee.
At all meetings where discussion on the
appointment of a Nomination Committee
member has taken place, the candidates for
the position have absented themselves during
such discussions. The Committee meets on
an ad hoc basis, but at least once every year.
The terms of reference of the Nomination
Committee include the responsibility for 22 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Corporate Governance Statement
identifying and nominating for the approval 
of the Board suitable candidates to fill Board
vacancies. In doing so, the Committee takes
account of the skills, knowledge and
experience required on the Board before
commencing its search. On behalf of the
Committee, the Director of Human
Resources and the Company Secretary
review the experience and qualifications 
of candidates to enable the Committee to
assess issues of independence, time
commitment, succession and board balance.
External advice is sought and external search
consultants are used by the Committee to
ensure that a wide range of candidates are
considered. The Committee also has
responsibility for succession planning for 
the Board and senior management and
makes recommendations to the Board
regarding the re-appointment of all Directors.
As required by the Code, the Committee
comprised solely independent Non-Executive
Directors throughout the year. The terms of
reference of the Nomination Committee
provide for attendance by the Chief Executive
Officer at the Committee’s invitation.
Corporate Governance Committee 
The Corporate Governance Committee role
includes the consideration of the structures
and processes of the Group to achieve good
corporate governance and proper systems 
of internal control. This Committee
supplements the work of the Audit
Committee and during the year has
specifically focused on the process and
organisational review projects. It has also
provided challenge regarding the coordination
of the various initiatives underway within 
the organisation. It has considered
recommendations about improvements to
the control mechanisms following the annual
audit and interim reports.
Its membership includes all of the Directors,
the Company Secretary and a number of
nominated senior specialist staff. The
Committee, chaired by Chris Rew, has met 
on a monthly basis since its establishment.
The “Whistleblower” policy which provides
the route for employees and others to raise
concerns about financial and other matters 
in the event that normal channels prove
insufficient or inappropriate continues to 
be compliant. The policy is communicated via 
the website and through a number of other
channels and includes an independent email
address and a direct phone hotline to provide
secure contact for the use of employees.
A formal agenda item is tabled in the
Corporate Governance Committee for the
Group Company Secretary to review any
such issues with the Non-Executive 
Directors only. 
Shareholder communications
During the year institutional Shareholders and
their representative bodies had contact with
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer 
and with the Finance Director. Such meetings
were reported to the Board. The Chairman 
and Company Secretary are made available 
to meet with representatives of investor
protection bodies during the year and the
views of these bodies are also reported to
the Board. The Company welcomes and
encourages such Shareholder dialogue, 
within the constraints of statute and the 
UK Listing Authority’s guidelines. 
The holdings of large institutional
Shareholders who held shares arising from 
the Debt for Equity Exchange reduced during
the year. The proportion of the shares held by
other institutions and private Shareholders or
their nominees increased. Shareholders have
been kept informed of developments within
the Company by the release of news to the
regulatory information services and by a
number of circulars during the year and 
after its close. 
Private investors are encouraged to attend
the AGM and EGMs or, if they cannot, to 
vote by proxy. In preparing the agenda for all
General Meetings of the Company, care is
taken to ensure that substantial issues are
the subject of separate resolutions. At the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as at 
all recent General Meetings, the numbers
and voting intentions of Shareholders voting
by proxy will be disclosed to the meeting. 
The Company will continue to give at 
least 21 working days notice of the Annual 
General Meeting and the Chairmen of the
Remuneration and Audit Committees 
will be available to answer Shareholders’
questions relating to the responsibilities 
of the Committees which they chair.
By order of the Board
G K H Mason
Secretary
14 August 2006 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 23
Corporate Social Responsibility
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 23
Our mission 
The way we do business across the Group
reflects our commitment to profitable growth,
sustainable development and integrity. Our
principles set the framework in which we
pursue our economic goals and business
ventures. Norms of best practice: The
principles are rooted in national and
international law relating to Corporate
Responsibility, much of which is guided by the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UN,
1948), the Labour Standards embodied in the
Fundamental Conventions of the International
Labour Organisation (ILO, 1930-1999) and the
environmental Conventions agreed following
the Rio Declaration on Environment and
Development (UN, 1992). They also build on
associated ‘norms’ of responsible business
practice, the most significant of which are 
the UN Global Compact (2000), the OECD
Guidelines (2000), the UN Norms of Human
Rights Responsibilities of Multinational
Companies (2002) and the July 2002
Communique of the European Commission
concerning corporate social responsibility.
Continuous improvement
These principles address both compliance and
aspiration. Their force lies in their continuous
implementation as part of the way we do
business. This is why we continue to develop
policies and programmes to communicate
these principles throughout our operations
and those of our partners. In the event that our
principles are compromised by those partners
with whom we work, we seek to address any
problems. We do not tolerate consistent
failures to adhere to the principles.
Implementation 
We will measure progress by developing
relevant indicators which monitor our
performance. We report publicly on our
progress and open ourselves to scrutiny
through independent audit. In this way we
seek to promote continuous improvement,
demonstrate our accountability to all our
stakeholders, and promote Jarvis as a
responsible corporate citizen and attractive
business partner.
Principle 1: Corporate governance and
accountability
We will be accountable, promote Shareholder
value, and operate transparently and to a high
standard of corporate responsibility, to deliver
our long-term commitments.
We work actively to achieve market leadership
and to deliver sustained returns for all our
Shareholders. In doing so, we are guided by
UK law and best practice codes of corporate
governance and responsibility. We require 
all our business activities to be undertaken 
in accordance with the principles of
transparency and accountability. We are
committed to ensuring that the way we do
business demonstrates long term financial
and societal returns, and that our accounts
reflect our performance accurately and fairly.
Principle 2: Integrity and ethics
We will be ethical, lawful, transparent 
and honest, in our business operations.
Our success depends on doing the right thing
in the right way. We work proactively to earn
the respect and trust of the public as a whole.
We believe in ethical business practice and
seek to uphold the law and regulations. We
reject all dealings that could discredit the
Jarvis Group or our customers. We do not
allow the giving or accepting of bribes, and we
report potential conflict of interest situations
as they arise.
Principle 3: Employees
We promote a diverse, committed, and well-
trained workforce which recognises the rights
of all employees.
Our employees make us successful. We 
are committed to the development of a
professional and motivated workforce
throughout the business. We are committed
to providing a stimulating and diverse working
environment, and aim to enhance skills and
capacity through investment in employee
training, effective working practices and
career development. We ensure that the due
rights of our employees are protected. We
encourage diversity and opportunity, and are
dedicated to the provision of fair and equitable
conditions of work. We do not discriminate
against employees on the basis of gender,
age, sexual orientation, marital status,
ethnicity or religious belief. We seek to uphold
the highest labour standards, rejecting child 
or involuntary labour, excessive overtime or
unfair rates and terms of pay. We support 
the rights of our employees to enter into
collective bargaining, and to join lawful trade
unions or form workers associations.
Principle 4: Business partnerships
We believe partnerships are a fundamentally
important way to do good, successful and
meaningful business.
We believe in collaborative working
arrangements. We are dedicated to public-
private partnerships as a means of facilitating
sustained improvement in both public and
business sector performance, and thereby
enhancing our contribution to society. We
seek to engage with, and contribute to,
communities and society through the
regeneration of public infrastructure and
public services. Our partnerships are long-
term commitments and are a fundamental
part of the way we do business.
Principle 5: Supply chain responsibility
Our supply chains are important, so we will
work to support suppliers and sub-contractors
that want to work with us to improve the way
we do business. We will stop working with
those that don’t.
We seek to build long-term relationships and
‘value chains’ with our customers, partners,
suppliers, and sub-contractors. We are
committed to ethical and responsible business
practice and expect the same from our partners
in our supply chains. We are committed 
to meeting the growing demands and
expectations of our customers by delivering 
high social, safety, and environmental
standards which are ethical. We will ensure 
that the same high standards we expect of
ourselves are also requested of our suppliers 
in our procurement practice. All companies or
people doing business with Jarvis will receive
a copy of our Corporate Responsibility
Principles. We seek to assist willing suppliers 
or sub-contractors when their performance is
found to be of poor quality. We stop working
with any supplier or sub-contractor that
consistently fails to improve their social and
environmental performance. Principle 6: Community engagement 
We will work with and in our communities 
as part of the service we deliver to support
their growth and development. We are
committed to improving the quality of life of
the communities in which we operate. We
recognise the social impact of our business,
and believe in consulting with local
communities about our activities and the
safety and environmental implications of 
our operations. Some of our work is in
disadvantaged areas, and we are sensitive to
the need to promote social inclusion through
our local projects. We are committed to social
responsibility and believe the success of our
business is contingent on the quality of the
relationships we build with communities and
public interest groups where we work.
Principle 7: Continuous improvement 
in Health and Safety 
Safety is our number one priority for
employees, users and sub-contractors. We
will do all we reasonably can to design, build
and manage safe projects and services.
The health and safety of our employees,
customers and communities, and sub-
contractors, is our number one priority and 
the responsibility of us all. We view legal
requirements as the minimum standard for
minimising the risks of injury, ill health, and
damage to property arising from our work. 
We are committed to making continued
investments in safety training and awareness
building across our businesses. We will
continue to report on our progress. 
Principle 8: Our ecological footprint
We view continuous improvement in our
environmental performance as an integral
part of the services and facilities that we
deliver. 
We will do this in accordance with recognised
environmental management systems.
We believe improvements to our
environmental performance can make a
difference to society and to the efficiency 
of our core business practices. We are
committed to assessing the impacts of 
our operations on land, water, air, and
biodiversity, and to managing our waste in 
all of its forms by reusing and recycling it, 
wherever possible. We seek to minimise the
adverse environmental impacts caused by
our work and the services we provide. We
will work to prevent leaks and spillages, to
manage any accidents responsibly and to
reduce our use of energy and materials. We
will manage and improve our environmental
performance in accordance with evolving
legal requirements and international
standards. We are committed to the
continuing certification and improvement 
of our environmental management systems
in key areas of our business.
Principle 9: Innovation and risks review
We will use innovation and robust risk
management tools to reduce risk, promote
opportunities and improve the services and
products that we deliver to our customers 
and users.
We promote continuous innovation in all
aspects of our business and robust risk
management. We work hard to understand
the needs of our customers. We apply
technological and management innovation 
to improve the efficiency and quality of 
our service provision, extend our market
penetration and manage risk and 
opportunity responsibly.
External recognition
The February 2006 Lloyds six-monthly
surveillance audit of the Jarvis Environmental
Management System (EMS) against the
International Standard ISO 14001:2004
reported:
“The Jarvis Rail and Fastline EMS continues 
to be effective in delivering the policy
commitments, including achieving actual
improvement in environmental performance.
The Jarvis EMS has been effectively
implemented at Prismo, with personnel
demonstrating a commitment to
improvement”.
Main environmental concerns
Jarvis Rail/Fastline has implemented an 
EMS to meet its legal and contractual
obligations and to understand and manage
environmental impacts and risks which arise
through its activities. Our main areas of
concern currently are oil/fuel storage 
and spills.
Fastline have converted the majority of its On
Track Machine (OTM) fleet to biodegradable
hydraulic oil and have introduced a new
specification of hoses. This together with 
an increased preventative maintenance
inspection programme has helped Fastline
reduce the amounts of hydraulic oil lost per
spill, however, the number of spills recorded
and the amount of oil lost increased in 2005
compared with the previous two years
because we are now recording even very
minor spills, see Table 1.
Oil spills from Jarvis/Fastline On T rack
Machines 1998 - 2005
Number of spill incidents
Amount of hydraulic oil lost in litres (‘000)
Average oil lost in litres/number of spills
24 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Corporate Social Responsibility
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
0 153045607590105
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
246810 12 14 16
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 25
Jarvis plc 2006 objectives
Objective Action By
Combine EMS 
for all businesses
Fastline, Rail, and
Prismo with one
accreditation Head of
body, Lloyds. Environment 31/12/06
Network Rail 
require any changes 
to work in progress
or working practices
to be identified 
and the Contract EP/03/03
Environmental Revised &
Plan amended Head of issued
accordingly. Environment Dec 05
Display Jarvis Helpline/
Incident Number
on all suitable plant
and equipment/ MOR’s
vehicles etc. MD Fastline decision
Encourage SME 
suppliers and 
contractors not 
accredited to 
ISO 14001 to 
adopt BS 8555: Head of On-going
2003. Environment 31/12/06
Reduction in 
OTM hydraulic 
oil spills by 
10 per cent. MD Fastline 31/12/06
Reduction in 
energy use All business
by 10 per cent. MDs 31/12/06
Reduction in 
fuel consumption All business
by 10 per cent. MDs 31/12/06
Introduce all 
businesses to the 
Carbon Neutral Company, 
30 per cent of 
the Group to be Head of
Carbon Neutral Environment/ 
by end 2006. MDs 31/12/06
Promote Prismo’s 
lead-free products 
with emphasis on 
the reduction of 
environmental Head of
impact. Environment31/12/06
– The ISO 14001 certification awarded for 
the quality of Jarvis Rail’s Environmental
Management System (EMS) – has already
helped win business with clients who place
environmental and sustainability concerns 
at the top of their agenda.
– We have taken initiatives in 3,000 sensitive
UK line side sites where we work which
includes Sites of Special Scientific Interest,
Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty,
Conservation Areas and badger sets. 
The measures include:
– Jarvis has developed the Accutrack system
using a combination of its Mole (Rapid
Ballast Excavator or RBE) technology to
prepare the ballast bed and its Slinger
(Track Renewal System or TRS) to remove
and deliver rail and sleepers. These were
developed to renew track quicker, more
safely and with less environmental impact. 
A typical Accutrack renewal site gives 
the following results:
1 Lower CO2 emissions and lower fuel
consumption by reducing the numbers of
machines and using new machines with
cleaner and more economical engines. 
2 Fewer vehicles on site reduces, noise 
and congestion.
3 Less impact/intrusion to wildlife habitats, 
50 per cent less disruption to SSSI’s,
nesting birds, breeding sand lizards and
other protected species.
4 50 per cent reduction in Statutory Nuisance
as described in the Environmental
Protection Act 1990 such as intrusion from
site lighting, material and waste storage,
and litter; and reduction in noise, dust,
smoke and fumes.
5 Fewer materials, i.e. sleepers and rail, 
left at site before work starts, means less
ammunition for vandals and an improved
view for our neighbours.
– The introduction of innovative track plates 
to identify sensitive locations. After an
unfortunate incident when the habitat of a
protected sand lizard was disturbed, Jarvis
pioneered trackside plates to delineate the
boundaries of protected areas. Although
sensitive sites are identified in the
network’s Hazard Directory, a more
proactive protection regime was required
and now Network Rail is introducing the
system throughout the industry.
– Working in partnership with English, Welsh
and Scottish Nature, local badger groups
etc. to promote and support community
activity, resource sharing, and the concept
of sustainable development within the 
rail industry. 
– Working with Future Forests towards the
ultimate goal of becoming a “carbon
neutral” Company. The first initiatives
include making Meridian House in Y ork 
a carbon neutral building. At present the
building generates 1,089 tonnes of carbon
dioxide each year, which costs around
£11,000.00 to offset.
These initiatives were recognised at the
2005 Chartered Institute of Logistics 
and Transport’s (CILT) Annual Awards for
Excellence when they were short-listed 
for the Environmental Improvement award. 
The citation spoke of:
“Jarvis understanding the challenge of its
key customer to improve productivity and
minimise downtime on their rail network”. 
Jarvis developed a system, Accutrack,
which offered a safer, faster more flexible
and cheaper solution to conventional
methods but also delivered a better quality
output. The development of the equipment
demonstrated both innovative thinking and
engineering. The system also reduced the
impact on the environment and resources
employed in achieving the customer’s
objective, (CILT Annual Awards 2005). 26 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report, which addresses the requirements of the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 also forms part of the Company’s
report of its activities concerning the principles of good corporate governance outlined in the Combined Code. It has been reviewed and
adopted by both the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Jarvis plc and will be the subject of a resolution at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
Information not subject to audit
The Remuneration Committee
The Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the policy of the Group for balanced executive remuneration and specific remuneration
packages for each Executive Director and other senior employees who report to the Chief Executive. This authority extends to pension rights,
terms of service contracts, and incentive schemes, both equity and non-equity based. The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a 
matter reserved for the Board. Membership of the Remuneration Committee currently comprises Professor Brian Mellitt, Elizabeth Filkin
and Chris Rew. The Chairman of the Committee throughout the year was Professor Brian Mellitt.
During the year the Committee met on four occasions to consider, inter alia, matters relating to Directors’ remuneration. The Company
Secretary, Geoff Mason and the Group Director of Human Resources, Bernard Westbrook, attended such parts of those meetings as did not
directly affect their own remuneration and provided information and advice relating to the Directors’ current entitlements and performance
against targets. At the meeting of the Committee to review Directors’ remuneration appropriate consideration was given to comparative
remuneration within both a selected peer group of companies and the FTSE small cap group of companies measured in terms of activity, 
market capitalisation, turnover and employee numbers using information provided by New Bridge Street Consultants. Other services provided
by New Bridge Street Consultants, who were formally appointed by the Committee on 13 March 2003, included employee and executive
incentive scheme advice.
Remuneration policy
The key Terms of Reference of the Committee are: 
1 To ensure that the Group’s remuneration policies and practices for Executive Directors and other senior employees facilitate the employment
and motivation of top quality personnel, and adequately reward individual contributions made to the Group, while at the same time remaining
justifiable in terms of the Group’s performance and in comparison to its competitor companies.
2 To keep under review the long term incentive plans and employee share schemes operated by the Group in light of legislative and market
developments and overall remuneration policy, and to determine the awards of options under such schemes together with performance
conditions linked thereto.
In order to comply with the Terms of Reference, the remuneration policy is based on the following core principles: 
– total rewards are designed to support the Group’s strategy and are set at levels that are competitive within the relevant market. It remains the
current policy of the Committee not to award share options in any year which amount to greater than an Executive Director’s annual salary or 
to award performance shares which would have a value greater than 50 per cent of the Executive Director’s salary in any one year; incentive
based awards can only be earned through the achievement of demanding performance conditions which are designed to be aligned with the
interests of the Shareholders in the short, medium and longer terms; and
– composition of remuneration packages are designed to maintain a balance between fixed and variable elements of remuneration which the
Committee believes is appropriate.
However, during the year under review the Board sought and obtained Shareholder approval for a Management Incentive Plan specifically
designed to incentivise the senior team and to align them with the interests of the Shareholders. Under this scheme, options were granted 
with a nominal value in excess of 100 per cent of certain Directors’ salaries with performance conditions directly linked to the Company’s share
price. This included options granted to both Alan Lovell and Alasdair Marnoch which have reduced in value on their departure from the company.
Both Alan Lovell and Alasdair Marnoch were remunerated under terms of specific remuneration packages negotiated at the time of their joining
the Company. These packages were structured on the basis that both individuals joined the Group to undertake the financial restructuring that
has since been achieved.
Elements of remuneration 
Basic Salary
The basic salary of the Executive Directors is reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee. The review is undertaken to ensure that the
remuneration package and benefits for Executive Directors represents a fair return for employment. Due consideration is given to performance
and reward relative to that of comparable companies. During the year under review the exceptional circumstance which pertained to the
previous years review continued to prevail for the first half of the year, and the Committee gave due consideration in its review to the risks
applicable to the Directors’ employment and the exceptional performance requirements to which they were subject.  Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 27
Bonus Scheme
For the year under review the normal bonus scheme was re-instigated with the expectation that the financial condition of the Company would
improve during the year. Bonuses were agreed to be paid on the basis of a mixture of both personal and financial objectives. It was recognised
by the Remuneration Committee that in the year, in most cases, whilst personal objectives had been achieved, certain of the financial objectives
had not, and where bonuses were not contractual these were adjusted accordingly.
Amongst the Executive Directors contractual bonus arrangements existed for both Alasdair Marnoch and Alan Lovell linked to the delivery of
the financial restructuring. The Remuneration Committee met in September to consider whether this target had been achieved and awarded
the bonus payments on the basis of the approval and underwriting of the financial restructuring having been achieved. At the same meeting 
a discretionary bonus was awarded to the Executive Chairman in respect of the additional work.
For the year ahead the Executive Directors have been set objectives at the beginning of the year. These objectives are a blend of common
primary objectives for the Group as a whole and additional objectives in line with their respective corporate role and the Group’s strategic
direction, which are personal to each Director. For individual directors objectives include: 
– the continuous improvement in the management of occupational and operational safety;
– the achievement of relevant divisional/Group budget for turnover, profit and operating cash flow;
– the delivery of profitable forward order book growth; 
– the development of environmental sustainability within operations;
– effective risk management; and
– the re-engineering of business processes to ensure the Company derives maximum benefit from investment in new systems and that these 
deliver demonstrable improvements in Shareholder value. 
These performance conditions have been selected in order to align the individual Directors’ targets with the Group’s overall business
performance objectives, which include social responsibility and environmental sustainability targets. 
Performance against objectives is assessed through a formal process during and after the year-end. Typically this involves interviews and 
the review of objective measurements where targets represent discrete aims. If the objectives are achieved, a pre-determined percentage 
of salary, currently 50 per cent of basic salary, is paid in the following financial year as a bonus to the Director. The Remuneration Committee
reviews the performance of each Director after the end of each financial year and, where the targets have been achieved and in recognition of
the contractual relationship thus created, will award the bonus. In the event that a target has been significantly exceeded, the Committee has 
the option to increase the normal percentage applied, to reflect that achievement, but within the overall parameter of a pool comprising the 
on-target earnings achievable by members of the Executive Committee. 
Employment benefits
Benefits provided to Directors typically include a fully financed company car or car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance. 
Pensions
The Group operates defined contribution schemes for some of the Executive Directors. None of the Executive Directors are members of any 
of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group. Where an individual Director had contributions limited by pension regulations they are
offered the opportunity to take an element of the Group’s pension contribution as a taxable pension supplement. 
Share Incentive Schemes
In 2003, Shareholders approved the introduction of a new Annual Grant Share Option Scheme and Performance Share Plan to comply with 
ABI guidelines and current best practice. Options granted under the new Share Option Scheme will be exercisable on a pro rata basis against a
range of earnings per shares (EPS) based performance conditions, with performance being measured over a single, three year period. Vesting
of shares under the Performance Share Plan will be conditional on achievement of a range of EPS and Total Shareholder Return performance
conditions with each condition applying to 50 per cent of the award. Performance will again be measured over a single three-year period. To
date, no options or awards have been granted under either of the new schemes.  28 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Total shareholder return 
The graph below compares the performance of Jarvis plc Ordinary Shares with the companies comprising the FTSE Support Services Index for
the last five years. The Company is a component of this index. Total Shareholder Return has been calculated by New Bridge Street Consultants
using data provided by Datastream.
Management Incentive Plan
As identified above, at the 2005 Annual General Meeting the Company sought and obtained approval from Shareholders for the introduction of
an option based Management Incentive Plan. The plan is designed to be a one-off arrangement with grants only capable of being made in the
first year from the date of approval on 19 October 2005. Under the scheme, participants may be granted awards over shares with an aggregate
value of up to 200 per cent of base salary with an exception being made for one individual where it was agreed on recruitment that a specific
number of shares would be granted under option. The vesting of awards is dependent on the increase in the Company’s share price with the
option price being set at a volume weighted market average price over an extended period and vesting being triggered at price increases of 
25 per cent, 50 per cent and 75 per cent with each vesting being for one third of the original grant.
Directors’ service agreements
When appointing Executive Directors, the Committee considers it appropriate to offer Service Agreements with a rolling one year term which
are determinable by the employing Company upon not less than twelve months’ notice, and by the individual Director upon not less than six
months’ notice. The Group intends to retain these terms for future appointments, believing them to be appropriate to the nature of the
business. However, in the circumstances of Alan Lovell’s engagement his initial appointment was for a period of eighteen months with notice
provisions similar to the above. The contract subsequently reverted to a one year rolling term, however Mr Lovell had indicated to the Board at
an early stage that he intended to step down once a suitable replacement had been recruited and a suitable hand over agreed.
The authority of the Committee extends to the compensation terms on any early termination of a Director’s service agreement. The Committee
considers it fair and reasonable to respect these existing contractual terms in the event of termination of an Executive Director’s service
contract. Ordinarily the Director will be entitled to payment in respect of full salary for their notice period together with any accrued holiday
entitlement, subject to a balanced view of reasonable mitigation. Options granted to the Director may become exercisable dependent upon 
the reasons for the termination. Each Director’s contract date is shown in the table below:
Executive Directors
Effective date Unexpired Notice period Notice period
Director of contract term by Company by Director
R W Entwistle 08/09/2005 Rolling one year 12 months 6 months
A P Lezala 08/04/2004 Resigned 17 June 2005 N/A N/A
A C Lovell 14/10/2004 Resigned 30 June 2006 N/A N/A
A Marnoch 24/02/2005 Resigned 31 May 2006 N/A N/A
J O’Kane 24/04/2006 Rolling one year 12 months 6 months
S Norris 08/09/2005 Rolling one year 12 months 6 months
Messrs Lovell and Marnoch have stood down from the Board since the end of the period under review.
180
150
120
90
60
30
0
Value (£)
31 Mar 01
Key
Source: Datastream
31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05 31 Mar 06
Jarvis             FTSE Support Services Index
The above graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2006, of £100 invested in Jarvis on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE Support Services Index. The other points plotted are the values at the intervening financial year-ends. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 29
Non-Executive Directors
Brief details of the letters of appointment between the Group and the Non-Executive Directors are set out below. There are no provisions for
compensation on early termination of these contracts. In February 2005, in the light of the exceptional demands made on the Non-Executive
Directors, it was agreed that the period of notice to be given them by the Company be increased from 3 months to 12 months and that any days
service in excess of the 24 per annum for which they originally contracted, be remunerated in future at a rate per day of 1/24 of their basic fee. 
In September 2005 in recognition of his changed role within the business it was agreed that the appointment of Steven Norris would change 
to become an executive appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors also receive additional compensation in respect of the additional responsibility assumed for chairing Committees
or assuming specific roles. The following additional fees are paid and are included in the amounts of Directors remuneration disclosed:
Chair of Audit Committee - £10,000 p.a.
Chair of Remuneration Committee - £7,500 p.a.
Senior Independent Director - £5,000 p.a.
Effective date of Notice period Notice period
Director appointment by Company by Director
E Filkin 07/08/2003 12 months 3 months
B Mellitt 05/10/2002 12 months 3 months
C J Rew 13/05/2004 12 months 3 months
Information subject to audit
Directors’ remuneration
The table below reflects amounts paid or confirmed as payable in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2006.
Pensions Pension
Salary Pension Prior year current year prior year
of Fees Benefits Bonus Supplement Total Total Note 4 Note 4
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
R Entwistle 1 152 16 47 – 215 – – 27
A Lezala 1 54 1 52 3 110 262 8 29
A Lovell 3 and 5 375 2 225 26 628 412 49 24
A Marnoch 1 and 5 166 11 115 – 292 – 25 –
S Norris 2 150 – 75 – 225 150 – –
Non-Executive Directors
B Mellitt 70––– 70 40 – –
E Filkin 59––– 59 38 – –
C J Rew 70––– 70 40 – –
The benefits shown in the table include the use of Company vehicles, private medical insurance, car allowance or reimbursed fuel costs. During
the year the balance of the compensation due to K O Hyde, who stood down from the Board on 28 September 2004, was paid. This amounted
to £217,000 in the year.
Notes
1 Remuneration for R Entwistle and A Marnoch is shown from their date of appointment. The figures for A Lezala is to the date of his resignation
from the Board. 
2 Remuneration for S Norris includes amounts paid as a Non-Executive Director until September 2005.
3 The comparative figures for A Lovell reflect only the period from his appointment to the Board to 31 March 2004.
4 Directors’ pension contributions comprise the amounts paid by the Group to defined contribution arrangements. Pension contributions are
calculated and payable on basic salary only.
5 Subsequent to the year end the Remuneration Committee approved a termination bonus to each of Alan Lovell and Alasdair Marnoch of
£175,000 and £40,000 respectively.  30 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Director’s shares and share options
(Ordinary shares of 5p each)
Shares held at Shares acquired during Shares subject 
1 April 2005 or the year including shares to restructuring Shares held
date of appointment subscribed under open offer during the year at 31 March 2006
A Lovell – 100,000 – 100,000
S Norris 50,000 2,375 49,875 2,500
E Filkin 3,100 – 3,093 7
The net effect of the restructuring approved by Shareholders on 4 August 2005 and implemented on 1 September 2005 was a 1 for 400
replacement of shares in issue prior to that date.
Subsequent to the period end, S Norris acquired an interest over 40,000 shares on 7 August 2006 at a price of 57.5 pence per share.
Share options
Options held by directors over ordinary shares under Management Incentive Plan were as follows: 
Options 
Options held Granted/ held at 
at 1 April 2005 Exercise (lapsed) Exercised 31 March 2006 Date of
or date of price during during or date of Date expiry 
appointment £ the year the year resignation exercisable of option
R Entwistle (Note 3)
Management Incentive – £0.8673 1,000,000 – 1,000,000 Note 1 30/11/2010
Plan Nov 2005
A C Lovell (Note 2)
Management Incentive – £0.8673 450,000 – 450,000 Note 1 30/11/2010
Plan Nov 2005 (note 2)
A Marnoch (Note 2)
Management Incentive – £0.8673 300,000 – 300,000 Note 1 30/11/2010
Incentive Plan Nov 2005
S Norris (Note 3)
Management Incentive – £0.8673 275,000 – 275,000 Note 1 30/11/2010
Incentive Plan Nov 2005
Note 1
The options are exercisable in the three tranches, each on the achievement of an increase in the share price of the Company for a consecutive
period of 10 days. The tranches are exercisable on the share price achieving respectively a 25 per cent, 50 per cent and 75 per cent increase
over the grant price.
Note 2
The options granted to A C Lovell and A Marnoch have partially lapsed on their respective resignation from the Company and the amounts
outstanding have been reduced to 150,000 and 100,000 shares under option respectively. 
Note 3 
Subsequent to the period end Options were granted under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme of the Company on 3 April 2006 at 
a price of £0.70 per share. 13,357 share options were granted to each of R W Entwistle and S Norris. Additionally an option was granted 
to John O’Kane, the newly appointed Finance Director over 450,000 shares at an option price of 56.2627 pence per share under the 
Management Incentive Plan on 8 August 2006.
No options were held by the remaining Directors during the year under review.
The closing middle market price of the Ordinary Shares as at 31 March 2006 was £0.84p and the range during the year was between 
£5.55 and £0.74. However it should be noted that the higher figure in the range has been adjusted to take account of the share capital
restructuring in preparation for the Debt for Equity Exchange which took place at the beginning of September 2005 and do not reflect the 
published figures at that time.
This report will be submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
By order of the Board
G K H Mason
Secretary
14 August 2006 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 31
Directors’ indemnities
The Directors are entitled to be indemnified 
by the Company to the extent permitted by
law and the Company’s Articles of Association
in respect of all losses arising out of or in
connection with the execution of their powers
duties and responsibilities. Directors and
Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries
have the benefit of a Directors’ and Officers
liability insurance policy which provides
appropriate cover in respect of legal actions
brought against the Directors. 
Corporate governance
This is the subject of a separate statement on
pages 18 to 22 which forms an integral part of
this annual report and is intended to address
the requirements of the Combined Code
incorporated in the Listing Rules issued by 
the Financial Services Authority.
Creditor payment policy
When entering into commitments for the
purchase of services and goods, the Company
gives due consideration to quality, delivery,
price and the terms of payment. Suppliers are
made aware of these terms. The Company
abides by these terms whenever it is satisfied
that suppliers have provided the services or
goods in accordance with agreed terms and
conditions. In the event of disputes, efforts
are made to resolve them quickly. 
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the
Company on average paid its creditors within
54 days (2005: 24 days) of receipt of invoice.
Employment policies
The Group is committed to the fair and
equitable treatment of all its employees,
irrespective of gender, race, age, religion,
disability or sexual orientation. Policies have
been implemented across the Group to ensure
that this commitment is acted on in practice.
A high priority is placed on the involvement
and participation of all employees, whether
through formal processes involving trade
unions and elected representatives or through
direct communications. Various methods of
communication, including newsletters,
company magazines, a monthly cascaded
management brief which includes a monthly
management conference call, and a widely
available intranet site, have made key
contributions to the level and understanding 
of the business whilst allowing employees 
to contribute and comment on matters which
are likely to affect them. The Group operates
an all-employee savings related share options
scheme to encourage participation in the
shareholding of the Company. The latest 
grant under the scheme was made on 
3 April 2006.
The Group’s policy is to ensure the health,
safety and welfare of everyone engaged in 
Principal activities and business review 
The principal activities of the Group during the
financial period under review were road and rail
infrastructure renewal, facilities management
and plant hire. During the period, the Company
made significant progress towards its planned
exit from the Construction sector. It continues
to operate in the sector to finish a small
amount of contracted work and to support 
its facilities management operations. 
Review of business and future developments
The Chairman’ s and Chief Executive’ s
statements together with the operating and
financial reviews which are contained in this
report between pages 2 to 14 report on Jarvis’
principal activities and performance during the
past year as well as considering prospects for
the future. These statements and the reviews
are included in this report by reference. 
Results and dividends
The loss after taxation for the financial period
attributable to Shareholders, dealt with in 
the consolidated accounts, amounted to 
£56.6 million (2005: loss £331.8 million). 
The Directors recommend that no final
dividend be paid in respect of the year 
(2005: nil). The profit/(loss) for the for 
the year transferred to reserves is 
£ 56.6 million (2005: £331.8 million).
Share capital
During the financial period under review
significant changes were made to the
Company’s share capital as a result of a
financial restructuring which was approved 
by Shareholders on 4 August 2005 and a
subsequent Open Offer and Placing which 
was completed at the end of September 2005.
Details of the changes are given in note 24 to
the accounts. Since the year end the issued
capital of the Company has increased to
163,690,107 Ordinary Shares of 5p as a 
result of the exercise of certain warrants
issued at the time of the financial 
restructuring and the placing of 4,602,460
shares on 1 August 2006.
Substantial shareholdings
At 14 August 2006 the Company had been
notified of the following interests in 3 per cent 
or more of the Company’s Ordinary Shares. 
The disclosed shareholdings recognise the
interests of different parties in the share
capital and therefore some shareholdings are
disclosed by both the beneficial owner and
their Nominee holder:
Third Point Loan LLC 13.22%
Mellon HBV Alternative
Strategies LLC 8.82%
Strategic Value Partners LLC 8.59%
JP Morgan Chase & Co 7.95%
River Run Management LLC 7.49%
Canyon Capital Advisors 5.06%
EOS Partners LP 3.81%
JGD Management Corporation 3.65%
Bear Stearns 3.63%
Deutsche Bank AG 2.91%
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s financial risk
management policies and objectives are
disclosed in Note 1.24 to the financial
statements.
Directors
The names of the Directors who held office 
on 31 March 2006 are as follows:
Mr R W Entwistle (appointed 
8 September 2005)
Ms E Filkin * † ‡ (Non-Executive)
Mr A C Lovell (resigned 30 June 2006)
Mr A Marnoch (appointed 13 June 2005,
resigned 31 May 2006)
Professor B Mellitt * † ‡ (Non-Executive)
Mr S Norris ‡ (appointed Executive Chairman
during the financial period)
Mr C J Rew * † ‡ (Non-Executive)
Company Secretary: G K H Mason. 
Members of the *remuneration, †audit and ‡nomination
Committees. Full biographical details of the Company’s
Directors at the date of the report are given on pages 16
and 17.
A number of changes to the composition of
the Board took place during the year and after
31 March 2006:
Mr A P Lezala resigned 
17 June 2005
Mr R W Entwistle appointed
8 September 2005
Mr A Marnoch appointed
13 June 2005
resigned
31 May 2006
Mr J O’Kane appointed
27 April 2006
Mr A C Lovell resigned 
30 June 2006
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association John O’Kane, having been
appointed a Director since the last Annual
General Meeting, will retire at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. John O’Kane has 
a service contract that requires the giving of
12 months’ notice. 
Details of the Directors’ remuneration,
shareholdings and options over the shares in
the Company are given in the Remuneration
Report on pages 26 to 30.
All of the Executive Directors who served during
the year held service agreements with the
Company, details of which are given in the
Director’s Remuneration Report on pages 
26 to 30.
Directors’ Report 32 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Directors’ Report
Authority to allot securities
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
to be held on 28 September 2006, an
ordinary resolution will be proposed in
accordance with Section 80 of the
Companies Act 1985 to renew the
Directors’ authority to allot the authorised
but unissued share capital of the Company.
The authority sought will be for a period
normally expiring at the time of the Annual
General Meeting in 2007. 
Subject to the aforementioned resolution
being sanctioned by Shareholders, authority
will also be sought from Shareholders to
disapply Section 89 of the Companies Act
1985. This authority, which has been sought
from and granted by Shareholders in
previous years, will permit Directors during
the period until the Annual General Meeting
in 2007 to issue for cash no more than 5 per
cent of the current Issued Share Capital at
the date hereof, without first offering them
pro-rata to existing Shareholders. The
Directors believe that the resolution,
disapplying Section 89 in this way, is in 
the best interests of the Company.
Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable
future and therefore continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
Political and charitable donations
The Group made charitable donations of
£36,000 (2005: £78,000) during the year, 
and made no political donations.
Post balance sheet events
Since the 31 March the Group has entered
into a new three-year committed and
secured credit facility which will be used to
refinance the Group’s existing loan facilities
and provide liquidity. Further details of this
are disclosed in the Chairman’s Statement
on pages 2 to 4 and in note 29 to the
accounts.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint RSM Robson
Rhodes LLP as Auditor and to authorise the
Directors to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
G K H Mason 
Secretary
14 August 2006
or affected by its activities and to comply 
with current legislation. The Corporate Social
Responsibility Report is included on pages
23 to 25. Further information on Health and
Safety and on key performance indicators
associated with employee safety is 
contained within that report.
The Group’s policy on the recruitment of
disabled persons during the financial year 
has continued to be as sympathetic and
positive as possible and we encourage 
the recruitment and subsequent training
development and promotion of disabled
people on the basis of their aptitude and
abilities whilst having due regard to the 
nature of the Group’s operations, as 
well as the retention and retraining of 
employees who become disabled. 
Environmental policy
The Board is fully committed to minimising 
any adverse effects that the Group’s operations
may have on the environment and to finding
alternative ways of operating where its
activities may cause environmental damage. 
Each of the operating businesses has
developed environmental policies and
procedures appropriate to its business and
these have been co-coordinated at Group 
level in order to ensure that the Board’s
commitment is applied consistently
throughout the Group. Further details and
information on key performance indicators
used are provided in the Corporate Social
Responsibility Report on pages 23 to 25.
Ethics and whistleblower policies
As disclosed in the Corporate Governance
Statement last year, the Company has
developed an ethics policy and has also
implemented improved structures supporting
its whistleblowing policy. These include a
dedicated hot line and the ability to notify 
by e-mail directly to the Audit Committee
nominees by means of a freestanding 
e-mail address operated outside of the
Company’s e-mail network. The Company 
has continued to operate the policies and 
the whistleblowing structure during the
financial period under review. 
Close company provisions
The Company is not a close company within
the provisions of the Income and Corporation
Taxes Act 1988.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Company law in the United Kingdom requires
the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year, which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company
and the Group and of the profit or loss of the
Group for that period. 
The Directors are required to prepare the
Group financial statements in accordance with
IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected
to prepare the Parent Company financial
statements in accordance with UK
Accounting Standards. 
In preparing each of the Group and Parent
Company financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
– make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent;
– for the Group financial statements, state
whether they have been prepared in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by 
the EU;
– for the Parent Company financial
statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been
followed; and
– prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to assume that the Group 
and the Parent Company will continue 
in business. 
The Directors confirm that the financial
statements comply with these
requirements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring
that the Company and the Group maintain
proper accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and
enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company
and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the corporate
and financial information on the Group’s
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and
dissemination of the financial statements
and other information included in annual
reports may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions. Disclosure of Information 
to Auditors.
At the date of making this report each of 
the Company’s Directors, as set out on 
page 31, confirm the following:
– so far as each Director is aware, there 
is no relevant information needed by the
Company’s Auditors in connection with
preparing their report of which the
Company’s Auditors are unaware; and
– each Director has taken all the steps that
he ought to have taken as a Director in order
to make himself aware of any relevant
information needed by the Company’s
auditors in connection with preparing their
report and to establish that the Company’s
auditors are aware of that information. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 33
Independent Auditors’ Report
We have audited the Group and Parent
Company financial statements (“the financial
statements”) of Jarvis plc for the year ended
31 March 2006 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the
Consolidated and Parent Company Balance
Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense and related
notes. These financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out
therein. We have also audited the information
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s
Shareholders, as a body, in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we
might state to the Company’s Shareholders
those matters we are required to state to
them in an Auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s Shareholders 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The Directors responsibilities for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Group financial
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted for use in 
the European Union, and for preparing the
Parent Company financial statements and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance
with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
on page 32.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the
financial statements give a true and fair view
and whether the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 
and whether, in addition, the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the Company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require
for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate
Governance Statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority, and we report
if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk
and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in 
the Annual Report, and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. The other information comprises
only the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s
Statement, the Finance Review, the Operating
Review and the Corporate Governance
Report. We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any 
other information.
We report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors’ Report is
consistent with the financial statements. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on 
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
Directors in the preparation of the financial
statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and
Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as 
to obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In
forming our opinion we also evaluated 
the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements and 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
– the Group financial statements give a true
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted for use in the European Union, 
of the state of affairs of the Group as at 
31 March 2006 and of its loss for the year 
then ended; 
– the Group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation;
– the Parent Company financial statements
give a true and fair view, in accordance with
United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs 
of the Parent Company as at 31 March 2006; 
– the Parent Company financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985; and
– the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the financial
statements.
RSM Robson Rhodes LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Registered Auditors
Leeds
14 August 2006 31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3, 4 401.2 509.7 
Cost of sales (334.6) (491.5)
Gross profit 66.6 18.2 
Administration expenses (55.5) (93.5)
Operating profit/(loss) before non-recurring costs 5 11.1 (75.3)
Non-recurring costs 6 (1.8) (288.2)
Operating profit/(loss) 9.3 (363.5)
Finance income 1.9 2.2
Finance expense (69.7) (29.9)
Net finance costs 7 (67.8) (27.7)
Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures 8.1 0.3 0.2 
Loss before taxation (58.2) (391.0)
Tax on loss 11.1 0.1 2.6 
Loss for the year from continuing operations (58.1) (388.4)
Discontinued operations
Post-tax profit from discontinued operations 13.1 1.5 56.3 
Loss for the year (56.6) (332.1)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (56.6) (331.8)
Minority interests – (0.3)
(56.6) (332.1)
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share
Basic and diluted 
– Continuing (40.4)p (270.4)p
– Discontinued 1.0p 39.2 p
Total 14 (39.4)p (231.2)p
Notes 1 to 33 form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 14 August 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
R Entwistle Director
J O’Kane Director
34 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2006 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 35
Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 March 2006
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Net actuarial gains on defined benefit schemes 22.7 19.6 7.9
Disposal of revalued properties and European Roads 25 3.0 9.6
Tax in respect of items taken directly to equity 12.2 – (1.5)
Income and expense recognised directly in equity 22.6 16.0
(Loss)/profit for the year: 
– From continuing operations (58.1) (388.4)
– From discontinued operations 1.5 56.3
Total recognised expense for the year (34.0) (316.1)
Effect of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 April 2005 33.3 1.5 –
Total recognised expense (32.5) (316.1)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (32.5) (315.8)
Minority interests – (0.3)
Total recognised expense (32.5) (316.1) 36 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Consolidated Balance Sheet
At 31 March 2006
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 15 0.7 0.8 
Property, plant and equipment 16 28.0 26.8 
Interests in associates 8.2 2.3 2.3 
Interests in joint ventures 8.2 1.0 1.2 
Deferred tax assets 12.1 0.7 0.7 
Retirement benefit asset 22.4 22.0 5.0 
54.7 36.8
Current assets
Inventories 17 7.0 8.2 
Debtor related to PFI/PPP non-recourse financing agreement 18 – 11.0 
Trade and other receivables 19 104.8 139.2 
Cash and cash equivalents 23.2 9.5 10.8
121.3 169.2
Assets held for sale 13.3 0.4 33.3
Total assets 176.4 239.3
Current liabilities
Borrowings
– Bank loans and overdrafts 23.2 27.4 303.7 
– Obligations under finance leases 23.3 0.9 1.1 
PFI/PPP non-recourse term loan 18 – 0.9 
Trade and other payables 20 139.3 235.0
Tax liabilities 0.5 0.1
Provisions 22 6.4 25.1
174.5 565.9
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 
– Bank loans 23.2 1.7 5.3 
– Obligations under finance leases 23.3 1.9 2.9 
PFI/PPP non-recourse term loan 18 – 9.9 
Retirement benefit obligation 22.4 17.9 20.8 
Provisions 21 8.3 32.7 
29.8 71.6
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 13.3 0.3 16.1 
Total liabilities 204.6 653.6
Net liabilities (28.2) (414.3)
Equity 
Capital and reserves
Share capital 24 7.6 7.2 
Share premium 24 556.6 142.3 
Revaluation reserve 25 – 3.0 
Capital redemption reserve 25 7.2 –
Other reserve 25 89.7 89.7 
Translation reserve 25 – 0.4 
Accumulated losses 25 (689.3) (656.9)
Equity shareholders’ deficit (28.2) (414.3) Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 37
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 March 2006
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Operating activities
Cash outflows generated from operations 27.1 (32.4) (174.1)
Restructuring and redundancy costs paid (16.8) (45.1)
Income taxes received – 17.0 
Net interest costs paid (7.4) (9.5)
Net cash outflow from operating activities (56.6) (211.7)
Cashflows from discontinued operations (included above) (1.5) (1.3)
Investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.6 7.6 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (8.1) (6.5)
Investments in and loans repaid by joint ventures – 1.0 
Disposal of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed 13.2 19.1 81.9 
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 28.5 
Disposal of property assets classified as held for sale 0.8 –
Disposal of investments – 0.7 
Net cash inflow from investing activities 12.8 113.2 
Cashflows from discontinued operations (included above) (0.3) 6.2 
Financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 24 43.9 –
Equity dividends paid – (6.7)
Proceeds from new debt 27.2 24.0 67.9
Repayment of old debt 27.2 (21.9) (25.3)
Finance lease principal repayments 27.2 (1.2) (0.8) 
Net cash inflow from financing activities 44.8 35.1 
Cashflows from discontinued operations (included above) – (0.1)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents* 1.0 (63.4)
Opening cash and cash equivalents 8.7 72.1
Closing cash and cash equivalents 9.7 8.7
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents
– Unrestricted cash 5.6 1.5 
– Restricted use cash** 3.9 9.3 
23.2 9.5 10.8
Net cash/(overdraft) in disposal groups held for sale 13.3 0.2 (0.2)
Overdrafts – (1.9)
Total cash and cash equivalents 9.7 8.7 
* The decrease in cash and cash equivalents of £63.4 million for the year ended 31 March 2005, differ from the decrease in cash of £30.5 million previously reported on a UK GAAP
basis. This is because the bank accounts with restricted use have been included within cash and cash equivalents under IFRS but were excluded under UK GAAP . 
**Cash and cash equivalents includes amounts, £3.9 million as at 31 March 2006 (2005: £9.3 million), where the use is restricted to certain contracts in accordance with defined
contractual obligations.  38 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Summary of significant accounting policies
1.1 Authorisation of financial statements and statements of compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
The financial statements of Jarvis plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 14 August
2006 and Richard Entwistle and John O’Kane signed the balance sheet on the Board’s behalf. Jarvis plc is a public limited company
incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock exchange. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the European Union (EU) and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. The Group has applied all
accounting standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial
Reporting Interpretation Committee (IFRICs) effective at the time of preparing these statements. A summary of the principle accounting
policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
1.2 Basis of preparation 
This is the first year in which the Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRS and the comparative financial information has 
been restated from UK generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP) to comply with IFRS. Reconciliations to IFRS from the previously
published UK GAAP primary financial statements are shown in Note 33. The accounting policies that follow set out those policies that apply
in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006. 
The full year comparative figures as shown in these financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 do not constitute statutory
accounts for the purposes of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985. A copy of the statutory accounts for that year under UK GAAP has
been filed with the Registrar of Companies. The report of the Auditors on those accounts was modified due to uncertainties over going
concern but did not contain any statement under Section 237 of the Companies Act 1985.
These consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as
modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss. The areas
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements, are disclosed in Note 2.
1.3 Group refinancing 
The Group completed a refinancing of its existing banking facilities on 27 July 2006. The new arrangements consist of committed facilities
of £67 million comprising of a revolving credit facility and term loan facilities. The facilities are secured by way of a fixed and floating charge
on the Group’s assets, in particular its plant, machinery and receivables under its rail renewal and plant hire contracts. The proceeds of this
arrangement will be used to repay the Group’s existing bank facilities and to finance its future ongoing operations. The new facility will
expire on 26 July 2009.
1.4 Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Jarvis plc and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) drawn up at 
31 March each year. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from
its activities.
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. Subsidiaries are fully
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group, generally where there is a shareholding of more than one half of 
the voting rights, and deconsolidated from the date on which control ceases. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the
same reporting year as the parent reporting company, using consistent accounting policies. Subsidiaries’ accounting policies have been
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Inter-company balances and transactions including unrealised profits on transactions arising from intra-group transactions have been
eliminated in full. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
(ii) Associates and Joint Ventures
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence through participation in the financial and
operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity.
A joint venture is contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties (venturers) undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint
control. Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of 
the venturers.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate or joint venture are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method 
of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus 
post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any
impairment in the value of the investment. The Group income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results after tax of the associate
or joint venture. The Group statement of recognised income and expense (SoRIE) reflects the Group’s share of any income and expense
recognised by the associate or joint venture outside the profit and loss. Notes to the Financial Statements
1.4 Basis of consolidation (continued)
(ii) Associates and Joint Ventures (continued)
The financial statements of associates are prepared for the same reporting year as the Group. Where necessary, adjustments are made 
to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s
interest in the associate or joint venture. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment 
of the asset transferred. 
The Group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the date from which it no longer has significant influence in the associate 
or joint venture, or when the interest becomes held for sale.
When the Group’s shares of losses in an associate or joint venture exceed its interests in the investment, the Group does not recognise
further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on its behalf.
(iii) Business Combinations
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
at the fair value of the consideration plus fees and similar incremental costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The assets and liabilities
acquired are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group‘s
share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
1.5 Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less
costs to sell. Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is
available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify 
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, once classified as held for sale, are not depreciated.
1.6 Intangible assets 
Intangible assets include goodwill, stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for
prospectively.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value
may not be recoverable.
(i) Goodwill
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over net fair value of the identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at
the acquisition date is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirer’s interest in
the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less
accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is reviewed annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash generating units expected to benefit from the combinations
synergies. For this purpose cash generating units are defined as business segments. Impairment is determined by assessing the
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash generating 
unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 is stated at the previous UK GAAP carrying amount.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in joint ventures and associates, being the surplus of the cost of the investment over the Group’s
share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets. Such goodwill is included in the investment carrying value, and any impairment of the
goodwill is included within the income from joint ventures and associates.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
(ii) Software development costs 
Computer software development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis and have a useful life of three to five years.
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 39 40 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
1.7 Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost of an asset comprises the purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into
operation, the initial estimate for any decommissioning obligations, and, for qualifying assets, any borrowing costs. The purchase price or
construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalised value of any finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate. Expenditure on major
maintenance refits or repairs comprises the cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and overhaul costs. Where an
asset or part of an asset that was separately depreciated and is now written off is replaced, and it is probable that future economic benefits
associated with the item will flow to the Group, and the cost of the item can be measured reliably, the expenditure is capitalised. 
Inspection costs associated with major maintenance programmes are capitalised and amortised over the period to the next inspection. 
Other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. 
Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated
useful life as follows:
Leasehold land and buildings Over the period of the lease
Leasehold improvements 5 to 20 years or period of the lease if shorter
Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years 
Fixtures and fittings 4 to 10 years 
Office equipment 2 to 4 years 
The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in residual values 
are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that it may not be
recoverable. Any impairment is charged to the income statement immediately. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing
proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the income statement.
1.8 Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that
are different from those of other business segments. The Group is organised into two main business streams, Infrastructure Services and
Accommodation Services. Infrastructure Services is organised into two businesses comprising Rail and Plant and Roads. Accommodation
Services comprises facilities and construction management. These businesses, Rail and Plant, Roads and Accommodation Services are the
basis on which the Group reports its primary segmental information. The secondary format is geographical area, which is based on the
location of the Group’s operations.
1.9 Foreign currencies
(i) Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (the ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, 
which is the Group’s functional and presentational currency.
(ii) Transactions and balances 
In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of exchange ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency 
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange differences are in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional
currency using the rate of exchange as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
(iii) Group companies
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of non-sterling functional currency subsidiaries, associates or joint
ventures, including goodwill, are translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows of non-sterling
functional currency subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange adjustments, arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by non-sterling functional currency
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are translated into sterling, are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in the
statement of recognised income and expense (SoRIE). Exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowing 
used to finance the Group’s non-sterling investments are also taken to equity. Notes to the Financial Statements
1.9 Foreign currencies (continued)
(iii) Group companies (continued)
On disposal of non-sterling functional currency subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures, the cumulative amount recognised in equity
relating to that particular non-sterling operation is recognised in the income statement.
1.10 Taxation
(i) Current taxation
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that 
are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
ii) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities used for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred taxation is not
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred
tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be
realised. This requires judgment to be made in respect of the forecast of future taxable income.
Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where
the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in
the foreseeable future.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to tax audit 
issues. Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions can be ascertained with reasonable certainty. Once considered probable
management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against a full recognition of that benefit on
the basis of potential settlement through negotiation or litigation. 
1.11 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined by the first in first out method and comprises direct
purchase costs, costs of production, transportation, manufacturing expenses and any directly attributable overheads. 
1.12 Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less allowances made for doubtful receivables (impairments). 
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due in 
full according to the original terms of the receivables. Balances are written off in the income statement when the probability of recovery 
is assessed as being remote.
1.13 Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised at the settlement amount. 
1.14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at nominal value. 
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including bank 
deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are also included as they are an integral part of the Group’s 
cash management. Cash at bank includes amounts where the use is restricted to certain contracts in accordance with defined 
contractual obligations. 
1.15 Borrowings
Borrowings comprise of revolving credit facilities, term loans and loan notes and are initially recognised as proceeds received, net of
transaction and arrangement costs incurred. The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income
statement over the life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method. Facility fees are expensed as incurred.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least
twelve months. 
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 41 42 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
1.16 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the
Group expects some or all of the provision to be reimbursed, for example, under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised 
as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. 
Restructuring provisions comprise employees’ termination payments and financial restructuring legal and advisor fees. Provisions are not
recognised for future operating losses.
Long-term provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present
obligation at the balance sheet date. The present value of long-term provisions is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows
at a UK risk free pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and where appropriate, the risks specific to
the liability.
Where discounting is used, the change in the provision due to the passage of time and changes in discount rates is included within other
finance expense.
A contingent liability is disclosed, but not recognised, where the existence of an obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where
the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability. Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where
an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
1.17 Leases
Leases of plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as finance
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s inception at the lower of the fair value of the plant and equipment and the present value
of the minimum lease payments. 
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged to the income statement 
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in obligations under finance leases. 
Plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term.
Leases where the Group does not retain substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
1.18 Employee benefits
Wage, salaries, social security contributions, accumulated annual leave, bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in
which the employees of the Group perform the services.
Termination benefits are payable whenever an employee’s employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever 
an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it has
demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination benefits as a result of 
an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
(i) Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is
measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated by
using a valuation model (Black-Scholes-Merton, modified to reflect employee options). In accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-based payments”,
the resulting cost is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the options, being the period in which services are
received. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting, except where the failure to vest is as 
a result of not meeting a market condition. The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share
capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
(ii) Pension obligations
The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes and to personal pension plans according to the arrangements agreed with
employees. Contributions paid by the Group are charged to the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of
the scheme.
The Group contributes to defined benefit pension schemes according to the arrangements agreed with employees. The defined benefit
scheme is valued every three years by a qualified actuary, the rates of contribution payable being determined by the actuary. In the
intervening years the appropriateness of the last valuation is reviewed annually.  Notes to the Financial Statements
1.18 Employee benefits (continued)
(ii) Pension obligations (continued)
In respect of these defined benefit schemes, obligations to employees are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are
measured at fair value. The operating and finance costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement; service costs 
are spread systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in full in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense (SoRIE).
The asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet is the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
1.19 Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, for services supplied to external customers.
Revenue from facilities management contracts is recognised by reference to services performed to date. Revenue from long-term 
contracts is recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy on long-term contracts. Revenue also includes income from 
the sales of goods and rental income which fall within the Group’s ordinary activities.
1.20 Long-term contracts
When the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised by reference to the degree of
completion of each contract, based on the amounts certified and to be certified by the customer. 
Incentive payments and insurance claims arising from long-term contracts are included where they have been agreed with the client.
Variations and other claims are included where it is probable that the amount will be settled, based on agreement in principle with the
customer. When the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of 
contract costs incurred where it is probable those costs will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. When it is probable that total contract costs will 
exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately. 
Pre-contract costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11. All costs incurred in advance of contract being awarded are written off 
to the income statement, until the date, that in the opinion of the directors, it is probable that the contract will be secured. Costs incurred
during the period between the contract being probably secured and the eventual award is carried as work in progress to the extent they 
are expected to be recovered. 
Where revenue recognised exceeds progress billings, the balance is shown as due from customers on long-term contracts within trade 
and other receivables. Where progress billings exceed costs incurred, the balance is shown as due to customers on long-term contracts
within trade and other payables.
On 29 January 2005 Jarvis plc and certain other subsidiaries entered into agreements with other relevant parties in respect of 
14 construction contracts (being those contracts not past Practical Completion or that had material future cash outflows associated with
them). The purpose of the agreements was to release the Company from Parent Company Guarantees given under the original contracts 
and to limit the Group’s liability to additional costs required to complete the contracts. These agreements specified that the sums required 
to complete the contracts be placed into two trusts for each contract. The trusts are in the name of Jarvis Construction (UK) Limited but 
the funds standing to the credit of them are available only for the purposes specified by each trust and are directly related to funding
construction liabilities. The funds are not available to Jarvis plc and Jarvis Construction (UK) Limited except for these purposes. The cash 
in each trust is only made available at the point when payments are made in accordance with the purposes of the trust. For this reason the
cash in these trusts is recognised within trade and other receivables.
1.21 PFI and similar contracts 
The Group has adopted the provisions of FRS 5 (Application note F), being the nearest GAAP guidance available for IAS and also had regard
to Treasury guidance notes in determining the appropriate treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from, PFI and similar
contracts. Where it can be demonstrated that the balance of risks and rewards derived from the underlying asset are not borne by the
Group, the asset created and/or provided under the contract is accounted for as a finance lease receivable or as a financial asset; otherwise,
it is classified as a fixed asset. Income derived from such contracts is allocated between the provision of the asset and the provision of
subsequent services. Upon acceptance of the constructed asset, the finance lease receivable or financial asset is amortised over the life 
of the contract against the relevant portion of the assured contract income.
Where the Group’s interest in the relevant project entity has been disposed of, but the Group continues to have the responsibility for
constructing the project asset, profit will continue to be deferred according to the stage of completion of construction.
1.22 New accounting standards and IFRIC
At the date of signing of this report, certain new accounting standards and IFRIC interpretations have been published that are mandatory for
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006. None of these standards affect the financial statements ending 31 March 2006.
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 43 44 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
1.23 Financial instruments 
Treasury management and strategy
The Group’s treasury activities are managed by its Group Treasury Department under the direction of the Group Finance Director. The Group
Finance Director reports to the Board on the strategy and implementation of treasury policies and guidelines. Where necessary the Group
Finance Director will request specific Board approval for treasury transactions, such as working capital or loan facilities. 
The overriding objective of the treasury activities is to manage financial risk. To this end the Group Treasury Department works closely with
the Group Taxation Department to ensure that the financial risks are managed to minimise the negative effects upon the Group’s post-tax
cashflows. 
Key features of treasury management include:
– the efficient management of the Group’s cash and short term liquidity position; 
– ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations as they fall due;
– negotiating, establishing and maintaining adequate and appropriate credit facilities to meet the Group’s existing and expected
requirements at the lowest overall post-tax cost achievable in the market;
– establishing and implementing the hedging strategy for material exposures, including the impacts of taxation;
– maximising returns on short-term investments;
– not entering into speculative transactions; and 
– ensuring the Group’s treasury policies are communicated to, and subsequently adhered to by, the rest of the Group.
Treasury policy is primarily implemented through the use of financial instruments described below.
Principal financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, lease finance and cash. The purpose of these financial instruments is 
to finance the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which
arise directly from its operations.
If appropriate, the Group enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps and forward currency purchases, to manage
material interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. The Group Treasury
Department’s policy is to use purchased options, swaps and other derivative instruments subject to Board approval and only to the extent
that such instruments form part of the hedging policy to establish a known rate of exchange or known interest rate. It is, and has been
throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments for speculative purposes shall be undertaken.
Risks
The main risk arising from the Group’s operations is funding and liquidity risk due to the contractual nature of the Group’s activities and the
associated capital expenditure requirements. The Group Finance Director reviews and agrees policies for managing each risk, and where
necessary seeks specific Board approval for policy and guidelines with regard to the exposure, which are summarised in the financial risk
management policy set out below. The disclosures below exclude short-term receivables and payables, except for the associated currency
and credit risk exposure.
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39
The Group adopted IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: presentation and disclosure’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: recognition and
measurement’ from 1 April 2005. In the preparation of its financial statements in accordance with IFRS for the 2004 financial year the Group
continued to apply the accounting rules of UK GAAP , taking advantage of the exemption available within IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of IFRS’.
From 1 April 2005, such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is
entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. When derivatives are used to hedge a financial instrument, any gain or loss is
recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense (SoRIE) as a separate component of reserves. Derivatives that do not
qualify for hedge accounting are treated as trading instruments and changes in fair value are taken to the income statement
1.24 Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial risks, but the principal financial risk is funding and liquidity due to the contractual
nature of the Group’s activities and the associated capital expenditure requirements. The Group’s Treasury Department implements, 
with direction from the Group Finance Director and where necessary subject to specific Board approval, the appropriate risk management
strategies to ensure, with particular regard to the Group’s cash generation and usage patterns, adequate cost effective funding whilst
limiting the adverse effects of credit, liquidity, foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the financial performance of the Group. The 
Group Treasury Department ensures that financial risks are identified through:
– receiving regular, formalised reports from all operating divisions;
– review of operational results and executive information, in particular each division’s cash generation and usage, and working capital 
position;
– maintaining an ongoing dialogue with all the Group’s operations; and
– involvement in, and review of the output from, the planning and forecasting processes. Notes to the Financial Statements
1.24 Financial risk management (continued)
(i) Cash management
The Group’s cash management is carried out on a daily, ongoing basis to ensure that liquid funds are available to meet, but not unnecessarily
exceed, liquidity requirements and so minimise, as far as possible, the costs of borrowing, and also to ensure that the Group operates within
its existing facilities. Visibility and planning to meet liquidity requirements is managed through:
– daily monitoring of bank account positions;
– production of short term forecasts based on regular divisional cash flow forecasts; and
– ongoing dialogue with all areas of the Group’s operations to determine the likely timing of cash flows from trading and non-trading
transactions.
(ii) Funding and liquidity risk
A key function of the Group Treasury Department is to ensure that the group has sufficient cost effective facilities to meet its obligations 
in the short, medium and long terms with particular regard to the Group’s underlying cash generation and usage. In order to establish the
Group’s funding requirements Group Treasury Department monitors:
– regular cash flow forecasts prepared by the divisions, which are consolidated at Group level;
– budgets and forecasts;
– actual trading results and resultant debt and balance sheet positions;
– capital expenditure requests; and
– executive information, as well as undertaking an ongoing dialogue throughout the Group and with senior management.
Having identified the Group’s financing requirements and obtained necessary approvals and authorisations, the Group Treasury Department,
under the direct supervision of the Group Finance Director, undertakes the negotiation of facilities with appropriate counterparties.
The Group maintains medium term committed facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available for operations and planned
investment. During the year, the group entered into a new £38.5 million working capital facility expiring in February 2007 of which 
£24.0 million was drawn as at 31 March 2006. In July 2006 the £38.5 million working capital facility was refinanced with a new 
three-year committed credit facility of £67 million to fund the Group’s working capital and other requirements.
(iii) Interest rate risk
The Group has both interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group’s financing arrangements are predominately subject to floating
interest rates due to the type of facilities in place.
During the year certain of the Group’s banking facilities were subject to floating rates of interest and the Group used derivative instruments
such as interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The
derivative instruments used are therefore cash flow hedges of future interest payments, which have the effect of creating a proportion 
of fixed interest debt.
During the year the Group also had in place certain leasing facilities. These finance leases were all at fixed rates of interest.
Interest rate swaps and other such derivative instruments that convert a portion of floating rate interest exposures into fixed interest rate
liabilities may continue to be used, subject to Board approval, to hedge material interest rate exposures. 
At the year-end, approximately 20 per cent of interest bearing liabilities were at fixed rates and all interest bearing assets were at 
floating rates.
(iv) Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk in either its financing or commercial operations. The Group’s customers are mainly
public bodies such as local authorities, hospital trusts and Network Rail. The Group’s main working capital funding facility is syndicated with
highly credit-rated banks and institutions. The Group’s surplus cash is invested with highly credit-rated banks, based on ratings issued by
major rating agencies.
The Group’s procedures require appropriate credit checks to be carried out on potential customers before sales commence. Financial
instrument counter parties are subject to pre-approval by the Group Finance Director and such approval is limited to highly credit-rated
financial institutions, based on ratings issued by major rating agencies.
(v) Price risk
The Group is not exposed to any equity securities price risk on investments held by the Group. The Group is also not exposed to commodity
price risk.
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 45 46 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
1.25 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal
the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
(a) Going concern basis
The Directors consider it is appropriate that these financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Although the Group has incurred substantial trading losses and cash outflows up to 31 March 2005 it is now trading profitably at the
operating level and has significantly improved its cash flows. Furthermore the successful completion of the financial restructure on 
29 September 2005 combined with the organisational restructuring and operational improvements means that the directors believe 
the Group will be able to trade within its working capital facility for at least the next twelve months. 
(b) Revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue recognition policy, set out in 1.19 and 1.20 above, determines the value recognised in relation to the work carried 
out during each financial year. These policies require management estimates and judgements, particularly in forecasting the outcome 
of long-term contracts and the associated risks. 
(c) Defined Benefit Pension schemes
The details of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are set out in Note 22 and have been accounted for in accordance with IAS
19 ‘‘Employee Benefits’’. The main area of judgement and estimate is the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities, which is the net
present value of the pension benefit obligations. The key assumptions in determining the pension benefit obligations include future
salary increases, rates of increase of pension benefits, mortality rates and inflation. The net present value of the pension scheme
liabilities is calculated by discounting the pension benefit obligations using market rates on relevant AA corporate bonds at the balance
sheet date.
2. First time adoption of IFRS
(i) Application of IFRS 1
(a) The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 are the first annual financial statements that comply fully with IFRS 1
and all other applicable International Financial Reporting Standards. These financial statements have been prepared as described in Note 1. 
(b) The Group’s transition date is 1 April 2004 and the Group prepared its opening IFRS balance sheet at that date. The reporting date
of these consolidated financial statements is 31 March 2006. The Group’s IFRS adoption date is 1 April 2005. In preparing these 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has applied the mandatory exceptions and certain of the 
optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS.
(c) The Group has elected to adopt IFRS 5 ‘‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’’ retrospectively from 1 April 2005.
Accordingly, all activities that meet the criteria for recognition as discontinued are separately classified in the income statement as 
post-tax profits from discontinued operations and in the balance sheet as assets and associated liabilities held for sale.
(ii) Exemptions from full retrospective application elected by the Group
The Group has elected to apply the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application:
(a) Business combinations exemption
The Group has applied the business combinations exemption in IFRS 1. It has not restated business combinations that took place prior to
the 1 April 2004 transition date. 
(b) Fair value as deemed cost exemption
The Group has elected to measure certain items of property, plant and equipment at fair value as at 1 April 2004. 
(c) Employee benefits (pensions) exemption
The Group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at 1 April 2004 and also not to disclose the history of gains 
and losses prior to the date of transition.
(d) Cumulative translation differences exemption
The Group has elected to set the previously accumulated translation reserve to zero at 1 April 2004. This exemption has been applied to 
all foreign subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 1.  Notes to the Financial Statements
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 47
2. First time adoption of IFRS (continued)
(ii) Exemptions from full retrospective application elected by the Group (continued)
(e) Exemption from restatement of comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39
The Group elected to apply this exemption. It applies previous UK GAAP rules to derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities and 
to hedging relationships for the 2005 comparative information. The adjustments required for IAS 32 and IAS 39 are determined and
recognised at 1 April 2005. 
(f) Designation of financial assets and financial liabilities exemption
The Group re-classified certain equity investments as available-for-sale at fair value through profit and loss. 
(g) Share-based payment transaction exemption
The Group has elected to apply the share-based payment exemption. It applied IFRS 2 from 1 April 2004 to those options that were 
issuedafter 7 November 2002 but that had not vested by 1 April 2005. 
(iii) Exceptions from full retrospective application followed by the Group
The Group has applied the following mandatory exceptions from retrospective application.
(a) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities exception
Financial assets and liabilities derecognised before 1 April 2004 are not re-recognised under IFRS. The application of the exemption 
from restating comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39 means that the Group recognised from 1 April 2005 any financial assets and financial
liabilities derecognised since 1 April 2004 that do not meet the IAS 39 derecognition criteria. The Group chose not to apply the IAS 39
derecognition criteria to an earlier date.
(b) Hedge accounting exception
The Group has claimed hedge accounting from 1 April 2005 only if the hedge relationship meets all the hedge accounting criteria under 
IAS 39; any changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in 
the income statement.
(c) Estimates exception
Estimates under IFRS at 1 April 2004 are consistent with estimates made for the same date under UK GAAP .
(iv) Reconciliations between UK GAAP and IFRS
Reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS on the Group’s equity and its net income are provided
in Note 33. The following reconciliations provide details of the impact of the transition to IFRS:
(a) Reconciliation of Consolidated balance sheet at 1 April 2004 (Note 33.1).
(b) Reconciliation of Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 (Note 33.2). 
(c) Reconciliation of Consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2005 (Note 33.3).
The reconciliation of cash flow to UK GAAP is noted at the foot of the consolidated cash flow statement.
3 Revenue 
Revenue from continuing operations disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Service revenue 360.7 395.3
Construction contract revenue 27.7 97.6
Sales of goods 12.8 16.8
401.2 509.7 48 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
4 Segmental analysis for continuing business 
4.1 Performance by business segment for the year ended 31 March 2006
Accom-
Rail Centre and Core business modation Total
and Plant Roads eliminations Total Services 2006
Continuing operations £m £m £m £m £m £m
External revenue 245.1 67.5 – 312.6 88.6 401.2
Inter-segment revenue 10.1 – (10.3) (0.2) 0.2 –
Revenue 255.2 67.5 (10.3) 312.4 88.8 401.2
Operating profit/(loss) before non-recurring costs 27.7 (7.1) (4.4) 16.2 (5.1) 11.1
Non-recurring costs (1.0) (0.2) (0.6) (1.8) – (1.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 26.7 (7.3) (5.0) 14.4 (5.1) 9.3
Net finance costs (67.8)
Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures 0.3
Loss before taxation (58.2)
Assets and liabilities
Goodwill – 0.7 – 0.7 – 0.7
Investment in joint ventures and associates – 1.0 – 1.0 2.3 3.3
Other segment assets 103.5 27.0 (8.4) 122.1 40.4 162.5
Total segment assets* 103.5 28.7 (8.4) 123.8 42.7 166.5
Total segment liabilities** 73.2 34.1 (0.8) 106.5 65.9 172.4
Net segment assets/(liabilities) 30.3 (5.4) (7.6) 17.3 (23.2) (5.9)
Net assets held for sale*** (0.1)
Net debt (22.2)
Net liabilities (28.2)
* Total segment assets exclude cash balances of £9.5 million which are reported under net debt.
** Total segment liabilities exclude loans and overdrafts of £31.9 million which are reported under net debt.
*** Net assets held for sale excludes cash balances of £0.2 million which are reported under net debt.
Other information
Capital expenditure 7.3 0.4 – 7.7 0.1 7.8
Depreciation 3.9 1.4 0.3 5.6 0.3 5.9
Segmental results for discontinued operations are shown in Note 13.1.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
Infrastructure Services Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 49
Notes to the Financial Statements
4.2 Performance by business segment for the year ended 31 March 2005
Accom-
Rail Centre and Core business modation Total 
and Plant Roads eliminations Total Services 2005
Continuing operations £m £m £m £m £m £m
External revenue 267.7 76.8 – 344.5 165.2 509.7
Inter-segment revenue 29.2 0.5 (34.4) (4.7) 4.7 – 
Revenue 296.9 77.3 (34.4) 339.8 169.9 509.7
Operating loss before non-recurring costs (20.7) (28.3) (10.1) (59.1) (16.2) (75.3)
Non-recurring costs (0.6) (70.6) (79.7) (150.9) (137.3) (288.2)
Operating loss (21.3) (98.9) (89.8) (210.0) (153.5) (363.5)
Net finance costs (27.7)
Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures 0.2
Loss before taxation (391.0)
Assets and liabilities
Goodwill – 0.8 – 0.8 – 0.8 
Investment in joint ventures and associates – 1.1 – 1.1 2.4 3.5 
Other segment assets 81.4 31.3 (1.8) 110.9 80.0 190.9 
Total segment assets* 81.4 33.2 (1.8) 112.8 82.4 195.2 
Total segment liabilities** 100.7 33.7 52.1 186.5 138.0 324.5 
Net segment assets/(liabilities) (19.3) (0.5) (53.9) (73.7) (55.6) (129.3)
Net assets held for sale*** 18.8 
Net debt (303.8)
Net liabilities (414.3)
* Total segment assets exclude cash balances of £10.8 million which are reported under net debt.
** Total segment liabilities exclude loans and overdrafts of £313.0 million which are reported under net debt.
*** Net assets held for sale excludes overdrafts and finance leases of £1.6 million which are reported under net debt.
Other information
Capital expenditure 4.1 0.9 – 5.0 0.3 5.3
Depreciation 7.6 1.3 0.3 9.2 0.8 10.0
4.3 Performance by geographic origin 
The Group’s revenue, net assets and its capital expenditure is transacted in the following locations: 
Europe Rest of the World Consolidated
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 398.0 508.8 3.2 0.9 401.2 509.7
Net segment (liabilities) (4.9) (128.9) (1.0) (0.4) (5.9) (129.3)
Capital expenditure 7.8 5.3 – – 7.8 5.3
Infrastructure Services 50 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
5 Operating profit/(loss) before non-recurring items
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging:
Employee benefits expense (Note 10) 147.3 170.3 
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets – 0.3 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – 0.8
Loss/(profit) on disposal property, plant and equipment 0.2 (1.5)
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on plant, property and equipment* 16.2 16.6 
Trade receivable impairments** 1.8 13.7 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense*** 20.7 27.8 
Depreciation
– Assets held under finance leases 0.7 0.9 
– Other assets 5.2 9.1 
Operating lease rentals
– Land and buildings 5.1 6.0 
– Plant and machinery 19.8 15.7 
Auditors remuneration 1.6 7.5
*Relates primarily to the Rail and Plant business segment.
**Relates primarily to the Rail and Plant business segment (2005: relates primarily to the Roads and Accommodation Services business segments).
***Relates primarily to the Roads business segment. 
The Group contributed a total of £36,000 (2005: £78,000) to various charities. No amounts were paid in respect of political donations. 
5.1 Analysis of fees paid to auditors
2006 2005
RSM Robson 31 March Ernst RSM Robson 31 March
Rhodes Total & Y oung Rhodes Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Services as auditors 0.7 0.7 2.0 0.7 2.7
Further assurances services
– Interim review 0.1 0.1 –––
– Other assurance services 0.8 0.8 4.2 0.6 4.8 
1.6 1.6 6.2 1.3 7.5 
6 Non-recurring costs
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Exceptional income on PFI/UPP joint venture contracts – 1.0 
Losses and provisions against Accommodation Services contracts – (107.4)
Losses on Facilities Management contracts – (23.1)
Provisions against onerous lease liabilities 1.3 (17.9)
Office fit-out costs written off – (7.1)
Impairment of goodwill attributable to UK Roads’ business – (65.4)
Bad debt provisions against Accommodation Services contracts – (3.9)
Redundancy costs (1.5) (9.7)
Professional fees associated with restructuring (1.6) (54.7)
(1.8) (288.2) Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 51
Notes to the Financial Statements
7 Net finance costs
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Finance income
Interest receivable from short term bank deposits 0.1 0.3
Finance income from defined benefit schemes (net) (Note 22.6) 1.7 1.7
Other interest 0.1 0.2
1.9 2.2
Finance expense
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 6.5 24.6
Finance charges as a result of debt for equity exchange (Note 24.4)* 61.9 –
Finance charges payable under finance leases 0.2 0.2
Other interest 1.1 5.1
69.7 29.9
Net finance costs 67.8 27.7 
*As outlined in the Restructuring Agreement these charges represent costs associated with the liabilities that were exchanged in connection with the Debt for Equity
arrangements. These comprise of £19.3 million for an increase in the onerous lease provision, a charge for Deferred and Payment In Kind interest of £17.0 million and 
£25.6 million of costs in relation to other loans associated with the restructuring agreement.
8 Joint ventures and associates
8.1 Share of post tax-profits from joint ventures
The Group’s share of results of joint ventures, which all relate to the Roads business segment, is analysed in the table below. There was no
income from associates.
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Continuing operations £m £m
Revenue 9.2 9.2
Expenses (8.8) (8.9)
Profit before tax 0.4 0.3
Income tax (0.1) (0.1) 
Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures 0.3 0.2
8.2 Interest in joint ventures and associates
The Group’s share of the net assets of joint ventures and associates is shown in the table below. The net assets of the joint ventures all
relate to the Roads business segment and the net assets of associates all relate to the Accommodation Services business segment.
Joint 31 March Joint 31 March
Ventures Associates 2006 Ventures Associates 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 0.1 2.2 2.3 0.1 2.2 2.3
Current assets 2.4 0.4 2.8 3.8 0.4 4.2
Total assets 2.5 2.6 5.1 3.9 2.6 6.5
Current liabilities 1.5 0.3 1.8 2.6 0.3 2.9
Non-current liabilities –– – 0.1 – 0.1
Total liabilities 1.5 0.3 1.8 2.7 0.3 3.0
Net assets 1.0 2.3 3.3 1.2 2.3 3.5
There are no contingent assets, liabilities or capital commitments for the joint ventures and associates. 52 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
9 Directors’ and key management remuneration
9.1 Directors’ remuneration
Detailed disclosures of directors’ individual remuneration, share options and benefits accruing under defined benefit schemes are given in
the audited section of the Remuneration Report. A summary of the total remuneration is set out below. Directors’ emoluments disclosed
below are calculated at the amounts paid or benefits treated as paid during the year.
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£000 £000
Total remuneration comprises:
– Aggregate emoluments 1,886 2,002
– Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 109 176
The amounts paid in respect of the highest paid director were as follows:
– Emoluments 628 412
– Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 49 24
Number Number
Directors who are members of money purchase pension schemes 4 6
9.2 Key management compensation
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£000 £000
The key management figures given below include executive directors:
– Salaries and short-term benefits 3,419 3,989 
– Post employment benefits 230 304
3,649 4,293 
10 Payroll costs and employee numbers
The average number of persons employed by the Group, including executive directors, during the year, analysed by operating division, was:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Number Number
Rail and Plant 1,923 2,240 
Roads 995 1,352 
Accommodation Services 2,310 2,861 
Central 191 173 
Continuing operations 5,419 6,626 
Discontinued activities 192 763 
5,611 7,389
The 2005 employee numbers have been restated to reflect the operations sold during the year.
The average number of persons employed by the Group under the New Deal Schemes was 7 (2005: 44). The Group ceased to operate the
New Deal Scheme in June 2005.
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
The employment costs of all employees included in continuing operations above were: £m £m
Wages and salaries 127.0 146.1 
Social security costs 12.5 14.9 
Share based payments 0.1 –
Defined contribution pension plan costs 3.5 4.0 
Defined benefit pension plan costs 4.2 5.3 
147.3 170.3 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 53
Notes to the Financial Statements
11 Taxation 
11.1 Income tax recognised in the income statement 
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
The (credit)/charge based on the (loss)/profit for the year comprises: £m £m
United Kingdom corporation taxation at the standard rate:
– Current – 0.6 
– Adjustment in respect of previous period (0.1) (4.4)
Total current tax credit (0.1) (3.8)
UK deferred tax:
– Origination and reversal of timing differences – 0.7 
– Adjustment in respect of previous period – 0.5 
Total deferred tax expense (Note 12.2) – 1.2 
Total income tax credit (0.1) (2.6)
11.2 Factors affecting the tax credit for the year
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (58.2) (391.0)
Tax on loss on ordinary activities at the UK standard rate of 30% (2005: 30%) (17.4) (117.3)
Effects of:
– Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 9.9 55.9 
– Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (1.3) –
– Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 8.8 62.7
– Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods (0.1) (3.9)
Total tax credit for year (0.1) (2.6)
12 Deferred taxation 
12.1 Deferred taxation asset recognised on balance sheet
Deferred taxation provided in the financial statements is as follows:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Advanced capital allowances – 0.3 
Other timing differences 0.7 0.4 
Deferred tax asset 0.7 0.7 
Deferred tax assets are not recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit 
through the future taxable profits is unknown.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of £108.7 million (2005: £92.0 million) in respect of losses amounting to 
£362.5 million (2005: £310.5 million) that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
12.2 Deferred tax asset movement in the year
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 April 0.7 4.4 
Utilised – (1.0)
Deferred tax charged to income statement (Note 11.1) – (1.2)
Deferred tax charged directly to equity – (1.5)
Total movement in year – (3.7)
At 31 March 0.7 0.7  54 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
13 Post-tax profit from discontinued operations and net assets held for sale
13.1 Discontinued operations aggregate income statement
Accom- Accom-
modation 31 March Rail modation 31 March
Roads Services 2006 and Plant Roads Services 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 12.3 1.2 13.5 19.3 64.9 14.9 99.1
Expenses (10.7) (0.9) (11.6) (9.8) (66.7) (29.1) (105.6)
Operating profit/(loss) 
before non-recurring costs 1.6 0.3 1.9 9.5 (1.8) (14.2) (6.5)
Disposal gains/(losses) net of 
impairment charges 0.3 – 0.3 53.6 (11.0) 8.4 51.0
Operating profit/(loss) 1.9 0.3 2.2 63.1 (12.8) (5.8) 44.5
Net finance costs –– – 0.5 (0.2) – 0.3
Share of post-tax profits of joint 
venture and associated undertakings –– – 11.7 – 0.5 12.2
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1.9 0.3 2.2 75.3 (13.0) (5.3) 57.0
Tax charge on profit/(loss)* (0.7) – (0.7) – (0.7) – (0.7)
Post-tax profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 1.2 0.3 1.5 75.3 (13.7) (5.3) 56.3
*Taxation arises from the results of overseas operations.
13.2 Disposal proceeds
Disposal proceeds, net of cash and cash equivalents, are analysed in the table below:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Rail and Plant – 76.1
Roads 19.1 0.7
Accommodation Services – 5.1
19.1 81.9
The disposal proceeds in 2006 include £2.4 million of debt disposed with the European Roads business, and in 2005 £0.2 million of net debt
disposed with various Roads and Accommodation Services businesses.
The businesses disposed from the Rail and Plant segment comprise Tube Lines, Jarvis Estonia B.V. and Ultramast.
The businesses disposed from the Roads segment comprise European Roads, Techspan and Telford & Wrekin Services. A foreign exchange
translation gain was recycled through the income statement in relation to the European Roads disposal.
The businesses disposed from the Accommodation Services segment comprise Jarvis MPC Systems, Cocentra, Braddons, David Wylde
Project Finance, the UPP Bidding and Management business, the PFI Bidding business, Agilisys and PatientFirst Partnerships. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 55
Notes to the Financial Statements
13.3 Net assets held for sale
As at 31 March 2006 the Group had net assets of £0.1 million (2005: £17.2 million) as “Held for Sale” consisting of:
FM 31 March European Property 31 March
Ireland 2006 Roads Portfolio 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill –– 5.4 – 5.4
Intangible assets –– 0.2 – 0.2
Property, plant and equipment –– 7.1 0.5 7.6
Investments –– 0.1 – 0.1
–– 12.8 0.5 13.3
Current assets
Inventories –– 6.0 – 6.0
Trade and other receivables 0.2 0.2 12.5 – 12.5
Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.2 1.5 – 1.5
0.4 0.4 20.0 – 20.0
Total assets 0.4 0.4 32.8 0.5 33.3
Current liabilities
Borrowings 
– Bank loans and overdrafts –– 1.7 – 1.7
– Obligations under finance leases –– 0.5 – 0.5
Trade and other payables 0.3 0.3 8.0 – 8.0
Tax liabilities –– 3.2 – 3.2
Provisions –– 1.8 – 1.8
0.3 0.3 15.2 – 15.2
Non current liabilities
Borrowings – obligations under finance leases –– 0.9 – 0.9
Total liabilities 0.3 0.3 16.1 – 16.1
Net assets 0.1 0.1 16.7 0.5 17.2
14 (Loss)/earnings per ordinary share 
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the year
Continuing (58.1) (388.1)
Discontinued 1.5 56.3
Total (56.6) (331.8)
Number of ordinary shares Number (m) Number (m)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year: 143.8 143.5
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share
Basic and diluted 
– Continuing (40.4)p (270.4)p
– Discontinued 1.0 p 39.2 p
Total (39.4)p (231.2)p 56 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
15 Goodwill and intangibles
31 March 31 March
Goodwill Intangibles 2006 Goodwill Intangibles 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Cost at 1 April 68.5 – 68.5 83.4 0.4 83.8 
Additions –– – – 0.1 0.1 
Disposals (2.5) – (2.5) (2.9) – (2.9)
Assets held for sale –– – (12.1) (0.4) (12.5)
Currency translation –– – 0.1 – 0.1 
Written off (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1)
As at 31 March 65.9 – 65.9 68.5 – 68.5 
Impairment
As at 1 April 67.7 – 67.7 –––
Amortisation for the year –– – – 0.3 0.3 
Impairment to continuing businesses –– – 65.4 – 65.4 
Impairment to businesses prior to sale –– – 10.8 – 10.8 
Disposals (2.5) – (2.5) (1.9) – (1.9)
Assets held for sale –– – (6.7) (0.2) (6.9)
Currency translation –– – 0.1 – 0.1 
Written off –– – – (0.1) (0.1)
As at 31 March 65.2 – 65.2 67.7 – 67.7 
Net book value
As at 31 March 0.7 – 0.7 0.8 – 0.8 
Goodwill relates solely to the Roads business segment, and has been impaired based on management’s estimates of future operating
profits or losses and cashflows. The recoverable amount of goodwill has been based on value in use and forecast cash flows are based 
on approved business plans. The approved business plans are for a three year period and cashflows beyond the business plan assume 
zero growth. The cash flows have been discounted using a pre tax discount rate of 14.0 per cent (2005: 10.0 per cent) based on the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
Intangible assets represented product licenses related to the Roads business segment.  Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 57
Notes to the Financial Statements
16 Property, plant and equipment
Short Plant,
Freehold leasehold Leasehold vehicles and
properties properties improvements equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2004 14.5 12.4 5.3 79.8 112.0 
Additions – – 0.1 6.4 6.5 
Disposals (6.2) (11.6) (3.3) (13.9) (35.0)
In respect of business disposals (1.5) – – (4.5) (6.0)
Assets held for resale (7.0) (0.6) – (16.8) (24.4)
Currency translation differences 0.2 – – 0.5 0.7 
At 31 March 2005 – 0.2 2.1 51.5 53.8 
Additions – – – 8.1 8.1 
Disposals – – (0.2) (1.2) (1.4)
In respect of business disposals – – – (1.3) (1.3)
At 31 March 2006 – 0.2 1.9 57.1 59.2
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2004 3.2 0.2 3.9 41.6 48.9 
Charge for the year 0.5 0.2 0.5 10.7 11.9 
Impairment charge – – – 0.8 0.8 
Disposals (0.1) (0.2) (2.5) (12.1) (14.9)
In respect of business disposals (0.2) – – (3.2) (3.4)
Assets held for resale (3.5) (0.1) – (13.2) (16.8)
Currency translation differences 0.1 – – 0.4 0.5 
At 31 March 2005 – 0.1 1.9 25.0 27.0
Charge for the year – – 0.2 5.7 5.9 
Disposals – – – (0.8) (0.8)
In respect of business disposals – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Reclassifications –0.1 (0.6)0.5 –
At 31 March 2006 – 0.2 1.5 29.5 31.2
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 – – 0.4 27.6 28.0
At 31 March 2005 – 0.1 0.2 26.5 26.8
The net book value of plant, vehicles and equipment includes an amount of £3.2 million (2005: £5.0 million) in respect of assets held under
finance leases. Depreciation provided on these assets for the year amounted to £0.7 million (2005: £0.9 million).
17 Inventories
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 2.1 4.7 
Work in progress 0.9 1.2 
Finished goods and goods for resale 4.0 2.3 
7.0 8.2 
The above balances include impairment provisions of £1.4 million (2005: £1.9 million). 58 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
18 PFI/PPP non-recourse loans
Non-recourse loans are those which were secured solely on a specified asset and its related future income. The terms of the finance
agreements provided that the lender would not seek in any way to enforce repayment of either principal or interest from the rest of the
Group and the Group was not required to support any losses. These agreements were included in the net assets sold when the related 
SPV was disposed during the year ended 31 March 2006.
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Debtor relating to PFI/PPP non-recourse financing agreements shown on balance sheet as:
Current assets – 11.0 
– 11.0 
Non-recourse loan shown on balance sheet as:
Current liabilities – 0.9 
Non-current liabilities – 9.9 
– 10.8 
19 Trade and other receivables
19.1 Current
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 30.8 20.9 
Amounts due from customers on contracts 49.7 63.3 
Amounts due from joint venture and associate undertakings 0.6 15.3
Other receivables* 16.1 32.6 
Prepayments and accrued income 7.6 7.1 
104.8 139.2 
Trade receivables include a bad debt provision of £8.9 million (2005: £13.8 million).
*Included within other receivables is £9.0 million (2005: £29.1 million) relating to cash balances held in separate trust accounts. On 29 January 2005 Jarvis plc and certain
other subsidiaries entered into agreements with other relevant parties in respect of 14 construction contracts (being those contracts not then past Practical Completion 
or that had material future cash outflows associated with them). The purpose of the agreements was to release the Company from parent company guarantees given 
under the original contracts and to limit the Group’s liability to additional costs required to complete the contracts. These agreements specified that the sums required to
complete the contracts be placed into two trusts for each contract. The trusts are in the name of of Jarvis Construction UK Limited but the funds standing to the credit of
them are available only for the purposes specified by each trust and are directly related to funding construction liabilities. The funds are not available to Jarvis plc and Jarvis
Construction UK Limited except for these purposes. The cash in each trust is only made available at the point when payments are made in accordance with the purposes 
of the trust. For these reasons the cash in the trusts is recognised within other receivables.
The balances remaining in the trust funds were available to fund the following obligations included within trade and other payables.
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade payables 4.1 12.0 
Accruals and deferred income 4.9 17.1
9.0 29.1 
19.2 Construction contracts
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Construction contracts in progress are analysed as follows: £m £m
Due from customers for contract work included in trade and other receivables 5.4 11.7 
Due to customers for contract work included in trade and other payables (0.3) (9.2)
5.1 2.5
Retentions held by customers 1.6 2.5
Aggregate amount of contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less losses to date* 33.8 379.1 
*This represents the cumulative amount to date for contracts in progress as at the balance sheet date. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 59
Notes to the Financial Statements
20 Trade and other payables 
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Current £m £m
Trade payables 39.0 50.2 
Other payables 6.7 13.7 
Accruals and deferred income 74.1 132.7 
Advance payments on contracts 4.0 25.3 
Other taxation and social security 15.5 13.1 
139.3 235.0 
21 Provisions 
Onerous Lease Restructuring Other Total 
Current £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 7.1 18.0 – 25.1 
Utilised (5.4) (16.4) – (21.8)
Charged/(credited) to income statement (0.9) 4.0 – 3.1 
At 31 March 2006 0.8 5.6 – 6.4
Non current
At 1 April 2005 20.6 – 12.1 32.7 
Utilised (20.0) – (1.0) (21.0)
Charged/(credited) to income statement (0.4) – (3.0) (3.4)
At 31 March 2006 0.2 – 8.1 8.3 
Total provisions 1.0 5.6 8.1 14.7
The provision for onerous lease commitments has been calculated at the net present value of rent payable less rents receivable (having
taken account of potential void periods and lease incentives) up to the end of the lease. Allowance has been made for empty rates and
agents’ fees and the discount rate used in the calculations was 4.9 per cent.
The restructuring costs were primarily settled on completion of the Group restructuring which took place in August 2005. However
additional costs have been provided for in relation to the refinancing of the Group’s facilities and completion of the operational restructuring. 
The other provisions relate to liabilities in respect of contracts, third party claims and the net liabilities in respect of a joint venture
investment. The provisions are the net present value of the expected cash outflow in relation to these obligations. The discount rate 
used in the calculation was 4.9 per cent.
22 Retirement benefits 
22.1 Pension overview 
The Group operates a number of pension arrangements comprising both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes. The Railways
Pension Scheme (RPS) and the Streamline Pension Schemes are the only material schemes for the purpose of calculating defined benefit
costs and pension scheme assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 19 – Employee Benefits. Jarvis participates in three sections of the
RPS scheme, comprising Jarvis Facilities, Fastline and Relayfast sections. The Streamline Pension Schemes comprise of the Streamline
Pension Fund (SPF) and the Streamline LG Pension Scheme (SLG).
The defined UK benefit schemes are closed to new entrants, other than for new employees who qualify for participation in the RPS and
employees transferring from the public sector, where conditions are specified in the terms of their transfer, who are admitted into the SLG.
New employees transferring from the electrical supply industry are admitted into a new defined benefit scheme, the Jarvis Scheme for 
ESI Protected Persons. The defined benefit schemes are funded and the assets are held in separate funds administered by corporate
trustees. Other eligible new employees are offered participation in the Group's defined contribution scheme. 60 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.1 Pension overview (continued)
Railways Pension Scheme
The RPS is administered in accordance with its trust deed, and is commonly known as a shared cost scheme, under which the employer 
and employees are liable for the costs and any surplus or deficit arising under the scheme in the proportion of 60:40 respectively. The 
shared cost arrangements have been used as a basis for the accounting treatment under IAS 19. Eligible employees of certain subsidiary
undertakings participate in three shared cost sections of the RPS, a funded UK defined benefit scheme, the assets of which are held in
trustee administered funds separate from the Company and the Jarvis plc Group. The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the RPS was as 
at 31 December 2004, and was undertaken by professionally qualified and independent actuaries. At that date the market value of assets
was £270.6 million and the average funding level was 102 per cent.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, employer contributions to the three Jarvis sections of the RPS were 7.5 per cent of pensionable pay 
until 30 September 2005, after which date they increased to 9 per cent for all three sections. There are further increases to the employer
contribution from 17 June 2006, when the rates became 16.74 per cent, 16.56 per cent and 16.2 per cent for the Relayfast, Fastline, 
and Jarvis Facilities sections respectively. The employer contributions to the RPS were £1.4 million in the year ending 31 March 2006 
(2005: £2.1 million).
Streamline Pension Schemes
The latest triennial actuarial valuation for the Streamline LG Scheme (SLG) was as at 5 April 2004. At that date the market value of the assets
was £4.7 million and the funding level was 72 per cent. The next triennial valuation of the SLG Scheme will be undertaken as at 5 April 2007.
Following the triennial actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2004, the employer contribution rates for the SLG Scheme were determined as 20 per
cent of pensionable salaries. These increases took effect from 1 September 2005. In addition, special employer’s contributions of £85,000
per annum are payable for ten years; the first payment was made on 31 March 2006. The employer contributions (including the special
employer contribution) to the SLG Scheme were £270,000 in the year ending 31 March 2006 (2005: £386,000). 
Whilst a triennial valuation of the Streamline Pension Fund was not due until 5 April 2005, a special actuarial valuation was carried out as at 
5 April 2004. At that date the market value of assets was £22.1 million and the funding level was 65 per cent. The next triennial valuation 
of the Streamline Pension Fund will be undertaken as at 5 April 2007. Following the special triennial actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2004, 
the employer contribution rates for the Streamline Pension Fund were determined as 23.9 per cent, 16.5 per cent and 12.9 per cent of
pensionable salaries for the 1968, 1984 and 1992 sections respectively. These increases took effect from 1 October 2005. In addition,
special employer‘s contributions of £900,000 per annum are payable for thirteen years; the first payment was made on 31 March 2006. 
The employer contributions (including the special employer contribution) to the Streamline Pension Fund were £1,080,000 in the year
ending 31 March 2006 (2005: £670,000).
Defined contribution schemes and Defined benefit non-material schemes
The RPS sections and the Streamline Schemes are the only material schemes for the purpose of calculating defined benefit costs, and
pension scheme assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 19 – Employee Benefits, and they are discussed in more detail below. The
small European schemes included in last years financial statements have been disposed as part of the European Roads disposal. The 
other non-material UK pension schemes are accounted for as defined contribution.
Total employer contributions paid in respect of the RPS sections and the Streamline Schemes, including employer’s special contributions,
for the year ended 31 March 2006 were £2.8 million (2005: £3.1 million). For other eligible Group employees, contributions are made to
defined contribution arrangements based on a pre-determined percentage of individual salaries. The cost of contributions to defined
contribution arrangements, and other non-material defined benefit schemes accounted for as defined contribution schemes, for the year
ended 31 March 2006 was £3.5 million (2005: £4.0 million). Unpaid contributions as at 31 March 2006 relating to defined contribution
arrangements were £0.4 million (2005: £0.3 million).
The total employer contribution to the defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 March 2007 is estimated to be £4.4 million. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 61
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.2 Major assumptions for both the RPS and Streamline schemes
The most recent triennial actuarial valuations of the RPS and Streamline schemes were carried out by an independent qualified actuary,
Watson Wyatt, as at 31 December 2004 and 5 April 2004 respectively. For the years ending 31 March 2006, 2005 and 2004, assets and
liabilities for IAS 19 accounting purposes have been estimated by qualified actuaries by updating the assumptions used in the triennial
actuarial valuations. The valuations use the projected unit method. For all defined benefit schemes, the surplus is spread on a straight-line
basis. Under the projected unit method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach retirement. These
valuations have been adjusted by qualified actuaries using management’s latest principal assumptions for each year as shown below:
2006 2005 2004
% %%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.90 5.40 5.60
Retail price inflation 2.90 2.90 2.75
Rate of increase in salaries (Streamline schemes)* 3.45 4.00 4.25
Rate of increase in salaries (RPS)* 3.45 3.45 4.25
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.90 2.90 2.75
Rate of increase to deferred pensions 2.90 2.90 2.75
Expected return on plan assets** 6.50 6.80 7.20
*Plus promotional increases of 0.75 per cent per annum.
**The expected return on plan assets is based on the market expectations at the beginning of the period for returns over the life of the benefit obligation.
For both the RPS and Streamline schemes, the mortality assumption used for IAS 19 calculation purposes is the same as the basis used by
the Trustees and Scheme Actuary at the last triennial valuation. The mortality tables adopted by the Scheme Actuary for the RPS and
Streamline schemes are based on the 1992 series CMI tables, modified for scheme specific experiences.
The table below summarises the life expectancy implied by the mortality assumptions used for the year ends March 2006 and March 2005:
2006 2005
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Railways Pension Scheme
Life expectancy – for an active deferred member reaching age 65 19.0 21.5 18.9 21.4
Life expectancy – for a 65 year old pensioner 17.8 20.2 17.7 20.1
Streamline Pension schemes
Life expectancy – for an active deferred member reaching age 65 20.2 23.2 20.2 23.2
Life expectancy – for a 65 year old pensioner 19.4 22.3 19.4 22.3 62 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.3 Expected rates of return and analysis of plan assets 
The assets held in respect of the defined benefit scheme and the expected rates of return were:
Railways Pension Scheme Streamline Pension Schemes As at 31 March 2006 
Total
Expected long Percentage Percentage of Total percentage
term rate Market of total Market total plan Market of total plan
of return value plan assets value assets value assets
Market values of assets %£m % £m %£m %
Equity 7.25 128.6 64.6 16.1 50.2 144.7 62.6
Property 6.05 16.7 8.4 – – 16.7 7.2
Bonds (including gilts) 4.60 27.8 14.0 15.4 48.0 43.2 18.7
Hedge funds 6.84 16.4 8.2 – – 16.4 7.1
Cash 4.50 9.5 4.8 0.6 1.8 10.1 4.4
Fair value of scheme assets 6.50 199.0 100 32.1 100 231.1 100
Railways Pension Scheme Streamline Pension Schemes As at 31 March 2005
Total
Expected long Percentage Percentage of Total percentage
term rate Market of total Market total plan Market of total plan
of return value plan assets value assets value assets
Market values of assets %£m % £m %£m %
Equity 7.70 106.7 64.0 5.6 19.6 112.3 57.5
Property 6.50 15.8 9.5 – – 15.8 8.1
Bonds (including gilts) 5.05 36.5 21.9 22.4 78.6 58.9 30.2
Hedge funds 6.80 8.2 4.9 – – 8.2 4.2
Cash 4.75 (0.5) (0.3) 0.5 1.8 – –
Fair value of scheme assets 6.80 166.7 100 28.5 100 195.2 100
The expected long term rates of return on each class of asset, for both the Railways and Streamline pension schemes, were determined 
as follows:
Equity, property and bonds: the return is based on the yield to redemption on 15 year gilts of 4.15 per cent (2005: 4.6 per cent) plus an
adjustment to reflect market expectations of the Equity, Property and Bond asset classes respectively. 
Hedge funds: the return is based on the London LIBOR plus an adjustment of 2 per cent (2005: London Libor plus 2 per cent) to reflect
market expectations.
Cash: this class comprises mainly of cash holdings and the rate reflects current short term returns on such deposits. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 63
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.4 Pensions obligations: surplus/(deficit) recognised on the balance sheet
Railways Streamline 31 March Railways Streamline 31 March 
Pension Pension 2006 Pension Pension 2005
Scheme Schemes Total Scheme Schemes Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 199.0 32.1 231.1 166.7 28.5 195.2
Less present value of funded defined benefit obligations* (177.0) (50.0) (227.0) (162.3) (48.7) (211.0)
Net defined benefit pension obligation 22.0 (17.9) 4.1 4.4 (20.2) (15.8)
Shown on balance sheet as:
Pension surplus recognised as a non-current asset
Fastline 7.3 – 7.3 1.3 – 1.3
Relayfast 2.7 – 2.7 –––
Jarvis Facilities 12.0 – 12.0 3.7 – 3.7
22.0 – 22.0 5.0 – 5.0
Pension deficit recognised as a non-current liability 
Relayfast –– – (0.6) – (0.6)
Streamline LG Scheme – (3.1) (3.1) – (5.0) (5.0)
Streamline Pension Fund – (14.8) (14.8) – (15.2) (15.2)
– (17.9) (17.9) (0.6) (20.2) (20.8)
Net defined benefit pension obligation 22.0 (17.9) 4.1 4.4 (20.2) (15.8)
*The present value of scheme liabilities has been estimated by independent qualified actuaries by updating the assumptions used at the time of the last triennial actuarial
valuation.
22.5 Pensions: analysis of balance sheet movement
Analysis of movements in the present value of the funded pension liability before deferred taxation during the year:
Railways Streamline 31 March Railways Streamline 31 March 
Pension Pension 2006 Pension Pension 2005
Scheme Schemes Total Scheme Schemes Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 
brought forward (162.3) (48.7) (211.0) (171.4) (43.1) (214.5)
Current service cost (3.7) (0.5) (4.2) (4.8) (0.8) (5.6)
Settlement gains –– – 0.3 – 0.3 
Contributions paid – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.3) (0.3)
Interest cost (8.7) (2.6) (11.3) (8.9) (2.4) (11.3)
Benefits paid 9.1 1.4 10.5 19.7 1.3 21.0 
Bulk transfers –– – 9.4 0.5 9.9 
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of
recognised income and expense (11.4) 0.5 (10.9) (6.6) (3.9) (10.5)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 
carried forward (177.0) (50.0) (227.0) (162.3) (48.7) (211.0)
Analysis of movements in the fair value of the plan assets are analysed as follows: 
Railways Streamline 31 March Railways Streamline 31 March 
Pension Pension  2006 Pension Pension 2005  
Scheme Schemes Total Scheme Schemes Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Pension assets brought forward 166.7 28.5 195.2 164.9 26.4 191.3 
Expected return on plan assets 11.4 1.6 13.0 11.1 1.9 13.0
Benefits paid (9.1) (1.4) (10.5) (19.7) (1.3) (21.0)
Bulk transfers –– – (9.4) (0.5) (9.9)
Actuarial gains 28.6 1.9 30.5 17.7 0.7 18.4 
Contributions paid by employer 1.4 1.4 2.8 2.1 1.0 3.1 
Contributions paid by employees – 0.1 0.1 – 0.3 0.3
Pension assets carried forward 199.0 32.1 231.1 166.7 28.5 195.2 64 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.6 Pensions: amount recognised in the income statement 
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of plans are as follows:
Railways Streamline 31 March Railways Streamline  31 March 
Pension Pension  2006 Pension Pension 2005  
Scheme Schemes Total Scheme Schemes Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost (3.7) (0.5) (4.2) (4.8) (0.8) (5.6)
Curtailment gain –– – 0.3 – 0.3
Total charged to operating profit* (3.7) (0.5) (4.2) (4.5) (0.8) (5.3)
Interest cost (8.7) (2.6) (11.3) (8.9) (2.4) (11.3)
Expected return on pension assets 11.4 1.6 13.0 11.1 1.9 13.0 
Total amount credited/(charged) to finance income 2.7 (1.0) 1.7 2.2 (0.5) 1.7
Total charged to income statement (1.0) (1.5) (2.5) (2.3) (1.3) (3.6)
*The charge for the year has been included in employee benefit costs.
22.7 Pensions: amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
The service costs for the RPS and Streamline schemes are expected to rise over time as entry to all the schemes is closed except to
employees with protected or indefeasible rights to entry.
The following amounts have been recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense:
Railways Streamline 31 March Railways Streamline  31 March 
Pension Pension  2006 Pension Pension 2005  
Scheme Schemes Total Scheme Schemes Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets28.6 1.9 30.5 17.7 0.7 18.4 
Experience gains on scheme liabilities – – – – 1.0 1.0
(Loss)/gain arising from changes in the assumptions
underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (11.4) 0.5 (10.9) (6.6) (4.9) (11.5)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) in the statement of recognised 
income and expense 17.2 2.4 19.6 11.1 (3.2) 7.9
22.8 Pensions: history of experience gains and losses
In accordance with IFRS, the company has taken exemption from the need to disclose experience gains and losses for the years prior to 
31 March 2005.
Railways Streamline 31 March Railways Streamline  31 March 
Pension Pension  2006 Pension Pension 2005  
Scheme Schemes Total Scheme Schemes Total
Present value of defined benefit obligations (£m) (177.0) (50.0) (227.0) (162.3) (48.7) (211.0)
Fair value of plan assets (£m) 199.0 32.1 231.1 166.7 28.5 195.2
Surplus/(deficit) in plans (£m) 22.0 (17.9) 4.1 4.4 (20.2) (15.8)
Experience gains on scheme assets (£m) 28.6 1.9 30.5 17.7 0.7 18.4
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 14.4 5.9 13.2 10.6 2.5 9.4
Experience gains on scheme liabilities (£m) –– – – 1.0 1.0 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) –– – – 2.1 0.5
Total amount recognised in the statement of recognised 
income and expense (£m) 17.2 2.4 19.6 11.1 (3.2) 7.9 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) 9.7 4.8 8.6 6.8 (6.6) 3.7 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 65
Notes to the Financial Statements
22.9 Defined contributions
The pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Defined contribution schemes 3.5 4.0
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments
23.1 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39
The Group adopted IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: presentation and disclosure’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: recognition and
measurement’ from 1 April 2005. In the preparation of its financial statements in accordance with IFRS for the 2006 financial year, the 
Group recognised transitional adjustments in its accounting for its financial instruments in accordance with the measurement requirements
of IAS 39 as at 1 April 2005. 
The Groups hedging arrangements qualify for hedge accounting under UK GAAP during 2005. IFRS 1 requires the Group to recognise
various transitional adjustments to account for those hedging relationships as at 1 April 2005. Note 33.3 gives a reconciliation between the
IFRS restated balance sheet as at 31 March 2005, applying UK GAAP accounting, and the balance sheet after the adoption of both IAS 32
and IAS 39.
On transition, the derivatives’ fair values have been recognised on the balance sheet and directly in reserves. Any deferred gains or losses
are recognised in earnings at the time at which the hedged forecasted transactions are recognised.
All derivative instruments will continue to be recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with future gains or losses being recognised
immediately in earnings, except when the hedging requirements of IAS 39 are met.
Numerical financial instruments disclosures are set out below. Additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to risk
management and also in the consolidated statement of changes in Shareholders’ equity (Note 25). 66 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
23.2 Borrowings
Non
interest 31 March 31 March
Fixed Floating bearing 2006 Fixed Floating 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current
Bank overdrafts –– –– – 1.9 1.9
Loan notes and bank loans subject
to the override agreement –– –– 69.4 228.6 298.0 
Bank loans and loan notes 1.8 25.6 – 27.4 1.7 2.1 3.8
Bank loans, loan notes and overdrafts 1.8 25.6 – 27.4 71.1 232.6 303.7
Obligations under finance leases 0.9 – – 0.9 1.1 – 1.1
Total current borrowings 2.7 25.6 – 28.3 72.2 232.6 304.8
Non-current
Bank loans and loan notes 0.9 0.8 – 1.7 2.7 2.6 5.3 
Obligations under finance leases 1.9 – – 1.9 2.9 – 2.9
Total non-current borrowings 2.8 0.8 – 3.6 5.6 2.6 8.2
Total borrowings 5.5 26.4 – 31.9 77.8 235.2 313.0
Net debt 
The Group’s net debt comprises:
Non
interest 31 March 31 March
Fixed Floating bearing 2006 Fixed Floating 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total borrowings (as above) (5.5) (26.4) – (31.9) (77.8) (235.2) (313.0)
Less cash and cash equivalents – 4.6 4.9 9.5 – 10.8 10.8 
Less cash/(overdraft) in disposal 
groups held for sale – – 0.2 0.2 – (0.2) (0.2)
Total cash and cash equivalents – 4.6 5.1 9.7 – 10.6 10.6 
Finance leases held by disposal 
groups held for sale –– –– (1.4) – (1.4)
Net debt* (5.5) (21.8) 5.1 (22.2) (79.2) (224.6) (303.8)
*Net debt excludes PFI non-recourse loans, which are separately disclosed on the balance sheet and which for the year ended 31 March 2006 amounted to nil 
(2005: £10.8 million).
The maturity of total borrowings is as follows:
Bank loans Bank overdrafts,
and loan 31 March loans and 31 March  
Leases notes 2006 Leases loan notes 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 0.9 27.4 28.3 1.1 303.7 304.8
Between one and two years 0.7 1.7 2.4 0.9 3.2 4.1
Between two and five years 1.2 – 1.2 2.0 2.1 4.1 
2.8 29.1 31.9 4.0 309.0 313.0 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 67
Notes to the Financial Statements
23.3 Finance leases
The Group has entered into finance leases for certain plant, software and IT equipment, these leases have no terms of renewal, or purchase
options and escalation clauses. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the net present value of minimum
lease payments are shown in the table below:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Present Present 
Minimum value of Minimum value of
payments payments payments payments
£m £m £m £m
Current
Not later than one year 1.0 0.9 1.3 1.1 
Non-current
Later than one year but not more than two years 0.8 0.7 1.0 0.9 
Later than two years but not more than five years 1.5 1.2 2.3 2.0 
2.3 1.9 3.3 2.9 
Total obligations under finance leases 3.3 2.8 4.6 4.0 
Less: future finance charges (0.5) – (0.6) –
Present value of finance liabilities 2.8 2.8 4.0 4.0 
The weighted average effective interest rate was 5.9 per cent (2005: 6.0 per cent). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are
on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into of contingent rental payments.
The weighted average lease term is 2.4 years (2005: 3.4 years).
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximate their carrying value.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessor’s ownership of the leased assets.
23.4 Borrowing facilities
The total borrowing facilities comprise of:
Loan notes Loan notes
Bank and bank 31 March Bank and bank 31 March
facilities loans 2006 facilities loans 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Undrawn 8.0 – 8.0 –––
Drawn 24.0 5.1 29.1 298.0 9.1 307.1 
32.0 5.1 37.1 298.0 9.1 307.1 
Bank facilities
As part of the Group financial reconstruction, a Dept for Equity Exchange was completed in August 2005 (Note 24.4). At the same time, 
a new secured £38.5 million working capital borrowing facility was arranged (of which £6.5 million is only eligible to be drawn down from 
1 April 2006) with Deutsche Bank AG to fund the on-going requirements of the Group (“Deutsche Facility”). The Deutsche Facility has 
been syndicated. The principle terms of the Deutsche Facility are as follows:
(a) The facilities are due to expire on 24 February 2007. All these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
(b) The Deutsche Facility consists of two facilities:
(i) Facility A of £6 million is a stand by term loan facility, which is repayable from the proceeds of certain asset sales, and 
(ii) Facility B of £32.5 million is a revolving credit facility ranking pari passu with Facility A.
(c) The Deutsche Facility is secured on certain plant and machinery, properties, the shares of certain Group subsidiaries and guarantees
given by certain Group subsidiaries.
(d) The interest margin above LIBOR as at 31 March 2006 was 15 per cent, which will increase to 18 per cent from 1 July 2006.
(e) Certain actions of members of the Group are prohibited without the prior consent of a majority of the lenders or, in some cases,
unanimous consent.
(f) Penalties accrue if the Group does not achieve certain cash flow targets.
(g) Financial covenants set in relation to cash flow, net bank debt, EBITDA and revenues. 68 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
23.4 Borrowing facilities (continued)
Loan notes and bank loans
Included in loan notes and bank loans as at 31 March 2006 are loan notes of £0.2 million (2005: £0.2 million) issued in connection with 
the acquisition of Streamline Holdings PLC. These carry interest at a rate of 0.5 per cent below the rate published by Reuters plc for three
months sterling deposits of £2.5 million in the London Inter Bank market. They are redeemable, at the note holders option, at any quarterly
interest payment date until the final redemption date of 1 June 2006.
Also included within loan notes and bank loans as at 31 March 2006 is an amount of £4.9 million (2005: £8.9 million) which is secured against
certain plant assets and software. All other loan notes are unsecured.
The Group completed a refinancing of the above banking facilities on 27 July 2006. The new arrangements consist of committed facilities 
of £67 million comprising of a revolving credit facility and term loan facilities. The facilities are secured by way of a fixed and floating charge 
on Group’s assets, in particular its plant, machinery and receivables under its rail renewal and plant hire contracts. The proceeds of this
arrangement will be used to repay the Group’s existing bank facilities and to finance its future ongoing operations. The new facility will
expire on 26 July 2009.
23.5 Effective interest rates
The effective interest rate on total borrowings at the balance sheet dates was as follows:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
£m % £m %
Bank overdraft –– 1.9 4.9 
Loan notes and bank loans 29.1 14.4 307.1 5.5 
Finance lease 2.8 5.9 4.0 6.0 
31.9 13.7 313.0 5.5 
23.6 Fair values of derivative financial instruments, non derivative financial assets and non derivative financial liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments
There were no derivatives outstanding at the balance sheet date that were designated as fair value hedges. The Group’s remaining
derivative financial instrument consists of an interest rate swap. The interest rate swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and was 
an effective hedge in the year ending 31 March 2006. Its fair value of £1,950 (2005: £2,000) is based upon a valuation prepared by 
the counter party.
Under the interest rate swap the Group receives quarterly fixed interest of 4.675 per cent to offset floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 
2.55 per cent for the period to 30 September 2007.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contract as at 31 March 2006 was £3.0 million (2005: £4.2 million).
Fair value of derivative financial instruments
Book values and fair values of all the Group’s derivative financial instruments as at 31 March were as follows:
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m
Derivative financial instruments
Composite cross currency interest rate swap* –– – (5.1)
*The associated financial liability, which was hedged by the composite swap, had an unrecognised foreign currency gain of £6.6 million as at 31 March 2005. The gain on the
financial liability and the fair value of the composite swap were recognised on 1 April 2005 on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, the details of which are provided in Note 33.3.
The financial liability and the composite swap were extinguished by the Dept for Equity Exchange. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 69
Notes to the Financial Statements
23.6 Fair values of derivative financial instruments, non derivative financial assets and non derivative financial liabilities (continued)
Non derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
Non derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short and long term deposits and trade and other receivables.
Non derivative financial liabilities consist of bank overdrafts, borrowings and trade and other payables.
Fair value of non derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
The fair value of all non derivative financial assets and financial liabilities approximate the carrying value in the Balance Sheet. The fair value
of the non current borrowings is the net present value of the borrowings computed at the market rate that would arise if the commitment
had been entered into at the balance sheet date.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values:
(a) The fair value of cash at bank, overdrafts and short term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short term maturity 
of these instruments.
(b) The fair value of trade and other payables and receivables approximate their carrying value because of the short term maturity of these
instruments.
23.7 Foreign currency exposure 
The carrying amount of the Group’s total borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Pound Sterling 31.9 307.1 
US Dollar – 5.9 
31.9 313.0 
24 Share capital and share premium
24.1 Authorised share capital
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2006 2006 2005 2005
Number Value Number Value
Authorised share capital m£m m£m
Ordinary shares of 5p each 191.5 9.6 195.0 9.8 
Deferred shares of 1p each* 717.5 7.2 ––
16.8 9.8 
*In order to facilitate the financial restructuring, the Group undertook a share sub division which split 195,000,000 of its issued and unissued
Ordinary Shares of 5p into 975,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 1p. The Group also increased its authorised share capital by £7.0 million as a
result of the issue of 700,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 1p each. A 400:1 split of issued share capital into Ordinary Shares of 1p and deferred
shares of 1p was followed by a consolidation of the resulting issued and unissued Ordinary Shares of 1p each into Ordinary Shares of 5p.
The net effect of which was to reclassify 3,500,000 of the Group’s existing authorised Ordinary Shares of 5p each into 17,500,000 deferred
shares of 1p each.
On 28 September 2005, warrants exercisable at any time thereafter into 22,659,852 Ordinary Shares at an exercise price of 35p per share
were issued to the Group’s lenders as part of the Override Agreement. As at 31 March 2006 1,060,561 warrants had been exercised, raising
net proceeds of £0.4 million and recognised in Equity. 70 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
24.2 Issued share capital 
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Ordinary  Ordinary Ordinary
shares of shares of shares of
5p each 1p each 5p each
Number Number Value Number Value
mm £m m£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
At 1 April 143.9 – 7.2 142.8 7.1 
Share sub division (1:5) (143.9) 719.3 – ––
Cancellation of Deferred Shares (399/400) – (717.5) (7.2) ––
Consolidation of New Interim Shares 1p to Ordinary shares of 5p 0.4 (1.8) – ––
Debt for equity allotment 7.2 – 0.4 ––
Share placing and open offer 143.5 – 7.1 ––
Allotted in connection with warrants exercised 1.0 – 0.1 ––
Issued during the year ––– 1.1 0.1 
Increase during the year 8.2 – 0.4 1.1 0.1 
At 31 March 152.1 – 7.6 143.9 7.2 
24.3 Share sub division, reclassification and consolidation
To facilitate the Debt for Equity Exchange, the Company obtained Shareholders’ approval on 4 August 2005 to undertake a share sub
division and a partial share reclassification followed by a share consolidation. The effect of this was to sub divide the Group’s existing
143,853,409 Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each, into 717,473,138 Deferred Shares of 1 pence each and 1,793,907 New Interim Ordinary
Shares of 1 pence each. The Deferred Shares were subsequently cancelled, and the New Interim Ordinary Shares were consolidated to
create 358,781 Ordinary shares of 5 pence each. Full details of the Group’s financial restructuring were contained in the Share Placing and 
Open Offer Prospectus.
24.4 Debt for equity exchange
The Dept for Equity Exchange was completed on 31 August 2005, resulting in £378.0 million of obligations to creditors being converted into
equity. Accordingly £378.0 million of equity, being £0.4 million of share capital and £377.6 million of share premium has been recognised on 
the Dept for Equity Exchange. The Dept for Equity Exchange resulted in £61.9 million of non-cash finance costs being charged to the income
statement in the year to 31 March 2006. These costs included deferred interest payable on finance debt, finalisation of the settlement value
for the onerous lease and early redemption penalties on certain finance debt items. The table below shows the principal amounts in the debt
for equity transaction, which is consistent with the unaudited Proforma balance sheet and converting claims reconciliation published in the
2005 Annual Report & Accounts and the Share Placing and Open Offer Prospectus:
Reconciliation of movements on the debt for equity converting claims:
Onerous
Finance lease 
debt provision Total
£m £m £m
Opening balance sheet converting balances as at 31 March 2005 281.0 24.5 305.5
Settlement in cash of liability prior to the debt for equity exchange (0.9) (1.8) (2.7)
Conversion of the onerous lease into a finance debt 22.7 (22.7) – 
Construction liabilities converted into finance debt 13.3 – 13.3
Finance costs charged to income statement 61.9 – 61.9
Total converting claims 378.0 – 378.0
24.5 Share placing and open offer
The Placing and Open Offer was completed on 29 September 2005 and raised funds of £50.2 million representing 143.5 million New
Ordinary Shares at 35p each, less directly attributable share issue costs of £6.7 million, resulting in net proceeds of £43.5 million, comprising
of £7.1 million share capital and £36.4 million of share premium. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 71
Notes to the Financial Statements
24.6 Share premium 
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
As at 1 April 142.3 141.9 
Debt for equity allotment 377.6 –
Share placing and open offer 43.1 –
Allotted under share option scheme in respect of warrants 0.3 –
Share issue costs (6.7) –
Issued during the year – 0.4
Increase during the year 414.3 0.4
At 31 March 556.6 142.3 
As described in Notes 24.1, 24.4 and 24.5, the increase in the share premium reserve is directly attributable to the Debt for Equity
Exchange, the subsequent Placing and Open Offer and the exercise of certain warrants. This share premium reserve is not available 
for distribution to Shareholders.
25 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
Attributable to equity holders of the Group
Capital Accu-
Share Share Revaluation Redemption Other Translation mulated Minority Total
Capital Premium Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Losses Interests Equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2004 7.1 141.9 12.7 – 89.7 –(341.1) 2.2 (87.5)
New shares net of expenses 0.1 0.4 –––––– 0.5
Currency translation adjustments –   –   – – – 0.4 – – 0.4
Disposal of subsidiaries with 
minority interest ––––   –   –   – (1.9) (1.9)
Disposal of revalued properties – – (9.6) –   –   –   9.6 –   –
Other revaluation movement – – (0.1) –   –   –   – –   (0.1)
Actuarial gains on defined 
benefit schemes –   ––––– 7.9 –   7.9
Deferred tax charge recognised 
on actuarial gains 
on defined benefit schemes –   –   –   –   –   –   (1.5) –   (1.5)
Loss for the year –   –   –   –   –   –   (331.8) (0.3) (332.1)
Balance at 31 March 2005 7.2 142.3 3.0 –   89.7 0.4 (656.9) –   (414.3)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 –   –   –   –   –   –   1.5 –   1.5
Balance at 1 April 2005 7.2 142.3 3.0 –   89.7 0.4 (655.4) –   (412.8)
Debt for equity exchange 0.4 377.6 –   –   –   –   –   –   378.0 
Share placing and open offer 
(net of expenses) 7.1 36.4 –   –   –   –   –   –   43.5 
Additional shares issued in connection 
with exercise of warrants 0.1 0.3 –   –   –   –   –   –   0.4 
Share cancellation (7.2) –   –   7.2 –   –   –   –   –   
Disposal of revalued properties
and European Roads – – (3.0) – – – 3.0 – –
Currency translation movements 
in the year –   –   –   –   –   (0.1) –   –   (0.1)
Currency translation adjustments 
recognised on disposal of European Roads –   –   –   –   –   (0.3) –   –   (0.3)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit schemes –   –   –   –   –   –   19.6 –   19.6 
Share options expensed through 
income statement –   –   –   –   –   –   0.1 –   0.1 
Loss for the year –   –   –   –   –   –   (56.6)   –   (56.6)   
Balance at 31 March 2006 7.6 556.6 –  7.2 89.7 –   (689.3) –   (28.2)  72 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
25.1 Nature and purpose of reserves
Revaluation reserve
The revaluation reserve arose on the revaluation of certain of the Group’s properties. Freehold properties were revalued to reflect their 
fair values using independent professionally qualified valuers. The resultant increase in the value of the property asset was transferred to 
the revaluation reserve. When properties are subsequently disposed of, the related revaluation gain or loss is transfered to accumulated
losses. All properties were disposed by 31 March 2006.
Capital redemption reserve
This reserve arose in connection with the Debt for Equity exchange and from the subsequent Placing and Open Offer completed on 
29 September 2005. The Placing and Open offer resulted in the cancellation of £7.2 million of Ordinary Shares. As this amounted to a
reduction in capital, an amount equivalent to the reduction of issued capital was transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
Other reserve
The other reserve primarily arose on the acquisition of Streamline Holdings plc in the year ending 31 March 1998. The Company took
advantage of the relief under section 131, Companies Act 1985, from the requirements to establish a share premium account in respect 
of shares issued to Shareholders of Streamline Holdings plc pursuant to the acquisition of that Company. This reserve is not available for
distribution to Shareholders.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign
operations. These translation adjustments are not included in the income statement and are disclosed as a separate component of
consolidated equity. On the disposal of a foreign currency denominated operation, the related cumulative amount recognised in the
translation reserve is re-cycled through the income statement. 
26 Capital commitments and leasing
26.1 Capital commitments
The Group had no capital commitments at 31 March 2006 (2005: £0.1million).  
26.2 Operating leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of plant and machinery.
Future minimum rentals payable under the non cancellable operating leases are as follows:
31 March 31 March 
Plant and Land and 2006 Plant and Land and 2005
machinery buildings Total machinery buildings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Date of lease termination:
Within one year 13.5 2.9 16.4 19.0 3.5 22.5 
More than one year but within five years 15.7 9.0 24.7 25.2 11.2 36.4 
After five years 0.8 17.7 18.5 2.4 21.1 23.5
30.0 29.6 59.6 46.6 35.8 82.4  Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 73
Notes to the Financial Statements
27 Cash flow
27.1 Cash outflow generated from operations
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating profit/(loss) from continuing operations 9.3 (363.5)
Operating profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 1.9 (6.5)
11.2 (370.0)
Adjustments for non cash movements:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
– Continuing operations 5.9 10.0
– Discontinued operations 0.3 1.9
Fixed asset impairment – 0.8
Operating goodwill impairment – 65.4
Intangible impairment – 0.3
Non-cash pension costs 1.4 (0.3)
Restructuring and redundancy costs 3.1 64.4
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 (1.5)
10.9 141.0
Movement in working capital:
Decrease in inventories 0.7 26.5
Decrease in receivables 23.6 108.4
Decrease in payables (74.8) (93.7)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (4.0) 13.7
(54.5) 54.9
Net cash outflow generated from operations* (32.4) (174.1)
*The net cash outflow from operating activities previously reported under UK GAAP included the restructuring and redundancy costs paid, which are now reported
separately in the IFRS cash flow statement.
27.2 Reconciliation of movements in net debt
Repayment
As at Disposal Proceeds of debt Debt for As at
1 April of subsidiary Assets held from issue and finance equity Other 31 March
2005 undertaking for sale of new debt leases exchange cash flow 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 
– Non restricted use 1.5 – (0.2) 24.0 (23.1) – 3.4 5.6
– Restricted use 9.3 – – – – – (5.4) 3.9
Total cash and cash equivalents 10.8 – (0.2) 24.0 (23.1) – (2.0) 9.5 
Cash/(overdraft) held by 
disposal group (0.2) 2.4 0.2 – – – (2.2) 0.2
Overdrafts (1.9) – – – – – 1.9 –
8.7 2.4 – 24.0 (23.1) – (2.3) 9.7
Debt due within one year (301.8) – – (24.0) 18.3 280.1 – (27.4)
Debt due after one year (5.3) – – – 3.6 – – (1.7)
Finance leases (4.0) – – – 1.2 – – (2.8)
(311.1) – – (24.0) 23.1 280.1 – (31.9)
Finance leases held by 
disposal group (1.4) 1.4 – –––– –
Net debt (303.8) 3.8 – – – 280.1 (2.3) (22.2)
The disposal of subsidiary undertaking relates to the European Roads business, which was classified as assets held for sale as at 
31 March 2005 with net overdraft of £0.2 million and finance leases of £1.4 million, and on disposal the debt comprised of overdraft of 
£2.4 million and finance leases of £1.4 million.
The assets held for sale reclassification during the year ended 31 March 2006 relates to FM Ireland and the cash balance of £0.2 million 
was reclassified from cash and cash equivalents. 74 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
28 Contingent liabilities 
The Company has guaranteed performance bonds and given guarantees in respect of contracts entered into by subsidiary undertakings 
(and certain joint ventures) in the normal course of business.
On 24 August 2005 the Company, and each of its subsidiaries which are borrowers or guarantors, entered into a new secured £38.5 million
working capital facility with Deutsche Bank AG. The facility is subject to certain cash flow covenants, a breach of these covenants will 
mean fees are to be paid to the lenders. In addition there are fees to be paid to the lenders on the repayment of the facilities on or prior to
final maturity date of the facility and if the Company repays the facility following a refinancing but does not secure the new facility below 
a target interest rate margin over LIBOR.
The Company has also given a guarantee in respect of a secured amortising loan of £16 million with Commerzbank AG (which had reduced
to £4.9 million as at 31 March 2006 and continues to reduce). Should any termination event, covenant breach or other events of default
occur, it is possible that the Company’s guarantee in respect of this borrowing will crystallise.
In respect of the accident at Potters Bar, the Directors consider that the amount recognised in the financial statements adequately covers
the Group’s exposure to claims from the accident. The Directors believe that all those individuals affected have lodged claims although
further claims are not yet time barred. The Directors are unable to quantify the eventual total amount of such claims against the Group 
in respect of this accident but have received confirmation that the insurance cover in place adequately covers the Group’s exposure to 
such claims. 
There are also contingent liabilities in respect of actual and potential claims by third parties under contracting and other arrangements
entered into during the normal course of business. Whilst the outcome of these matters is uncertain, the directors believe that appropriate
provision has been made within the accounts.
The Group has provided guarantees to certain local authorities in connection with the potential rebate of unitary charges paid by those
authorities to the relevant wholly-owned Jarvis special purpose company, should this become necessary as a result of underperformance 
in connection with agreed service standards.
On 8 March 2005 Jarvis plc entered into a tax funding facility agreement with Agilisys OSS Limited. Under the agreement Jarvis plc agreed
to pay Agilisys OSS Limited’s corporation tax liability for the year to 31 March 2006 up to a maximum of £465,000. Provided that certain
conditions are met Jarvis plc will make an advance to Agilisys OSS Limited. Any outstanding advances, after any corporation tax liability 
has been paid, will be repaid to Jarvis plc in full on the earlier of the Final Repayment date and the Final Maturity date 31 May 2007.
29 Post balance sheet events
On 27 July 2006, the Group completed a refinancing of its existing banking facilities. The new arrangements consist of committed facilities 
of £67 million comprising of a revolving credit facility and term loan facilities. The facilities are secured by way of a fixed and floating charge 
on Group’s assets, in particular its plant, machinery and receivables under its rail renewal and plant hire contracts. The proceeds of this 
arrangement will be used to repay the Group’s existing bank facilities and to finance its future ongoing operations. The new facility will 
expire on 26 July 2009.
On 2 August 2006, the Company placed 4,602,460 new Ordinary Shares of 5p each at a price of 53.55 pence each to raise £2,464,617.
These shares were issued to two of the existing holders of warrants to subscribe for new Ordinary Shares in Jarvis. At the same time these
holders and certain other holders of warrants to subscribe for new Ordinary Shares at a price of 35 pence per share have agreed to exercise
warrants over 6,961,406 Ordinary Shares. This resulted in the Company raising a further £2,436,492.
Notes to the Financial Statements Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 75
Notes to the Financial Statements
30 Share options
The Executive scheme
The rules of the Jarvis plc Executive Share Option Scheme (the Executive Scheme) permit the Directors, during specified periods, to offer
employees (including executive directors) options over shares in the Company, subject to limitations. These options will normally be
exercisable in whole or in part during the period starting three years from the date of grant and ending ten years after such date.
Following the offer by Jarvis plc in 1998, Streamline Holdings plc (“Streamline”) option holders were offered, at that time, the opportunity 
to convert their options into Jarvis plc options. The terms of the Streamline schemes continue to apply to these options. In the case of SAYE
options, they were exercisable after the expiry of three or five years. In the case of Executive Share Options (previously granted under the
Streamline Holdings PLC 1996 Executive Scheme), they are exercisable in whole or in part during the period starting three years from the
date of grant and ending seven years after such date. 
All of the options granted under the terms of the Executive scheme were granted before 7 November 2002, and the Group therefore has
applied the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 ‘Share based payment’. The options outstanding and the movements during the year are 
given below.
Subscription
price 2006 2005
Exercisable per share Number of Number of 
The Executive scheme Grant date from pence shares shares 
1/10/96* 1/10/99 473.00 4,510 4,510
7/7/97 7/7/00 277.50 – 21,620
6/10/98 06/10/01 487.00 10,000 61,160
18/1/99 18/1/02 587.00 20,000 77,000
2/8/99 02/8/02 271.00 33,000 202,500
28/7/00 28/7/03 199.50 34,500 237,024
24/1/01 24/1/04 264.00 – 100,000
24/12/01 24/12/04 530.00 28,300 271,700
11/7/02 11/7/05 290.00 8,000 178,000
138,310 1,153,514
*Indicates former Streamline options.
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted
average average 
exercise exercise 
Number price pence Number price pence
Outstanding at 1 April 1,153,514 353.10 2,891,435 337.94
Surrendered and cancelled (1,015,204) 350.10 (1,737,921) 327.88
Outstanding at 31 March 138,310 375.16 1,153,514 353.10
The Management incentive plan
The rules of the Management Incentive Plan (MIP) permit Directors and invited senior employees to be granted options over shares in the
Company, which can be exercised subject to certain performance conditions in accordance with the rules of the scheme. Options are
granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the average market price of the shares under option, over the 17 days preceding the grant date.
The contractual life of the option is 3 years commencing on the date of grant. The Company first made the grant on 30 November 2005. 
The options are exercisable in one third tranches subject to the following market performance conditions:
One third of the options granted under the MIP will become exercisable at any time during the vesting period when the Company’s share
price on the London Stock Exchange, for a period of at least 10 consecutive dealing days during the vesting period, is equal to or greater 
than the exercise price plus 25 per cent. 
Two thirds of the options granted become exercisable at any time during the vesting period, if the share price is equal to or greater than 
the exercise price plus 50 per cent, for a period of at least 10 consecutive dealing days. 
All the options granted become exercisable at any time during the vesting period, if the share price is equal to or greater than the 
exercise price plus 75 per cent, for a period of at least 10 consecutive dealing days. 76 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
30 Share options (continued)
The Management incentive plan (continued)
Exercise of the option is subject to continued employment, but may be modified in accordance with the employee’s employment contract.
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model. The fair value per option and the assumptions used in the
calculations are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Share price at grant date (pence) 86.73p –
Number of employees (including directors) 41 –
Shares under option 5,355,000 –
Expected volatility 21.30% –
Risk free rate of return 4% –
Expectations of meeting performance criteria:
Tranche 1 (grant price plus 25%) 100% –
Tranche 2 (grant price plus 50%) 80% –
Tranche 3 (grant price plus 75%) 50% –
Fair value per option:
– Tranche 1 (pence) 18.00 –
– Tranche 2 (pence) 14.00 –
– Tranche 3 (pence) 9.00 –
The Company’s share price volatility over the three month period to 31 March 2006 was 1.7 per cent. However due to restructuring
completed in August 2005, management do not consider this to be representative. The expected volatility used in the valuation model, 
is therefore based on historical volatility over the last three years of a peer group. The expected life is the average expected period to
exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 March 2006 is shown below.
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted
average average 
price price
Number pence Number pence
Outstanding at 1 April –– ––
Granted 5,355,000 86.73 ––
Outstanding at 31 March 5,355,000 86.73 ––
The amount recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2006 was £0.1 million (2005: nil).
31 Related party transactions 
During the year, the Group sold goods and provided construction and project management services to joint venture undertakings of 
£0.4 million (2005: £153.9 million) and purchased goods and services from joint venture undertakings of £nil (2005: £26.1 million). 
There were balances receivable by the Group at the year end to joint venture undertakings and subsidiary undertakings of £0.6 million 
(2005: £15.3 million). These are analysed as:
31 March 31 March
2006 31 March2005 31 March
Sales of 31 March 2006 Sales of 31 March 2005
goods and 2006 Balances goods and 2005 Balances
services Purchases receivable services Purchases  receivable
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Tube Line (Holdings) Limited and its subsidiary undertaking –– – 9.3 – 0.3
Other Infrastructure Services joint ventures 0.4 – 0.6 0.5 – 0.4
Agilisys Limited and its subsidiary undertakings –– – –26.1 –
Accommodation Services joint ventures –– – 144.1 – 14.6 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 77
Notes to the Financial Statements
32 Principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates at 31 March 2006
32.1 Principal subsidiary undertakings
Country of 
incorporation/
Company registration Nature of business
Fastline Limited* England and Wales Rail infrastructure services
Jarvis Rail Limited England and Wales Rail infrastructure services
Jarvis Projects Limited England and Wales Project management
Jarvis Accommodation Services Limited England and Wales Facilities management 
Jarvis Construction (UK) Limited England and Wales Construction management
UPP Manchester Holdings Limited England and Wales Special purpose company for UPP
On Track Plant Limited England and Wales Plant hire
Jarvis Property Company Limited England and Wales Property investment, dealing and development
Jarvis Estates Limited England and Wales Property investment
Jarvis International Limited England and Wales Non-UK business
Prismo Limited* England and Wales Road services
Prismo USA, Inc* USA Distribution of road surfacing products
Herefordshire Jarvis Services Ltd* England and Wales Special purpose company for local authority PFI
Jarvis Training Management Limited England and Wales Training services
Barnhill School Services Limited England and Wales Special purpose company for schools PFI
Colfox School Services Limited England and Wales Special purpose company for schools PFI
Cardinal Heenan School Services Limited England and Wales Special purpose company for schools PFI
Jarvis Plant Hire Limited* England and Wales Plant hire
Dundee Healthcare Services Limited Scotland Special purpose company for healthcare PFI
Chippenham Offices Limited England and Wales Special purpose company for local authority PFI
Balfron Schools Services Limited Scotland Special purpose company for schools PFI
East Ren Schools Services Limited Scotland Special purpose company for schools PFI
Harrowby Developments Limited England and Wales Special purpose company for schools project
All of the above companies are wholly owned subsidiaries and have been consolidated in these accounts.
*Indirectly owned by the Company.
32.2 Joint ventures and associates
Country of 
Percentage incorporation/
Company owned registration Nature of business
Accord Jarvis Limited* 50% England and Wales Road services
Chapel Wharf Limited** 34.4% England and Wales Regeneration and development of Chapel Wharf,
Salford, Greater Manchester
Prismo Product Services 
(m) Sdn Bhd* 50% Malaysia Road services
Shivalik Prismo India 
Private Limited* 50% India Road services
All investments are in Ordinary Shares.
*Indirectly owned by the Company.
**Associate indirectly owned by the Company. All other companies are joint ventures. 78 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
33 Reconciliations between UK GAAP and IFRS
33.1 Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet at 1 April 2004 
IFRS
UK GAAP 1 April
IFRS IAS 11 2004
Format Long IAS 19 before IAS 8 IFRS
1 April IAS1 term IAS 12 Employee restate- Restate- 1 April 
2004 Reformat contracts Taxation benefits ment        ment 2004 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Notes 12345 6
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 83.4 –  –  –  –   83.4 –   83.4 
Intangible assets 0.4 –   –   –  –   0.4 –   0.4 
Property, plant and equipment 64.4 –   –   –   –   64.4 (1.3) 63.1  
Interests in associates 3.5 –  –   –   –   3.5 –   3.5
Interests in joint ventures 56.1 –  –   –  –   56.1 –   56.1
Other investments 1.0 – – – –   1.0 –   1.0
Deferred tax assets – – – 4.4 – 4.4 – 4.4
208.8 –   –   4.4 – 213.2 (1.3) 211.9  
Current assets
Inventories 41.5 –  –  –  –   41.5 –   41.5
Debtor related to PFI/PPP non-recourse 
financing agreement 0.2 10.8 –   –   –  11.0 –   11.0
Trade and other receivables 312.0 –  (29.9) –   (24.8) 257.3 –   257.3
Investments held for trading 1.6 –  –   –   – 1.6 –   1.6  
Cash and cash equivalents 74.9 –  –   –  –  74.9 –   74.9
430.2 10.8 (29.9) –   (24.8) 386.3 –  386.3 
Total assets 639.0 10.8 (29.9) 4.4 (24.8) 599.5 (1.3) 598.2
Current liabilities
Borrowings 
– Bank loans and overdrafts 213.4 –  –   –   –   213.4 –   213.4 
– Obligations under finance leases 1.3 –  –  –  –   1.3 –   1.3
PFI/PPP non-recourse term loan –   0.9 – –  –   0.9 –   0.9
Trade and other payables 371.5 –  –  –   (2.2) 369.3 –  369.3
Provisions –   5.4 –  –   – 5.4 –  5.4
586.2 6.3 – – (2.2) 590.3 – 590.3
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 
– Bank loans 1.2 –   –   –   –   1.2 –   1.2
– Obligations under finance leases 4.9 –   –   –   –   4.9 –   4.9
PFI/PPP non-recourse term loan –   9.9 –   –  –   9.9 – 9.9  
Retirement benefit obligation –   –   –  – 25.4 25.4 –   25.4
Deferred tax liabilities 1.2 –   –   6.3 (7.5) –   –  –
Provisions 16.3 (5.4) –  –   –   10.9 –   10.9
Deferred consideration for acquisition 43.1 –   –   –  –   43.1 –   43.1
66.7 4.5 – 6.3 17.9 95.4 – 95.4
Total liabilities 652.9 10.8 –  6.3 15.7 685.7 –   685.7
Net liabilities (13.9) –   (29.9) (1.9) (40.5) (86.2) (1.3) (87.5)
Equity
Capital and reserves
Share capital 7.1 –   – –   –   7.1 –  7.1
Share premium 141.9 –   –   –   –   141.9 –   141.9  
Revaluation reserve 12.7 –  –  – –   12.7 –   12.7
Other reserve 89.7 –   –  –   –   89.7 –  89.7
Accumulated losses (267.5) –   (29.9) (1.9) (40.5) (339.8) (1.3) (341.1)
Minority interests 2.2 –  –   –   – 2.2 –   2.2
Equity shareholders’ deficit (13.9) –  (29.9) (1.9) (40.5) (86.2) (1.3) (87.5) Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 79
Notes to the Financial Statements
33.1 Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet at 1 April 2004 (continued)
Notes:
1 UK GAAP in IFRS format
Goodwill has been separately identified from other intangible assets. 
Interests in joint ventures include the net investment in joint venture undertakings of £49.6 million (comprising share of gross assets 
of £916.6 million and share of gross liabilities of £867.0 million) together with £6.5 million which had previously been classified as a 
loan to joint venture undertaking.
Other investments of £3.5 million has been re-classified as an interest in associates and relates primarily to Chapel Wharf Ltd.
Properties held for resale and development of £1.6 million have been re-classified as Investments held for trading.
Debtors of £312.0 million are now described as trade and other receivables.
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year of £49.2 million have been re-classified within non-current liabilities as: £43.1 million
of deferred consideration for the acquisition of Tube Line Holdings Ltd; £4.9 million of obligations under finance leases, relating principally to
the Roads business; and £1.2 million bank loans.
Provisions for liabilities and charges of £17.5 million have been re-classified within non-current liabilities as: £1.2 million of deferred tax
liabilities and £16.3 million of Provisions, which includes £15.2 million of onerous lease provisions.
As previously reported under UK GAAP , £586.2 million of creditors: amounts falling due within one year, have been re-classified within
current liabilities as: £371.5 million of trade and other payables; £1.3 million obligations under finance leases; and £213.4 million bank
overdrafts and loans.
2 Under previous UK GAAP , the related PFI/PPP non-recourse loan debtor and creditor was presented as a net amount comprising 
£11.0 million debtor and £10.8 million creditor. Netting of related debtors and creditors is not permitted under IAS 1 and accordingly the
PFI/PPP debtor subject to non-recourse financing of £11.0 million is now separately shown. Associated liabilities of £10.8 million relating 
to non-recourse finance have been re-classified as £0.9 million PFI/PPP non-recourse term loan in current liabilities and £9.9 million PFI/PPP
non-recourse term loan in non-current liabilities. Provisions anticipated to be settled within one year of £5.4 million have been reclassified
from non-current liabilities to current liabilities relating to onerous lease obligations.
3 As described in Accounting Policies – Long-term contracts (Note 1.20), the revenue recognition policy adopted by the Group under 
IFRS on long-term contracts is based on customer agreements and certifications. A cost plus basis was previously adopted under UK GAAP . 
This accounting policy change resulted in a £29.9 million net reduction in opening reserves.
4 Under UK GAAP , deferred tax was provided on timing differences that had originated, but had not reversed, before the balance sheet date.
Under IAS 12, deferred tax is provided on temporary differences based upon the future recovery or settlement of assets and liabilities
recognised in the balance sheet. As a result of implementing IAS 12, an additional deferred tax liability of £1.9 million has been provided 
on transition. 
5 Under UK GAAP the Group applied the measurement and recognition requirements of SSAP24 to accounting for pensions and post-
retirement benefits in the financial statements, whilst providing disclosures under FRS 17. IAS 19 takes a balance sheet approach to
accounting for defined benefit schemes, similar to FRS 17. Therefore, on transition, an IAS 19 deficit of £23.2 million has been recognised in
the balance sheet. In addition, a retirement benefit obligation of £2.2 million in relation to non-material defined benefit pension schemes has
been re-classified from Trade and other payables. At 1 April 2004, the removal of the SSAP24 asset and its associated deferred tax balance,
and the recognition of a deficit under IAS 19, results in a reduction of reserves of £40.5 million. No deferred tax asset has been recognised
on the IAS 19 pension deficit. 
6 A review of asset carrying values identified an error in the financial statements for periods up to 31 March 2005 which resulted in no
depreciation being applied to certain assets. The correction of this error has resulted in an adjustment to the opening balance sheet in
accordance with IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’. The impact of this adjustment is to increase 
the accumulated losses by £1.3 million, a reduction in the carrying value of the fixed assets of £1.3 million and a consequential increase 
in the Group’s net liabilities of £1.3 million. 80 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
33.2 Reconciliation of consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005*
IFRS
UK GAAP 31 March
IFRS IFRS 5 2005
Format IAS 11 IAS 19 Assets before IAS 8 IFRS
31 March IAS 1 Long term IAS 12 Employee IFRS 3 held restate- Restate- 31 March
2005 Reformat contracts Taxation benefits Goodwill for sale ment     ment 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Notes 1234567 8
Revenue 585.7 11.8 11.3 –   –   –   (99.1) 509.7 –   509.7
Cost of sales (689.3) 130.5 –   –   (0.5) –   68.1 (491.2) (0.3) (491.5)
Gross (loss)/profit (103.6) 142.3 11.3 –   (0.5) –   (31.0) 18.5 (0.3) 18.2
Administration expenses (236.4) 102.2 – –   – 3.2 37.5 (93.5) –   (93.5)
Operating (loss)/profit 
before non-recurring costs (340.0) 244.5 11.3 –   (0.5) 3.2 6.5 (75.0) (0.3) (75.3)
Non-recurring costs (2.3) (244.5) 12.8 –   –   (2.5) (51.7) (288.2) –   (288.2)
Operating (loss)/profit (342.3) –   24.1 –  (0.5) 0.7 (45.2) (363.2) (0.3) (363.5)
Net finance costs (56.1) 27.0 –   –  1.7 –   (0.3) (27.7) –   (27.7)
Share of post-tax profits 
from joint ventures 44.6 (32.2) – –   –   –   (12.2) 0.2 –   0.2
(Loss)/profit before taxation (353.8) (5.2) 24.1 –  1.2 0.7 (57.7) (390.7) (0.3) (391.0)
Tax on loss 7.1 5.2 –   (9.6) (0.8) –   0.7 2.6 –   2.6
(Loss)/profit for the year 
from continuing operations (346.7) –   24.1 (9.6) 0.4 0.7 (57.0) (388.1) (0.3) (388.4)
Post-tax profit from 
discontinued operations –  –  – –   –   (0.7) 57.0 56.3 –   56.3
(Loss)/profit for the year (346.7) –   24.1 (9.6) 0.4 –   –   (331.8) (0.3) (332.1)
Attributable to: –   
Equity holders of the 
Company (346.4) –   24.1 (9.6) 0.4 –   –   (331.5) (0.3) (331.8)
Minority interests (0.3) –  –  –   –   –   –   (0.3) –   (0.3)
(346.7) –   24.1 (9.6) 0.4 –  –   (331.8) (0.3) (332.1)
*Excludes impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments as these standards only apply from 1 April 2005 as allowed as an optional
exemption under IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’. Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 81
Notes to the Financial Statements
33.2 Reconciliation of consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 (continued)
Notes:
1 As previously reported under UK GAAP format, non-recurring costs comprise: £m
Exceptional items – continuing operations
– Profit on sale of interest in joint ventures and other investments 5.7
– Profit on disposal of fixed assets 6.9
– Cost of fundamental restructuring (56.8)
Exceptional items – discontinued operations
– Profit on sale of subsidiary undertakings 48.5
– Profit on sale of interest in joint ventures and other investments 3.0
– Cost of fundamental restructuring (9.6)
(2.3)
2 Exceptional items of £244.5 million as previously reported under UK GAAP format have been re-classified as non-recurring costs.
£27.0 million of finance costs and £5.2 million of tax charges that relate to Joint Venture and Associate operations have been re-classified 
to “Share of post-tax profits from Joint Ventures and Associates”.
3 As described in Accounting Policies – Long-term contracts (Note 1.20), the revenue recognition policy adopted by the Group under
IFRS on long-term contracts is based on customer agreements and certifications. A cost plus basis was previously adopted under UK GAAP .
The impact of the change in the long term contract accounting policy is to increase reserves by £24.1 million, of which £12.8 million was
previously accounted for as a non-recurring cost and is reversed as a result of the new policy. 
4 Under UK GAAP , deferred tax was provided on timing differences that had originated, but had not reversed, before the balance sheet date.
Under IAS 12, deferred tax is provided on temporary differences based upon the future recovery or settlement of assets and liabilities
recognised in the balance sheet. This results in a £9.6 million charge which comprises a £1.9 million credit in the year as a result of selling
the revalued properties offset by reversal of timing differences of £11.5 million previously recognised under UK GAAP .
5 Under UK GAAP , no accrual was made for annual leave. Under IAS 19, the estimated cost of leave accrued and not taken should be
recognised at the time the related service is provided. An accrual for leave not taken of £0.8 million has been made and charged to cost 
of sales. Under UK GAAP , pensions were accounted for under SSAP 24. On the transition from SSAP 24 to IAS19 accounting for defined
benefit obligations results in a reduction by £0.3 million in cost of sales and £1.7 million finance income, and a movement on deferred tax 
of £0.8 million.
6 IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” no longer permits amortisation of goodwill. Instead goodwill is carried at cost and is subject to regular
impairment review. The impact of the application of this policy in the year to 31 March 2005 is a reversal of the amortisation charge 
of £3.2 million. Following an impairment test, £3.2 million of the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired, of which £2.5 million is
classified as non-recurring relating to UK Roads business, and £0.7 million relating to the European Roads business has been classified
under discontinued. 
7 Results of discontinued operations are now re-classified under one single caption as required under IFRS 5.
8 A review of asset carrying values identified an error in the financial statements for periods up to 31 March 2005 which resulted in no
depreciation being applied to certain assets. The correction of this error has resulted in an adjustment to the opening balance sheet in
accordance with IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’. The impact of the adjustment is to increase 
the retained losses for the year by £0.3 million, decrease the carrying value of fixed assets by £1.6 million and increase the Group’s 
net liabilities by £1.6 million. Details of the correction to the opening balance sheet as at 1 April 2004 are given in note 33.1. 82 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
33.3 Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2005 
IFRS
31 March
UK GAAP IAS 11 IAS 21 IFRS 5 2005 IAS 39
IFRS Format Long IAS 19 Foreign Assets before IAS 8 IFRS Financial IFRS
31 March IAS 1 term IAS 12  Employee exchange held for restate- Restate- 31 March instru- 1 April 
2005 Reformat contracts Taxation benefits translation sale ment ment 2005 ments 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Notes 1234567 8 9
Non-current 
assets 
Goodwill 6.2 –   –    –    –    –   (5.4) 0.8 –   0.8 –   0.8 
Intangible assets 0.2 –    –    –   –    –    (0.2) –    –    –    –    –
Property, plant 
and equipment 36.0 –    –   –    –    –    (7.6) 28.4 (1.6) 26.8 – 26.8
Interests in 
associates 2.3 –    –    –    –    –    –   2.3 –    2.3 –    2.3 
Interests in 
joint ventures 1.3 –    –   –    –    –   (0.1) 1.2 –    1.2 –   1.2 
Deferred tax 
assets –   –    –    0.7 –    –    –   0.7 –    0.7 –  0.7 
Retirement 
benefit asset –    –    –    –    5.0 –    –    5.0 –    5.0 –   5.0
46.0 –    –    0.7 5.0 –    (13.3) 38.4 (1.6) 36.8 –  36.8
Current assets
Inventories 14.2 –    –    –    –   – (6.0) 8.2 –    8.2 –  8.2 
Debtor related to 
PFI/PPP 
non-recourse 
financing 
agreement 0.2 10.8 –    –    –    –    –    11.0 –   11.0 –   11.0 
Trade and other 
receivables 187.8 –    (5.8) (7.9) (22.4) –    (12.5) 139.2 –    139.2 –  139.2 
Cash and cash 
equivalents 12.3 –   –   –    –   –   (1.5) 10.8 –    10.8 –    10.8 
214.5 10.8 (5.8) (7.9) (22.4) – (20.0) 169.2 – 169.2 – 169.2
Assets held 
for sale –    –   –   –    – –   33.3 33.3 –    33.3 –     33.3
Total assets 260.5 10.8 (5.8) (7.2) (17.4) –    –   240.9 (1.6) 239.3 –  239.3
Current 
liabilities
Borrowings 
– Bank loans 
and overdrafts 305.4 –    –   –    –    –    (1.7) 303.7 –    303.7 (6.6) 297.1 
– Obligations 
under finance 
leases 1.6 –    –  –   –   –    (0.5) 1.1 –   1.1 –   1.1
PFI/PPP 
non-recourse 
term loan –     0.9 –    –   –    –    –    0.9 –  0.9 –   0.9 
Trade and 
other payables 247.3 –    –    –   0.8 –   (13.1) 235.0 –    235.0 –   235.0
Tax liabilities –    –   –    –    –    –  0.1 0.1 –    0.1 –    0.1 
Provisions –   25.1 –   –    – –    –   25.1 –   25.1 –    25.1
554.3 26.0 –    –    0.8 –    (15.2) 565.9 –    565.9 (6.6) 559.3 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 83
Notes to the Financial Statements
33.3 Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2005 (continued)
IFRS
31 March
UK GAAP IAS 11 IAS 21 IFRS 5 2005 IAS 39
IFRS Format Long IAS 19 Foreign Assets before IAS 8 IFRS Financial IFRS
31 March IAS 1 term IAS 12  Employee exchange held for restate- Restate- 31 March instru- 1 April 
2005 Reformat contracts Taxation benefits translation sale ment ment 2005 ments 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Notes 1234567 8 9
Non-current 
liabilities
Borrowings 
– Bank loans 5.3 –   –   –   –   –  –   5.3 –   5.3 – 5.3 
– Obligations 
under finance 
leases 3.8 –   –   –  –   –  (0.9) 2.9 –   2.9 – 2.9
PFI/PPP 
non-recourse 
term loan –   9.9 –  – –   –   –  9.9 –   9.9 –   9.9 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations –   – –  –  20.8 –  –   20.8 –   20.8 –   20.8 
Deferred tax
liabilities –   –   –   4.3 (5.2) –  0.9 –   –  –   
Provisions 58.7 (25.1) –  –   –  –   (0.9) 32.7 –   32.7 –  32.7 
Derivatives –  –  –   –   –  – –  –   –   –   5.1 5.1
67.8 (15.2) –   4.3 15.6 –   (0.9) 71.6 –   71.6 5.1 76.7
Liabilities 
associated  
with assets  
held for sale –  –   –  –  –   –  16.1 16.1 –  16.1 –  16.1 
Total liabilities 622.1 10.8 –   4.3 16.4 –   –   653.6 –   653.6 (1.5) 652.1
Net liabilities (361.6) –   (5.8) (11.5) (33.8) – –   (412.7) (1.6) (414.3) 1.5 (412.8)
Equity 
Capital and 
reserves
Share capital 7.2 –   –  – –   – – 7.2 –   7.2 –   7.2 
Share premium 142.3 –   –  –   –   –  –  142.3 –   142.3 –   142.3 
Revaluation 
reserve 3.0 –  –   –  –  –   –   3.0 –  3.0 –  3.0 
Other reserve 89.7 –  –   –   –   –   –   89.7 –   89.7 –   89.7 
Translation 
reserve – –   –   –   –   0.4 –   0.4 –   0.4 –   0.4 
Accumulated 
losses (603.8) – (5.8) (11.5) (33.8) (0.4) –   (655.3) (1.6) (656.9) 1.5 (655.4)
Equity 
shareholders’ 
deficit (361.6) – (5.8) (11.5) (33.8) –   – (412.7) (1.6) (414.3) 1.5 (412.8) 84 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Financial Statements
33.3 Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2005 (continued)
Notes:
1 UK GAAP in IFRS format 
Goodwill of £6.2 million relating mainly to the European Roads business has been separately identified from other intangible assets. 
Interest in joint ventures includes the net investment in joint venture undertakings of £1.2 million and £0.1 million of loans to joint venture
undertakings.
£2.3 million of other investments has been re-classified as an Interest in associates and relates primarily to Chapel Wharf Ltd. 
Debtors of £187.8 million are now described as trade and other receivables.
£17.9 million of creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year have been re-classified within non-current liabilities as: £8.8 million
of provisions; £3.8 million of obligations under finance leases, relating principally to the Roads business; and £5.3 million of bank loans.
£49.9 million of provisions for liabilities and charges have been re-classified as provisions within non-current liabilities, of which £27.7 million
relates to onerous leases and £18.0 million to restructuring costs.
£554.3 million of creditors: amounts falling due within one year, have been re-classified within current liabilities as: £247.3 million of trade
and other payables; £1.6 million of obligations under finance leases; and £305.4 million of bank loans and overdrafts.
2 Under previous UK GAAP , the related PFI/PPP non-recourse debtor and creditor was presented as a net amount comprising £11.0 million 
debtor and £10.8 million creditor. Netting of related debtors and creditors is not permitted under IAS 1 and accordingly the PFI/PPP debtor 
subject to non-recourse financing of £11.0 million is now separately shown. Associated liabilities of £10.8 million relating to non-recourse
finance have been re-classified as £0.9 million PFI/PPP non-recourse term loan in current liabilities and £9.9 million PFI/PPP non-recourse
term loan in non-current liabilities. Provisions anticipated to be settled within one year of £25.1 million have been reclassified from 
non-current liabilities to current liabilities relating to restructuring costs and onerous lease obligations.
3 As described in Accounting Policies – Long-term contracts (Note 1.20), the revenue recognition policy adopted by the Group under 
IFRS on long-term contracts is based on customer agreements and certifications. A cost plus basis was previously adopted under 
UK GAAP . This accounting policy change resulted in a £5.8 million net reduction in reserves. 
4 Under UK GAAP , deferred tax was provided on timing differences that had originated, but had not reversed, before the balance sheet date.
Under IAS 12, deferred tax is provided on temporary differences based upon the future recovery or settlement of assets and liabilities
recognised in the balance sheet. As a result of implementing IAS 12, there has been a reversal of timing differences of £11.5 million
previously recognised under UK GAAP .
5 Under UK GAAP the Group applied the measurement and recognition requirements of SSAP 24 to accounting for pensions and 
post-retirement benefits in the financial statements, whilst providing disclosures under FRS 17. 
IAS 19 takes a balance sheet approach to accounting for defined benefit schemes, similar to FRS 17. Therefore, on transition, an IAS 19
surplus of £5.0 million on two of the three sections in the Railways Pension Scheme and an IAS 19 deficit of £20.8 million on the Streamline
Pension Schemes and the third section of the Railways Pension Scheme, has been recognised in the balance sheet. At 31 March 2005, 
the removal of the SSAP24 asset, its associated deferred tax balance and the recognition of a deficit under IAS19 results in a reduction of
reserves of £33.8 million. No deferred tax asset has been recognised on the pension deficit, but a deferred tax liability of £1.5 million has
been recognised on the pension surplus. 
Under UK GAAP , no accrual was made for annual leave. Under IAS 19, the estimated cost of leave accrued and not taken is recognised at 
the time the related service is provided. An accrual of £0.8 million has been recognised. 
6 Under UK GAAP accumulated gains or losses arising on the re-translation of opening net assets and results of overseas subsidiary
undertakings were taken directly to reserves and were reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Under IAS 21 the
treatment is similar, although the cumulative effect in reserves is recorded as a separate category of reserves rather than within profit and
loss reserves. On disposal of the foreign net assets the cumulative translation differences are recycled through the income statement.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of the opening net assets of a foreign entity to closing rate and the difference between
translating the results of the foreign entity at actual and year end rates are taken to equity under IAS 21. This amounted to £0.4 million for 
the year. 
7 IFRS 5 requires that assets that fulfil the criteria of “Held for Sale” must be separately disclosed. As at 31 March 2005 the Group had net
assets of £17.2 million as “Held for Sale” consisting of:
Assets Liabilities Net Assets
£m £m £m
European Roads 32.8 (16.1) 16.7
Property Portfolio 0.5 – 0.5
33.3 (16.1) 17.2 Notes to the Financial Statements
33.3 Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2005 (continued)
Notes (continued):
8 A review of asset carrying values identified an error in the financial statements for periods up to 31 March 2005 which resulted in no 
depreciation being applied to certain assets. The correction of this error has resulted in an adjustment to the opening balance sheet in 
accordance with IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’. The impact of the adjustment is to increase 
the retained losses for the year by £0.3 million, decrease the carrying value of fixed assets by £1.6 million and increase the Group’s 
net liabilities by £1.6 million. Details of the correction to the opening balance sheet as at 1 April 2004 are given in note 33.1.
9 IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been adopted with effect from 1 April 2005. The impact on net liabilities is a reduction of £1.5 million.
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 85 86 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2006
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Fixed asset
Tangible assets 5 0.2 0.5 
Investments – in subsidiary undertakings 6 84.0 103.7 
84.2 104.2 
Current assets
Debtors 7 128.2 96.4 
Cash at bank and in hand 0.5 6.7 
128.7 103.1 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (44.0) (317.7)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 84.7 (214.6)
Total assets less current liabilities 168.9 (110.4)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 – (0.1)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 9 (6.6) (45.5)
Net assets/(liabilities) 162.3 (156.0)
Capital and reserves
Share capital 10 7.6 7.2 
Share premium 10 556.6 142.3 
Capital redemption reserve 11 7.2 –
Merger reserve 11 89.6 89.6 
Profit and loss account 11 (498.7) (395.1)
Equity shareholders’ funds/(deficit) 162.3 (156.0)
Notes 1 to 11 form part of these Company financial statement.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 14 August 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
R Entwistle Director
J O’Kane Director Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
1 Principal accounting policies
(a) Basis of accounting
The  separate financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and with the 
Companies Act 1985. These financial statements and notes have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.  
(b) Derivative instruments
The Company adopted  FRS25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and FRS 26 ‘Financial instruments: Measurement’ 
effective 1 April 2005. The impact of this policy for the Company is the same as the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 for the Group which 
is detailed in Note 33.3 to the consolidated financial statements.
(c) Investments
Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
(d) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount the obligation. Where 
the Company expects some or all of the provision to be reimbursed, for example, under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is 
recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. 
Restructuring provisions comprise employees’ termination payments and financial restructuring legal and advisor fees.The provision for 
onerous lease commitments has been calculated at the net present value of rent payable less rents receivable (having taken account of 
potential void periods and lease incentives) up to the end of the lease. Allowance has been made for empty rates and agents’ fees.
Long-term provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present 
obligation at the balance sheet date. The present value of long-term provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash 
flows at a UK risk free pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and where appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability.
2 Directors’ remuneration
Detailed disclosures of Directors’ individual remuneration, share options and benefits accruing under defined benefit schemes are given 
in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 30.
3 Loss of Jarvis plc
The Company has taken advantage of the  exemption available under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not presented a 
profit and loss account. The loss for the year ended 31 March 2006  was £103.6 million (2005: £213.0 million).
The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.1 million (2005: £0.1 million).
4 Dividends
There were no dividends paid during the year (2005: nil).
5 Tangible assets 
Fixtures, 
Leasehold fittings and 
improvementsequipment Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 0.1 0.9 1.0 
At 31 March 2006 0.1 0.9 1.0
Depreciation
At 1 April 2005 – 0.5 0.5 
Charge for the year – 0.3 0.3 
At 31 March 2006 – 0.8 0.8
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 0.1 0.1 0.2 
At 31 March 2005 0.1 0.4 0.5
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 87 88 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
6 Fixed asset investments in subsidiary undertakings
31 March
2006
£m
At 1 April 2005 103.7
Impairment provision (19.7)
At 31 March 2006 84.0
Investments in subsidiary undertakings primarily consist of the principal subsidiary undertakings disclosed in Note 32.1 of the consolidated 
financial statements 
7 Debtors
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 120.5 74.0 
Other debtors 6.8 5.2 
Prepayments and accrued income 0.4 0.7 
Corporation tax receivable 0.5 –
Dividends receivable – 16.5 
128.2 96.4 
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank overdrafts (unsecured) – 1.8
Loan notes and bank loans 
Loan notes and bank loans subject to the Override Agreement – 298.0 
Other loan notes and bank loans 24.2 0.2 
24.2 298.2 
Trade creditors 2.0 2.7 
Other creditors – 0.6 
Accruals and deferred income 9.7 11.9 
Taxation and social security 8.0 1.2 
Corporation tax payable – 1.2 
Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.1
44.0 317.7 
As at 31 March 2005, in creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year, the reported balance of £0.1 million is in relation to 
obligations under finance leases.
Details of the Company’s borrowing and security arrangements are set out in Note 23.4 of the consolidated financial statements. Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
9 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Onerous Deferred Restruct-
lease tax uring Total 
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 27.7 (0.2) 18.0 45.5 
Utilised (25.4) – (16.4) (41.8)
(Credited)/charged to the profit and loss account (1.3) 0.2 4.0 2.9 
At 31 March 2006 1.0 – 5.6 6.6
The provision for onerous lease commitments has been calculated at the net present value of rent payable less rents receivable (having
taken account of potential void periods and lease incentives) up to the end of the lease. Allowance has been made for empty rates and 
agents’ fees and the discount rate used in the calculations was 4.9 per cent.
The restructuring costs were primarily settled on completion of the Group restructuring which took place in August 2005, however 
additional costs have been provided for in relation to the refinancing of the Group’s facilities and completion of the operational restructuring. 
10 Capital and reserves
Details of the Company’s authorised and issued share capital, share premium and of movements in the year are given in Note 24 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
11 Reserves
Capital Profit
redemption Merger and loss 
reserve reserve account
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 7.2 89.6 (395.1)
Loss for the year – – (103.6)
At 31 March 2006 7.2 89.6 (498.7)
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off direct to reserves in respect of acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 is £89.2 million 
(2005: £89.2 million) which arose in connection with the acquisition of rail businesses.
12 Capital commitments 
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2006 (2005: £nil). 
Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2006 89 Jarvis plc
Meridian House
The Crescent
York
YO24 1AW
T+44 (0)1904 712712
F +44 (0)1904 712011
Email: enquiries@jarvis-uk.com
www.jarvisplc.com
