 2-4 Cockspur Street,Trafalgar Square,
London SW1Y 5BQ
Tel 020 7269 8400 Fax 020 7269 8433
www.matthey.com
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 JOHNSON MATTHEY
IS A SPECIALITY CHEMICALS COMPANY
FOCUSED ON ITS CORE SKILLS IN:
Catalysts, Precious Metals,
Colours & Coatings and
Pharmaceutical Materials.
1 Financial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
4 Chief Executive’s Statement
8 Financial Review
11 Divisional Structure
12 Catalysts
16 Precious Metals
18 Colours & Coatings
20 Pharmaceutical Materials
22 Corporate Social Responsibility
26 Board of Directors
28 Other Senior Management
29 Directors’ Report
30 Corporate Governance
32 Remuneration Report
38 Responsibility of Directors
39 Report of the Independent Auditors
40 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
41 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets
42 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
43 Total Recognised Gains and Losses
43 Movement in Shareholders’ Funds
44 Accounting Policies
46 Notes on the Accounts
72 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and Associates
73 Shareholder Information
74 Ten Year Record
76 Company Details 1
Johnson Matthey
2003 2003 2003
Before
Exceptional exceptional
items and items and %
goodwill goodwill Increase
amortisation amortisation over
£ million £ million £ million 2002
Total turnover 4,324 4,324 -10
Sales excluding precious metals 1,159 1,159 +6
Operating profit 184.4 (21.3) 205.7 +6
Profit before tax 176.1 (16.4) 192.5 +3
Earnings per share 56.2p (6.4)p 62.6p +4
Dividend per share 25.5p 25.5p +4
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Divisional
Operating Profit
2002 2003
Catalysts 
Precious Metals
Colours &
Coatings
Pharmaceutical
Materials
Earnings Per Share
Before Exceptional Items
and Goodwill Amortisation
Dividend Per Share
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
62.6p
60.4p
57.2p
46.6p
42.8p
25.5p
24.6p
23.3p
20.3p
19.0p
£94.7m
£55.9m
£25.5m
£31.3m
£104.4m
£50.1m
£28.5m
£36.9m 2
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I AM VER Y PLEASED TO
REPORT THAT 2002/03 HAS
BEEN ANOTHER YEAR OF
GOOD PROGRESS FOR
JOHNSON MATTHEY .
We have continued to invest
in our growth businesses and
have strengthened our
market positions.
Michael Miles OBE
Chairman 3
Johnson Matthey
The year has witnessed a number of important developments in our businesses. The acquisition of the Synetix
division of ICI in November 2002 is an excellent example of our strategy of making acquisitions in our core areas of
activity. Synetix, which brings world leading base metal catalyst technology to the group, represents a very good
strategic fit with our existing precious metal catalyst businesses. Putting these two complementary businesses
together raises Johnson Matthey to the number two position in the world catalyst market and provides many exciting
opportunities for future growth.
In our Pharmaceutical Materials Division, the acquisition of Cascade Biochem Limited in October 2002 has
provided the division with good growth opportunities in the supply of prostaglandins and other complex molecules to
customers in the pharmaceutical industry. This is a field that is expected to expand rapidly over the next few years.
The action that we have taken over the last year to reduce costs in our Colours & Coatings Division in response
to the sharp decline in the tableware market has been very successful. The rationalisation programme, central to
which was the closure of a major site, has been completed on time and is delivering the benefits that were forecast.
I am pleased to be able to report to you that the division has performed well in 2002/03.
The board’s strategy of investment in research and development and new manufacturing processes continues
to be a major factor in the company’s success. It has enabled Johnson Matthey to maintain growth in the face of
difficult market conditions and uncertainty in the world’s economies. A good example of this is our Precision Coating
process for manufacturing the latest generations of high technology autocatalysts which is helping Johnson Matthey
to maintain technology and market leadership. Our commitment to investment in new manufacturing facilities has also
provided a strong platform for growth. Through our investment in autocatalyst plants in Malaysia, India and most
recently China, we are well positioned to benefit from the emergence of Asia as the world’s largest car producing
region.
The company’s investment in its core businesses over the last few years has been marked by good earnings
and dividend growth. Our share price has performed better than most and in June 2002, following a quarterly review
meeting of the FTSE Committee, Johnson Matthey joined the FTSE 100 Index for the first time since 1984.
Johnson Matthey’s most important investment has always been the one it makes in its people. People are the
company’s major asset and we place great importance on developing our management talent and the skills of all our
employees to meet the challenges of the future. We have great strength throughout the company in research and
development. I would like to offer my personal congratulations to Dr Barry Cooper who, in November 2002, became
the 23rd recipient of the prestigious Honda Prize for his work on technologies for petrol and diesel emission control.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication during the year.
Your board is fully committed to reporting on Johnson Matthey’s corporate social responsibility (CSR)
performance and this year’s annual report features a four page review of the company’s policies and performance
in this important area. This is to be found on pages 22 to 25. We are also publishing for the first time a
comprehensive, web based corporate social responsibility report that provides a much greater level of detail than
this review section. You can access our full corporate social responsibility report on Johnson Matthey’s website at
www.matthey.com.
Johnson Matthey has a strong group of independent directors and we are most fortunate to have the benefit of
their knowledge and many years of experience. In September 2002 two new non-executive directors, Alan Thomson
and Robert Walvis, joined the board. Alan and Robert both have a great deal of business experience in a wide range
of industries in the UK and overseas.
In March 2003 we announced that Hugh Jenkins, our Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit
Committee, is to retire as a director of Johnson Matthey at the conclusion of this year’s Annual General Meeting.
Hugh joined the board in January 1996 and over the years he has brought a great deal of expertise and experience
to his role and has made a significant contribution to the development of the group. I would personally like to thank
him for his invaluable input and on behalf of all of us at Johnson Matthey wish him the very best for a long and happy
retirement. Following Hugh’s retirement, Charles Mackay will be nominated as our Senior Independent Director and
Alan Thomson will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I am very pleased to say that Johnson Matthey continues to make good progress towards its ultimate aim of
delivering superior shareholder value. The last year has seen the group taking several more important steps towards
this, both through organic growth of its businesses and by acquisitions focused on its core activities. I am confident
that our highly talented staff and our commitment to investment in research and development and manufacturing
capabilities will continue to support further progress in the year ahead.
Earnings per share before exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation
were 4% up on last year. We are
recommending to shareholders a final
dividend of 17.7 pence, which will take
the dividend for the year to 25.5 pence,
a 4% increase over 2001/02. 4
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
JOHNSON MATTHEY
DELIVERED GOOD
RESULTS IN 2002/03
AGAINST a background
of more difficult market
conditions.Three of the group’s
divisions achieved double digit
growth in operating profit for
the year despite adverse
exchange translation.
Chris Clark
Chief Executive
We successfully completed the purchase
of Synetix from ICI, which has performed
well since acquisition and has substantially
strengthened our position in the global
catalysts market. The addition of Synetix to
Catalysts & Chemicals Division increases
our focus towards catalyst products and we
have renamed the division Catalysts to
reflect that change. 5
Johnson Matthey
Catalysts Division continues to perform well, maintaining its record of strong growth despite the challenges
presented by the world’s economies. Following the acquisition of Synetix, the two largest sectors of Catalysts Division
were renamed Environmental Catalysts and Technologies and Process Catalysts and Technologies. The
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies (ECT) sector encompasses Johnson Matthey’s worldwide autocatalysts,
heavy duty diesel and stationary source emission control businesses. Process Catalysts and Technologies (PCT)
includes catalysts sold to the chemicals, pharmaceutical, oil and gas and other industries, plus platinum group metal
(pgm) refining, pgm chemicals and research chemicals. The third part of Catalysts Division is our Fuel Cells business.
The Synetix acquisition has brought world leading base metal process catalyst technology that complements our
strength in precious metal catalysts. We have now fully integrated the former Synetix businesses into PCT, elevating
Johnson Matthey to a strong number two in the world catalysts market. The acquisition has broadened the sectors that
we serve to include market leading positions in ammonia, methanol, hydrogen, edible oils and oleochemicals.
Our combined research and development and sales teams are working to realise the synergies we envisaged
from putting these businesses together. We have already identified new opportunities in applying pgm catalyst
technology in traditional base metal applications such as the manufacture of oleochemicals. Excellent progress is
also being made with the promising growth opportunities that we identified at the time of the acquisition. These
include the gas to liquids (GTL) process, which uses a series of customised catalysts to convert stranded natural
gas to sulphur free diesel fuel. We are now working with all the leading players in the GTL field and have already
secured important new business. We expect the GTL catalysts market to develop over the next five years and it is
estimated that it could be worth over $400 million a year by 2010.
Another growth opportunity is in the application of chiral catalysts in the pharmaceutical industry (see page 14).
This is driven by regulators around the world increasingly requiring pharmaceutical companies to produce a
specific chiral version of a drug and is a field in which our combined business has a particularly strong position.
In ECT our commitment to investment in product development and manufacturing technology has enabled
us to maintain growth in our business despite weaker car markets in both North America and Europe. Our new
autocatalyst plant in China is now operating profitably and we are increasing our market share in Asia, which has
outpaced both North America and Europe to become the world’s largest producer of light duty vehicles. We
expanded production capacity at our South African and Malaysian plants and embarked on the construction of
a new manufacturing unit in Japan. Significant investments in our technology centres were also started in the UK
and in Sweden.
The market for emission control catalysts for heavy duty diesel vehicles continues to present good opportunities
for future growth. The last year has seen major increases in our sales to the heavy duty diesel retrofit market,
particularly in the United States and Japan. We are working closely with customers around the world to meet
progressively tighter and more challenging emissions legislation that will come into force over the next five years
creating a major new original equipment market for catalysts for heavy duty diesel trucks and buses.
The Fuel Cells business continues to make excellent progress. In the last year it has taken several important
steps towards establishing itself as the emerging fuel cell industry’s supplier of choice for catalysts and catalysed
components. We have established strong partnerships with key system integrators in the fuel cell industry who have
formally selected Johnson Matthey to work with them to produce commercial products for sale in the next few years.
In some cases we have been selected as the sole supplier. The ‘early adopter’ markets for stationary, back up and
portable power are expected to be the first examples of true commercial products featuring fuel cells. Mass
produced products for transport applications are expected at the end of this decade and into the next.
At our dedicated Membrane Electrode Assembly (MEA) plant in Swindon, further investment is underway aimed
at improving the production process and increasing capacity so that we can remain in step with the growing
requirements of our customers.
During the year we announced that Anglo Platinum had taken a 17.5% stake in the Fuel Cells business in return
for its share of the intellectual property rights and know-how developed under a long term fuel cells research and
development agreement entered into in 1993 and an additional payment of £20 million.
Johnson Matthey is the world’s largest fabricator and distributor of platinum group metals (pgms). We are the
sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, which is the world’s leading primary producer of pgms. The outlook for
platinum demand remains encouraging with increasing use in jewellery, diesel emission control and fuel cells. The
outlook for palladium is less good with supply exceeding demand. We continue to seek new markets for all the pgms
and to invest in R&D to find new applications for these metals. 6
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Our pgm fabrication business has achieved steady growth over the last few years. One of the most rapidly
growing markets is products for cardiovascular devices. These utilise the unique characteristics of platinum group
metal alloys and the super-elastic properties of nitinol. A new R&D centre has been established at our Pennsylvania
facility to help meet customer demand for new components for medical products.
Colours & Coatings made good progress in 2002/03. The major rationalisation programme to reduce the cost
base announced in January 2002, which included the closure of a major site in Staffordshire, was completed on time
and with benefits exceeding those originally planned. Production was successfully transferred to other sites with no
material loss of sales. As a consequence, margins for the division grew by 1% to 11.1%.
As well as efficiency improvements the division has been able to gain market share by introducing new
products, particularly in coating materials for glass. New improved product ranges, including recyclable, lead free
products have been well received by the market. Our new frit facilities in Spain and Brazil, which produce coating
materials for the tile industry, were successfully commissioned in 2002 and are now fully operational. With this
investment completed, we expect the division to be significantly cash generative going forward.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division, which became a stand alone division in 2001/02 following the acquisitions
of Pharm-Eco and Macfarlan Smith (Meconic), enjoyed another very successful year in 2002/03 and is well
positioned for future growth. In October 2002 we announced the acquisition of Cascade Biochem Limited, a small
company focused on the manufacture and supply of prostaglandins and other complex molecules as active
pharmaceutical ingredients for the pharmaceutical industry. Market interest in prostaglandin products is high and
the division is in the process of negotiating commercial relationships for its key products. In support of the
commercialisation of its product pipeline a programme of capacity expansion has begun at Cascade’s Cork facility.
We are continuing to invest in the rest of the division to develop future growth opportunities. At our facility at
West Deptford in the US we are putting in capacity to manufacture morphine and codeine, which we plan to be in
place by the end of this fiscal year. At Pharm-Eco we are building additional laboratories and small scale
manufacturing suites to meet increasing demand. At Macfarlan Smith we are investing in new capacity and in
infrastructure to meet the projected future growth in demand. Our Edinburgh factory has just received a successful
inspection by the FDA, which will enable us to sell some products manufactured in Scotland into the US.
Financial Highlights
In the financial year to 31st March 2003, Johnson Matthey’s profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation rose by 3% to £192.5 million. Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
rose by 4% to 62.6 pence.
Total sales fell by 10% to £4.3 billion reflecting significantly lower prices for palladium and rhodium and the
lower level of trading activity in those metals. Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 6% to £1.2 billion
with good growth in Pharmaceutical Materials and increased sales in Catalysts following the acquisition of Synetix.
Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation also rose by 6% to £205.7 million. With over
40% of the group’s profits earned in North America, the sharp fall in the value of the US dollar adversely affected
exchange translation. At constant exchange rates the group’s operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation would have risen by 12%.
Operations
Catalysts Division’s sales fell by 17% to £1,083 million, largely as a result of the sharp fall in the palladium price.
Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 9% to £652 million. The division’s operating profit rose by 10%
to £104.4 million. Synetix made a profit of £9.2 million in the five months following acquisition by Johnson Matthey.
Adverse exchange translation reduced the division’s profit by £7.3 million.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies had a good year. Global light vehicle sales increased by 1% in our
fiscal year. They were 2% down in the US and 3% down in Europe but in Asia vehicle sales rose by 10%. Our catalyst
unit sales were flat compared with 2001/02. Some of our key customers lost market share in the period but our
advanced products attracted new customers in Europe. Our new manufacturing facility in Shanghai became fully
operational and was profitable during the year.
Sales of products for heavy duty diesel engines grew in all the major markets, doubling in the US and becoming
a significant factor for the first time in the Asian region with strong sales for retrofit to vehicles in the Tokyo
Metropolitan area. 7
Johnson Matthey
“Johnson Matthey has again delivered
increases in earnings and dividends despite
a substantial fall in the US dollar and lower
prices for palladium and rhodium. Market
conditions will remain challenging in
2003/04 but the group’s investment in its
growth businesses leaves us well positioned
for the future.”
Process Catalysts and Technologies achieved strong growth in sales excluding precious metals and in
operating profit benefiting from a good contribution from Synetix. Since acquisition Synetix has performed in line
with our expectations when the business was acquired, despite weakness in some end markets.
Results for the rest of PCT were mixed with good sales of pgm catalysts, particularly to the pharmaceutical and
fine chemical sector, but weak demand for refining where profits fell reflecting lower palladium and rhodium prices.
Research Chemicals, our catalogue business, continued to show strong growth with the successful integration of
Avocado Research Chemicals, which was acquired in February 2002.
The Fuel Cells business continued to develop as planned in 2002/03. The net operating loss for the year was
£12.5 million. The first phase of our MEA factory at Swindon in the UK was successfully completed in the first half
of the year. The next phase of the investment is now underway which will significantly expand capacity to meet the
production schedules of our key customers.
Effort has increasingly focused on key partners in the supply chain as the Fuel Cells business moves towards
full commercialisation. Good progress has been made in establishing collaborative arrangements with both
suppliers and customers.
Precious Metals Division’s sales fell by 10% to £2.9 billion reflecting lower average prices for palladium and
rhodium and subdued trading activity in those metals. The division’s operating profit fell by 10% to £50.1 million.
Adverse exchange translation contributed £1.1 million of this fall.
Demand for platinum grew by 5% in 2002, with buoyant retail sales of platinum jewellery in China despite higher
prices. Demand from the autocatalyst sector was also up, although purchases by the car companies were limited
by the use of inventories by some of the major manufacturers. The average price of platinum for Johnson Matthey’s
financial year 2002/03 rose by 17% to $586 per ounce.
The story for palladium and rhodium was very different, with average prices falling by 36% and 44% respectively.
Demand for palladium by the auto industry fell dramatically due to the very substantial use of inventories by some of
the major manufacturers. Car makers also switched some applications from palladium to platinum as a consequence
of the high and volatile price of palladium over the last few years. The average price of Johnson Matthey’s ‘basket’ of
pgms fell by 6% reducing commission income, and overall trading activity was also down on the previous year.
The division’s platinum fabrication businesses continued to achieve good growth, particularly for products for
medical devices. Trading profit for the gold and silver businesses was below last year reflecting the very competitive
conditions in the gold refining market, although after deducting interest on gold and silver leases profits were up.
Colours & Coatings Division increased its sales by 1% to £256 million. Operating profit for the division rose
by 12% to £28.5 million with all three sectors ahead. Exchange translation was slightly positive for the division at
£0.3 million with the benefit of the stronger euro largely offset by weaker currencies elsewhere.
Our glass coatings business was the best performing sector achieving good growth in sales and operating
profit despite weaker markets. This growth reflected market share gains in Europe and increased sales to Russia
and China. The Structural Ceramics sector, which sells mainly to the tile industry, improved its margins and achieved
sales in line with prior year despite weaker markets. Speciality Coatings achieved strong profit growth benefiting
from the rationalisation programme announced last year and the closure of a major site in Staffordshire.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division’s sales increased by 21% to £128 million. Operating profit rose by 18% to
£36.9 million. The division benefited from a full year’s contribution from Macfarlan Smith compared with nine months’
contribution in 2001/02. Exchange translation was adverse, however, with the weaker US dollar reducing profits by
£1.9 million, mainly in the second half of the year.
The division’s US manufacturing business achieved good growth in sales and profits benefiting from the success
of the new products launched towards the end of 2001/02. Macfarlan Smith achieved good growth in sales of bulk
opiates and improved its margins with the successful introduction of capacity to extract morphine and codeine direct
from poppy straw. Pharm-Eco, the division’s US-based contract research business, was also well up on prior year.
Outlook
Johnson Matthey has again delivered increases in earnings and dividends despite a substantial fall in the US
dollar and lower prices for palladium and rhodium. Market conditions will remain challenging in 2003/04 but the
group’s investment in its growth businesses leaves us well positioned for the future. 8
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Review of Results
Johnson Matthey’s turnover fell by 10% to £4.3 billion in the
year to 31st March 2003 reflecting significantly lower prices for
palladium and rhodium and the lower level of trading activity in
those metals. Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose
by 6% to £1.2 billion. Operating profit before exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation also rose by 6% to £205.7 million. With
over 40% of the group’s profits earned in North America, the
weaker US dollar adversely affected exchange translation. At
constant exchange rates group operating profit would have risen
by 12%.
Divisional results are discussed in the Chief Executive’s
Statement on pages 4 to 7, and in the individual divisional reports
on pages 12 to 21.
The group’s interest charge increased by £7.1 million as a result
of higher average borrowings, particularly following the acquisition of
Synetix in the second half of the year. Profit before tax, exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation increased by 3% to £192.5 million.
Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation rose by 4% to 62.6 pence. After exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation earnings per share rose by 15% to 56.2 pence.
The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend
of 17.7 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 25.5 pence,
an increase of 4%. The dividend would be covered 2.5 times by
earnings before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Sales and Margins
Johnson Matthey’s turnover is heavily impacted by the high
value of precious metals sold by the group particularly in the
Precious Metals Division (PMD). The total value of sales each year
varies according to the mix of metals sold and level of trading
activity. The value of the precious metals included in sales is
generally separately invoiced and payment made within a few
days. Consequently, although return on sales (operating profit /
total external sales) for the precious metals businesses is low,
return on investment is high.
To provide a more useful measure of return on sales, the
adjacent table shows sales by division excluding the value of
precious metals. Total sales excluding precious metals were
£1,159 million which was 6% up on last year and return on sales
averaged 17.7% which was the same as 2001/02. The group’s
target for each of its divisions is to achieve a return on sales
excluding precious metals in excess of 10%. All four divisions
were ahead of that target in 2002/03.
Catalysts achieved 9% growth in sales excluding precious
metals with Synetix contributing £60.9 million of the total. Adverse
exchange translation reduced the division’s sales by £33.8 million
compared with 2001/02. At constant currency rates, and
excluding Synetix, sales were 5% up. Margins were very slightly
better than prior year at 16.0%.
PMD’s sales excluding precious metals were down 8%
reflecting the impact of lower metal prices on commission income
and reduced trading volumes for palladium and rhodium. Margins
were also down at 38.0%.
Colours & Coatings’ sales grew by 1% and margins improved
by 1.1% reflecting the benefits of the rationalisation programme
undertaken in the year to reduce costs. Pharmaceutical Materials’
sales grew by 20% with a full year’s contribution from Macfarlan
Smith and good growth in all parts of the division. Margins
remained just over 30%.
Return on Investment
We set a target of 20% for the pre-tax return on assets (ROA)
for all our businesses. For the group as a whole ROA was 17.3%
(see pages 74 and 75) compared with 22.2% in 2001/02. The
decline in the overall return reflects the more difficult trading
conditions experienced in the year and the impact of the
acquisitions made which are expected to take a few years to meet
the group’s target.
On a post tax basis the return on invested capital was 12.2%
which was well above the estimated weighted average cost of
capital (WACC) for the group of 8%. The margin above the cost of
capital for the year was 4.2%, which was below last year’s figure
of 6.6% but still satisfactory.
Exceptional Items and Goodwill Amortisation
Exceptional items included in operating profit gave rise to a
net charge of £7.6 million. The main item was a £6.5 million
charge for integrating Synetix into Johnson Matthey following its
acquisition from ICI on 1st November 2002. The integration costs
include a provision to cover the costs of exiting from a site at
Hunwick, IT integration costs and other restructuring charges.
The group made an exceptional gain of £5.1 million on the
sale of its remaining unhedged palladium stock. This was offset
by a charge of £4.8 million to reduce costs in the Catalysts
Division for those parts of the business which are adversely
affected by weak market demand. This rationalisation will reduce
headcount by over 250, mainly in the US.
A restructuring charge of £1.4 million was incurred following
the merger of Johnson Matthey’s Australian gold refining business
with AGR to form AGR Matthey in which the group has retained a
20% stake. The formation of AGR Matthey also gave rise to a loss
on disposal of £6.0 million, of which £5.4 million is related to
historic goodwill which had already been written off to reserves.
Sales excluding
Precious Metals Return on sales
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million % %
–––––––– –––––––– –––––––– ––––––––
Catalysts 652 597 16.0 15.9
Precious Metals 132 143 38.0 39.1
Colours & Coatings 253 251 11.3 10.2
Pharmaceutical Materials 122 101 30.3 30.9
Discontinued – 1 – n/m
–––––––– –––––––– –––––––– ––––––––
1,159 1,093 17.7 17.7
–––––––– –––––––– –––––––– –––––––– 9
Johnson Matthey
On 8th November 2002 Johnson Matthey announced that
Anglo Platinum had taken a 17.5% stake in its fuel cell components
subsidiary, Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited. Anglo Platinum
has contributed its share of the intellectual property rights and
know-how jointly developed under the agreement announced in
May 1993. In addition, Anglo Platinum paid £20 million, which has
resulted in an exceptional gain of £10.9 million.
After including tax credits of £2.0 million, the total impact of
exceptional items on earnings was a small net cost of £0.7 million.
Goodwill amortisation rose by £6.9 million to £13.7 million.
Goodwill on the acquisition of Synetix amounted to £191.4 million
and the amortisation for Johnson Matthey’s five months period of
ownership was £4.0 million.
Interest
The group’s interest charge rose by £7.1 million to £13.2 million.
The increase reflected higher average borrowings as a result of the
acquisitions undertaken part way through 2001/02 and the
acquisition of Synetix on 1st November 2002. Interest on gold and
silver leases fell to £1.2 million from £3.5 million in 2001/02 when
lease rates, particularly for silver, had been unusually high. Lease
costs for platinum were high throughout 2002/03 reflecting strong
levels of demand for the metal during the year.
Interest cover for the group was high at 15.6 times. On a pro-
forma basis, including Synetix for a full year, interest cover would
have been between 9 and 10 times, which would still be very
comfortable.
Exchange Rates
Exchange translation reduced group profits by £10.0 million
compared with last year. About £7.1 million of this fall related to
the US dollar where the average rate against sterling fell by 8%
from $1.43/£ to $1.55/£.
Another £2.5 million of the exchange impact related to the
South African rand whose value against sterling showed
significant variation over the year. The average rate for the rand
was R14.96/£ compared with R13.70/£ in 2001/02. The products
which the group manufactures in South Africa are generally for
export and the group was able to achieve higher prices in rand,
which largely compensated for this adverse translation effect.
Platinum Group Metal Prices
Taxation
The group’s tax charge increased by £4.3 million to £54.5 million.
Most of the increase related to lower tax credits on exceptional items.
Before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation the group’s
average tax rate fell slightly from 29.9% to 29.7%.
Cash Flow
Johnson Matthey’s net cash inflow from operations was
£229.9 million which was 3% up on last year. Capital expenditure
was £7.3 million lower than last year at £126.5 million and
represented 2.3 times depreciation. With the slowdown in some of
the markets in which the group operates we are planning to spend
at a lower rate in 2003/04 although still maintaining investment to
support future growth opportunities. As a consequence of the
continued high level of capital expenditure in 2002/03, free cash
flow for the group (before acquisitions and divestments) was
slightly negative at £4.5 million.
The group spent £267.0 million on the acquisition of Synetix
(including costs) and £2.8 million on Cascade Biochem Limited.
The group received £20.0 million from Anglo Platinum in part
payment for its stake in Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited.
Including acquisitions, divestments and shares issued the group
had a net cash outflow for the year of £250.5 million.
After taking into account favourable exchange translation on
the group’s US dollar borrowings, net borrowings increased by
£243.5 million to £402.5 million. Johnson Matthey’s balance sheet
remains strong with shareholders’ funds rising by £81.9 million to
£895.6 million and gearing (net borrowings / shareholders’ funds
and minority interests) of 44%.
Pensions
For the financial year ended 31st March 2003 the group has
adopted the transitional arrangements for reporting under FRS 17
(the new accounting standard on retirement benefits). Under
these arrangements the surplus or deficit arising on each of the
group’s main pension funds calculated in accordance with FRS
17 is shown as a note on the accounts.
1.7 
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.3
March 2001
£/$ £/rand
1.2
March 2002 March 2003
20
16
12
8
4
£/$ £/rand
US$
2,000 
1,600
1,200
800
400
March 2001
Rhodium Platinum   
0
March 2002 March 2003
Palladium    The group’s UK defined benefit pension funds have a
significant proportion of their assets invested in equities. In the
year to 31st March 2003 the FTSE All Share index fell by 32%
and the surplus on the group’s funds was significantly reduced.
Nevertheless the group’s UK schemes still showed a small
surplus at 31st March 2003 of £6.3 million. Worldwide,
including provisions for the group’s post-retirement healthcare
schemes and pension related deferred tax assets and
liabilities, the group had a net liability for retirement benefits of
£19.2 million at 31st March 2003.
The effect that FRS 17 would have had on the profit and loss
account for the financial year 2002/03 is shown in note 10c. The
net effect would have been a reduction in profit before tax of
£2.6 million. The board of Johnson Matthey has taken the
decision to adopt FRS 17 in full for the financial year 2003/04.
Financing
The group financed the acquisition of Synetix on 1st November
2002 out of additional borrowings. Initially this was done using bank
facilities. Most of this additional debt was refinanced on 26th March
2003 with the proceeds of a long term private placement bond
issue. The issue included a range of maturities, from 7 to 12 years,
and comprised £40 million in sterling bonds and $230 million in US
dollar bonds. Some $65 million of the dollar bonds were swapped
into sterling to raise a total of £81.1 million of fixed rate sterling with
an average maturity of just under 10 years at an average interest
cost (including fees) of 5.15%. The remaining $165 million of bonds
issued had a 12 year maturity and a fixed rate interest cost in
dollars (including fees) of 4.98%. This part of the issue was
swapped into floating rate dollars to provide attractively priced
variable rate debt.
Following the bond issue, at 31st March 2003 the maturity
profile of the group’s debt was as follows:
Financial Risk Management
The group uses financial instruments, in particular forward
currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage the financial
risks associated with the group’s underlying business activities
and the financing of those activities. The group does not undertake
any trading activity in financial instruments. Our Treasury
department is run as a service centre rather than a profit centre.
Interest Rate Risk
At 31st March 2003 the group had net borrowings of
£402.5 million. Some 37% of this debt is at fixed rates with an
average interest rate of 5.7%. The remaining 63% of the group’s
net borrowings is funded on a floating rate basis. A 1% change
in all interest rates would have a 1.4% impact on group profit
before tax. This is within the range the board regards as
acceptable.
Liquidity Policy
The group’s policy on funding capacity is to ensure that we
always have sufficient long term funding and committed bank
facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak borrowing
requirements. At 31st March 2003 the group had committed bank
facilities of £405 million. Borrowings drawn under these facilities
amounted to £195.5 million. The group also has a number of
uncommitted facilities and overdraft lines.
Foreign Currency Risk
Johnson Matthey’s operations are global in nature with the
majority of the group’s operating profits earned outside the UK.
The group has operations in 34 countries with the largest single
investment being in the USA. In order to protect the group’s
sterling balance sheet and reduce cash flow risk, the group
finances most of its US investment by US dollar borrowings.
Although most of this funding is obtained by directly borrowing US
dollars, some is achieved by using currency swaps to reduce
costs and credit exposure. The group also uses local currency
borrowings to fund its operations in other countries (see page 61).
The group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign
exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in
foreign currencies. Currency options are occasionally used to
hedge foreign exchange exposures, usually when the forecast
receipt or payment amounts are uncertain. Details of the contracts
outstanding on 31st March 2003 are shown on page 63.
Precious Metal Prices
Fluctuations in precious metal prices can have a significant
impact on Johnson Matthey’s financial results. Our policy for all
our manufacturing businesses is to limit this exposure by hedging
against future price changes where such hedging can be done at
acceptable cost. The group does not take material exposures on
metal trading.
All the group’s stocks of gold and silver are fully hedged by
leasing or forward sales. Currently the majority of the group’s
platinum stocks are unhedged because of the lack of liquidity in
the platinum market.
John Sheldrick
Group Finance Director
Borrowings and Finance Leases 31st March 2003 31st March 2002
£ million % £ million %
–––––––– –––––––– –––––––– ––––––––
Over 10 years 126.6 25 ––
Five to ten years 67.5 14 9.2 4
Two to five years 151.1 30 176.3 70
One to two years 111.2 22 0.3 –
Within one year 46.5 9 65.8 26
–––––––– –––––––– –––––––– ––––––––
Gross borrowings 502.9 100 251.6 100
Less: Cash and deposits 100.4 92.6
–––––––– ––––––––
Net borrowings 402.5 159.0
–––––––– ––––––––
10
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
FINANCIAL REVIEW 11
Johnson Matthey
DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE
Johnson Matthey has operations in 34 countries and employs
around 7,500 people worldwide.
It is organised into 
4
global divisions:
01
C
Catalysts
2003
02
Pm
Precious Metals
2003
03
C
o
&C
o
Colours & Coatings
2003
04
Phm
Pharmaceutical Materials
2003
Environmental Catalysts and
Technologies (ECT)
ECT comprises Johnson Matthey’s
global autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel
and stationary source emission control
businesses. We are the world’s leading
manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle
exhaust emission control and a leader
in catalyst systems for the reduction of
volatile organic compound emissions
from industrial processes.
Manufacturing takes place in the USA,
UK, Belgium, Mexico, Argentina, South
Africa, Malaysia, India and China. R&D
facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden,
Japan and Brazil.
Process Catalysts and
Technologies (PCT)
PCT manufactures base and precious
metal process catalysts, fine chemicals
and electrochemical products. Our
platinum group metal (pgm) refining
business recovers spent catalysts and
other secondary material and also
refines primary pgms from global
mining operations. Manufacturing
facilities are in the UK, USA, Germany,
India and China. Our Research
Chemicals business is based in the
USA and UK.
Fuel Cells
Johnson Matthey is the world leader in
catalysts and catalysed components
for fuel cells.
Our Precious Metals Division is
organised into two groups; Platinum
and Gold and Silver, and incorporates
Johnson Matthey’s precious metals
marketing, fabrication and refining
activities.
Platinum
Consists of our worldwide platinum
marketing and fabrication activities.
Marketing is headquartered in London
with support facilities in Philadelphia
and Hong Kong. We are the world’s
leading distributor of platinum group
metals and the sole marketing agent
for Anglo Platinum, the world’s largest
producer of platinum. Our platinum
fabrication business makes a wide
range of platinum group metal
products primarily in the UK and USA.
Gold and Silver
Comprises our worldwide gold and
silver refining and bullion
manufacturing operations. Johnson
Matthey is the market leader in the
refining of gold and silver. The
business serves the world’s mining
industries and recycles secondary
scrap material. We are also a leading
manufacturer of high purity small gold
bars for investment and jewellery
manufacture. Gold and silver refining
operations are located in the UK, USA,
Canada and Hong Kong.
Colours & Coatings Division is ranked
among the world’s top integrated
suppliers of decorative products and
associated raw materials for ceramics
and glass. The division is structured
into three businesses; Glass, Structural
Ceramics and Speciality Coatings,
which are organised around the key
markets that we serve.
Glass
Based in the Netherlands, our Glass
business manufactures black
obscuration and silver conductive
enamels for automotive glass. It also
makes enamels and decorative
precious metal products for other glass
applications such as bottles and
architectural glass.
Structural Ceramics
Our Structural Ceramics business
manufactures colours, glazes and frits
for the tile and sanitaryware industries,
and includes our zircon business.
Speciality Coatings
Speciality Coatings supplies colours,
glazes, decals and decorative precious
metal products to manufacturers of fine
china in the UK and around the world.
It also produces a wide range of
inorganic pigments and pigment
dispersions for use in printing inks,
paints, automotive finishes, woodstains
and plastics.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division is a
global, integrated supplier of active
pharmaceutical ingredients, which
provides services to pharmaceutical
companies through every phase of the
development of a new product.
Serving their respective markets in the
US and Europe, the division’s West
Deptford and Macfarlan Smith
operations provide customers with bulk
manufacturing services from Phase
Three clinical trials through
commercialisation of a patented or
generic drug. The division has leading
positions in the manufacture of
controlled substances and platinum
based anticancer drugs.
The division’s Pharm-Eco Laboratories
business provides contract research
and development and small scale
manufacturing services from pre-clinical
through to Phase Three clinical trials.
Its Cascade Biochem business is
focused on the manufacture of
prostaglandins and other complex
molecules as active pharmaceutical
ingredients for the pharmaceutical
industry.
Catalysts Precious
Metals
Colours &
Coatings
Pharmaceutical
Materials 12
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CATALYSTS
In recognition of significant changes in the composition of
Catalysts & Chemicals Division, particularly following the acquisition
of Synetix from ICI in November 2002, we have renamed it Catalysts
Division. This better describes the division’s key markets and reflects
its strategic direction. Catalysts Division encompasses three
businesses: Environmental Catalysts and Technologies (ECT),
formerly Catalytic Systems; Process Catalysts and Technologies
(PCT), previously Chemicals, which incorporates the former Synetix
businesses; and Fuel Cells.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
ECT had a strong year in the face of worldwide economic
uncertainty. In North America, vehicle sales fell and our catalyst
volumes fell slightly as a result. However, despite the well publicised
problems of the US car industry, our business grew, driven by the
benefits of our new technology and a more than doubling of sales into
the heavy duty diesel vehicle retrofit market. In Europe, vehicle sales
also fell slightly during the year. However, we were able to grow our
market share following the introduction of advanced products that
more cost effectively meet emission regulations and both volumes
and sales were well up on 2001/02. During the year we further
expanded our plant near Johannesburg to meet growing demand for
catalysts made in South Africa. In Asia, our new manufacturing facility
in China is fully operational and profitable. We also achieved
significant new heavy duty diesel retrofit business in Japan. Asia has
grown to become the largest producer of light duty vehicles, ahead of
both North America and Europe. Johnson Matthey is well positioned
to benefit from this growth and our share of the Asia market is
increasing. Production lines incorporating our new Precision Coating
technology have now been installed in all our plants around the world,
and additional capacity has been added in Asia. In order to maintain
our technological leadership we have begun a major expansion of the
business’ European technology centre, including additional engine
and vehicle testing facilities. This investment will allow us to develop
new, more advanced products to meet forthcoming emission
legislation for both gasoline and diesel vehicles.
Process Catalysts and Technologies
PCT’s businesses experienced mixed fortunes in 2002/03. Sales
were well up on prior year, reflecting five months’ contribution from the
Synetix businesses. Underlying sales however were flat with difficult
conditions in many markets. Margins in the platinum group metal (pgm)
refining business were impacted by lower palladium and rhodium
prices and overcapacity in subdued markets and profits were down.
PGM catalyst sales were good, particularly to the pharmaceutical and
fine chemical sector. PGM catalyst sales in China grew well and during
2002/03 we established a pgm chemicals manufacturing facility in
Shanghai. The markets of India and the Pacific Rim offer excellent
growth opportunities. We have started construction of a process
catalyst plant in Taloja, India, which complements our presence in
China.
The Research Chemicals business, continued to achieve strong
growth including a good contribution from Avocado Research
Chemicals, acquired in February 2002. During the year the business
expanded its sales and distribution facilities in both the USA and
Germany and doubled manufacturing capacity at Avocado in the
UK. Good progress was also made on growing its presence in China
and Japan.
The acquisition of Synetix from ICI in November 2002 has
brought leading base metal process catalyst technology that
complements our strong position in precious metal catalysts. It has
elevated Johnson Matthey to a strong number two in the global
catalyst market and also brings with it important growth opportunities
in the emerging markets for gas to liquids (GTL) and chiral catalysts
(see the feature on pages 14 and 15). In the five months since
acquisition, the business has performed very much in line with our
expectations and we have now fully integrated the former Synetix
businesses into the division.
Fuel Cells
The Fuel Cells business continued to make excellent progress in
2002/03, taking several important steps towards establishing itself as
a supplier of choice to the leading companies in the emerging fuel cell
industry. Critical to this has been success with supplying Membrane
Electrode Assembly (MEA) development samples for durability and
performance testing in customers’ early commercial products. This
validation phase is expected to be followed over the next few years by
commercially available products for premium stationary, back up and
portable power applications. This will lead to mass produced products
for the transport sector at the end of this decade and into the next.
The first phase of our dedicated MEA factory at Swindon, UK was
completed during the year. This is the initial stage in transitioning fuel
cell technology from research and development into commercial
manufacturing and will enable the Fuel Cells R&D facility at Sonning
Common, UK to concentrate on supporting technology development
for the future.
Operating Profit
2003 £104.4m
2002 £94.7m
Turnover
2003 £1,083m
2002 £1,303m &
Catalysts Division,
formerly Catalysts &
Chemicals Division,
performed well in 2002/03
with operating profits 10%
ahead of last year at
£104.4 million.
RESEARCH
DEVELOPMENT
In ECT we continue to invest in research and development and testing
capacity to cost effectively meet ever tightening emissions legislation and
retain market leadership. This year, R&D activities have continued to focus
on improved three way catalysts for petrol vehicles and the development of
products for lean burn engines, especially diesels. We are working in
partnership with many of the world’s leading heavy duty diesel engine
manufacturers to prepare for emissions regulations coming into effect
over the next five years. In PCT excellent opportunities are being identified
to leverage the benefits from integration of the former Synetix businesses
and our complementary portfolios of pgm and base metal catalysts. Good
progress is being made in GTL both in synthesis gas generation, via
customer demonstration of Advanced Gas Heated Reformer technology
and pgm promoted catalyst development, and in custom manufactured
Fischer Tropsch catalysts. During the year we have developed a range of
polymer based Smopex® metal scavengers, which remove trace metal
contaminants in pharmaceutical and fine chemical manufacturing. 14
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CATALYSTS
Process Catalysts and Technologies
- Catalysts for Growth
Within Catalysts Division the Process Catalysts and Technologies
(PCT) business brings together Johnson Matthey’s former Chemicals
activities with those acquired with Synetix in November 2002. PCT thus
consists of the group’s precious metal based heterogeneous and
homogeneous catalysts business, which predominantly uses the
unique catalytic properties of the platinum group metals, and the
leading base metal (copper, nickel, cobalt, titanium, etc) process
catalyst technology acquired with Synetix. It also encompasses our
platinum group metal refining and chemical products businesses, the
Tracerco diagnostic services business and our Research Chemicals
business which supplies products to academic and industrial research
organisations via its Alfa Aesar and Avocado catalogue operations.
The acquisition of Synetix brought to Johnson Matthey a global
catalyst business that serves a range of market segments including
ammonia, methanol, chemicals, fine chemicals, edible oils,
oleochemicals, oil and gas and polymerisation. These activities
complement the group’s strong position in precious metal catalysts for
a wide range of markets including emission control and process
catalysts for the fine chemicals and pharmaceutical industries. The
former Synetix business consists of two strategic business units:
PCEO (Polymers, Chemicals and Edible Oils) and AMOG (Ammonia,
Methanol, Oil and Gas), reflecting the major global markets that they
serve and in which they have market leading positions.
PCEO
Within PCEO, we are a leading supplier of polymerisation
catalysts for the manufacture of plasticisers, acrylates, inks and
coatings. In addition the Polymers segment also provides polyester
manufacturers with innovative titanium based catalysts, which, as part
of a tailored package, can increase output by up to 15% without the
need for investment in new plant. These catalysts also have significant
environmental advantages over antimony based catalysts that are
commonly used in polyester production.
For the inks segment, the business is the industry leader in
adhesion promoters, catalysts that are added to inks to enable them
to stick to flexible packaging. The VERTEC™ range of adhesion
promoters sees widespread application in packaging where designs
are commonly printed on flexible plastic films, for example for crisp
packets and confectionery wrappers. Without these products, the
brightly coloured designs that are so vital to the marketing of many
consumer products would not be possible.
In the coatings industry, the PCEO business is the industry leader
in thixotropic agents, additives that go into paints and other products
to modify their flow characteristics. For example these additives are
used in water based paints enabling them to be almost a solid gel in
the pot but to flow smoothly when applied to a surface and not to ‘run’
once the paint has been applied.
For the edible oils and oleochemicals sectors, PCEO
manufactures high performance catalysts that are used in the
manufacture of products such as margarine, chocolate, cooking oils
and other foodstuffs (edible oils) and of soap, cosmetics and
lubricants, for example those used in shaving foams (oleochemicals).
An interesting example of the application of catalysis in the food
industry is in modifying the melting point of chocolate products so that
they ‘melt in the mouth and not in your hands’.
The PCEO business also supplies process and purification
catalysts for the chemicals sector. These catalysts are used in
manufacturing processes for a wide range of specialised chemical
products and in environmental applications to treat a range of
gaseous and liquid streams.
Chiral Catalysis
One exciting area is the application of chiral catalysis in the
pharmaceutical industry. This is a field in which both the group’s
precious metal process catalyst business and the acquired
businesses have a strong position. Both have extensive catalyst
technology, expertise and research resources that complement each
other and place us in a strong position to serve this growing market.
The US Food and Drug Administration and regulators around the
world are increasingly requiring pharmaceutical companies to identify
and produce a specific chiral version of a drug. This is where the
pharmaceutical ingredient can exist in two different forms, which are
mirror images of each other but only one of which has the desired
activity. The use of specialised catalysis is one of the main ways of
manufacturing chiral drugs, another being chiral separation using
simulated moving bed (SMB) technology, an area in which
Pharmaceutical Materials Division’s Pharm-Eco business has a strong
position.
AMOG
Within the AMOG strategic business unit, its KATALCO™ and
PURASPEC™ ranges of catalysts are to be found in over half of the
world’s methanol production plants. Methanol is a fundamental
building block in the chemical industry and is a feedstock for a wide
range of products. It is presently used in the manufacture of lead free
gasoline and is tipped as a replacement for oil based fuels and as a
carrier of hydrogen, for example for use in fuel cells.
Ammonia is another important building block for the world’s
chemical industry. It is a crucial product for the global food chain as
it is extensively used in synthetic fertilisers that ensure the productive
growth and improved yields of crops around the world. The AMOG
business provides high performance catalysts, specialist applications
knowledge and services technology to ensure optimum performance
in the highly competitive ammonia industry.
In oil refineries, AMOG’s products and technologies are
extensively used in the production of hydrogen via the steam
reforming process as well as for the purification of both liquids and
gases produced by the refining process. Catalyst technology is
playing an increasingly important and valuable role around the
refinery, helping to meet growing market demand for its wide range of
products, improving the industry’s environmental performance and
enabling it to meet legislation requiring cleaner, greener fuels. In the
natural gas industry, the business has a strong position in
technologies to remove impurities such as sulphur, utilising its
research and testing expertise to supply packages that are tailored to
meet individual customer needs.
Hydrogen rich gases are also used in a wide range of industrial
processes, including oil refining, chemical production, iron ore
reduction and the production of Towns Gas. AMOG produces a range
of innovative catalysts to serve the hydrogen market. 15
Johnson Matthey
Gas to Liquids
Another exciting opportunity for future growth is in the new, high
technology gas to liquids market. Gas to liquids (GTL) is a rapidly
expanding sector manufacturing ultra clean diesel fuel from natural
gas. This is an area that has strong environmental as well as energy
security drivers. It provides a means to use the world’s massive
reserves of stranded natural gas to make sulphur free diesel fuel. This
extremely pure fuel can be blended with diesel produced via the
traditional oil refining route to make the ultra low sulphur diesel that is
increasingly mandated to help meet ever tightening vehicle emission
standards around the world.
GTL is a multi stage catalytic process and, prior to the acquisition
of Synetix, Johnson Matthey was involved in providing catalysts to
some of these stages. However, Synetix has brought catalysts and
expertise that enable the group to supply the full range of catalysts to
the GTL process and to work in partnership with leading energy
companies to develop cost effective technologies for this growing
market. It is estimated that the market for catalysts for the GTL
process could be worth over $400 million per annum by 2010.
Tracerco
In addition to providing advanced catalysts to customers
worldwide, PCT provides applications knowledge and services
technology through its Tracerco business. Tracerco provides a range
of process diagnostic services and specialist instruments used in
enhanced hydrocarbon recovery, enhanced hydrocarbon separation
and in non-intrusive inspection areas of the upstream oil and gas
market. These products and services are used to increase production
rates, lower overall production costs and increase environmental
compliance by most oil and gas producers. It also provides unique
‘taggant’ technologies to the process industry, which are used in
various applications from reservoir assessment to fuel anti-
adulteration schemes. Tracerco was awarded the 2003 Queen’s
Award for Enterprise for the TRACERCO Profiler™, an instrument that
uses advanced measurement technology to determine and control
the contents of oil and gas production separators. 16
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
PRECIOUS METALS
Platinum
Platinum and palladium prices showed sharply diverging
fortunes in 2002/03. The price of platinum rose steadily for most of the
year with solid demand, a widening deficit in supply and lack of
physical liquidity supporting successive rallies. The price peaked at a
23 year high of $705/oz in March 2003 before falling back as investors
and speculators took profits on long positions.
Consumption of platinum in autocatalysts rose in 2002/03 with
continuing growth in the diesel sector and efforts to thrift palladium
through greater use of platinum based catalysts, underpinning
demand. Platinum sales to the Chinese jewellery market continued to
rise, although high platinum prices at the end of the year put pressure
on profit margins, dampening to some extent enthusiasm for platinum
amongst Chinese jewellery manufacturers. Supplies of platinum
increased only moderately, as higher output from South Africa was
balanced by a drop in sales from Russia.
Apart from some sharp but fleeting spikes, the price of palladium
fell steadily throughout the year. Demand from most market sectors
was weak, with the auto and electronic industries making substantial
use of inventories. In addition, the switch away from palladium in
response to the high prices of earlier years continued; auto
manufacturers increased the use of platinum catalysts on gasoline
vehicles and electronic component manufacturers continued to
substitute palladium with base metals in certain applications. Despite
sharply lower sales from Russia, supplies exceeded demand for the
second successive year.
The average price of platinum for the year was $586/oz, an
increase of 17% on 2001/02. Conversely the average price of
palladium fell by 36% to $305/oz. Weak prices and poor demand for
palladium and rhodium reduced profits in the division’s marketing and
trading operations from the level seen in 2001/02.
The division’s Noble Metals manufacturing business continued to
perform well despite difficult economic conditions affecting many of
its traditional customers. A further increase in revenues was in part
due to technical innovation which generated income from new
products and technology licensing. Our medical components
business, based in California, continued to grow, operating at full
capacity for much of the year. With further growth forecast, the
business will relocate to a larger facility in the summer of 2003. Our
nitinol operation, also located in California, finished its second full year
under Johnson Matthey ownership. With the completion of investment
in new manufacturing and information systems, it now boasts industry
leading product quality and delivery times.
Gold and Silver
Trading conditions for Johnson Matthey’s worldwide gold and
silver refining operations remained difficult. Although the higher gold
price increased secondary supplies, primary gold production fell
slightly and, with an excess of worldwide refining capacity, margins
remained under pressure. In October 2002, we announced the merger
of our Australian business with that of AGR headquartered in Perth,
Western Australia. The formation of AGR Matthey, in which Johnson
Matthey holds a 20% stake, will allow the rationalisation of the
combined refining and product operations. Elsewhere, the North
American refineries had a reasonable year but profits from our Royston
refinery were impacted by weak demand for gold bars. Hong Kong
again benefited from a series of gold price spikes which prompted the
dishoarding of secondary scrap across the Asian region.
Operating Profit
2003 £50.1m
2002 £55.9m
Turnover
2003 £2,857m
2002 £3,167m &
17
Johnson Matthey
Precious Metals Division’s
operating profits were
10% down on last year at
£50.1 million reflecting
declining palladium and
rhodium prices and
subdued trading activity.
RESEARCH
DEVELOPMENT
The division’s global research and development programmes are targeted to
generate innovative new products and solve customer problems. Work
continues at the group’s Technology Centre to design new catalysts for
ammonia oxidation which will not only improve conversion efficiencies but
minimise the production of undesirable by-products such as greenhouse
gases. This work has been greatly enhanced by the acquisition of Synetix,
which has brought world leading base metal process catalyst technology to
Johnson Matthey. Other development programmes are designed to leverage
our extensive metallurgical expertise on pgm alloys. The division has active
collaboration programmes with several of the world’s largest ignition
companies who require novel alloys to improve the efficiency of spark plugs
in high performance engines. In addition, new alloys and composite materials
are in constant demand by customers in the rapidly developing medical
components industry. In support of this, we have commissioned an extensive
development facility at our West Chester, Pennsylvania site during the year . 18
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
COLOURS & COATINGS
The Colours & Coatings Division is organised into three market
facing sectors: Structural Ceramics serving the tile, sanitaryware and
related construction markets; Glass serving specialised applications
in the automotive, architectural and container glass markets; and
Speciality Coatings supplying the tableware and plastics industries as
well as a range of niche markets for pigments and surface coatings.
All business sectors serve the full range of international markets and
the division has a presence in all major geographical regions, with
main production sites in Spain, the Netherlands, Italy, Brazil, UK,
Malaysia, India, China and the USA.
Fiscal year 2002/03 has seen the completion of the rationalisation
of the division’s activities announced in January 2002, the principal
element of which was the closure of its major UK site at Meir in North
Staffordshire. Production capacity has been relocated to other sites
both within the UK and in Europe. This project has been a great
success, considerably reducing the cost base of the division and
allowing the operations to sharpen their focus on the structure and
needs of the markets that they serve.
Structural Ceramics
The Structural Ceramics sector is focused on the production and
marketing of base products including frits, colours and glazes.
Primarily located in the major tile producing areas of Italy and Spain,
the business continues to expand in the key developing markets of
Asia and South America. Structural Ceramics achieved sales in line
with 2001/02 despite continued fragile conditions in its principal
European markets. Margins improved during the year, partly due to
the strength of the euro but also through an improved product mix,
with good growth in sales of higher added value products.
Consequently, the business achieved encouraging growth in
operating profits.
The first phase of Structural Ceramics’ new, state of the art frit
manufacturing facility in Spain is now fully operational. A new frit
manufacturing plant was completed in Brazil during the year and is
already producing benefits through improved margins. A new colours
manufacturing plant has been added in Spain to serve demand
following the closure of the Meir factory and additional capacity also
added in Italy. Prospects for the future focus on continued expansion
in Northern Asia and increased opportunities from growing markets in
Eastern Europe.
Glass
The Glass sector chiefly supplies glass enamels, liquid precious
metals and other coating materials for a wide range of applications
onto glass. With manufacturing and marketing based in the
Netherlands, the sector reaches all major markets through a centrally
administered sales and distribution network. During the year the
business’ sales grew substantially despite flat market conditions. New
improved product ranges introduced during the year, including
recyclable, lead free products, have been well received by customers
around the world. The business has also seen expansion into new
geographic markets particularly in the Middle East and Latin America,
which contributed to strong revenue growth. Operating profits were
ahead of last year.
Following last year’s successful completion of the Glass
masterplant expansion programme at Maastricht, 2002/03 has seen a
continued focus on improvements in manufacturing processes. While
major markets, such as automotive, are expected to remain relatively
flat, continuous new product development and investment in new
technology provides an encouraging outlook for the Glass sector.
Speciality Coatings
Speciality Coatings serves two broad market segments: the
surface coatings and plastics industries, to which it supplies pigments
and pigment dispersions, and the tableware market, which consumes
its pigments, glazes, decorative precious metals and decals. The
market for finished tableware has been relatively flat in recent years.
However, the value of the market for decorative materials for
tableware has been declining due to the continuing trend towards
casual dining which has resulted in the predominance of less highly
decorated, lower cost tableware. The outlook for the tableware
industry in Stoke-on-Trent, which remains the highest margin market
for the business, continues to look particularly bleak and the decision
to close the major UK site at Meir was taken last year in response to
this. Following the closure of Meir, the business is leaner and more
focused on the requirements of the industry and profits have improved
as a result. The pigments and dispersions area achieved good growth
in both sales and profits during the year. Further expansion is
underway in pigments with investment in a new plant for Micraflo ®
products and further state of the art production facilities for cadmium
pigments.
Turnover
2003 £256m
2002 £253m
Operating Profit
2003 £28.5m
2002 £25.5m 19
Johnson Matthey
Colours & Coatings
Division produced a
strong performance in
2002/03 with operating
profits 12% up on prior
year at £28.5 million.
&
RESEARCH
DEVELOPMENT
The Colours & Coatings Division continues to place great emphasis on the
development of new products. Research and development, both into
fundamental chemistry and product development, is key to growth and
increased margins and thus the future profitability of the division’s
businesses. To this end considerable resources are dedicated to R&D both
at the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre at Sonning Common and at the
division’s major European facilities in the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and in
the UK.
This research structure continues to deliver innovative solutions for the
market with new products and processes being developed based on the
application of novel material technologies. This year these have included
recyclable glass enamel systems, novel pigments based on new chemical
compounds and new screen printable liquid gold products. A number of
exciting opportunities are nearing conclusion and management are keenly
aware of the importance of keeping the pipeline of research and product
development charged and driven by market opportunities. 20
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
PHARMACEUTICAL MATERIALS
Pharmaceutical Materials Division provides process development
and manufacturing services for active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs)
throughout the entire life cycle of a drug. The Pharm-Eco business,
located in the USA, provides contract chemistry and manufacturing
services for drugs in the early and middle phases of their development
cycle. As products reach late stages of development and commercial
approval, both West Deptford (USA) and Macfarlan Smith (UK) provide
commercial scale manufacturing services along with regulatory support
for active pharmaceutical ingredients. These businesses manufacture
products for both branded and generic drugs. In October 2002 Johnson
Matthey purchased Cascade Biochem, a world leader in the chemistry
of prostaglandins which are a class of very complex, high value
molecules with increasing therapeutic applications.
West Deptford
The West Deptford business manufactures high value APIs,
including controlled substances and metal based pharmaceuticals.
These are used in both generic and proprietary drugs to treat cancer,
chronic pain and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In
2002/03 West Deptford’s sales grew by 17%, primarily due to the full
year benefit of several new products launched late in 2001/02, sales of
which were strong throughout the year. In anticipation of this and future
growth, new manufacturing facilities on the site were completed and
commissioned during the year. This expansion has increased
manufacturing capacity by 40% and provides space for additional
laboratories and reactor capacity. In June 2002 West Deptford
received approval from the US Drug Enforcement Administration to
import the key raw materials used in the manufacture of morphine and
codeine. This approval, along with technology transferred from
Macfarlan Smith, will enable West Deptford to fully participate in this
market in the US, which is currently only open to three other
companies. A project to install facilities for morphine and codeine
production on the site is underway and these are expected to be
commissioned during the first half of 2004.
Macfarlan Smith
Macfarlan Smith, located in Edinburgh, UK, is a world leader in the
manufacture and marketing of controlled drugs. Macfarlan Smith’s
business continued to grow well during the year despite the cessation
of its contract for the extraction of galantamine from daffodil bulbs. Its
purpose built galantamine extraction facility has been successfully
converted to the extraction of concentrated poppy straw, enabling
important cost savings in the manufacture of Macfarlan Smith’s key
opiate products. The business’ sales of bulk opiate products,
particularly codeine and morphine, remain strong. Sales growth was
particularly good in specialist opiates and other controlled drugs, where
the market for key products continues to grow due to the launch of new
dosage forms and therapeutic applications. Several key new controlled
drug products are in late stages of development and will provide sales
growth in future years. The programme of investment in facilities at
Macfarlan Smith has continued, with projects to add new reactors
specially configured for hydrogenation reactions. In addition significant
investments were made in site infrastructure and regulatory compliance
initiatives during the year.
Pharm-Eco
Pharm-Eco, based near Boston, USA, is a leading provider of
contract chemistry services and small scale manufacturing in support of
the development of new drugs. Outsourcing of chemistry by
pharmaceutical companies continues to grow and Pharm-Eco continues
to broaden its range of services to the industry. Pharm-Eco’s sales in
2002/03 were well up on prior year with both of its service areas of
contract chemistry and contract manufacturing achieving strong growth.
In support of this growth, additional laboratory facilities were added at its
Devens, Massachusetts facility. The business has also begun a project
to install reactor suites in the production area at Devens. The first two
suites will be completed in the third quarter of 2003/04. During the year
Pharm-Eco also acquired the interest of its joint venture partner, UOP , in
Universal Pharma Technologies (UPT). UPT develops equipment and
provides contract separation services using simulated moving bed
chromatography, a very advanced technology for purification of organic
chemicals. This novel separation technique complements Johnson
Matthey’s pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities, especially for
complex and chiral molecules.
Cascade Biochem
Cascade Biochem, with facilities in Reading, UK and Cork, Ireland,
is a world leader in the chemistry of prostaglandins and related
compounds. Cascade has performed well since its acquisition in October
2002. Prostaglandins are very complex, difficult to synthesise molecules
that are mainly used in cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and ophthalmic
medicine. The Cork facility has been approved by the US FDA and
currently manufactures misoprostol, a prostaglandin product for the
generic drug market. Cascade has a strong development pipeline,
including many products that are due to become generic in the future.
Market interest in prostaglandin products is high and the business is in
the process of negotiating commercial relationships for key products. In
support of the commercialisation of Cascade’s product pipeline, a
programme of capacity expansion has begun at the Cork facility. The first
stage of this expansion will be completed by mid 2003/04.
Operating Profit
2003 £36.9m
2002 £31.3m
Turnover
2003 £128m
2002 £106m 21
Johnson Matthey
Pharmaceutical Materials
Division produced strong
results with operating
profit 18% up on 2001/02
at £36.9 million.
All of its business units
performed well.
&
RESEARCH
DEVELOPMENT
Pharmaceutical Materials Division’s research and development is focused
on commercial products to be manufactured and marketed by the West
Deptford, Macfarlan Smith and Cascade Biochem businesses, as well as
early stage R&D performed directly for pharmaceutical companies by
Pharm-Eco. Technology required for the manufacture of commercial scale
products includes primarily the development of chemical manufacturing
processes and methods for the analysis of these products. This technology
is essential to achieve competitive market positions and to obtain regulatory
approval for products. Contract drug development services offered by
Pharm-Eco include medicinal chemistry, process development and initial
scale-up of potential new drugs. Given the wide variety of products in R&D,
Pharm-Eco has developed expertise in a broad range of chemistry. Each of
Pharmaceutical Materials Division’s businesses has developed substantial
chemical know-how in their respective market niches and they collaborate
closely on new technical challenges. Combined with Johnson Matthey’s
core expertise in catalysis, chiral catalysis and organometallic chemistry,
the division offers the pharmaceutical marketplace a unique and broad
spectrum of R&D capabilities. 22
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
JOHNSON MATTHEY MAKES A
SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT through the
application of its leading science and technology, the
ingenuity of its people and the generation of profits.
The board has always ensured that the group operates
according to well established ethical, social and environmental
policies. This year Johnson Matthey is publishing its first corporate
social responsibility (CSR) review, which is presented here in
summary. The full report, covering policies, environmental
performance and our social and economic contribution to sustainable
development, is available on our website at www.matthey.com.
The statements on corporate social responsibility disclosure
follow the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers and
the detailed analysis in the full report is based on the format
recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative. As outlined in the
Corporate Governance section on page 31 the board has embedded
corporate social responsibility into its risk management process.
Corporate social responsibility is championed at the highest level at
Johnson Matthey and the board has reviewed and fully endorsed the
CSR review.
Many of our products have a particularly positive social and
environmental benefit. They range from anticancer compounds to our
autocatalyst technologies, which improve air quality around the world.
In addition, our fuel cell products are poised to make a significant
contribution to the generation of clean energy and security of supply.
Whilst Johnson Matthey’s main contribution to sustainable
development will be through our products we also seek to contribute
through the management of the business and in the quality of our
manufacturing operations. Our expertise in processing precious metal
materials provides us with a core competence in the conservation,
reuse and recycling of natural resources, principles which are now
applied throughout our business.
Johnson Matthey has a culture of continuous improvement in all
aspects of performance. In this area improvement is driven through
corporate policies, a comprehensive management system and the
commitment of our staff. There are three key policy areas, which
provide the framework for the management of corporate social
responsibility – the Environment, Health and Safety policies, the
Employment policies and the Business Integrity and Ethics policy.
“Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to
managing its activities throughout the group so
as to provide the highest level of protection to
the environment and to safeguard the health
and safety of its employees, customers and the
community.”
The company’s Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) policies
provide the guiding principles that help ensure high standards are
achieved at our sites around the world whilst promoting continuous
improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive
EHS management systems. These policies, summarised in the
company’s policy statement (see box on page 24) are regularly
reviewed. Corporate policies provide a framework for all Johnson
Matthey businesses to formulate site specific policies to meet local
requirements.
Internal EHS audits are an integral part of Johnson Matthey’s
corporate EHS management system. 68 facilities from our operations
worldwide are included in the audit programme. 87 audits have been
carried out over the last three years, with 32 in 2002. Audit reports are
reviewed by the Environment, Health and Safety Committee. Further
site visits were made to oversee health surveillance programmes by
the Group Occupational Physician.
Our investment in plant and equipment has continued over the
last year. In addition to environmental improvements this enables us to
design and operate processes that are inherently safer and more
resource efficient than previous designs. Resource efficiency is
second nature to managers in the business who are charged with the
responsibility of handling materials and products of high intrinsic
value, many of which are recyclable.
Environmental Management Systems
Our operating units are moving towards ISO 14001 certification.
At present 11 sites are certified with a further six sites in the final
stages of assessment. Some 2,300 people or 29% of our staff work at
ISO 14001 locations. Over the past year four ISO 14001 certified sites
have joined Johnson Matthey through the acquisition of Synetix,
Clitheroe and Chilton in the UK and Oberhausen and Emmerich in
Germany.
Training
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in EHS
performance. Over the past year staff of all grades have received
training with a wide range of courses available to employees. Our
major sites employ health and safety training specialists. Expert
external trainers supplement in house capabilities where necessary.
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 23
Johnson Matthey
Target Setting
One of the key aims of Johnson Matthey’s EHS policy is to
achieve continuous improvement in performance through target
setting. Targets which have been set by our business units are
reviewed on a group wide basis. Such targets typically include:
> Reductions in waste and emissions to air or water.
> Reduction in energy and commodity use.
> Training of employees in EHS issues.
> Undertaking inspection programmes.
Over the past year we have set corporate health and safety
targets in line with the UK Health and Safety Executive (HSE)
Revitalising Health and Safety initiative. We have adopted the
following HSE targets with a baseline year of 2000 for our worldwide
operations.
1 Reduction of working days lost by 15% by 2004 and by 30% by
2010.
2 Reduction in the incidence rate of major injuries by 5% by 2004
and 10% by 2010.
A group wide review of environmental performance is undertaken
annually, focusing on our key impacts including global warming,
waste generation and water consumption. The following graphs
highlight our environmental performance indexed to turnover and our
health and safety performance in absolute terms. Further details are
provided in our full CSR review as published on our website.
Supply Chain Issues
As shown in our Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement, we
support the principles set out within the United Nations Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organisation
Core Conventions. Whilst we are confident of the performance of our
own operations, we recognise that business practices in the supply
chain are not always transparent and represent a risk that must be
managed.
Community Involvement
The CSR review gives examples of the way Johnson Matthey
supports its local communities. In South Africa, for instance, we have
provided support for underprivileged students at the University of
Cape Town, through which at least nine students a year are given a
bursary and also work experience at Johnson Matthey operations in
the country. We have just concluded a successful charity of the year
programme in support of the NSPCC. Johnson Matthey’s charity of the
year for 2003 is Diabetes UK. The company also supports many other
charities locally and nationally. As noted in the Directors’ Report, total
charitable giving in 2002/03 was £323,000.
Verification
The board reviews CSR issues as part of its risk management
process. The board believes that the measures taken to review the
CSR information provide a suitable level of confidence without
external audit. Johnson Matthey would utilise external specialists
where specific CSR issues were identified.
79%
92%
100%
1999 2000 2001 2002
Total Acid Gas Emissions*
*Adjusted for sales 1999 = 100%
66%
86%
91%
100%
1999 2000 2001 2002
Total Global Warming Potential*
89% 90%
94%
100%
1999 2000 2001 2002
Total Water Supply*
87%
319
337
419
1999 2000 2001 2002
Days Lost per 1,000 Employees
220
The Contribution of Johnson Matthey
Autocatalysts to Clean Air in the UK
The growth in international markets for autocatalysts has been
driven by efforts to legislate for cleaner air. Johnson Matthey has
played a vital role in the improvement of air quality through the
manufacture of autocatalysts for cleaning vehicle exhaust emissions
from petrol and diesel fuelled cars and continuously regenerating
traps (CRTs) for treating emissions from heavy duty diesel vehicles.
Johnson Matthey autocatalysts dramatically reduce emissions of
carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, volatile organic compounds and
particulates from a wide range of road vehicles.
As part of our commitment to improving the environment Johnson
Matthey is active in monitoring the impact of its products. A recent
company study has shown that Johnson Matthey autocatalysts have
saved millions of tonnes of pollutants from entering the environment.
More details of this study are available in the corporate social
responsibility report at www.matthey.com.
UK Emissions Savings due to Autocatalysts
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
1970 1980 2020 2010 2000 1990 
Emission Saving
Actual Emissions
'Engine-out' Emission 
Total emissions kT/Year CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Equal Opportunities
It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and manage
employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of
gender, ethnic origin, age or religion. Employees who become
disabled and disabled people are offered employment consistent with
their capabilities.
Training and Development of People
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of recruiting the
very highest calibre of employees, training them to achieve
challenging standards in the performance of their jobs, and
developing them to their maximum potential.
Our policy requires careful review of organisation structure,
succession and the development of high potential people to meet our
business goals. The Management Development and Remuneration
Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring
compliance with the Training and Development of People Policy.
Training and Development of People Policy
> Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of staff.
> Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
> Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
> Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
> Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
> Understand employees’ aspirations.
> Provide development opportunities to meet employees’ potential
and aspirations.
Employee Communications
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective employee
communications. Information and comment is exchanged with
employees through the company’s in-house magazine, regular news
bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
24
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities
throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of protection
to the environment and to safeguard the health and safety of its
employees, customers and the community.
The company’s Environment, Health and Safety policies have
been widely disseminated and provide the guiding principles
necessary to ensure that high standards are achieved at all sites
around the world. They also afford a means of promoting continuous
improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive
EHS management systems, against which all sites are audited.
This policy and its associated procedures are designed to
achieve the following corporate objectives:
> That all locations meet legal and group environment, health and
safety requirements.
> That the design, manufacture and supply of products is
undertaken so as to satisfy the highest standards of health,
safety, environmental protection and resource efficiency.
> That management systems are effective in maintaining standards
and fulfilling the challenge of securing continuous improvement
in environmental, health and safety performance.
In order to achieve these objectives we will:
> Provide leadership and commitment as an expression of the
importance that the board and the senior management team
place on EHS issues.
> Ensure accountability by holding corporate management and
senior executives within each operating division and business
unit responsible for EHS performance.
> Provide the financial and human resources to allow EHS issues to
be given an appropriate level of priority.
> Provide good communication internally and externally and
encourage employee involvement and cooperation at all levels in
the organisation in meeting EHS objectives.
> Ensure competence on EHS matters through education, training
and awareness at all levels in the organisation, including creating
an understanding of individual responsibilities for health and
safety and the environment.
> Undertake assessments to identify the risks to health, safety and
the environment from company operations and ensure that
appropriate control measures are implemented.
> Ensure that new investments are designed and operated to the
latest standards so as to eliminate or minimise risks to health,
safety and the environment.
> Investigate incidents to identify the root cause and take action to
prevent recurrence.
> Promote programmes to achieve energy and resource efficiency.
> Set key corporate objectives and performance targets that can
be measured and assessed, reporting results in a meaningful
and transparent way both internally and externally.
> Undertake regular EHS inspections and audits of operations, and
review performance to ensure continuous improvement in EHS
management.
The group EHS management system will be reviewed regularly to
ensure that it reflects international best practice and our growing
understanding of the practical application of sustainable
development.
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY STATEMENT A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson
Matthey’s business since it was founded by Percival Norton Johnson
in 1817. It gives customers the confidence that the company’s
products meet the standards claimed for them and that they may
safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson Matthey for
processing and safe keeping. Employees at all levels are required to
protect Johnson Matthey’s reputation for integrity.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards of ethical
conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide through the
application of the following principles:
> Compliance with national and international laws and regulations
is required as a minimum standard.
> Reputable business practices must be applied worldwide.
> Conflicts of interest must be declared and appropriate
arrangements made to ensure that those with a material interest
are not involved in the decision making process.
> Improper payments of any kind are prohibited, similarly no gift
whose value is material or which may be interpreted as a form of
inducement should be accepted or offered by Johnson Matthey
employees.
> Reporting of business performance should be undertaken in
such a way that senior management is fully and properly
informed concerning the business’ true performance, risks and
opportunities in a timely manner.
> Ethical issues must be dealt with in an efficient and transparent
manner.
> A positive contribution to society as a whole, and specifically the
communities in which we operate, must be ensured.
> We must seek to influence our suppliers to operate to similar high
standards as ourselves.
We support the principles set out within the United Nations
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour
Organisation Core Conventions.
It is the responsibility of directors and senior management to
ensure that all employees who directly or indirectly report to them are
fully aware of Johnson Matthey’s policies and values in the conduct of
the company’s businesses. It is also the responsibility of directors and
senior management to lead by example and to demonstrate the
highest standards of integrity in carrying out their duties on behalf of
the company. These issues are further safeguarded through corporate
governance processes and monitoring by the board and sub-
committees to the board.
BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND ETHICS POLICY STATEMENT
25
Johnson Matthey
Up to now the recovery of precious metals used as catalysts in
chemical processes has involved the use of incineration. The new
AquaCat™ technology being commissioned at Johnson Matthey’s
Brimsdown, UK facility uses a process based on supercritical water
oxidation which provides many environmental and economic
benefits.
Precious metals are used extensively in catalysts which improve
the efficiency of a wide range of industrial chemical processes. The
metals used, platinum, palladium and rhodium, represent a huge
investment and the rapid and economical recovery of the metal from
spent catalyst is a vital part of their use.
Typically spent process catalysts are contaminated with
organic materials from the reaction mixture as well as the material
used to support the catalyst, often carbon. These organic materials
can be very hazardous and traditionally have to be removed before
the exact quantity of metal present can be established.
The AquaCat™ process offers vast environmental improvements
on incineration since it requires almost no external source of thermal
energy, eliminates the need for expensive exhaust gas treatment,
reduces the amount of physical handling of the material and makes
containment easier.
Direct sampling of the customer material is the first stage of the
AquaCat™ process. This means that the amount of metal is
predetermined before any processing takes place.
Johnson Matthey has put great emphasis on ensuring the
integrity of the new sampling process. We have consulted with
customers to ensure that they are satisfied with the accuracy
achieved and are comfortable that the new techniques do not
compromise our commitment to ethical business conduct.
The AquaCat™ technology also allows processing equipment to
be installed at customer sites. This may be particularly important to
the pharmaceutical or petrochemical industries where the residue is
either highly bioactive or high in volume making handling and
transport difficult.
The AquaCat™ technology was developed in partnership
between Johnson Matthey and Chematur Engineering AB.
After the completion of the commissioning process it is
anticipated that AquaCat™ will make a major impact to the services
provided by our Brimsdown site.
AQUACAT™
A STEP CHANGE IN EFFICIENCY AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 26
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
C R N Clark
Chief Executive
C D Mackay
Non-Executive Director
I C Strachan
Non-Executive Director
J N Sheldrick
Group Finance Director
M B Dearden
Non-Executive Director
A M Thomson
Non-Executive Director
H R Jenkins
Non-Executive Director
N A P Carson
Executive Director
R J W Walvis
Non-Executive Director
D W Morgan
Executive Director
H M P Miles
Chairman 27
Johnson Matthey
H M P Miles OBE
Chairman, age 67; joined Johnson Matthey as a non-executive
director in March 1990; appointed Chairman in June 1998.
Currently Chairman of Schroders plc and a non-executive director
of BP plc and other companies. Previously Chairman of Cathay
Pacific Airways, Swire Group Hong Kong, a director of HSBC,
John Swire & Sons Limited and ING Baring Holdings Limited, and
a Vice President of the China Britain Business Council. A, M, N
C R N Clark MIM, CIMgt
Chief Executive, age 61; joined Johnson Matthey in 1962; headed
Johnson Matthey’s platinum marketing operations before
assuming responsibility for Catalytic Systems Division in 1988,
and, additionally, Colour and Print in 1990. Appointed an
executive director in March 1990 and Group Managing Director in
September 1995. Became Chief Operating Officer in July 1996
and appointed Chief Executive in June 1998. Currently a non-
executive director of FKI plc and Rexam PLC.
J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT
Group Finance Director, age 53; joined Johnson Matthey as
Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed
current job title in September 1995. Additionally responsible for
Pharmaceutical Materials from July 1999. Previously Group
Treasurer of The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of
API Group Plc.
H R Jenkins CBE
Age 69; appointed a non-executive director in January 1996 when
he retired as a director of The Prudential Corporation plc where he
was Chairman and Chief Executive of Prudential Portfolio
Managers. Latterly Chairman of Thorn plc and currently Chairman
of Development Securities Plc. He chaired the property advisory
group at the Department of the Environment from 1990 to 1999.
Previously Group Investment Director, Allied Dunbar Assurance
and Director General of Investments, British Coal Pensions. A, M, N
C D Mackay MBA, MA
Age 63; appointed a non-executive director in January 1999.
Currently Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and of TDG plc and a
member of the board of INSEAD. Previously Group Chief Executive
and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc and has also served on a
number of boards including those of HSBC Holdings plc, British
Airways plc, Gucci Group NV and Thistle Hotels plc. A, M, N
M B Dearden MA
Age 60; appointed a non-executive director in April 1999.
Currently Chairman of Minova International Limited, a non-
executive director of The Wier Group Plc and Travis Perkins plc.
Previously Chief Executive of Castrol International and a main
board director of Burmah Castrol plc. A, M, N
N A P Carson BSc
Executive Director, Catalysts and Precious Metals, age 46; joined
Johnson Matthey in 1980; appointed Division Director, Catalytic
Systems in 1997 after having held senior management positions
in the Precious Metals Division as well as Catalytic Systems in
both the UK and the US. Appointed Managing Director, Catalysts
& Chemicals in August 1999 and additionally assumed board
level responsibility for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
D W Morgan MA, ACA
Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, Central
Research and Colours & Coatings, age 45; joined Johnson
Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director. Appointed an
executive director in August 1999. Responsible for the group’s
Corporate Development activities and Legal and Secretarial
affairs. In addition, assumed board level responsibility for Colours
& Coatings Division and the company’s central research activities
in August 2002. Currently a member of the International Advisory
Board of Conduit Ventures Limited. Previously a non-executive
director of RiverSoft plc.
I C Strachan
Age 60; appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Currently Chairman of Instinet Group Inc. and a director of
Reuters Group plc, Transocean Inc., Xstrata plc and Harsco
Corporation. Previously Deputy Chairman of Invensys Plc, Chief
Executive of BTR plc and Deputy Chief Executive of Rio Tinto plc.
A, M, N
A M Thomson MA, CA
Age 56; appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently Finance Director of Smiths Group plc. He was previously
Finance Director of the Rugby Group PLC and a non-executive
director of Laporte PLC. Prior to that he had held a succession of
senior financial positions with Courtaulds, Raychem Ltd. and
Rockwell International. A, M, N
R J W Walvis
Age 56; appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc, an
Adviser to Amerada Hess Corporation Inc. and a Council member
of the Royal Institute of International Affairs. He was previously
Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell International Limited
and prior to that held a series of senior management positions
within the Royal Dutch Shell Group. A, M, N
Committees of the Board
A Audit Committee
M Management Development and Remuneration Committee
N Nomination Committee
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 28
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Catalysts
P N Hawker Division Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
S M Christley Division Finance Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
J B Fowler President, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, North America
P C Framp Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Europe
J F Walker Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Asia
B J Cooper Vice President, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Heavy Duty Diesel
L C Pentz Division Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies
G P Otterman Division Finance Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies
M T Durney Vice President and General Manager, Process Catalysts and Technologies, North America and Asia
R M Kilburn Vice President, Polymers, Chemicals and Edible Oils
S P Murphy Managing Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies, Europe
B C Singelais Director, Research Chemicals
N Whitley Vice President, Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas
J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells
Precious Metals
W F Sandford Division Director
B M O’Connell Division Finance Director
M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing
M C F Steel Market Research and Planning Director, Precious Metals Marketing
A M Myers Director, Noble Metals
J D McKelvie Vice President, Gold and Silver, North America
Colours & Coatings
C M Hood Division Director
N P H Garner Division Finance Director
V Ros Managing Director, Structural Ceramics
J Murkens Managing Director, Glass
T R Woolrych Managing Director, Speciality Coatings
Pharmaceutical Materials
F K Sheffy Division Director
A J Caruso Division Finance Director
J B Friederichsen General Manager, West Deptford
D S Mercer Managing Director, Macfarlan Smith
S A Zahr General Manager, Pharm-Eco Laboratories
Corporate
G J Coates Group Treasurer
S Farrant Company Secretary and Senior Legal Adviser
I D Godwin Group Corporate Communications Manager
V E Gough Group Reporting Controller
M J L Henkel Group Taxation Manager
B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre
I F Stephenson Director, Group Systems and Environment, Health and Safety, Human Resources and Pensions 29
Johnson Matthey
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors submit to shareholders their one hundred and twelfth annual report, together with the audited accounts of the group for the
year ended 31st March 2003. Pages 1 to 38 are an integral part of the report.
Principal Activities
The group’s principal activities are summarised on page 11.
Dividends
The interim dividend of 7.8 pence per share, up 0.3 pence, was paid in February 2003. A final dividend, which will be paid as an ordinary
dividend, of 17.7 pence per share, up 0.6 pence, is being proposed to shareholders as Resolution 3 at the Annual General Meeting (AGM),
making a total for the year of 25.5 pence, an increase of 4% over last year. Dividends for the year total £55.5 million.
A low cost Dividend Reinvestment Plan is in place for the benefit of shareholders. This allows them to purchase additional shares in Johnson
Matthey with their dividend payment. Further information and a mandate can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the company’s
registered office.
Share Capital
Allotments of ordinary shares of £1 each of the company were made during the year as set out in note 24 on page 65.
The board will again seek shareholders’ approval to renew the annual authority for the company to make purchases of its own ordinary
shares through the market. No shares were purchased under this authority during the year ended 31st March 2003.
Employee Share Schemes
4,472 current and former employees, representing approximately 59% of employees worldwide as at 31st March 2003, are shareholders
in Johnson Matthey through the group’s employee share schemes, which held 3,102,086 shares (1.41% of ordinary share capital) at 30th May
2003. A total of 864 current and former executives hold options over 5,829,632 shares through the company’s executive share option schemes.
Directors
Details of the directors of the company are shown on pages 26 and 27. Mr A M Thomson and Mr R J W Walvis, both appointed to the board
on 24th September 2002, offer themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM. In accordance with the company’s Articles of Association,
Mr H M P Miles, Mr N A P Carson and Mr D W Morgan retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Directors’ Material Interests in Contracts
Other than service contracts, no director had any interest in any material contract with any group company at any time during the year.
Substantial Shareholdings
The company has been advised of the following interests in its ordinary share capital as at 30th May 2003:
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 9.46% Legal & General Assurance Society Ltd 3.87%
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 7.83% Deutsche Asset Management 3.57%
Threadneedle Asset Management 6.55% Government of Singapore Investment Corp 3.34%
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 4.00% Fidelity Investments 3.12%
Auditors
In accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the reappointment
of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts
The group’s policy in relation to the payment of all suppliers (set out in its Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations)
is that payment should be made within the credit terms agreed with the supplier. At 31st March 2003, the company’s aggregate level of ‘creditor
days’ amounted to 7 days. Creditor days are calculated by dividing the aggregate of the amounts which were owed to trade creditors at the
end of the year by the aggregate of the amounts the company was invoiced by suppliers during the year and multiplying by 365 to express the
ratio as a number of days.
Donations
During the year the group donated £323,000 (2002 £298,000) to charitable organisations, of which £299,000 (2002 £274,000) was in the
UK. There were no political donations made in the year (2002 £ nil).
This report was approved by the directors on 3rd June 2003 and is signed on their behalf by:
Simon Farrant
Company Secretary 30
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) relating to
the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for financial reporting,
internal control and audit. This statement describes how the principles of the Code have been applied.
Throughout the year, the group has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code with the exception of the matter noted on page 31.
Directors and the Board
The board is responsible to the company’s shareholders for the group’s system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives and the
stewardship of the company’s resources and is ultimately responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters. The board meets at least
seven times per year and delegates specific responsibilities to board committees, as described below. The board reviews the key activities of
the business, and receives papers and presentations to enable it to do so effectively. The Company Secretary is responsible to the board and
is available to individual directors in respect of board procedures.
The board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other executive directors and six other independent non-executive directors.
Mr H R Jenkins was Senior Independent Director throughout the period. Mr C D Mackay will take over as Senior Independent Director on 16th
July 2003 following Mr Jenkins’ retirement from the board. The role of non-executive directors is to enhance independence and objectivity of
the board’s deliberations and decisions. The executive directors have specific responsibilities, which are detailed on page 27, and have direct
responsibility for all operations and activities.
All directors submit themselves for re-election every three years.
Committees of the Board
The Chief Executive’s Committee is responsible for the recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and on decisions
reserved to the board where appropriate. It is also responsible for the executive management of the group’s business. The Committee is chaired
by the Chief Executive and meets monthly. It comprises the executive directors and six senior executives of the company.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its responsibilities
for financial reporting and corporate control. The Committee meets twice a year and has been chaired by Mr H R Jenkins. Mr A M Thomson will
take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee following Mr Jenkins’ retirement. It comprises all the non-executive directors with the Chief
Executive, the Group Finance Director and the external and internal auditors in attendance.
The Nominations Committee is a sub-committee of the board responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on the
appointment of new directors. The Committee is chaired by Mr H M P Miles and comprises all the non-executive directors.
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee (MDRC) is a sub-committee of the board, which determines on behalf of the
board the remuneration of the executive directors. Since 25th March 2003 the Committee has been chaired by Mr C D Mackay and comprises
all the non-executive directors. The Chief Executive and Director of Human Resources attend by invitation except when their own performance
and remuneration are discussed.
Directors’ Remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37 includes details of remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The board considers effective communication with shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to be
extremely important.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its half year and full year results are announced and an interim report
and a full report are issued to shareholders. These reports are posted on Johnson Matthey’s website (www.matthey.com). At the same time,
executive directors give presentations on the results to institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other international centres.
Copies of major presentations are also posted on the company’s website.
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the company takes place in London and formal notification is sent to shareholders with the annual
report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting. The directors are available, formally during the AGM and informally afterwards, for
questions. Details of the 2003 AGM are set out in the notice of the meeting enclosed with this annual report.
Accountability, Audit and Control
The statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on page 38.
In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the group’s financial position and
prospects.
The group’s organisational structure is focused on its four divisions. These entities are all separately managed, but report to the board
through a board director. The executive management team receive monthly summaries of financial results from each division through a
standardised reporting process.
The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process including forecasts for the next two years. Variances from budget are
closely monitored.
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control
systems are designed to meet the group’s needs and address the risks to which it is exposed. Such a system can provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 31
Johnson Matthey
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company which has been in place
during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts. The board regularly reviews this process.
The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the board and updated on an annual basis. At the business level, the processes
to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part of the control environment. Key risks and internal controls are the subject of regular
reporting to the Chief Executive’s Committee.
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and authority limits
of the various board and executive committees and also specifies what may be decided without central approval. It is supplemented by other
specialist policy and procedures manuals issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or departments. The high intrinsic value
of many of the metals with which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical controls over precious metals held at the group’s sites.
The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the group’s systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity of
the financial information reported to the board. The Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives the reports
produced by the internal audit function on a regular basis. Actions are agreed with management in response to the internal audit reports
produced.
In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance with
group policies. These assessments are summarised by the internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit Committee.
The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year ended 31st March 2003 and the period up to 31st May 2003 has been
established in accordance with the guidance “Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code” issued in September 1999 and
that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Auditors
The performance of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee on a regular basis, including a formal review of the external auditors
every three years.
Both the board and the external auditors (KPMG Audit Plc) have for many years had safeguards to avoid the possibility that the auditors’
objectivity and independence could be compromised. Our policy in respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows:
> Audit related services – the external auditors are invited to provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must or are best placed
to undertake. It includes formalities relating to borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, various other regulatory reports and work in
respect of acquisitions and disposals.
> Tax consulting – in cases where they are best suited, we use the external auditors. All other significant tax consulting work is put out to tender.
> General consulting – in recognition of public concern over the effect of consulting services on auditors’ independence, our policy is that
the external auditors are not invited to tender for general consulting work.
Non-Compliance with the Combined Code
The item in the Code with which the group did not comply in full throughout the period together with the appropriate Code reference is
stated below:
Two of the executive directors were employed on contracts subject to two years’ notice at any time, which the MDRC previously considered
appropriate in the overall context of the executive directors’ terms of employment. The notice period in these service contracts has now been
reduced, without compensation, to twelve months. (B.1.7)
Corporate Social Responsibility
Measures to ensure ethical conduct and the identification and assessment of risks associated with social and environmental matters are
managed in conjunction with all other business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board and the Chief Executive’s Committee.
A summary report on the group’s policies and targets for corporate social responsibility is set out on pages 22 to 25. A full version of the
report is available on the company’s website.
Environmental risks are identified and assessed by the Environment, Health and Safety Committee (EHSC), which meets every two months.
This is chaired by the Director of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and reports to the Chief Executive’s Committee. All divisional directors
are members of the EHSC.
Performance is monitored using monthly statistics and detailed site audit reports. The Audit Committee considers risks associated with EHS
and monitors performance through the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the internal audit function.
Risks from employment and people issues are identified and assessed by the Executive Development Committee, which meets every two
months. This is chaired by the Chief Executive and is attended by all divisional directors and the Director of Human Resources.
Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable business practices and the group’s position on ethical issues. The
Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further operational guidelines to reinforce these.
Going Concern
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future and have, therefore, adopted the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. 32
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
REMUNERATION REPORT
Remuneration Report to Shareholders
Management Development and Remuneration Committee and its Terms of Reference
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee (the Committee) of the board comprises all the non-executive directors of the
company as set out on pages 26 and 27. Mr Fitzgibbons retired from the Committee on 16th July 2002. Messrs Thomson and Walvis joined the
Committee on 24th September 2002. During the year Mr Miles stood down as Chairman of the Committee and was succeeded by Mr Mackay.
The Committee’s terms of reference are to determine on behalf of the board competitive remuneration for the executive directors, which
recognises their individual contributions to the company’s overall performance. The Committee believes strongly that remuneration policy
should be completely aligned with shareholder interests. In addition the Committee assists the board in ensuring that the current and future
management of the group are recruited, developed and remunerated in an appropriate fashion.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board, within the limits prescribed by the company’s Articles of Association.
Executive Remuneration Policy
The Committee recognises that, in order to maximise shareholder value, it is necessary to have a competitive pay and benefits structure.
The Committee also recognises that there is a highly competitive market for successful executives and that the provision of appropriate
rewards for superior performance is vital to the continued growth of the business. To assist with this the Committee receives advice from
independent remuneration consultants on the pay and incentive arrangements prevailing in comparably sized industrial companies in each
country in which Johnson Matthey has operations. During the year such advice was received from The Hay Group, which also provided advice
on job evaluation, and the Monks Partnership. Watson Wyatt provided actuarial services and also gave advice on the acquisition of the Synetix
division from ICI. The Committee also receives recommendations from the Chief Executive on the remuneration of those reporting to him as
well as advice from the Director of Human Resources. Total potential rewards are earned through the achievement of demanding performance
targets based on measures that represent the best interests of shareholders.
The remuneration policy was reviewed by the Committee in 2002. Salaries are based on median market rates with incentives providing
the opportunity for upper quartile total remuneration, but only for achieving outstanding performance. Executive directors’ remuneration
consists of basic salary, annual bonus, a long term incentive plan, share options and other benefits as detailed below:
Basic Salary – which is in line with the median market salary for each director’s responsibilities as determined by independent surveys. Basic
salary is normally reviewed on 1st August each year and the Committee takes into account individual performance and promotion during the year.
Where an internal promotion takes place, a competitive salary relative to the market would usually be reached over a period of a few years, which
can give rise to higher than normal salary increases while this is being achieved.
Annual Bonus – which is paid as a percentage of basic salary under the terms of the company’s Executive Compensation Plan (which also
applies to the group’s 150 or so most senior executives). The executive directors’ bonus award is based on consolidated profit before tax (PBT)
compared with the annual budget. The board of directors rigorously reviews the annual budget to ensure that the budgeted PBT is sufficiently
stretching. An annual bonus payment of 30% of basic salary (prevailing at 31st March) is paid if the group meets the annual budget. This
bonus may rise to 50% of basic salary if the group achieves PBT of 107.5% of budget. There is a provision that a maximum 105% of basic
salary may be paid to the Chief Executive and 85% to other executive directors if 125% of budgeted PBT is achieved. PBT must reach 95%
of budget for a minimum bonus to be payable. The Committee has discretion to vary the awards made. The bonus awarded to executive
directors in 2002/03 was 40.8% of salary at 31st March 2003.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) – which was introduced in August 1998, is designed to achieve above average performance and growth.
Shares are allocated to directors and key executives subject to performance conditions. For shares allocated in the years 1998, 1999 and
2000 the number of shares released to the individual was and is dependent upon growth in Johnson Matthey’s relative total shareholder return
(TSR) compared with the FTSE 250 over a three year performance period. 100% of the allocated shares will be released to the individual if the
company’s relative TSR is in the 75th percentile or above. Between 35% and 100% of the allocated shares will be released pro rata between
the 50th and the 75th percentiles. No shares will be released at or below 50th percentile performance. Earnings per share (EPS) is used as a
second performance measure and requires an increase in EPS to be at least equal to the increase in UK RPI plus 2% p.a. over the
performance period before any release is made.
In 2001 shareholder approval was obtained for certain changes to the LTIP. The LTIP will continue to provide for the release of half of the
allocated shares based on the company’s relative TSR and EPS measures, as described above. The other half of the allocation will be released
subject to the achievement of absolute TSR growth over a three year period. Under this test no shares will be released should the absolute
TSR growth be less than 30%. 100% of the allocated shares will be released should the absolute TSR growth be 45% or more. Pro rata
allocations will be made for absolute TSR growth between 30% and 45%.
In determining the precise number of shares to be released at the conclusion of the performance period, the LTIP trustee will also take
into account the underlying financial performance of the company.
On 12th June 2002 Johnson Matthey moved into the FTSE 100, and as a consequence of this the Committee decided that a comparator group
of those companies ranked 50 - 150 in the FTSE index would be more appropriate than the FTSE 250 previously used. Hence the August 2002 and
subsequent allocations will be tested against this revised comparator group for that half of the allocation subject to the relative TSR test.
Share Options – option grants were not made to executive directors in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000. Previously, options were granted to
executive directors under the 1985 scheme (under which the final grant was made in November 1994) and the 1995 schemes with the latter
having a performance target of EPS growth of UK RPI plus 2% over a three year period. Options under all the schemes were granted in annual
tranches, up to the maximum permitted of four times earnings. 33
Johnson Matthey
REMUNERATION REPORT
Executive Remuneration Policy (continued)
Following the review by independent remuneration consultants, the Committee obtained shareholder approval in 2001 for the introduction
of a new employee share option scheme, known as the Johnson Matthey 2001 Share Option Scheme. The executive directors and
approximately 800 employees are awarded an annual grant of share options under the terms of this scheme. For executive directors the
Committee will award options each year up to a maximum of basic annual salary. The options will only be exercisable upon the achievement
of appropriate performance targets. The performance target is EPS growth of UK RPI plus 4% p.a. over any three year period. The Committee
has discretion to alter the performance targets for future options, but not so as to make the targets less challenging, and would only do so
after consultation with institutional investors.
Pensions – all the executive directors are members of the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme. Under the scheme, members are
entitled to a pension based on their service and final pensionable salary subject to Inland Revenue limits. The scheme also provides life
assurance cover of four times annual salary. The normal pension age for directors is 60. None of the non-executive directors are members of
the scheme. Details of the individual arrangements for executive directors are given on page 34.
Other Benefits – available to the executive directors are private medical insurance, a company car and membership of the group’s employee
share incentive plans which are open to all employees in the countries in which the group operates such schemes.
Service Contracts – Mr Clark, who was appointed to the board on 1st March 1990, Mr Sheldrick, who was appointed to the board on 1st
September 1990 and Messrs Carson and Morgan, who were appointed to the board on 1st August 1999, are employed on contracts subject to
one year’s notice at any time. On early termination of their contracts the directors would normally be entitled to 12 months’ salary and benefits.
Non-executive directors’ remuneration consists of fees which are set following advice taken from independent consultants. They are
reviewed at three year intervals.
Remuneration
Directors’ Emoluments 2002/03
Total Total prior year
Annual excluding excluding
Fees Salary bonus Benefits pension pension
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Executive
C R N Clark – 557 233 29 819 671
N A P Carson – 237 102 27 366 280
D W Morgan – 212 90 18 320 257
J N Sheldrick – 293 122 11 426 362
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
TOTAL CONTINUING DIRECTORS – 1,299 547 85 1,931 1,570
Former Executive Director
(1)
50 150 63 7 270 389
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
TOTAL 50 1,449 610 92 2,201 1,959
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-Executive
(2)
H M P Miles (Chairman) 180 18 198 181
M B Dearden 33 – 33 33
H E Fitzgibbons 11
(3)
–1133
H R Jenkins 37
(4)
–3737
C D Mackay 33 – 33 33
I C Strachan 33 – 33 6
A M Thomson 17
(5)
–17 –
R J W Walvis 17
(5)
–17 –
P F Retief – – – 17
(6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
TOTAL 361 18 379 340
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes:
(1)
Refers to Mr Titcombe, details on whom appear on page 36.
(2)
Non-executive fees were last reviewed on 1st April 2001 for all non-executives and on 1st October 2001 for the Chairman.
(3)
Retired July 2002.
(4)
Includes £4,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
(5)
Appointed September 2002.
(6)
Retired September 2001.
The annual bonus above is stated on an earned basis, i.e. in relation to performance in the year in question.
Benefits are shown as the assessment to tax for each director arising from the provision of a company car and, for the executive directors,
private medical insurance plus the cost of company contributions to the Johnson Matthey Share Incentive Plan.
Executive directors may, with the consent of the board, normally accept one, and a maximum of two, external directorships and retain
any related remuneration. 34
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
REMUNERATION REPORT
Pensions
Pensions and life assurance benefits for executive directors are provided through the company’s final salary occupational pension
scheme for UK employees – the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme (JMEPS) – which is constituted under a separate Trust Deed.
JMEPS is an exempt approved scheme under Chapter I of Part XIV of the Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and its members are
contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme and the State Second Pension.
In previous years’ accounts, disclosure of directors’ pension benefits has been made under the requirement of the Financial Services
Authority Listing Rules. These rules are still in place but it is now also necessary to make disclosures in accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The information below sets out the disclosures under the two sets of requirements.
a. Financial Services Authority Listing Rules
Director’s Increase in Total Total
contributions accrued accrued accrued
Years of to JMEPS pension pension at pension at Transfer FURBS FURBS
Age at service at during during 31st March 31st March value contribution related tax
31st March 31st March the year
(1)
the year
(2)
2003
(3)
2002 of increase
(4)
in the year
(5)
payments
(5)
2003 2003 £’000 £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 £’000 £’000
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
C R N Clark 61 40 - 19 396 371 331 N/A N/A
N A P Carson 45 22 9 19 103 82 113 N/A N/A
D W Morgan 45 14 4 3 29 26 11 45 30
J N Sheldrick 53 12 4 3 34 31 25 71 47
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
b. Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002
Director’s Increase in Total Transfer value Transfer value
contributions accrued accrued of accrued of accrued Increase/
Years of to JMEPS pension pension at pension at pension at (decrease) FURBS FURBS
service at during the during 31st March 31st March 31st March in transfer contribution related tax
31st March year
(1)
the year 2003
(3)
2003
(4)
2002
(4)
value for the year
(5)
payment
(5)
2003 £’000 £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
C R N Clark 40 - 25 396 6,968 6,360 608 N/A N/A
N A P Carson 22 9 21 103 654 730 (85) N/A N/A
D W Morgan 14 4 3 29 176 222 (50) 45 30
J N Sheldrick 12 4 3 34 356 380 (28) 71 47
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
Notes:
(1)
Members’ contributions are at the general scheme rate of 4% of pensionable pay, i.e. basic salary excluding bonuses. In accordance
with the JMEPS’ rules, Mr Clark ceased contributing to the scheme on attaining his normal retirement date at age 60.
(2)
The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase for inflation.
(3)
The entitlement shown under ‘Total accrued pension at 31st March 2003’ is the pension which would be paid annually on retirement,
based on pensionable service to 31st March 2003. The pension would, however, be subject to an actuarial reduction of 0.3% per
month for each month that retirement precedes age 60.
(4)
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note 11, less
directors’ contributions. No allowance has been made in the transfer values for any discretionary benefits that have been or may be
awarded under JMEPS. The transfer values in the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 have been calculated at the start
and at the end of the year and, therefore, take into account market movements.
(5)
The JMEPS’ benefits and contributions for Messrs Morgan and Sheldrick are restricted by reference to the ‘earnings cap’ imposed
by the Finance Act No. 2, 1989. Contributions have therefore been paid to Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Schemes
(FURBS) established by the company, independently of JMEPS, with effect from 1st April 2000. The purpose of each FURBS is to
provide retirement and death benefits in relation to basic salary in excess of the earnings cap on the same basis as the JMEPS.
Because FURBS are not exempt approved under Chapter I of Part XIV of the Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988, payments have
been made to meet the tax liabilities in respect of these contributions.
With the agreement of the scheme actuary, the company paid contributions of 10% of basic salaries to JMEPS during the year. 35
Johnson Matthey
REMUNERATION REPORT
Directors’ Interests
The interests of the directors as at 31st March 2003 in the shares of the company, according to the register required to be kept by section
325(1) of the Companies Act 1985, were:
1Ordinary Shares
31st March 31st March
2003 2002
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
C R N Clark 65,770 26,362
N A P Carson 36,773 19,899
M B Dearden 2,000 2,000
H R Jenkins 1,500 1,500
C D Mackay 12,500 12,500
H M P Miles 562 562
D W Morgan 34,913 18,586
J N Sheldrick 91,860 35,378
I C Strachan 1,000 1,000
A M Thomson 2,000 N/A*
R J W Walvis 1,000 N/A*
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
* No shares were held at date of appointment.
The directors are also deemed to be interested in the shares held by two employee benefit trusts (see note 17 on page 59).
2 Share Options
As at 31st March 2003, individual holdings under the company’s executive share option schemes were as set out below. Options are
not granted to the non-executive directors.
Ordinary Exercise Date from Total number
Date of shares under price which of ordinary shares
grant option (pence) exercisable Expiry date under option
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
C R N Clark 17.7.96 41,379 574.50 17.7.99 17.7.06
18.7.01 48,938 1083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 65,895 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12 156,212
(2002: 136,400)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
N A P Carson 14.7.98 15,964 524.00 14.7.01 14.7.08
22.7.99 18,035 585.50 22.7.02 22.7.09
18.7.01 19,391 1083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 28,901 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12 82,291
(2002: 53,390)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
D W Morgan 17.7.96 12,233 574.50 17.7.99 17.7.06
6.1.97 19,000 553.00 6.1.00 6.1.07
14.7.98 15,835 524.00 14.7.01 14.7.08
22.7.99 17,472 585.50 22.7.02 22.7.09
18.7.01 18,098 1083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 25,433 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12 108,071
(2002: 138,399)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
J N Sheldrick 27.11.97 35,488 553.00 27.11.00 27.11.07
18.7.01 25,854 1083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 34,682 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12 96,024
(2002: 124,518)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
Notes:
Between 1st April 2002 and 31st March 2003 the following options were exercised:
Date of Date of Options Exercise price Market price on
grant exercise exercised (pence) exercise (pence)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
C R N Clark 17.7.97 17.6.02 46,083 556.00 1088.40
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
D W Morgan 14.7.93 17.6.02 12,086 447.95 1088.40
13.7.94 17.6.02 10,157 526.71 1088.40
17.8.95 17.6.02 33,518 578.89 1088.40
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
J N Sheldrick 13.7.94 17.6.02 32,400 526.71 1088.40
17.7.96 17.6.02 30,776 574.50 1088.40
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
Gains made on exercise of options by directors during the year totalled £1,318,863 (2002: £412,092). This figure includes the gains
made by Mr Titcombe, details of which appear on page 36.
The closing market price of the company’s shares at 31st March 2003 was 737 pence and the range during 2002/03 was 725 pence
to 1170 pence. 36
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Directors’ Interests (continued)
3LTIP Allocations
Number of allocated shares:
As at Allocations Shares released As at
31st March 2002 during the year during the year 31st March 2003
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
C R N Clark 194,272 69,175 74,830 188,617
N A P Carson 68,758 24,272 27,211 65,819
D W Morgan 65,401 21,359 26,361 60,399
J N Sheldrick 98,209 29,126 41,531 85,804
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The LTIP was introduced in 1998 and on 2nd August 2002 the 1999 LTIP allocation was released to participants. The company’s TSR
performance relative to the FTSE 250 was in the 92nd percentile during the periods under measurement and EPS performance targets
as described on page 32 were also achieved. The outcome was that EPS increased by 41.1% over the performance period compared
to the minimum target of 12.4 %. 100% of the shares were therefore released in accordance with the rules as approved by shareholders.
This resulted in the following gains:
Share price
Number of when released Gain
shares released (pence) £
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
C R N Clark 74,830 872 652,518
N A P Carson 27,211 872 237,280
D W Morgan 26,361 872 229,868
J N Sheldrick 41,531 872 362,150
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
These figures do not include the gains made by Mr Titcombe, details of which appear on page 37.
Directors’ interests at 31st May 2003 were unchanged from those listed above with the following exceptions:
The Trustees of the Johnson Matthey Share Incentive Plan have purchased on behalf of Messrs Clark, Carson, Morgan and Sheldrick
a further 90 ordinary shares each.
Former Executive Director
Mr D G Titcombe
Mr Titcombe retired from the board of Johnson Matthey on 24th September 2002. His emoluments for 2002/03 until he retired were as follows:
Total prior
Annual Total excluding year excluding
Salary bonus Benefits pension pension
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
150 63 7 220 389
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes:
Mr Titcombe’s annual bonus for the year 2002/03 is pro-rated for the period up to 30th September 2002. He will continue to receive private
medical insurance cover for life at a cost of £1,639 p.a., in accordance with the terms of his contract. He has been engaged as a self-employed
consultant since his retirement. His fee in the period from his retirement to 31st March 2003 was £50,000.
Share Options
Between 1st April 2002 and 31st March 2003 Mr Titcombe made a gain of £428,138 on the exercise of share options as follows:
Date of Date of Options Exercise Market price on
grant exercise exercised price (pence) exercise (pence)
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
17.8.95 17.6.02 38,098 578.89 1088.40
17.7.96 17.6.02 30,776 574.50 1088.40
17.7.97 17.6.02 14,250 556.00 1088.40
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Mr Titcombe did not receive share options in the 2002 grant in accordance with the Committee’s policy on option grants within two years
of retirement. Similarly, options granted on 18th July 2001 (27,424 options at 1083.00 pence) were forfeited since they had not been held for
two years at retirement.
LTIP
The number of allocated shares held by Mr Titcombe was as follows:
As at Shares released Shares forfeited As at
31st March 2002 during the year in the year 31st March 2003
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
103,424 43,418 28,640 31,366
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
REMUNERATION REPORT 37
Johnson Matthey
Directors’ Interests (continued)
Mr Titcombe did not receive an allocation of shares under the LTIP in 2002 in accordance with the trustees’ policy of not allocating shares
within two years of retirement.
On 2nd August 2002 the 1999 LTIP allocation was released to participants as previously detailed on page 36. This resulted in the following
gains for Mr Titcombe:
Number of Share price Gain
shares released when released (pence) £
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
43,418 872 378,605
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Pension
Mr Titcombe retired on 24th September 2002. His pension was calculated in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules of JMEPS. The
total pension payable from 24th September 2002 is £214,000 p.a. and this will increase annually in line with the UK RPI up to a maximum of
5% p.a.
The increase in Mr Titcombe’s annual pension between 31st March 2002 and the date of retirement was £11,000 and the value of that
increase, calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note 11, based on market conditions at 31st March 2003 and less his own
contribution of £5,000, was £193,000.
The transfer values of the pension accrued at the start of the year and the retirement pension at 24th September 2002 (but based on market
conditions at 31st March 2003), calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note 11 and less his own contributions, were £3.366 million
and £3.852 million respectively. This is an increase over the year of £481,000 which takes account of market movements.
Total Shareholder Return
The following graph charts total cumulative shareholder return of the company for the five year period to 31st March 2003 against the
FTSE 100 and the FTSE 250, as the most appropriate comparator groups, with each rebased to 100 at 1st April 1998.
Johnson Matthey joined the FTSE 100 on 12th June 2002. For the LTIP allocations in 1998, 1999 and 2000, the number of shares released
was and is dependent on Johnson Matthey’s relative TSR compared with the FTSE 250 over a three year performance period. Both indices
are therefore included as comparators.
Johnson Matthey Total Shareholder Return, FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 rebased to 100
(31st March 1998 to 31st March 2003)
C D Mackay
Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee
REMUNERATION REPORT
250
200
150
100
50 
March 1998
Johnson Matthey FTSE 100 FTSE 250
0 
March 1999 March 2001 March 2002 March 2003 March 2000 38
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTORS
for the preparation of the accounts 
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and group and of the profit or loss for that period. In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to:
> select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently,
> make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent,
> state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
accounts,
> prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities. 39
Johnson Matthey
We have audited the accounts on pages 40 to 72. We have also audited the tabulated information and related footnotes set out in the
Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37 disclosing the directors’ emoluments and compensation, share options, long term incentive plan,
pensions and other matters specified by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the directors’ remuneration report. As described on page 38 this includes
responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards. Our responsibilities, as
independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and by our profession’s ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 30 and 31 reflects the company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk
and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the
directors’ remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
> the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at 31st March 2003 and of the profit of the
group for the year then ended; and
> the accounts and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
4th June 2003
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
to the members of Johnson Matthey Public Limited Company 40
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the year ended 31st March 2003
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional
items and items and items and
goodwill goodwill goodwill
amortisation amortisation Total amortisation Total
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Turnover 1
Continuing operations 4,260.5 – 4,260.5 4,828.9 4,828.9
Acquisitions 63.4 – 63.4 ––
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total continuing operations 4,323.9 – 4,323.9 4,828.9 4,828.9
Discontinued operations 9 ––– 1.2 1.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Group turnover 4,323.9 – 4,323.9 4,830.1 4,830.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit 1
Continuing operations 195.8 – 195.8 193.9 193.9
Acquisitions 9.4 – 9.4 ––
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total continuing operations before goodwill amortisation 205.2 – 205.2 193.9 193.9
Goodwill amortisation –(13.7) (13.7) – (6.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Continuing operations before exceptional items 205.2 (13.7) 191.5 193.9 187.1
Exceptional items 2 – (7.4) (7.4) – (18.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total continuing operations 205.2 (21.1) 184.1 193.9 169.0
Discontinued operations 9 ––– (0.5) (0.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Group operating profit 4 205.2 (21.1) 184.1 193.4 168.5
Share of profit in associates 0.5 – 0.5 (0.1) (0.1)
Share of exceptional items in associates 2 – (0.2) (0.2) ––
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total operating profit 205.7 (21.3) 184.4 193.3 168.4
Profit on sale of continuing operations
Sale of an interest in Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited 2 – 10.9 10.9 ––
Exchange of Australian gold operations for share of AGR Matthey 2 – (6.0) (6.0) ––
Profit on sale / closure of discontinued operations
Sale of French print business ––– – (5.5)
Closure of Metawave Video Systems Ltd ––– – (0.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 205.7 (16.4) 189.3 193.3 162.8
Net interest 3 (13.2) – (13.2) (6.1) (6.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 5 192.5 (16.4) 176.1 187.2 156.7
Taxation 6 (57.2) 2.7 (54.5) (56.0) (50.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit after taxation 135.3 (13.7) 121.6 131.2 106.5
Minority interests 26 0.4 – 0.4 0.3 0.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit attributable to shareholders 135.7 (13.7) 122.0 131.5 106.8
Dividends 7 (55.5) – (55.5) (53.2) (53.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Retained profit for the year 25 80.2 (13.7) 66.5 78.3 53.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
pence pence pence pence
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share
Basic 8 62.6 56.2 60.4 49.0
Diluted 8 62.2 55.9 59.7 48.5
Dividend per ordinary share 7 25.5 25.5 24.6 24.6
The notes on pages 46 to 72 form an integral part of the accounts. 41
Johnson Matthey
CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEETS
as at 31st March 2003
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Fixed assets
Goodwill 11 369.1 182.6 110.0 0.2
Tangible fixed assets 12 601.1 495.1 196.1 155.3
Investments 13 6.4 2.7 463.4 390.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
976.6 680.4 769.5 545.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current assets
Stocks 15 438.4 414.3 232.8 246.7
Debtors: due within one year 16 369.3 345.2 599.3 646.9
Debtors: due after more than one year 16 124.3 108.8 460.4 264.5
Short term investments 17 15.3 16.6 13.2 13.9
Cash at bank and in hand 18 100.4 92.6 33.4 3.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1,047.7 977.5 1,339.1 1,175.6
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings and finance leases 18 (46.5) (65.8) (27.5) (45.4)
Precious metal leases 20 (128.0) (131.0) (107.9) (139.2)
Other creditors 21 (386.0) (359.2) (758.4) (754.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net current assets 487.2 421.5 445.3 236.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets less current liabilities 1,463.8 1,101.9 1,214.8 782.1
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings and finance leases 18 (456.4) (185.8) (450.3) (178.7)
Other creditors 21 (0.6) (0.4) (153.0) (0.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (100.4) (98.1) (52.8) (50.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 906.4 817.6 558.7 552.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 24 219.5 218.7 219.5 218.7
Share premium account 25 131.8 128.2 131.8 128.2
Capital redemption reserve 25 4.9 4.9 4.9 4.9
Associates’ reserves 25 0.1 (0.2) – –
Profit and loss account 25 539.3 462.1 202.5 201.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Shareholders’ funds 895.6 813.7 558.7 552.9
Minority interests 26 10.8 3.9 – –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
906.4 817.6 558.7 552.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 3rd June 2003 and signed on its behalf by:
C R N Clark
Directors
J N Sheldrick
The notes on pages 46 to 72 form an integral part of the accounts. 42
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31st March 2003
2003 2002
Notes £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Reconciliation of operating profit to net
cash inflow from operating activities
Operating profit 184.1 168.5
Depreciation and amortisation charges 68.1 55.1
Loss / (profit) on disposal of tangible fixed assets and investments 0.5 (1.4)
Increase in owned stocks (7.7) (83.6)
(Increase) / decrease in debtors (3.6) 73.9
(Decrease) / increase in creditors and provisions (11.5) 11.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash inflow from operating activities 229.9 224.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash Flow Statement
Net cash inflow from operating activities 229.9 224.1
Dividends received from associates 0.1 0.1
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 28 (13.4) (4.9)
Taxation (42.4) (55.8)
Capital expenditure and financial investment 28 (124.7) (131.0)
Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisitions 28 (271.2) (143.5)
Disposals 28 22.4 (2.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash outflow for acquisitions and disposals (248.8) (145.7)
Equity dividends paid (54.0) (52.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing (253.3) (165.3)
Management of liquid resources 28 1.0 0.2
Financing
Issue and purchase of share capital 28 2.8 (44.1)
Increase in borrowings and finance leases 28 259.7 57.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash inflow from financing 262.5 13.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Increase / (decrease) in cash in the period 10.2 (151.7)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Increase / (decrease) in cash in the period 10.2 (151.7)
Cash inflow from movement in borrowings and finance leases 29 (259.7) (57.5)
Cash inflow from term deposits included in liquid resources (1.0) (0.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Change in net funds / debt resulting from cash flows (250.5) (209.4)
Borrowings and finance leases acquired with subsidiaries (0.4) (46.8)
Loan notes issued to acquire subsidiaries (6.8) (40.6)
New finance leases – (4.3)
Translation difference 29 14.2 2.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Movement in net funds / debt in year (243.5) (298.9)
Net (debt) / funds at beginning of year 29 (159.0) 139.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net debt at end of year 29 (402.5) (159.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The notes on pages 46 to 72 form an integral part of the accounts. 43
Johnson Matthey
TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
for the year ended 31st March 2003
MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit attributable to shareholders 122.0 106.8
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments and related loans (2.7) (8.0)
Taxation on translation differences on foreign currency loans 8.3 0.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 127.6 99.3
Prior year adjustment – (44.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total recognised gains and losses recognised since previous annual report 127.6 55.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
There were no material differences between reported profits and losses and historical cost profits and losses on ordinary activities before tax
for 2003 and 2002.
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit attributable to shareholders 122.0 106.8
Dividends (55.5) (53.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Retained profit for the year 66.5 53.6
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year 5.6 (7.5)
New share capital subscribed 4.4 6.1
Goodwill written back on set up of AGR Matthey 5.4 –
Rollover of share options on acquisitions – 0.7
Purchase of own shares – (45.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net movement in shareholders’ funds 81.9 7.0
Opening shareholders’ funds 813.7 806.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Closing shareholders’ funds 895.6 813.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The notes on pages 46 to 72 form an integral part of the accounts. 44
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31st March 2003
Accounting convention: The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost
convention.
Basis of consolidation: The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent company and all its subsidiary undertakings and
include the group’s interest in associates.
The results of companies acquired or disposed of in the year are dealt with from or up to the effective date of acquisition or disposal respectively.
The net assets of companies acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair values to the group at the date of acquisition.
The parent company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Turnover: Comprises all invoiced sales of goods and services exclusive of sales taxes.
Financial instruments: The group uses financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage
the financial risks associated with the group’s underlying business activities and the financing of those activities. The group does not undertake
any trading activity in financial instruments.
A discussion of how the group manages its financial risks is included in the Financial Review on page 10. Financial instruments are accounted
for as follows:
> Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign
currencies. These forward contracts are revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised gains
and losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors / other creditors. At maturity, or when the contract ceases to be a hedge,
gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
> Currency options are occasionally used to hedge foreign exchange exposures, usually when the forecast receipt or payment amounts are
uncertain. Option premia are recognised at their historic cost in the group balance sheet as prepayments. At maturity, or upon exercise,
the option premia net of any realised gains on exercise are taken to the profit and loss account.
> Interest rate swaps are occasionally used to hedge the group’s exposure to movements on interest rates. The interest payable or receivable
on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings. Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value
prior to maturity.
> Currency swaps are used to reduce costs and credit exposure where the group would otherwise have cash deposits and borrowings in
different currencies. The difference between spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of the net interest payable over
the period of the contract. These swaps are revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised
gains or losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors / other creditors. Realised gains and losses on these currency swaps
are taken to reserves in the same way as for the foreign investments and borrowings to which the swaps relate.
The aggregate fair values at the balance sheet date of the hedging instruments described above are disclosed as a note on the accounts.
The group has taken advantage of the exemption available for short term debtors and creditors.
Foreign currencies: Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies and cash flows included in the cash flow statement are translated into
sterling at average exchange rates for the year. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at the
balance sheet date. Gains or losses arising on the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings are taken
to reserves, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings. Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and
loss account.
Research and development expenditure: Charged against profits in the year incurred.
Goodwill: Goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 1st April 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated
useful economic life, which is 20 years or less if it is considered appropriate. Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves has not been
reinstated, but will be charged to the profit and loss account on subsequent disposal of the businesses to which it relates.
Depreciation: Freehold land and certain office buildings are not depreciated. The depreciation charge and accumulated depreciation of
these properties would be immaterial and they are reviewed for impairment annually. Other fixed assets are depreciated on a straight line basis
at annual rates which vary according to the class of asset, but are typically: leasehold property 3.33% (or at higher rates based on the life of
the lease); freehold buildings 3.33%; and plant and equipment 10% to 33%.
Leases: The cost of assets held under finance leases is included under tangible fixed assets and the capital element of future lease payments
is included in borrowings. Depreciation is provided in accordance with the group’s accounting policy for the class of asset concerned. Lease
payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account using the annuity
method. Rentals under operating leases are expensed as incurred. 45
Johnson Matthey
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31st March 2003
Grants in respect of capital expenditure: Grants received in respect of capital expenditure are included in creditors and released
to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the expected useful lives of the related assets.
Precious metal stocks: Stocks of gold, silver and platinum group metals are valued according to the source from which the metal is
obtained. Metal which has been purchased and committed to future sales to customers or hedged in metal markets is valued at the price at
which it is contractually committed or hedged, adjusted for unexpired contango or backwardation. Leased metal is valued at market prices at
the balance sheet date. Other precious metal stocks owned by the group, which are unhedged, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable
value.
Other stocks: These are valued at the lower of cost, including attributable overheads, and net realisable value.
Deferred taxation: Provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date and which could
give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Pensions and other retirement benefits: The group operates a number of contributory and non-contributory schemes, mainly of the
defined benefit type, which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds. The cost of these schemes is charged to the
profit and loss account over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the schemes’ independent actuaries. Variations
from the regular cost are spread over the average expected remaining service lives of current employees. The cost of the defined contribution
schemes is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The cost of post-retirement health care benefits is charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the expected service lives
of employees. The actuarial liability for the cost of these benefits is fully provided for in the balance sheet.
Additional disclosures are included for pensions and other retirement benefits in accordance with the transitional arrangements of Financial
Reporting Standard (FRS) 17 – ‘Retirement Benefits’.
The group will be adopting FRS 17 in full for the financial year ending 31st March 2004. 46
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
1 Segmental information
Turnover Operating profit Net operating assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Activity analysis
Catalysts 1,083.4 1,302.6 104.4 94.7 788.0 446.4
Precious Metals 2,857.1 3,167.4 50.1 55.9 59.9 82.0
Colours & Coatings 255.7 253.4 28.5 25.5 208.9 200.7
Pharmaceutical Materials 127.7 105.5 36.9 31.3 278.8 268.4
Corporate – – (14.2) (13.6) (26.7) (20.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
4,323.9 4,828.9 205.7 193.8 1,308.9 976.6
Discontinued operations – 1.2 – (0.5) – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total turnover 4,323.9 4,830.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill amortisation (note 11) (13.7) (6.8)
Exceptional items included in operating profit (note 2) (7.6) (18.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
184.4 168.4 1,308.9 976.6
Profit on sale of continuing operations (note 2) 4.9 –
Profit on sale / closure of discontinued operations – (5.6)
Net interest (13.2) (6.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 176.1 156.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net borrowings and finance leases (402.5) (159.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 906.4 817.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Turnover Operating profit Net operating assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Geographical analysis by origin
Europe 2,964.7 3,304.1 76.2 75.3 955.8 625.0
North America 1,082.2 1,280.1 87.0 84.6 233.4 245.1
Asia 844.7 955.5 12.3 13.3 74.6 48.7
Rest of the World 234.2 271.3 30.2 20.6 45.1 57.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
5,125.8 5,811.0 205.7 193.8 1,308.9 976.6
Discontinued operations – 2.0 – (0.5) – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
5,125.8 5,813.0
Less inter-segment sales (801.9) (982.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total turnover 4,323.9 4,830.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill amortisation (note 11) (13.7) (6.8)
Exceptional items included in operating profit (note 2) (7.6) (18.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
184.4 168.4 1,308.9 976.6
Profit on sale of continuing operations (note 2) 4.9 –
Profit on sale / closure of discontinued operations – (5.6)
Net interest (13.2) (6.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 176.1 156.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net borrowings and finance leases (402.5) (159.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 906.4 817.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– 47
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
1 Segmental information (continued)
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External turnover by geographical destination
Europe 1,800.2 2,070.0
North America 1,228.7 1,356.4
Asia 1,023.0 1,112.8
Rest of the World 272.0 290.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total turnover 4,323.9 4,830.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Turnover by destination relating to the United Kingdom amounted to £1,050.3 million (2002 £1,277.5 million).
2Exceptional items
An exceptional charge of £7.6 million (2002 £18.1 million) has been included in operating profit. This comprises:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost of integrating Synetix (6.5) –
Profit on sale of unhedged palladium 5.1 7.2
Cost of rationalising Australian operations following the set up of AGR Matthey (1.2) –
Other Catalysts’ rationalisation costs (4.8) –
Cost of rationalising Meconic plc – (1.3)
Cost of rationalising Colours & Coatings – (24.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Exceptional items in group operating profit (7.4) (18.1)
Share of exceptional items in associates – AGR Matthey (0.2) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Exceptional items in total operating profit (7.6) (18.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
These charges arise in Europe (£4.8 million, 2002 £17.4 million), North America (£1.4 million, 2002 £0.6 million) and Rest of the World
(£1.4 million, 2002 £0.1 million).
The sale of a 17.5% interest in the group’s fuel cell components subsidiary, Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited, produced a profit of
£10.9 million (note 33).
The exchange of Precious Metals’ Australian gold operations for a share of AGR Matthey gave rise to a net loss of £6.0 million, of which
£5.4 million was goodwill previously written off directly to reserves (note 32).
3 Net interest
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (8.5) (10.9)
Interest payable on other loans (13.6) (6.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(22.1) (17.0)
Interest receivable from associates 0.2 –
Other interest receivable 9.0 10.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net interest – group (12.9) (6.1)
Share of interest payable by associates – payable to group (0.2) –
Share of interest payable by associates – other (0.1) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net interest (13.2) (6.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– 48
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
4Group operating profit after exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
2003 2003 2003 2002
Continuing
operations Acquisitions Total Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Group turnover 4,260.5 63.4 4,323.9 4,830.1
Cost of materials sold (3,601.6) (19.1) (3,620.7) (4,185.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net revenues 658.9 44.3 703.2 644.4
Other cost of sales (323.5) (23.8) (347.3) (330.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gross profit 335.4 20.5 355.9 313.8
Distribution costs (61.8) (11.6) (73.4) (60.0)
Administrative expenses (92.4) (6.0) (98.4) (85.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Group operating profit 181.2 2.9 184.1 168.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
For continuing operations, exceptional credits of £5.1 million (2002 £4.6 million) are included in cost of materials sold, and exceptional
charges of £3.5 million (2002 £18.4 million) are included in other cost of sales, £0.7 million (2002 £0.5 million) in distribution costs and
£1.8 million (2002 £3.8 million) in administrative expenses. Goodwill amortisation of £13.7 million (2002 £6.8 million) is included in
administrative expenses, of which £4.1 million relates to acquisitions made in the year. For acquisitions exceptional charges were
£6.5 million, of which £1.6 million are included in other cost of sales, £1.0 million in distribution costs and £3.9 million in administrative
expenses.
5Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is arrived at after charging / (crediting):
Research and development 50.7 47.6
less external funding received (2.3) (3.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net research and development 48.4 44.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Depreciation – on owned assets 54.1 48.0
– on leased assets 0.3 0.3
Auditors’ remuneration – parent company 0.5 0.4
– subsidiary undertakings 0.6 0.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
– group 1.1 1.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other fees paid to auditors and their associates – United Kingdom 0.4 0.5
– Rest of the World 0.4 0.3
Other fees paid to KPMG relate to tax compliance and tax advice mainly for the group’s overseas subsidiaries (£0.3 million, 2002
£0.2 million), acquisition related work including due diligence (£0.1 million, 2002 £0.1 million), assistance in the implementation of a new
ERP computer system (£0.3 million, 2002 £0.4 million) and statutory and other compliance work (£0.1 million, 2002 £0.1 million).
Operating lease rentals – on plant and machinery 2.8 2.3
– on other operating leases 6.5 6.7
Directors’ fees were £0.4 million (2002 £0.3 million) and other emoluments were £2.2 million (2002 £2.0 million). Details are given in the
Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37. 49
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
6Taxation
6a Analysis of tax charge in the year
2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current tax
UK corporation tax on profits for the year 17.8 9.2
Adjustment for prior years 0.3 1.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
18.1 10.8
Double taxation relief (0.8) (0.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
17.3 10.5
Foreign tax on profits for the year 26.4 33.1
Adjustment for prior years (0.6) (4.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
25.8 29.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current tax 43.1 39.5
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences 13.7 16.5
Changes in tax rate and laws (0.2) –
Adjustment to estimated recoverable amount of deferred
tax assets arising in prior years 0.6 (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total deferred tax 14.1 16.4
Associates – 0.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total taxation before tax on exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 57.2 56.0
Tax on goodwill amortisation – current tax (0.7) –
Tax on exceptional items included in total operating profit – current tax 0.3 (2.0)
Tax on exceptional items included in total operating profit – deferred tax (2.3) (3.2)
Tax on profit on sale / closure of discontinued operations – current tax – (0.6)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total taxation 54.5 50.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
6b Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are as follows:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 192.5 187.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2002 30%) 57.8 56.2
Effects of:
Overseas tax rates 2.6 5.6
Pension credits and contributions (7.3) (3.5)
Provisions (3.8) (2.3)
Capital allowances for the year (in excess of) / less than depreciation (12.4) 0.1
Stock adjustments 6.7 (10.3)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.4 1.4
Non-taxable income – (0.7)
Net utilisation of tax losses (1.0) (2.7)
Adjustments for prior years (0.3) (2.5)
Research and development credits (1.4) (0.6)
Other 0.8 (1.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current tax charge for the year 43.1 39.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– 50
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
6c Factors that may affect future tax charges
The overall tax rate would be likely to rise if the proportion of profits in overseas territories were to increase reflecting the higher
corporation tax rates in those countries in which the group operates. In addition the tax rate would be impacted by the extent to which
losses are available to offset taxable income.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of the overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures other than in the
case of the group’s captive insurance company where cumulative deferred tax of £0.5 million (credit for the year £0.4 million) has been
provided on an accrued dividend.
7 Dividends
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interim ordinary dividend paid – 7.8 pence per share (2002 7.5 pence per share) 17.0 16.2
Final ordinary dividend proposed – 17.7 pence per share (2002 17.1 pence per share) 38.5 37.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total dividends 55.5 53.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
8 Earnings per ordinary share
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders is £122.0 million (2002 £106.8 million). This is divided by the weighted average number of
shares in issue calculated as 216,938,883 (2002 217,829,287) to give basic earnings per share of 56.2 pence (2002 49.0 pence).
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares in issue adjusted by the dilutive
outstanding share options and long term incentive plan. These adjustments give rise to an increase in the weighted average number of
shares in issue of 1,279,946 (2002 2,357,398), giving diluted earnings per share of 55.9 pence (2002 48.5 pence).
Before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and the tax thereon, basic earnings per share were 62.6 pence (2002 60.4 pence) and
diluted earnings per share were 62.2 pence (2002 59.7 pence).
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Attributable profit 122.0 106.8
Goodwill amortisation 13.7 6.8
Exceptional items 2.7 23.7
Tax thereon (2.7) (5.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Adjusted profit 135.7 131.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
Basic 62.6p 60.4p
Diluted 62.2p 59.7p
9 Discontinued operations
Turnover Operating profit
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
French print business – 1.2 – (0.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– 51
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
10 Employee information
10a Employee numbers
2003 2002
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The average monthly number of employees during the year was as follows:
Catalysts 3,702 3,272
Precious Metals 1,174 1,128
Colours & Coatings 1,739 1,858
Pharmaceutical Materials 534 406
Research and Corporate 226 266
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Average number of employees – continuing 7,375 6,930
Discontinued operations – 58
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Average number of employees – total 7,375 6,988
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Actual number of employees at 31st March 7,505 6,996
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The number of temporary employees included above at 31st March 2003 was 234 (2002 225).
10b Employee costs
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Wages and salaries 209.1 187.5
Social security costs 20.6 19.0
Other pension costs 7.3 3.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total employee costs 237.0 209.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
10c Retirement benefits
(i) United Kingdom pension schemes
The group’s principal UK pension scheme is of the defined benefit type which requires contributions to be made to a separately
administered fund. At 1st April 2000, the date of the latest actuarial valuation, the market value of the UK scheme’s assets was
£633.0 million, the actuarial value of which represented 141% of the liability for benefits that had accrued to that date, making full
allowance for future salary and pension increases. This represents an actuarial surplus of £164.2 million. A surplus cannot be
refunded to the group except by dissolution of the scheme in accordance with the rules of the scheme and relevant legislation. The
group has recommenced company contributions this year at a rate of 10% of pensionable pay. The financial assumptions
applicable to the last actuarial valuation at 1st April 2000 were: long term rate of investment return 6.75%, dividend increase rate
4%, general salary and wage inflation rate 5% and pension increase rate 3%.
In accordance with the applicable accounting standard, the surplus on the group’s principal UK pension fund has been spread
over the average of the expected remaining service lives of current employees (12 years) as a variation from regular cost. The
regular pension cost is assessed using the projected unit method.
Synetix operated a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes which required contributions to be made to
separately administered funds. The employees in the defined benefit schemes have joined the group’s principal UK pension
scheme and from 1st April 2003 the assets of the defined contribution schemes will be held in a separate section of the group’s
principal UK pension scheme.
The group’s other UK pension schemes relate to Meconic Limited. Meconic operates a number of defined contribution schemes
and one scheme, closed to new members on 31st December 1998, providing benefits based on final pensionable salary. The
assets of these schemes are held in separately administered funds. At 31st December 1999, the date of the latest actuarial
valuation, the market value of the defined benefits scheme’s assets was £18.6 million, the actuarial value (based on 95% of market
value) of which represented 104% of the liability for benefits that had accrued to that date, making full allowance for future salary
and pension increases. This represents an actuarial surplus of £0.8 million which has been spread over the average of the expected
remaining service lives of current employees (10 years) as a variation from regular cost. The regular pension cost is assessed using
the attained age method. The financial assumptions applicable to the last actuarial valuation at 31st December 1999 were: long
term rate of investment return 7.0% reduced to 5.0% in respect of the period post retirement, general salary and wage inflation rate
4.5% and pension increase rate 3%. On 1st April 2003 the Meconic defined benefits scheme will be merged into the group’s main
UK scheme and a full actuarial valuation of the enlarged scheme is being undertaken as at that date. 52
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
10c Retirement benefits (continued)
(ii) Foreign schemes
Pension costs relating to foreign schemes are charged in accordance with local best practice using different accounting policies.
The group’s largest foreign scheme is in the US, which is of the defined benefit type and which requires contributions to be made
to a separately administered fund. This scheme is accounted for using the applicable US accounting standard. The cost of
obtaining actuarial valuations for the purpose of adjusting to the applicable UK accounting standard is considered to be out of
proportion to the benefits to be gained.
(iii) Other retirement benefits
These costs are charged on an accruals basis similar to that used for pensions. The actuarial liability for the cost of these benefits
is fully provided for in the balance sheet.
(iv) Profit and loss account and balance sheet impact of providing retirement benefits
The effect of providing pensions and other retirement benefits on operating profit was as follows:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
United Kingdom
Regular pension cost (14.1) (12.5)
Variation from regular cost 7.5 8.2
Interest on prepayment 7.3 7.0
Cost of post-retirement medical benefits (0.4) (0.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
0.3 2.3
Overseas
Cost of foreign pension schemes (6.2) (4.5)
Cost of post-retirement medical benefits (1.4) (0.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(7.3) (3.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The following prepayments and provisions relating to pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits are included in the group
and parent company’s balance sheets:
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Prepaid pension costs in the UK 115.9 107.7 115.9 107.7
Prepaid pension costs overseas 11.9 3.0 – –
Provision for foreign pensions 1.7 1.0 – –
Provision for post-retirement medical benefits – UK 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.1
Provision for post-retirement medical benefits – overseas 12.2 12.7 – –
(v) FRS 17 – ‘Retirement Benefits’ disclosures – group
The group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and the US. Full actuarial valuations were carried out at 1st April
2000 for the principal UK scheme, 31st December 1999 for the Meconic defined benefits scheme and 30th June 2002 for the US
schemes and updated to 31st March 2003 by qualified independent actuaries. For the principal UK scheme the group made
company contributions of £12.2 million (2002 £ nil) in the year, being regular contributions of £6.2 million at a rate of 10% of
pensionable pay and special contributions of £6.0 million. The contribution to the Meconic defined benefits scheme amounted to
£0.7 million (2002 £0.6 million) and to the US schemes £11.3 million (2002 £11.3 million). The Meconic defined benefits scheme
closed to new members on 31st December 1998 and under the projected unit method the current service cost would increase as
the members of the scheme approach retirement. The group operates a number of other small schemes around the world which
are not material and their net liabilities of £0.6 million (2002 £0.4 million) are included in the balance sheet.
The main assumptions were:
2003 2003 2002 2002
UK schemes US schemes UK schemes US schemes
%% %%
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Rate of increase in salaries 3.75 4.25 4.75 4.50
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.25 – 2.75 –
Discount rate 5.40 6.25 5.80 7.25
Inflation 2.25 2.75 2.75 3.50
Current medical benefits cost trend rate 5.00 9.50 5.50 10.00
Ultimate medical benefits cost trend rate 5.00 5.00 5.50 5.00 53
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
10c Retirement benefits (continued)
(v) FRS 17 – ‘Retirement Benefits’ disclosures – group (continued)
The assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were:
UK post- US post-
UK pension schemes retirement US pension schemes retirement
Expected medical Expected medical
long term benefits long term benefits
rate of return Value schemes value rate of return Value scheme value
%£ million £ million % £ million £ million
––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2003
Equities 8.00 320.8 – 8.50 32.7 –
Bonds 4.75 122.8 – 4.50 21.8 –
Property 6.25 34.7 – – –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total market value of assets 478.3 – 54.5 –
Present value of scheme liabilities (472.0) (8.2) (69.1) (13.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in scheme 6.3 (8.2) (14.6) (13.2)
Related deferred tax (liability) / asset (1.9) 2.5 5.5 5.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net retirement benefits asset / (liability) 4.4 (5.7) (9.1) (8.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2002
Equities 8.00 416.1 – 9.00 33.5 –
Bonds 5.30 144.7 – 5.50 22.4 –
Property 6.80 33.7 – – –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total market value of assets 594.5 – 55.9 –
Present value of scheme liabilities (483.7) (4.7) (60.0) (10.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in scheme 110.8 (4.7) (4.1) (10.9)
Related deferred tax (liability) / asset (33.2) 1.4 1.6 4.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net retirement benefits asset / (liability) 77.6 (3.3) (2.5) (6.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
If the above amounts had been recognised in the accounts, the group’s net assets and profit and loss reserve would be:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets excluding retirement benefits asset / liability 829.9 751.9
Retirement benefits asset / (liability) – UK pensions 4.4 77.6
– US pensions (9.1) (2.5)
– Medical benefits (13.9) (10.1)
– Other schemes (0.6) (0.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets including retirement benefits asset / liability 810.7 816.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit and loss account reserve excluding retirement benefits reserve 462.8 396.4
Retirement benefits reserve – UK pensions 4.4 77.6
– US pensions (9.1) (2.5)
– Medical benefits (13.9) (10.1)
– Other schemes (0.6) (0.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit and loss account reserve 443.6 461.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– 54
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
10c Retirement benefits (continued)
(v) FRS 17 – ‘Retirement Benefits’ disclosures – group (continued)
The amounts that would have been charged to operating profit in the year ended 31st March 2003 were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current service cost after employee contributions (16.0) (0.2) (2.3) (0.3)
Past service cost –– (0.1) (0.1)
Gain on settlement – 0.1––
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total operating charge (16.0) (0.1) (2.4) (0.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The amounts that would have been credited / (charged) to interest in the year ended 31st March 2003 were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Expected return on scheme assets 42.6 – 3.8 –
Interest on scheme liabilities (27.4) (0.2) (4.1) (0.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net return on retirement benefit assets and liabilities 15.2 (0.2) (0.3) (0.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The amounts that would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses in the year ended 31st March
2003 were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets (152.9) – (9.7) –
Experience gains / (losses) arising on scheme liabilities 6.3 (3.5) (0.2) (0.3)
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of scheme liabilities 30.0 – (10.0) (2.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Actuarial loss in recognised gains and losses (116.6) (3.5) (19.9) (2.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The movements in the surplus / (deficit) in the year ended 31st March 2003 were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) at beginning of year 110.8 (4.7) (4.1) (10.9)
Current service cost after employee contributions (16.0) (0.2) (2.3) (0.3)
Past service cost – – (0.1) (0.1)
Gain on settlement – 0.1 – –
Acquisitions –– 0.1 –
Company contributions 12.9 0.3 11.3 0.4
Net interest on retirement benefits 15.2 (0.2) (0.3) (0.8)
Actuarial loss (116.6) (3.5) (19.9) (2.6)
Exchange adjustments – – 0.7 1.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) at end of year 6.3 (8.2) (14.6) (13.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– 55
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
10c Retirement benefits (continued)
(v) FRS 17 – ‘Retirement Benefits’ disclosures – group (continued)
The effect FRS 17 would have had on the profit and loss account for the year ended 31st March 2003 was:
Pro forma Pro forma
Reported FRS 17 adjusted
amounts adjustments amounts
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts 104.4 (9.1) 95.3
Precious Metals 50.1 (2.1) 48.0
Colours & Coatings 28.5 (3.2) 25.3
Pharmaceutical Materials 36.9 (0.2) 36.7
Corporate (14.2) (1.9) (16.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 205.7 (16.5) 189.2
Goodwill amortisation (13.7) – (13.7)
Exceptional items included in operating profit (7.6) – (7.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
184.4 (16.5) 167.9
Profit on sale of continuing operations 4.9 – 4.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 189.3 (16.5) 172.8
Net interest (13.2) – (13.2)
Net return on retirement benefit assets and liabilities –13.913.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 176.1 (2.6) 173.5
Taxation (54.5) 0.8 (53.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit after taxation 121.6 (1.8) 119.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
History of experience gains and losses for the year ended 31st March 2003:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets:
amount (£ million) (152.9) – (9.7) –
percentage of scheme assets (32.0%) – (17.8%) –
Experience gains / (losses) on scheme liabilities:
amount (£ million) 6.3 (3.5) (0.2) (0.3)
percentage of present value of scheme liabilities 1.3% (42.7%) (0.3%) (2.3%)
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
amount (£ million) (116.6) (3.5) (19.9) (2.6)
percentage of present value of scheme liabilities (24.7%) (42.7%) (28.8%) (19.7%)
(vi) FRS 17 – ‘Retirement Benefits’ disclosures – parent company
The company’s principal pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme which includes employees of the company and some of its
UK subsidiaries. Consequently the company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities and so under 
FRS 17 the company would account for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. The cost of the
company’s contributions to the scheme amounted to £11.9 million (2002 £ nil). 56
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
11 Fixed assets – goodwill
Group Parent company
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At beginning of year 189.8 14.5
Additions (note 30) 200.9 112.2
Exchange adjustments (0.7) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 390.0 126.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Amortisation
At beginning of year 7.2 14.3
Charge for the year 13.7 2.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 20.9 16.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net book value at 31st March 2003 369.1 110.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net book value at 31st March 2002 182.6 0.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill is net of £0.3 million of negative goodwill arising on the acquisition of the minority interest in Johnson Matthey Argentina S.A.
(note 30).
Goodwill amortisation of £5.5 million (2002 £0.5 million) arises in Catalysts, £0.1 million (2002 £0.1 million) in Precious Metals, £0.2 million
(2002 £0.2 million) in Colours & Coatings and £7.9 million (2002 £6.0 million) in Pharmaceutical Materials. Geographically £11.7 million
(2002 £5.2 million) arises in Europe, £1.6 million (2002 £1.6 million) in North America and £0.4 million (2002 £ nil) in Asia.
12 Fixed assets – tangible assets
12a Group
Freehold land Long & short Plant &
& buildings leasehold machinery Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At beginning of year 170.1 13.5 628.9 812.5
Purchases 19.5 0.8 106.2 126.5
Acquisitions 7.3 1.3 42.0 50.6
Reclassifications 8.6 – (8.6) –
Disposals (2.3) – (13.0) (15.3)
Disposal of business (1.4) – (9.6) (11.0)
Exchange adjustments (4.2) 0.4 (15.8) (19.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 197.6 16.0 730.1 943.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Depreciation
At beginning of year 46.0 5.8 265.6 317.4
Charge for the year 5.4 0.7 48.3 54.4
Reclassifications 0.1 – (0.1) –
Disposals (1.9) (0.1) (11.5) (13.5)
Disposal of business (0.5) – (6.0) (6.5)
Exchange adjustments (1.8) 0.1 (7.5) (9.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 47.3 6.5 288.8 342.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net book value at 31st March 2003 150.3 9.5 441.3 601.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net book value at 31st March 2002 124.1 7.7 363.3 495.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The net book value of tangible fixed assets includes £4.5 million (2002 £5.8 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases. 57
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
12b Parent company
Freehold land Long & short Plant &
& buildings leasehold machinery Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At beginning of year 61.1 2.2 186.4 249.7
Purchases 3.7 – 40.3 44.0
Acquisitions 2.7 – 26.3 29.0
Reclassifications 1.2 – (1.2) –
Disposals (1.1) – (3.0) (4.1)
Disposal of business (3.8) – (8.4) (12.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 63.8 2.2 240.4 306.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Depreciation
At beginning of year 16.7 1.6 76.1 94.4
Charge for the year 1.8 0.2 16.0 18.0
Reclassifications 0.1 – (0.1) –
Disposals (1.0) – (0.1) (1.1)
Disposal of business – – (1.0) (1.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 17.6 1.8 90.9 110.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net book value at 31st March 2003 46.2 0.4 149.5 196.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net book value at 31st March 2002 44.4 0.6 110.3 155.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The net book value of tangible fixed assets includes £4.5 million (2002 £4.3 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
13 Fixed assets – investments
13a Group
Investments
Investment in Investment in listed on
associates associates overseas stock Unlisted
– net assets – goodwill exchanges investments Other loans Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 0.7 – 1.0 0.3 0.7 2.7
Additions – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Disposals – – (0.2) – – (0.2)
Acquired with subsidiaries – – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.5)
Transfer from creditors (0.3) – – – – (0.3)
Transfer on acquisition as subsidiary 0.3 – – – – 0.3
Transfer on partial disposal of business 2.5 1.3––– 3.8
Transfer – – – 0.5 (0.5) –
Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.2 (0.1) – – 0.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 3.5 1.5 0.5 0.7 0.2 6.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The market value of investments listed on overseas stock exchanges was £1.0 million (2002 £1.4 million). 58
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
13b Parent company
Cost of
investment in
subsidiary
Other loans undertakings Total
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 0.7 389.3 390.0
Disposals (0.5) – (0.5)
Additions –73.973.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 0.2 463.2 463.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The principal subsidiary undertakings are shown on page 72.
13c Associates
Percentage
holding of
Issued ordinary Country of
share capital share capital incorporation
%
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Arora-Matthey Limited INR 19,920,000 40 India
Oximet SrL c 312,000 33 Italy
AGR Matthey is a partnership operating in Australia, in which the group has a 20% interest.
The group’s cost of investment in associates amounted to £4.4 million (2002 £0.4 million).
14 Transactions with related parties
The group’s related parties are its associates described in note 13c. Universal Pharma Technologies, L.L.C. was an associate until
15th October 2002 when it became a subsidiary.
During the year the group supplied thermocouple products to a value of £5,000 to Arora-Matthey Limited (2002 £20,000).
During the year the group purchased £146,000 (2002 £43,000) of raw materials from Oximet SrL. Total balances payable to Oximet SrL
at 31st March 2003 were £72,000 (2002 £4,000).
From 3rd October 2002 to 31st March 2003 the group sold precious metal for £4.1 million to and bought £1.6 million of precious metal
from AGR Matthey. The group also made service charges of £1.9 million to and received £0.2 million of interest from AGR Matthey. Total
balances receivable from AGR Matthey at 31st March 2003 were £0.7 million.
During the period to 15th October 2002 the group paid royalties of £256,000 (2002 £55,000) and made service charges of £559,000 (2002
£311,000) to Universal Pharma Technologies, L.L.C. Total balances receivable from Universal Pharma Technologies, L.L.C. at 31st March
2002 were £1.4 million, against which a provision of £1.0 million had been made.
15 Stocks
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Raw materials and consumables 57.7 47.7 15.6 10.3
Work in progress – precious metals 227.0 240.1 192.7 216.2
– other 31.1 28.6 7.7 7.7
Finished goods and goods for resale 122.6 97.9 16.8 12.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total stocks 438.4 414.3 232.8 246.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group also holds customers’ materials in the process of refining and fabrication and for other reasons.
Parent company precious metals includes net metal lent to subsidiary undertakings. 59
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
16 Debtors
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Debtors: due within one year
Trade debtors 317.7 303.9 87.6 72.3
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 491.0 553.6
Amounts owed by associates 0.7 0.4 – –
Other debtors 22.4 17.7 10.5 2.9
Refunds due for acquisitions 5.0 – 4.7 –
Payment owed for disposals (note 31) – 1.0 – –
Current corporation tax – – – 11.3
Deferred tax asset (note 23) 1.7 0.6 – –
Prepaid pensions 3.5 1.9 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 18.3 19.7 5.5 6.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
369.3 345.2 599.3 646.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Debtors: due after more than one year
Prepaid pensions 124.3 108.8 115.9 107.7
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 344.5 156.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
124.3 108.8 460.4 264.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
17 Short term investments
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interest in own shares 13.8 14.9 13.2 13.9
Investments listed on overseas stock exchanges 1.5 1.7 – –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
15.3 16.6 13.2 13.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The interest in own shares represents the cost of the shares held by the group’s two Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs). The ESOTs
currently hold 2,421,687 shares (2002 2,634,029 shares) which were purchased in the open market, and are held in trust for employees
participating in the group’s executive share option schemes and long term incentive plan. The purchase of the shares was financed by a
contribution of £511,100 (2002 £511,100) and loans of £13,255,750 (2002 £14,369,817) from the group. At 31st March 2003 the market
value of the shares was £15,868,184 (2002 £24,939,935). Mourant & Co., as trustees for the ESOTs, has waived its dividend entitlement.
The market value of investments listed on overseas stock exchanges was £2.5 million (2002 £4.8 million). 60
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
18 Borrowings and finance leases
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Borrowings and finance leases falling due after more than one year
Bank and other loans repayable by instalments
From two to five years 0.3 0.8 – –
From one to two years 0.2 0.1 – –
Bank and other loans repayable otherwise than by instalments
4.95% US Dollar Bonds 2015 126.6 – 126.6 –
5.17% Sterling Bonds 2013 40.0 – 40.0 –
4.25% US Dollar Bonds 2010 19.0 – 19.0 –
6.36% US Dollar Bonds 2006 63.3 70.2 63.3 70.2
Other after five years 5.4 6.0 – –
Other from two to five years 86.8 104.6 86.7 104.4
From one to two years 110.6 – 110.5 –
Finance leases repayable
After five years 3.1 3.2 3.1 3.2
From two to five years 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7
From one to two years 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Borrowings and finance leases falling due after more than one year 456.4 185.8 450.3 178.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Borrowings and finance leases falling due within one year
Bank and other loans 46.2 64.5 27.2 45.2
Finance leases 0.3 1.3 0.3 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Borrowings and finance leases falling due within one year 46.5 65.8 27.5 45.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total borrowings and finance leases 502.9 251.6 477.8 224.1
Less cash and deposits 100.4 92.6 33.4 3.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net borrowings and finance leases 402.5 159.0 444.4 220.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The loans are denominated in various currencies and bear interest at commercial rates. Of the 4.95% US Dollar Bonds 2015
US$35.0 million have been swapped into sterling at 5.15% and US$165.0 million have been swapped into floating rate US dollars. All the
4.25% US Dollar Bonds 2010 have been swapped into sterling at 4.93%.
19 Financial risk management
The group’s approach to managing financial risk is described in the Financial Review on page 10.
19a Market price risk
The group monitors its interest rate and currency risks and other market price risks to which it is exposed primarily through a process
known as ‘sensitivity analysis’. This involves estimating the effect on profit before tax over various periods of possible changes in interest
rates and exchange rates.
Most of the group’s borrowings and deposits are at floating rates. A 1% change in all interest rates would have a 1.4% impact on group
profit before tax. This is within the range the board regards as acceptable.
The main impact of movements in exchange rates on the group’s results arises on translation of overseas subsidiaries’ profits into sterling.
The group’s largest exposure is to the US dollar since Johnson Matthey’s largest single overseas investment is in the US. A 5 cent (3.2%)
movement in the average exchange rate for the US dollar against sterling has a 1.6% impact on group profit before tax. This exposure is
part of the group’s economic risk of operating globally which is essential to remain competitive in the markets in which the group operates. 61
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
19b Interest rate risk
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
At fixed At floating At fixed At floating
interest rates interest rates Total interest rates interest rates Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Financial liabilities
Sterling 85.7 100.0 185.7 –72.572.5
US dollar 63.3 222.7 286.0 70.2 84.3 154.5
Euro – 106.4 106.4 – 7.7 7.7
Japanese yen – 25.3 25.3 –22.322.3
Chinese renminbi – 8.0 8.0 – 3.4 3.4
South African rand ––– – 4.9 4.9
Other currencies – 2.8 2.8 – 9.0 9.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
149.0 465.2 614.2 70.2 204.1 274.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2003 2003 2002 2002
Weighted Weighted
Weighted average period Weighted average period
average for which rates average for which rates
interest rates are fixed interest rates are fixed
%Years %Years
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Fixed rate financial liabilities
Sterling 5.15 10 ––
US dollar 6.36 3 6.36 4
The financial liabilities of the group comprised:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total borrowings and finance leases 502.9 251.6
Borrowings generated by swaps 103.7 22.3
Non-equity minority interests 7.0 –
Other creditors falling due after more than one year 0.6 0.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
614.2 274.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings, overdrafts and preference shares issued to minority shareholders bearing
interest and dividends at commercial rates.
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 2002
At floating Interest At fixed At floating Interest
interest rates free Total interest rates interest rates free Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Financial assets
Sterling 158.6 – 158.6 –48.1 – 48.1
US dollar 15.3 1.2 16.5 0.5 14.9 1.0 16.4
Euro ––– –17.2 – 17.2
Hong Kong dollar 12.2 – 12.2 –14.6 – 14.6
South African rand 5.2 – 5.2 – 9.9 – 9.9
Other currencies 13.0 1.5 14.5 –10.4 1.7 12.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
204.3 2.7 207.0 0.5 115.1 2.7 118.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2003 2003 2002 2002
Weighted Weighted
Weighted average period Weighted average period
average for which rates average for which rates
interest rates are fixed interest rates are fixed
%Years %Years
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Fixed rate financial assets
US dollar –– 7.50 8 62
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
19b Interest rate risk (continued)
The financial assets of the group comprised:
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and deposits 100.4 92.6
Deposits generated by swaps 103.7 22.3
Fixed assets investments listed on overseas stock exchanges 0.5 1.0
Fixed assets investments unlisted 0.7 –
Fixed assets investments other loans 0.2 0.7
Short term investments listed on overseas stock exchanges 1.5 1.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
207.0 118.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Floating rate financial assets comprise bank deposits bearing interest at commercial rates. Interest free financial assets are shares held
in three publicly quoted companies, Ballard Power Systems, Inc., AnorMED Inc. and Immtech International Inc., and an investment in
Conduit Ventures Fund.
19c Currency exposures
After taking into account the effects of forward exchange contracts the group does not have any significant currency exposures on
monetary assets and liabilities.
19d Maturity of financial liabilities
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
In one year or less, or on demand 150.2 88.1
In more than one year but not more than two years 111.8 0.7
In more than two years but not more than five years 151.1 176.3
In more than five years 201.1 9.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
614.2 274.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
19e Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Expiring in one year or less 40.0 20.1
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 31.2 –
Expiring in more than two years 138.3 127.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
209.5 147.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– 63
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
19f Fair value of financial instruments
2003 2003 2002 2002
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and deposits 100.4 100.4 92.6 92.6
Fixed assets investments listed on overseas stock exchanges 0.5 1.0 1.0 1.4
Fixed assets investments unlisted 0.7 0.7 ––
Fixed assets investments other loans 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.7
Short term investments listed on overseas stock exchanges 1.5 2.5 1.7 4.8
Borrowings and finance leases falling due within one year (46.5) (46.5) (65.8) (65.8)
US Dollar Bonds 2006 (63.3) (69.6) (70.2) (70.7)
Other US Dollar Bonds (145.6) (145.6) ––
Sterling Bonds (40.0) (40.0) ––
Other borrowings and finance leases falling due after more than one year (207.5) (207.5) (115.6) (115.6)
Other creditors falling due after more than one year (0.6) (0.6) (0.4) (0.4)
Non-equity minority interests (7.0) (7.0) ––
Forward exchange contracts – (0.5) – 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(407.2) (412.5) (156.0) (152.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The fair value of investments listed on overseas stock exchanges is based on market value. The fair value of the US Dollar Bonds 2006
is calculated by discounting cash flows based on the three year Treasury Bond rate plus a margin reflecting current market conditions.
The fair value of the other bonds and related currency and interest rate swaps is approximately equal to book value as the bonds were
issued and the swaps effective from 26th March 2003, there being no material movement in rates prior to 31st March 2003. The fair value
of forward exchange contracts represents the unrealised gain or loss on revaluation of the contracts to year end exchange rates. The fair
value of all other financial instruments is approximately equal to book value due to their size, short term nature or the fact that they bear
interest at floating rates.
19g Gains and losses on hedges
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign
currencies. These forward contracts are revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised gains
and losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors / other creditors. At maturity, or when the contract ceases to be a hedge,
gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Total net
Gains Losses gains / (losses)
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unrecognised gains and losses at 31st March 2001 – 0.3 (0.3)
Gains / losses recognised in the year – 0.3 (0.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gains and losses arising before 31st March 2001 not recognised in 2001/02 – – –
Gains and losses arising in 2001/02 not recognised in 2001/02 0.3 0.1 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unrecognised gains and losses at 31st March 2002 0.3 0.1 0.2
Gains / losses recognised in the year 0.3 0.1 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gains and losses arising before 31st March 2002 not recognised in 2002/03 – – –
Gains and losses arising in 2002/03 not recognised in 2002/03 0.3 0.8 (0.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unrecognised gains and losses at 31st March 2003 0.3 0.8 (0.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Of which gains and losses expected to be recognised in the year to 31st March 2004 0.3 0.8 (0.5)
20 Precious metal leases
Precious metal leases are rental and consignment stock arrangements under which banks provide the group with precious metals for a
specified period and for which the group pays a fee. The group holds sufficient precious metal stocks to meet all the obligations under
these lease arrangements as they fall due. 64
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
21 Other creditors
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors 180.6 167.5 44.7 32.7
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 617.0 644.1
Amounts owed to associates 0.1 – – –
Current corporation tax 32.6 32.9 4.1 –
Other taxes and social security costs 7.1 8.1 3.9 2.2
Other creditors 33.9 39.7 12.2 8.9
Accruals and deferred income 93.2 74.0 38.0 29.5
Dividends 38.5 37.0 38.5 37.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total other creditors falling due within one year 386.0 359.2 758.4 754.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 153.0 0.2
Other creditors 0.6 0.4 – –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total other creditors falling due after more than one year 0.6 0.4 153.0 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
22 Provisions for liabilities and charges
22a Group
Retirement Deferred
Rationalisation benefits Other taxation
provisions (note 10c) provisions (note 23) Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 8.9 17.9 5.2 66.1 98.1
Charge for year 11.3 1.5 3.1 12.9 28.8
Acquisitions – 8.0 – (2.0) 6.0
Utilised (11.2) (8.1) (1.7) – (21.0)
Credit to recognised gains and losses – – – (9.5) (9.5)
Exchange adjustments – (1.2) 0.1 (0.9) (2.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 9.0 18.1 6.7 66.6 100.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The rationalisation provisions relate to the costs of integrating Synetix and other rationalisation programmes and are expected to be fully
spent by 2005.
22b Parent company
Retirement Deferred
Rationalisation benefits Other taxation
provisions (note 10c) provisions (note 23) Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year – 4.1 5.9 40.3 50.3
Charge for year 3.3 0.4 0.3 4.1 8.1
Acquisitions – 6.5 – (2.0) 4.5
Utilised (0.7) (6.8) (2.6) – (10.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 2.6 4.2 3.6 42.4 52.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The rationalisation provisions relate to the costs of integrating Synetix and other rationalisation programmes and are expected to be fully
spent by 2005. 65
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
23 Deferred taxation
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Timing differences on
Fixed assets 29.6 23.6 17.3 15.2
Stock (9.7) (7.0) (9.7) (7.2)
UK pension credit 34.8 32.3 34.8 32.3
Translation differences on foreign currency loans 1.9 11.4 – –
Other 8.3 5.2 – –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
64.9 65.5 42.4 40.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deferred tax assets (note 16) 1.7 0.6 – –
Deferred tax provisions (note 22) 66.6 66.1 42.4 40.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
64.9 65.5 42.4 40.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
24 Called up share capital
Authorised Allotted, called up and fully paid
Number £ million Number £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Ordinary shares of £1 each
At beginning of year 291,550,000 291.6 218,695,663 218.7
Executive share option schemes – options exercised – – 791,681 0.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 291,550,000 291.6 219,487,344 219.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 30th May 2003 there were 5,829,632 options outstanding under the group’s executive share option schemes, exercisable at various
times up to the year 2012 at prices from 107.57 pence per share to 1083.00 pence per share.
At 30th May 2003 three allocations had been made under the company’s long term incentive plan which had yet to mature. The 2000
allocation of 317,600 shares, the 2001 allocation of 350,015 shares and the 2002 allocation of 389,702 shares will mature at the end of
their respective three year performance periods in July 2003, July 2004 and July 2005. Should the performance conditions be satisfied,
the number of shares allocated, or a proportion thereof, will be released to the participants.
The company has no non-equity share capital.
25 Reserves
25a Group
Share Capital Profit &
premium redemption Associates’ loss
account reserve reserves account
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 128.2 4.9 (0.2) 462.1
Exchange adjustments – – – 5.6
Premium on shares issued 3.6 – – –
Goodwill written back on set up of AGR Matthey – – – 5.4
Transfers –– 0.3 (0.3)
Retained profit for the year – – – 66.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 131.8 4.9 0.1 539.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2003, the cumulative amount of goodwill, net of goodwill relating to disposals, charged against profit and loss account was
£40.6 million (2002 £46.0 million).
In the group accounts, £12.9 million of net exchange gains (2002 £1.6 million) on foreign currency borrowings have been offset in reserves
against exchange losses on the translation of the related net investment in overseas subsidiaries. 66
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
25b Parent company
Share Capital Profit &
premium redemption loss
account reserve account
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 128.2 4.9 201.1
Premium on shares issued 3.6––
Retained profit for the year –– 1.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 131.8 4.9 202.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The parent company’s profit for the financial year was £56.9 million (2002 £19.7 million).
26 Minority interests
Equity Non-equity Total
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 3.9 – 3.9
Sale of minority interest in Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited (note 33) 2.1 7.0 9.1
Purchase of remaining minority interest in Johnson Matthey Argentina S.A. (note 30) (0.9) – (0.9)
Share of retained (loss) / profit for the year (0.5) 0.1 (0.4)
Preference dividends – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (0.8) – (0.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 3.8 7.0 10.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
27 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities
Group Parent company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Commitments
Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided 17.5 13.5 5.0 8.9
Annual commitments under operating leases
Leases of land and buildings terminating
Within one year 2.1 0.5 1.3 –
In one to five years 4.2 3.4 1.7 1.7
Over five years 1.2 2.2 0.2 1.2
Other leases terminating
Within one year 0.9 0.5 0.2 0.3
In one to five years 1.9 1.8 0.8 0.8
Over five years 0.1 – – –
Guarantees
Guarantees of subsidiary undertakings’ borrowings and precious metal leases – – 41.9 17.7
Other guarantees 0.4 6.1 0.2 5.9 67
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
28 Gross cash flows
28a Returns on investments and servicing of finance
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interest received from associates 0.2 –
Interest received 9.0 11.0
Interest paid (22.4) (15.9)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (0.2) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash flow for returns on investments and servicing of finance (13.4) (4.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
28b Capital expenditure and financial investment
2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (126.3) (134.1)
Purchase of long term investments (0.2) (1.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(126.5) (135.1)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 1.1 0.6
Sale of long term investments 0.2 –
Sale of short term investments 0.5 3.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1.8 4.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment (124.7) (131.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
28c Cash flows on acquisitions and disposals
2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Investment in Synetix (note 30) (267.0) –
Investment in subsidiary undertakings (note 30) (3.7) (142.5)
Cash and overdrafts acquired with subsidiary undertakings (note 30) 0.1 (1.0)
Purchase of minority interests (note 30) (0.6) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(271.2) (143.5)
Sale of an interest in fuel cells subsidiary (note 33) 20.0 –
Exchange of Australian gold operations for share of AGR Matthey (note 32) 1.5 –
Disposal of French print business (note 31) (0.1) (1.0)
Cash disposed of with French print business – (1.1)
Disposal of UK Minerals business (note 31) 1.0 –
Closure of Metawave Video Systems Ltd – (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
22.4 (2.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash flow for acquisitions and disposals (248.8) (145.7)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
28d Management of liquid resources
2003 2002
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash paid into term deposits of less than one year (0.3) (0.2)
Cash withdrawn from term deposits of less than one year 1.3 0.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash flow from management of liquid resources 1.0 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– 68
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
28e Financing
2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Issue of ordinary share capital 4.4 6.1
Purchase of own shares (1.6) (50.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2.8 (44.1)
Decrease in borrowings falling due within one year (21.5) (45.7)
Increase in borrowings falling due after more than one year 282.4 103.4
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (1.2) (0.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
259.7 57.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash flow from financing 262.5 13.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
29 Analysis of net debt
Borrowings Borrowings Borrowings
Cash at due within due within due after
bank and one year one year more than Finance
in hand – overdrafts – other one year leases Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 92.6 (10.0) (54.5) (181.7) (5.4) (159.0)
Cash flow
From cash and overdrafts 11.0 (0.8) – – – 10.2
From borrowings and finance leases – – 21.5 (282.4) 1.2 (259.7)
From term deposits (1.0) – – – – (1.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash flow 10.0 (0.8) 21.5 (282.4) 1.2 (250.5)
Acquired with subsidiaries – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Loan notes issued to acquire subsidiaries – – (6.8) – – (6.8)
Other non cash changes – – (0.4) 0.4 – –
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2.2) (0.7) 5.5 11.5 0.1 14.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 100.4 (11.5) (34.7) (452.2) (4.5) (402.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
30 Acquisitions
Universal Pharma Technologies, L.L.C.
On 15th October 2002 the group acquired the 50% of Universal Pharma Technologies, L.L.C. which it did not already own. This has been
accounted for by acquisition accounting and its post acquisition results have been included in Pharmaceutical Materials and were
turnover of £0.8 million and operating profit of £ nil.
The assets and liabilities acquired were:
Book values
immediately Fair value Fair value
prior to adjustment at time of 
acquisition – revaluations acquisition
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Tangible fixed assets 4.1 (3.5) 0.6
Stocks 0.4 (0.3) 0.1
Creditors falling due within one year (4.9) 3.9 (1.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total net liabilities acquired (0.4) 0.1 (0.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Less transferred from associated undertakings 0.3
––––––––––––
–
––––––––––––
The revaluation fair value adjustments reflect the write down to estimated realisable value. 69
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
30 Acquisitions (continued)
Synetix
On 23rd September 2002 the group announced that it had signed an agreement to buy the Synetix division of ICI. Synetix is a global
catalyst business which serves a range of market segments including ammonia, methanol, fine chemicals, edible oils, oleochemicals, oil
and gas and polymerisation. The acquisition of the Synetix businesses in all territories except India was completed on 1st November 2002
and the acquisition in India was completed on 2nd December 2002. The results of Synetix since its acquisition on 1st November 2002
have been included in Catalysts, and were turnover of £60.9 million and operating profit excluding exceptional items of £9.2 million. This
has been accounted for by acquisition accounting. Synetix’s profit after taxation and minority interests before acquisition is not available.
The assets and liabilities acquired were:
Book values Fair value adjustments Estimated
immediately Consistency fair value
prior to of accounting at time of
acquisition Revaluations policies Other acquisition
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Intangible fixed assets 7.8 (1.4) – (6.4) –
Tangible fixed assets 63.0 (1.6) (12.1) (0.4) 48.9
Stocks 24.2 – – 0.1 24.3
Debtors and prepayments 38.0 (0.5) – (0.5) 37.0
Creditors falling due within one year (28.7) – – (0.9) (29.6)
Deferred taxation –– 2.0 – 2.0
Other provisions for liabilities and charges (1.2) (0.2) (6.5) – (7.9)
Finance lease obligations (0.4) – – – (0.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total net assets acquired 102.7 (3.7) (16.6) (8.1) 74.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Estimated goodwill on acquisition 191.4
––––––––––––
265.7
––––––––––––
Satisfied by: £ million
––––––––––––
Purchase consideration – cash 261.6
Purchase consideration – outstanding (1.9)
Costs incurred – cash 5.4
Costs incurred – accrued 0.6
––––––––––––
265.7
––––––––––––
The revaluation fair value adjustments to intangible fixed assets, tangible fixed assets, debtors and prepayments and other provisions for
liabilities and charges reflect the write down to estimated realisable value. The fair value adjustments to achieve consistency of
accounting policies in tangible fixed assets is to move them onto the group’s depreciation policies, in deferred taxation is to provide the
deferred tax asset related to the tangible fixed assets adjustments and in other provisions for liabilities and charges is to provide for
pensions using the group’s assumptions. The other fair value adjustments to fixed assets are to write off goodwill, other intangible fixed
assets and tangible fixed assets that are not identifiable assets. The other fair value adjustments to stocks, debtors and prepayments and
creditors falling due within one year are to include items not previously recognised.
Since acquisition Synetix has contributed £4.1 million to net cash inflow from operating activities, paid £0.3 million in respect of returns
on investments and servicing of finance, paid £0.1 million of tax and £3.3 million in respect of capital expenditure and financial investment.
Cascade Biochem Limited
On 17th October 2002 the group acquired Cascade Biochem Limited located in Cork, Ireland and Reading, UK. The company
manufactures and supplies prostaglandins and other complex molecules as active pharmaceutical ingredients for the pharmaceutical
industry, and its post acquisition results have been included in Pharmaceutical Materials. Its turnover and operating profit since
acquisition were £1.4 million and £0.2 million respectively. This has been accounted for by acquisition accounting. Cascade Biochem
Limited’s profit after taxation and minority interests in its last financial year to 31st December 2001 was £29,000, and in the period from
that date to the date of acquisition was a loss of £0.1 million.
Since acquisition Cascade Biochem Limited has contributed £0.3 million to net cash inflow from operating activities and paid £0.3 million
in respect of capital expenditure and financial investment. 70
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
30 Acquisitions (continued)
Cascade Biochem Limited (continued)
The assets and liabilities acquired were:
Book values
immediately Fair value
prior to Fair value adjustments at time of
acquisition Revaluations Other acquisition
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Tangible fixed assets 1.1 – – 1.1
Stocks 1.0 (0.2) – 0.8
Debtors and prepayments 0.3 – – 0.3
Creditors falling due within one year (0.5) – (0.2) (0.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total net assets acquired 1.9 (0.2) (0.2) 1.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill on acquisition 6.3
––––––––––––
7.8
––––––––––––
Satisfied by: £ million
––––––––––––
Purchase consideration – cash 2.7
Purchase consideration – deferred and contingent 5.0
Costs incurred – cash 0.1
––––––––––––
7.8
––––––––––––
The revaluation fair value adjustments to stocks reflect the write down to estimated realisable value. The other fair value adjustments to
creditors falling due within one year are to include items not previously recognised.
The deferred consideration is contingent on future sales.
VSF Resin & Varnish Limited
On 11th February 2003 the group acquired a UK company, VSF Resin & Varnish Limited, for £0.8 million with a further £0.9 million
contingent on future sales. The fair value of the net assets acquired was £0.1 million including cash balances of £0.1 million, resulting
in goodwill of £1.6 million. This has been accounted for by acquisition accounting. Its post acquisition results are included in Colours &
Coatings and were turnover of £0.3 million and operating profit of £ nil.
Johnson Matthey Argentina S.A. minority interest
On 31st March 2003 the group acquired the remaining 30% of Johnson Matthey Argentina S.A. for £0.6 million. The fair value of the
minority interest immediately prior to the purchase was £0.9 million resulting in negative goodwill of £0.3 million.
Meconic plc acquired in the year ended 31st March 2002
On 9th July 2001 the group acquired Meconic plc (now Meconic Limited), the parent company of Macfarlan Smith. During the year the
fair values of some of the assets acquired were adjusted by £1.2 million. Consequently, goodwill was increased by £1.2 million. The costs
accrued last year of £0.1 million were paid this year.
Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. acquired in the year ended 31st March 2002
On 20th April 2001 the group acquired Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. During the year an escrow claim of £0.7 million was received by the
group and a further £0.3 million is receivable. Also the fair values of some of the assets were adjusted by £0.9 million. Consequently,
goodwill was reduced by £0.1 million.
Avocado Research Chemicals Limited acquired in the year ended 31st March 2002
On 7th February 2002 the group acquired Avocado Research Chemicals Limited. During the year further loan notes were issued for
£6.8 million, £6.4 million of which had been accrued last year. Also the fair value of stock was adjusted by £0.4 million. Consequently,
goodwill was increased by £0.8 million.
Shape Memory Applications, Inc. acquired in the year ended 31st March 2001
On 13th February 2001 the group acquired Shape Memory Applications, Inc. for £3.6 million. £0.7 million of the consideration was
deferred until August 2002 and has now been paid. 71
Johnson Matthey
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2003
31 Disposals
French print business sold in the year ended 31st March 2002
Costs accrued last year of £0.1 million were paid this year.
UK Minerals sold in the year ended 31st March 1999
On 1st June 1998 the group sold its UK Minerals business for net proceeds of £5.0 million. £1.0 million of the sale proceeds was held in
escrow pending completion of a land-swap arrangement relating to a road scheme at the business’ premises. This was completed during
the year and the proceeds received.
32 AGR Matthey
On 3rd October 2002 the group merged its Australian gold operations with those of AGR, a gold refining joint venture between the Western
Australian government and Australian Gold Alliance Pty Ltd. The group holds a 20% interest in the new entity, called AGR Matthey.
The net assets disposed of were: £ million
––––––––––––
Tangible fixed assets 4.5
Stocks 1.4
Goodwill previously written off to reserves 5.4
––––––––––––
11.3
Loss on disposal (6.0)
––––––––––––
5.3
––––––––––––
Satisfied by: £ million
––––––––––––
Consideration – cash 2.4
Costs incurred – cash (0.9)
Retained in associates 3.8
––––––––––––
5.3
––––––––––––
33 Fuel Cells
On 7th November 2002 Anglo Platinum took a 17.5% interest in the group’s fuel cell components subsidiary, Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells
Limited. In return for the 17.5% interest Anglo Platinum contributed its share of the intellectual property rights and know-how developed
under an existing long term collaboration agreement, along with a £20.0 million payment. The value of the minority interest sold was
£9.1 million and so this resulted in a profit of £10.9 million. 72
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
AND ASSOCIATES
Country of Country of
incorporation incorporation
Europe Asia
S.A. Johnson Matthey N.V. Belgium Johnson Matthey Ceramics (Jiangsu) Co. Ltd. China
+Avocado Research Chemicals Limited England Johnson Matthey (Shanghai) Chemicals 
Johnson Matthey S.A. France Limited China
Johnson Matthey GmbH Germany Johnson Matthey Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
Johnson Matthey Italia S.p.A. Italy * Arora-Matthey Limited (40%) India
Johnson Matthey BV Netherlands Johnson Matthey India Private Limited (90%) India
Johnson Matthey Ceramica (Portugal) Lda Portugal Johnson Matthey Chemicals India Private
+Macfarlan Smith Limited Scotland Limited India
Johnson Matthey Ceramics S.A. Spain Johnson Matthey Japan, Inc. USA
Almiberia S.A. Spain +Johnson Matthey Sdn. Bhd. (92%) Malaysia
Svenska Emissionsteknik AB Sweden Johnson Matthey Ceramics (Malaysia)
Johnson Matthey & Brandenberger AG Switzerland Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia
+Cascade Biochem Limited UK
+Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited (82.5%) UK
Africa
Johnson Matthey (Pty) Limited South Africa
North America
The Argent Insurance Co. Limited Bermuda Australasia
Johnson Matthey Limited Canada * AGR Matthey (20%) Australia
Johnson Matthey de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson Matthey Holdings, Inc. USA South America
Johnson Matthey Inc. USA +Johnson Matthey Argentina S.A. Argentina
Johnson Matthey Catalog Company Inc. USA Johnson Matthey Ceramica Ltda Brazil
Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Inc. (82.5%) USA
Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. USA
Except where otherwise stated, all companies are wholly owned.
* Associate (see note 13c on page 58).
+Investments held directly by parent company.
All the subsidiary undertakings and associates are involved in the principal activities of the group. 73
Johnson Matthey
Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 30th May 2003
By category Number of shares Percentage
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Pension funds 121,728,412 55.46
Insurance Companies 39,354,317 17.93
Investment and Unit Trusts 29,170,043 13.29
Individuals 6,167,631 2.81
Other 23,070,690 10.51
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
219,491,093 100.00
––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
By size of holding Number of holdings Percentage Number of shares Percentage
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1 – 1,000 7,494 65.93 3,260,111 1.49
1,001 – 10,000 3,099 27.26 8,094,041 3.69
10,001 – 100,000 518 4.56 18,654,976 8.50
100,001 – 1,000,000 205 1.80 60,496,138 27.56
1,000,001 – 5,000,000 45 0.40 86,334,109 39.33
5,000,001 and over 60.05 42,651,718 19.43
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
11,367 100.00 219,491,093 100.00
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Low Cost Share Dealing Service
A low cost share dealing service is provided by The Share Centre. This service allows shareholders to buy and sell Johnson Matthey shares in
a simple and low cost manner. For further details contact The Share Centre, P.O. Box 2000, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8ZB telephone: 01296
414141 (e-mail info@share.co.uk).
Dividends
Dividends can be paid directly into shareholders’ bank or building society accounts. Shareholders wishing to take advantage of this facility
should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars or complete the dividend mandate form attached to their dividend cheque. A Dividend Reinvestment Plan
(DRIP) is also available for the benefit of shareholders. Further information can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the company’s
registered office.
American Depositary Receipts
The company has an unlisted American Depositary Receipt programme administered by The Bank of New York. For further information, please
telephone Mr Brian Heston at The Bank of New York on 001 (212) 815 3938 (e-mail bheston@bankofny.com) or visit The Bank of New York’s
website at www.adrbny.com.
Share price and group information
Information on the company’s current share price together with copies of the group’s annual and interim reports and major presentations to
analysts and institutional shareholders are available on the Johnson Matthey website: www.matthey.com. For capital gains tax purposes the
mid-market price of the company’s ordinary shares on 31st March 1982 was 253 pence.
Financial calendar 2003
13th June
Final ordinary dividend record date
16th July
112th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
5th August
Payment of final dividend subject to declaration at the AGM
27th November
Announcement of results for six months ending 30th September 2003
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 74
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
TEN YEAR RECORD
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Turnover
Parent and subsidiaries 1,955.0 2,177.8 2,528.9 2,423.2 3,138.8
Share of joint ventures – 97.1 156.7 156.9 128.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total 1,955.0 2,274.9 2,685.6 2,580.1 3,267.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 81.6 100.4 111.0 116.3 139.2
Goodwill amortisation – ––––
Exceptional items – – – – (4.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total operating profit 81.6 100.4 111.0 116.3 134.7
Other exceptional items (11.7) (0.7) – – 4.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before interest 69.9 99.7 111.0 116.3 139.1
Net interest (4.6) (4.3) (8.8) (8.0) (9.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before taxation 65.3 95.4 102.2 108.3 130.1
Taxation (23.1) (34.3) (34.3) (33.0) (28.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit after taxation 42.2 61.1 67.9 75.3 101.6
Minority interests (0.2) (1.0) (1.7) (1.2) (0.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit attributable to shareholders 42.0 60.1 66.2 74.1 101.3
Dividends (21.8) (25.9) (31.4) (33.6) (38.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit retained 20.2 34.2 34.8 40.5 62.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share (graph 2) 22.0p 30.9p 32.5p 34.2p 46.7p
Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation (graph 1) 25.8p 31.2p 32.5p 34.2p 42.8p
Dividend per ordinary share (graph 3) 11.4p 13.5p 14.5p 15.5p 17.8p
Summary Balance Sheet
Assets employed:
Goodwill –––––
Tangible fixed assets 281.1 256.1 321.7 337.7 461.5
Fixed assets investments / joint ventures / associates 1.1 70.9 100.4 84.2 4.2
Stocks 153.6 153.2 196.6 184.7 244.8
Debtors and short term investments 207.2 190.9 232.2 252.6 381.1
Other creditors and provisions (254.2) (223.4) (304.0) (291.1) (409.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
388.8 447.7 546.9 568.1 681.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Financed by:
Net borrowings and finance leases / (cash) 76.1 102.4 134.2 143.7 225.1
Retained earnings 116.9 151.6 99.8 107.4 130.9
Share capital, share premium and capital redemption 194.4 195.7 313.6 316.8 319.6
Minority interests 1.4 (2.0) (0.7) 0.2 6.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Capital employed 388.8 447.7 546.9 568.1 681.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cumulative goodwill taken directly to reserves 50.5 57.5 150.3 156.3 171.4
Return on assets 19.2% 21.3% 18.5% 16.4% 17.6%
(Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation /
average capital employed and cumulative goodwill taken directly to reserves)
2001 and prior years have been restated to reflect the changes in accounting policies. The earnings per ordinary share for 1994 and 1995
have been adjusted for the bonus element in the 1 for 8 rights issue made on 19th September 1995. 75
Johnson Matthey
TEN YEAR RECORD
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
3,385.4 3,866.0 5,903.7 4,830.1 4,323.9
–––– –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
3,385.4 3,866.0 5,903.7 4,830.1 4,323.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
147.1 146.2 175.0 193.3 205.7
– (0.2) (0.3) (6.8) (13.7)
(1.9) (9.8) (0.6) (18.1) (7.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
145.2 136.2 174.1 168.4 184.4
8.8 23.4 1.1 (5.6) 4.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
154.0 159.6 175.2 162.8 189.3
(15.9) (2.4) 5.3 (6.1) (13.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
138.1 157.2 180.5 156.7 176.1
(35.1) (47.3) (54.2) (50.2) (54.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
103.0 109.9 126.3 106.5 121.6
0.7 (0.2) (0.6) 0.3 0.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
103.7 109.7 125.7 106.8 122.0
(41.3) (44.3) (51.3) (53.2) (55.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
62.4 65.4 74.4 53.6 66.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
47.8p 50.5p 57.3p 49.0p 56.2p
42.8p 46.6p 57.2p 60.4p 62.6p
19.0p 20.3p 23.3p 24.6p 25.5p
4.2 5.1 8.6 182.6 369.1
480.2 311.3 386.8 495.1 601.1
1.8 1.0 1.0 2.7 6.4
243.7 253.2 278.8 414.3 438.4
439.6 447.7 536.0 470.6 508.9
(419.6) (455.0) (539.8) (588.7) (615.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
749.9 563.3 671.4 976.6 1,308.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
221.6 (165.8) (139.9) 159.0 402.5
200.1 386.8 461.0 461.9 539.4
322.4 337.8 345.7 351.8 356.2
5.8 4.5 4.6 3.9 10.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
749.9 563.3 671.4 976.6 1,308.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
171.4 46.0 46.0 46.0 40.6
16.6% 19.1% 26.4% 22.2% 17.3%
62.6p
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
1. Earnings Per Share Before Exceptional Items
and Goodwill Amortisation
60.4p
57.2p
46.6p
42.8p 42.8p
34.2p
32.5p
31.2p
25.8p
56.2p
2. Earnings Per Share
49.0p
57.3p
50.5p
47.8p
46.7p
34.2p
32.5p
30.9p
22.0p
25.5p
3. Dividends Per Share
24.6p
23.3p
20.3p
19.0p
17.8p
15.5p
14.5p
13.5p
11.4p
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 76
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Registered and Head Office
2-4 Cockspur Street
Trafalgar Square
London SW1Y 5BQ
Telephone: 020 7269 8400
Fax: 020 7269 8433
Internet address: www.matthey.com
E-mail: jmpr@matthey.com
Registered in England – Number 33774
Professional Advisers
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0870 600 3970
Internet address: www.shareview.co.uk
Lawyers
Herbert Smith Taylor Wessing
Exchange House Carmelite
Primrose Street 50 Victoria Embankment
London EC2A 2HS Blackfriars
London EC4Y 0DX
Brokers
Credit Suisse First Boston (Europe) Limited
One Cabot Square
London E14 4QJ
COMPANY DETAILS The cover is printed on Hello Gloss. Hello Gloss is a fully recyclable and biodegradable coated paper. The fibre used is 100% chlorine free and is made from virgin wood
fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Scandinavia, Portugal and North America. The introductory pages are printed on Mega Matt. Mega
Matt is a coated paper which has ‘Nordic Swan’ environmental accreditation. It comprises 50% totally chlorine free pulps from plantation forests, generally using forest
thinnings, offcuts and surplus timber, and 50% recycled and de-inked fibres from pre-consumer and post-consumer waste, without using chlorine in the de-inking process.
The accounts section is printed on Storafine. Storafine is manufactured by StoraEnso in Sweden and also has the ‘Nordic Swan’ environmental accreditation. The fibre
used is 100% chlorine free made by StoraCell in Sweden. It is made from waste of the timber industry and forest thinnings from plantation forests.
Johnson Matthey is grateful to the following for their help in providing illustrations:
Cendres & Métaux SA, Switzerland
Ford Motor Company Limited
Milbrook Proving Ground Ltd
Robert Bosch GmbH
Designed and produced by MAGEE
Printed by CTD Capita 2-4 Cockspur Street,Trafalgar Square,
London SW1Y 5BQ
Tel 020 7269 8400 Fax 020 7269 8433
www.matthey.com
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
