 Annual Report & Accounts
2006
Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2006
40-42 Hatton Garden
London EC1N 8EE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7269 8400
Fax: +44 (0)20 7269 8433
www.matthey.com
Desulphurisation
Synthesis
Converter
Saturator
ATR
GHR
   Cautionary Statement
The Operating and Financial Review and certain other
sections of this annual report, including the Business Review,
contain forward looking statements that are subject to risk
factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic
and business circumstances occurring from time to time in
the countries and sectors in which the group operates. It is
believed that the expectations reflected in these statements
are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of
variables which could cause actual results to differ materially
from those currently anticipated.
Front cover:
Extract from the schematic diagram (shown below) of Johnson
Matthey’s latest energy efficient technology for the production of liquid
methanol from natural gas. Methanol is a key intermediate used in the
manufacture of chemicals and clean fuels. As an efficient hydrogen
carrier in a liquid form it is now being developed for use in direct
methanol fuel cells for powering laptop computers and other portable
electronic devices.
Image copyright Johnson Matthey Plc 2006
Contents
1 Financial Highlights 2006
2 Chairman’s Statement
4 Chief Executive’s Statement
6 Operating and Financial Review
7 Strategy and Objectives
7 Review of Results 2005/06
8 Outlook
8 Operations
18 Financial Review
22 Risks and Uncertainties
24 Resources
27 Corporate Social Responsibility
38 Board of Directors
39 Other Senior Management
40 Directors’ Report
41 Corporate Governance
44 Audit Committee Report
45 Nomination Committee Report
46 Remuneration Report
52 Responsibility of Directors
53 Independent Auditors’ Report
54 Consolidated Income Statement
55 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets
56 Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements
57 Consolidated and Parent Company Statements
of Recognised Income and Expense
58 Accounting Policies
62 Notes on the Accounts
109 Principal Subsidiaries and Associates
110 Ten Year Record
112 Shareholder Information
114 A Brief History of Johnson Matthey
115 Glossary of Terms
116 Index
117 Company Details
Desulphurisation
Steam
Natural Gas
Saturator
Synthesis
Converter
C/W
Purge
to Gas
Turbine
To Flare
Gas Heated
Reformer
(GHR)
Autothermal
Reformer
(ATR)
Oxygen
MP Steam
(optional)
C/W
Topping Column Refining Column Recovery Column
C/W
Product
Methanol
Fusel Oil
Water Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
1
Financial Highlights
2006
Summary Results (IFRS basis)
Year to 31st March %
2006 2005 change
Revenue £4,756m £4,626m +3
Sales excluding precious metals £1,341m £1,188m +13
Profit before tax £213.8m £167.4m +28
Total earnings per share 70.8p 53.2p +33
Before impairment and restructuring costs:
Profit before tax £219.8m £204.1m +8
Earnings per share 72.7p 67.0p +9
Dividend per share 30.1p 27.7p +9
Divisional
Operating Profit
1
2005 2006
£122.5m
£52.0m
£39.8m
£18.8m
Ceramics
Pharmaceutical
Materials
Precious Metal
Products
Catalysts
£134.2m
£62.2m
£33.8m
£21.3m
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
25.5p
26.4p
27.7p
30.1p
24.6p
60.4p*
61.8p*
64.0p*
67.0p
72.7p
Earnings per Share Before Impairment
and Restructuring Costs
Dividend per Share
1
Before impairment and restructuring costs * UK GAAP basis earnings per share before exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation I am delighted to be writing to you for the first time as Chairman
of Johnson Matthey and to be introducing this annual report on
what has been another successful year for your company.
Having joined your board as a non-executive director on
1st January 2006, I am honoured to have been appointed as
Chairman from 1st April. I also consider myself extremely
fortunate to be joining the company at such an exciting time in
the development of its businesses. With its focus on products
and technologies that benefit the environment, reduce energy
consumption, provide alternative energy solutions for the future
and treat life threatening diseases, Johnson Matthey is without
any doubt a company that can make a real difference to
improving the quality of life of people around the world.
Over the last few months I have had the opportunity
of meeting with a number of Johnson Matthey’s major
shareholders and I have received very positive feedback from
each one of these meetings. I look forward to meeting other
shareholders at this year’s Annual General Meeting and to
having the opportunity of discussing your company’s businesses
and its performance with you at that time.
As Chairman of your board, I see my role as ensuring that
the company delivers performance in line with shareholders’
expectations and continues to create superior shareholder
value. Johnson Matthey has a good reputation for the quality
of its corporate governance and for its reporting on all aspects
of its operations. I intend to build on this reputation and to
ensure that all shareholders have full information on all aspects
of the company’s activities and achievements.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my
predecessor, Michael Miles. Michael served as a non-executive
director of Johnson Matthey for 16 years, the last eight of which
as Chairman. Under his leadership the company was refocused
on its core skills in catalysts, precious metals and fine chemicals
and has emerged as a world leading speciality chemicals
company. Throughout his service as Chairman, Michael oversaw
excellent progress towards the board’s main objective of
delivering superior value to its shareholders.
Over the 16 years that Michael Miles served on the board
he made a major contribution to its work and that of its
committees. His vast amount of overseas business experience,
particularly his experience of the Far East, has been invaluable
as the company has expanded its operations in Asia and in
other markets around the world. On behalf of all of us at
Johnson Matthey, I would like to thank Michael for his important
contribution to the success of the company and to wish him all
the very best for his retirement.
Johnson Matthey has a very strong executive team led by
our Chief Executive, Neil Carson. As I have travelled around
the group worldwide, I have been struck by the enthusiasm,
professionalism and dedication of everyone that I have met.
2
- Johnson Matthey
Chairman’s Statement
Sir John Banham
Chairman I know that this reflects the investment that the company
makes in the training and development of its people. We
continue to place an absolute priority on nurturing our
management talent and on the development of the skills of
people at all levels of the organisation, to equip them to meet
the challenges of the future and ensure that we benefit from
the opportunities before us. On your behalf, I would like to
thank all of our employees around the world for their hard
work and dedication during the past year.
Your board has a long standing commitment to reporting
on Johnson Matthey’s corporate social responsibility (CSR)
performance. A comprehensive review of the group’s policies
and performance in this very important area is to be found
on pages 27 to 37 of this annual report. This year our CSR
presentation includes a case study on Johnson Matthey’s role in
low carbon technologies, an area that is attracting a great deal
of attention as concerns over global warming and high energy
prices continue to hit the headlines. We are also publishing the
fourth edition of our full web report on CSR. This continues to
be well received by key stakeholders in your company, and
generates much very useful feedback; it can be accessed on the
company’s website at www.matthey.com.
In short, the prospects for your company over the next
few years are very encouraging. Johnson Matthey is in good
shape and continues to make excellent progress towards the
delivery of superior shareholder value. The company is well
positioned to benefit from a number of exciting opportunities
in its core businesses driven by environmental concerns, high oil
prices and emerging technologies. I look forward to reporting on
a successful 2006/07 and to the company continuing to achieve
good growth over the years ahead.
Sir John Banham
Chairman
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
3 4
- Johnson Matthey
Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2005/06. Sales
excluding the value of precious metals rose by 13% to £1.3 billion.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 9% to 72.7 pence.
We continued to invest heavily in the future. Capital
expenditure of £124.0 million was 1.8 times depreciation.
We increased R&D expenditure by 9%. In February 2006 we
acquired Davy Process Technology Limited (DPT) for a net cost
of £24.6 million. DPT has world class expertise in chemical
process technology which it licenses to customers in the oil, gas
and petrochemical industries. The acquisition will give Johnson
Matthey the opportunity to expand catalyst sales into the
rapidly emerging markets for new process catalysts.
Our business is built on long term investment in new
technology. Environmental Catalysts and Technologies (ECT)
is about to reap some of the benefits of that long term
investment with the emergence of new markets for heavy duty
diesel (HDD) catalysts in Europe, North America and Japan.
We expect to obtain a leading position in these markets which
we now expect will be worth US$700 million, excluding
precious metals, by the end of 2008.
We are also benefiting from similar technology leadership
for light duty diesel vehicles where concerns about particulate
emissions are encouraging fitment of catalysed soot filters
(CSFs) well ahead of the legislation (Euro V) which will apply
in Europe in 2010.
The legislation to limit these emissions will continue to
tighten. A new market will emerge in 2011 for off road
vehicles, which will be as large as the one for heavy duty
trucks and buses.
Growth in catalyst technology is not limited to vehicles.
High oil and gas prices, together with pressure to move to low
carbon energy, is transforming the long term market for process
catalysts. The graph on page 5 shows the price of oil at which
new technologies become economic. Industry experts differ in
their views of the breakeven prices for these various products
so we have shown the prices as ranges above which the
processes are financially attractive. DPT has process technology
expertise in all these new markets. Gas to liquids (GTL) and
coal to chemicals depend on a range of catalysts to achieve the
final product. Nearly all these processes require purification
catalysts to remove harmful contaminants. We expect to see
major growth in these markets over the next decade.
We are currently living in a ‘carbon world’ where most
of our energy is derived from fossil fuels and the impact of the
resulting carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions to the atmosphere
is well publicised. There is a growing and urgent consensus
that we need to reduce worldwide carbon emissions through
the more efficient use of energy and the introduction of
alternative energy sources, so starting a transition towards a
lower carbon and ultimately a hydrogen economy. Catalysts will
play a crucial role in this transition. They not only allow chemical
reactions to proceed under less harsh operating conditions
(for example lower temperature and pressure) they also
facilitate the more efficient conversion of raw materials to the
desired end product. Hydrogen offers the potential to be an
alternative, or additional, energy carrier to power our homes
and workplaces, transport and industry. Johnson Matthey has a
broad range of skills in hydrogen processing ranging from the
catalysts used in its generation, to the materials used for its
storage and the development of systems to use it in fuel cells.
Our Operating and Financial Review (OFR) on pages 6
to 37 sets out in more detail Johnson Matthey’s involvement
in these markets. In this year’s report we have included a
special section describing the company’s involvement in
improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon emissions
(pages 34 to 37).
Chief Executive’s Statement
Neil Carson
Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
5
Developing the technologies to meet these new
opportunities is at the heart of our business, but on its own
it is not enough. We need to generate a good return on our
invested capital to provide an attractive return to our
shareholders and retain sufficient funds to support future
growth. We have for many years focused on return on assets
(ROA) as the key performance measure for our businesses and
have set a pre-tax target of 20% which is well above our cost
of capital. This year we improved the group return to 17.0%
and are looking for a further gradual improvement over the
next few years. We have also increased our focus on cash
generation. Not all our businesses have the growth potential
of some of our catalyst businesses. However the cash they
generate is an important factor in the company’s success.
Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical Materials and
Ceramics all achieved strong cash generation in 2005/06.
Much of our attention today is focused on delivering the
opportunities that our technological investment has generated.
In the last year we have built a new factory at Royston, UK
and are making a substantial investment at our facility near
Philadelphia, USA to manufacture the next generation of
products for diesel emission controls. New catalyst factories
are also being constructed in Korea and Russia.
In Johnson Matthey we have a very strong team ethos
where every employee has a key role to play. That will be
crucial in delivering our future growth. The fact that many of
the company’s products are beneficial to the environment is a
strong motivator. We place considerable emphasis on career
development. Over the last few years we have also worked
hard on improving our health and safety record. Although the
accident rate has fallen steadily and is below industry averages,
our philosophy is that any accident is unacceptable and
achieving a zero accident rate is our objective. The group’s
policies in this area are set out in our Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) report on pages 27 to 37 which forms an
important part of the OFR. A fuller version is available on the
company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Our financial record over the last ten years has been well
above average with 8.7% compound annual growth in earnings
per share (before one-off items and goodwill amortisation) and
7.7% compound growth in dividends (pages 110 to 111). We
are recommending a 9% increase in the dividend for 2005/06.
The outlook for 2006/07 and the next few years continues to
be very encouraging. We expect the group to achieve strong
top line growth from the introduction of new products and
generate good growth in earnings. A more detailed outlook
statement is included in our OFR on page 8.
Neil Carson
Chief Executive
Brent Crude
Oil Price
US$/Barrel
With oil above
$40 per barrel
the following
technologies
become viable:
Coal to Chemicals
$40-$50
Biodiesel
$35-$45
Gas to Liquids
$25-$35
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
10
50
40
30
20
60
70
80
Oil Price Drives Interest in Hydrocarbons to Products Technology Above: Catalysed soot filters for removing
particulate emissions from diesel vehicles.
Left: Steam reforming catalysts.
Right: Membrane electrode assemblies
for fuel cells.
6
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Objectives
Johnson Matthey’s strategic intent is to achieve consistent
growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of
high added value products and services in areas where our
expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis,
precious metals, fine chemicals and materials technology.
The group’s financial objectives are:
• To achieve consistent and above average growth in
earnings per share. Over the last ten years Johnson Matthey
has increased its earnings per share before one-off items
and goodwill amortisation at a compound annual growth
rate of 8.7% p.a. (see pages 110 and 111).
• To grow dividends in line with earnings while maintaining
dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure
sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
Over the last ten years Johnson Matthey has increased its
dividend at a compound annual growth rate of 7.7% p.a.
Dividend cover for 2005/06 was 2.42 times.
• To deliver a return on investment above the group’s cost
of capital. We estimate Johnson Matthey’s post tax cost of
capital is currently about 8%. The group’s post tax return
on assets for 2005/06 was 4.0% above that at 12.0%.
• We set a pre-tax target of 20% for return on assets
(ROA) for all of our divisions with a minimum threshold
of being ahead of our cost of capital (11.3% on a pre-tax
basis). Precious Metal Products achieved a return in excess
of 20% in 2005/06. Both Catalysts’ and Ceramics’ ROAs
were between the cost of capital and the 20% target.
Pharmaceutical Materials’ return fell below the group’s cost
of capital in 2005/06 but is expected to recover in 2006/07.
In 2005/06 the group’s overall pre-tax return was 17.0%
(see page 20).
The board’s strategies to achieve these financial objectives are:
• Focus the business on the group’s core skills in catalysis,
precious metals and fine chemicals.
• Position the group in growth markets where our core skills
are applicable. Catalysis is a key technology in many
developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those
concerned with protecting the environment such as in
emission control, cleaner fuel and the hydrogen economy.
Catalysis is also important in the manufacture of active
pharmaceutical ingredients where Johnson Matthey has a
strong niche position in the growing market of generic pain
killers and other controlled drugs, as well as platinum
based anticancer compounds. Johnson Matthey’s expertise
and international strength in precious metals, particularly
platinum group metals, was the starting point for many of
our businesses. The market for platinum has grown steadily
for many decades and demand is expected to grow
significantly over the next ten years.
• Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
We will continue to invest significantly in research and
development to develop new products and manufacturing
processes. Technology is the key driver for most of our
businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base
with technical centres located in all our major markets.
• Maintain strong relationships with our major customers,
suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by
investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group
is well positioned for future market development.
• Continue to invest in Johnson Matthey’s employees to
ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged
to meet the challenges of the future.
In the near term our main focus will be to deliver the
major organic growth opportunities we have been investing in
over the last few years. These include emission controls for new
heavy duty diesel (HDD) vehicles (trucks and buses); further
opportunities in light duty diesel vehicles including catalysed soot
filters (CSFs); new catalyst technology for hydrogen production
and gas to liquids (GTL) and new products for Pharmaceutical
Materials. We believe the group is particularly well positioned
for organic growth over the next few years. In the longer term
fuel cell components remain an exciting market opportunity.
Our funding policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet
with conservative gearing and use cash generated to invest in
organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions. Where cash generated
exceeds our investment requirements we will return the
money to shareholders either in the form of share buy-backs
or special dividends.
Review of Results 2005/06
Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2005/06. T otal
earnings per share were up 33%. Underlying earnings per share
(before impairment, restructuring and disposal costs) increased
by 9%.
Growth in the second half of the year was stronger than
the first. Operating profit for the year, before impairment and
restructuring costs, rose by 8%, with Catalysts, Precious Metal
Products and Ceramics all achieving double digit growth.
Pharmaceutical Materials was down but sales and profits
improved in the second half of the year.
This is the first time Johnson Matthey has reported its full
year results under International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS). The impact of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS
was set out in our Report and Accounts for 2005, and is shown
on pages 102 to 108 of this report.
Revenue rose by 3% to £4,756 million. Catalysts Division’s
sales were well ahead of 2004/05 but sales in Precious Metal
Products Division were down, despite higher metal prices,
reflecting the withdrawal from gold refining in the UK in
2004/05 and lower trading activity in the first half of the year.
Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 13%
reflecting good underlying growth in Catalysts Division.
Operating profit, before impairment and restructuring
costs, increased by 8% to £234.7 million. Exchange translation
was favourable, increasing profit by £4.0 million compared with
last year. Interest rose by £1.7 million to £14.7 million reflecting
the impact of higher short term interest rates in the US. Profit
before tax, impairment and restructuring costs was up 8% at
£219.8 million.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
7 8
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
An impairment charge of £6.0 million has been included in
the results for 2005/06 for the write down of process assets no
longer required in the platinum group metal refining business
following the successful restructuring of that business. Including
the impairment charge, profit before tax was £213.8 million
which was 28% up on the equivalent figure for 2004/05 which
included a charge of £36.7 million for restructuring costs.
Underlying earnings per share rose by 9% to 72.7 pence,
benefiting from the accretive effect of buying back shares.
Including impairment, restructuring and disposal costs total
earnings per share rose by 33% to 70.8 pence.
The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend
of 21.0 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 30.1 pence,
an increase of 9%, which is in line with the growth in underlying
earnings per share.
Outlook
The outlook for the next few years continues to be very
encouraging. We expect the group to achieve strong top line
growth from the introduction of new products and generate
good growth in earnings.
New legislation on HDD vehicle emissions in Europe will
apply to all new vehicles in October 2006. New legislation in
the US starts in January 2007 and will impact our sales in the
final quarter of the financial year. By the end of 2008 we expect
the market for catalysts for new HDD vehicles to reach
US$700 million (higher than our previous estimate reflecting
the use of more expensive substrates and filters). Johnson
Matthey is expecting to achieve a leading share of this market.
In addition, demand for CSFs for light vehicles is strong and
sales are expected to grow steadily in 2006/07.
The markets for PCT’s catalysts have also improved in
the last year as a result of high energy prices and increased
environmental concerns. The acquisition of Davy Process
Technology has enhanced Johnson Matthey’s technological
position in this market and medium term growth prospects
are very good.
In 2006/07 Precious Metal Products Division should continue
to benefit from the favourable conditions in the platinum group
metal markets. Pharmaceutical Materials’ growth will depend on
the timing of customers’ new product launches. Ceramics is
expected to trade at similar levels to 2005/06 and be strongly
cash generative. The US dollar has weakened again in the current
financial year which will adversely affect exchange translation
if it remains at current levels. Overall, we expect growth in
earnings to be stronger in the second half of 2006/07 than the
first driven by increasing demand for diesel catalyst products.
We will continue to increase our investment in R&D to
maintain Johnson Matthey’s technology leadership positions.
We believe that many of the existing and emerging markets for
catalysts will show significant growth over the next decade and
Johnson Matthey is well placed to benefit from these new
market opportunities.
Operations
Johnson Matthey has operations in over 30 countries and
employs around 7,700 people. It is organised into four global
divisions: Catalysts, Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical
Materials and Ceramics.
Catalysts Division
Description of the Business
Catalysts Division consists of three global businesses:
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies (ECT)
ECT comprises Johnson Matthey’s global autocatalyst, heavy duty
diesel and stationary source emissions control businesses. We
are a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle exhaust
emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for the reduction
of volatile organic compound emissions from industrial processes.
Manufacturing takes place in the USA, UK, Belgium, Mexico,
Argentina, South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, India and China. R&D
facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden, Japan and Brazil.
Process Catalysts and Technologies (PCT)
PCT manufactures base and precious metal process catalysts, fine
chemicals and electrochemical products. Manufacturing facilities
are in the UK, USA, Germany, India and China. Davy Process
Technology develops chemical process technologies and licenses
them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries.
It is headquartered in London and has an extensive R&D centre
in Stockton-on-Tees, UK. Our Research Chemicals business is
based in the USA and UK.
Fuel Cells
Johnson Matthey is the world leader in catalysts and catalysed
components for fuel cells.
Performance in 2005/06
Catalysts Division’s sales rose by 28% to £1,477 million, partly
as a result of higher prices for platinum, palladium and rhodium.
Excluding the value of precious metals, sales rose by 17% to
£786 million. This increase was driven by good volume growth
and the impact of higher material costs, such as the cost of
substrates for catalysed soot filters, which is a pass through for
Johnson Matthey.
The division’s operating profit increased by 10% (before
acquisition integration costs included in the results for 2004/05)
to £134.2 million, with most of the growth coming in the
second half of the year.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies was well ahead of
last year with good growth in Europe, particularly for diesel
catalysts, and increasing autocatalyst sales in Asia more than
offsetting a further decline in North America.
In Johnson Matthey’s financial year to 31st March 2006
global light duty vehicle sales increased by 3.6% to 65.6 million.
Car production rose by 3.3% with a small overall reduction in
inventories. Most of the growth in production came in Asia,
which was 11% up on last year. Europe and North America
were 2% ahead. Demand for diesel vehicles continues to be
strong in Europe where they represent just under half the total
car market. Johnson Matthey has a leading position in the light duty diesel catalyst market which has seen good growth due to
strong sales of diesel oxidation catalysts (DOCs) to meet Euro
IV emissions regulations.
Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production
Year to 31st March
2006 2005 change
millions millions %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
North America Sales 19.7 19.5 1.0%
Production 15.9 15.6 1.9%
Europe Sales 18.3 18.0 1.7%
Production 19.3 18.9 2.1%
Asia Sales 15.2 13.7 10.9%
Production 23.0 20.7 11.1%
Global Sales 65.6 63.3 3.6%
Production 66.3 64.2 3.3%
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Source: Global Insight
We are also seeing increasing demand from many of the
leading car companies in Europe for catalysed soot filters (CSFs)
to remove particulates from diesel exhaust emissions. Although
legislation requiring such emission control devices does not
come into force in Europe until 2010 many manufacturers are
starting to fit these devices much earlier due to public
awareness of the environmental and health benefits that they
provide. In 2005/06 we commissioned a new factory in Royston,
UK to manufacture CSFs and we are putting in new capacity at
our South African facility which also supplies the European
market. Demand for CSFs increased in the second half of the
year and we expect to see further growth in 2006/07.
During the year we announced plans to build a new
autocatalyst manufacturing facility in the Russian Federation. This
plant will produce catalysts to meet demand from both local
and global original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) following
the introduction of emissions legislation in Russia in the spring
of 2006.
The market for heavy duty diesel (HDD) catalysts for new
vehicles is also beginning to grow. New emission control
standards for HDD vehicles came into force in Europe in
October 2005 for new models. As yet, less than 10% of the
new vehicle fleet is fitted with catalysts. The major growth in this
market will occur from October 2006 when all new vehicles
sold in Europe will need to meet the new standards. Johnson
Matthey is supplying several of the OEMs with products to
meet the new legislation and expects to have a leading share
of the market when the legislation applies to all new vehicles.
In the United States similar legislation comes into force at the
beginning of January 2007 and Johnson Matthey is again well
placed to take a leading market share. A major expansion
programme is underway at our facility near Philadelphia, USA
to install capacity to meet demand for catalysts for both heavy
duty diesel vehicles and diesel powered SUVs, which are also
affected by this legislation.
Following closely behind these first waves of on road
heavy duty diesel emissions regulations are a series of tighter
standards which will come into effect in Europe, Japan and
the United States over the next four years. These are
illustrated in figure 1 and require major reductions in the
emissions of both particulate matter (PM) and oxides of
nitrogen (NOx). This presents significant challenges to the
manufacturers of HDD engines and vehicles and will require
the use of highly sophisticated catalyst systems. Johnson
Matthey is working with many of the world’s leading HDD
engine and vehicle manufacturers on systems to meet these
much tighter standards.
In addition to on road HDD emissions legislation, which
will undoubtedly continue to tighten beyond 2010, there is
also legislation in place in the European Union and the United
States that will take effect from 2011 requiring off road or
‘non road’ vehicles such as construction, mining and agricultural
equipment to meet the same tight emissions standards. This is
an additional new market that will be of a similar size to the
on road HDD market and will have similar technology
requirements. Again Johnson Matthey is well positioned to
benefit from this legislation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
9
Figure 1
HDD On Road Regulation Development
Figure 2
Light Duty Petrol-engined Vehicle NOx Emission Standards
0 0.5
US 2010
US 2007
EU V EU IV
US 2002 3/4
Japan 2009
Japan 2005
Japan 2003
EU III
NOx (g/kw-hr)
1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0
0
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
PM (g/kw-hr)
0
1992
Current
Standards
1997 2002 2006 2010
0.50
0.25
0.75
California US Federal Japan Europe China
NOx (g/mile) 10
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
Emissions standards for light duty gasoline and diesel
vehicles also continue to tighten around the world. Figure 2
(on page 9) illustrates legislated limits for emissions of NOx
in the world’s major car markets. Emission standards for
hydrocarbons (HC) and carbon monoxide (CO) are also
following this worldwide trend and, as outlined above, there is
increasing focus on particulate emissions from diesels in Europe.
This will undoubtedly spread to other parts of the world as the
use of light duty diesel engines increases. Continuously tightening
emissions standards bring new technical challenges to our
customers which require innovative, high performance catalysts
to meet them. This will drive the growth of our autocatalyst
business well into the next decade.
Our business in Asia is performing very well. Over the
next decade we expect that most of the growth in world car
production will take place in the Asian region. In the financial
year 2005/06 we have achieved strong volume growth in China
and Japan and our operations in India and Malaysia also continued
to perform well. During the year we further expanded our
autocatalyst manufacturing facility in Japan in order to serve
growing demand for our products from Japanese car companies.
We are also seeing good growth in sales to Japanese transplant
operations in the United States, which is helping to offset some
of the impact on our North American business of the decline
in the domestic manufacturers’ market share.
In early September we announced plans to build a new
autocatalyst factory in South Korea, our fifth in the Asian region.
This new plant is being built in Gyeonggi province, 50 kilometres
south west of Seoul, where we plan to manufacture catalysts
for both diesel and petrol powered vehicles and also to carry
out research and development activities to support the rapidly
growing Korean motor industry.
Our HDD business in Asia continues to make good
progress, gaining share of the OEM market to meet both
current and upcoming Japanese legislation and achieving good
sales into the large retrofit programme underway in Seoul.
Process Catalysts and Technologies
Process Catalysts and Technologies also achieved good growth
in sales and profits in 2005/06. The Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and
Gas (AMOG) business was well ahead of 2004/05 with strong
demand for catalysts and purification materials for industries
where hydrogen or synthesis gas are key intermediates. Sales of
edible oil catalysts were also ahead of last year but catalyst sales
to the polymer market declined.
On 1st February 2006 we purchased Davy Process
Technology Limited (DPT) for a net cost of £24.6 million. DPT
develops chemical process technologies and licenses them to
customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries. Revenue
is generated through the licensing of its proprietary technologies
and from the sale of associated basic engineering packages,
catalysts, specialist equipment and other services. In the two
months of Johnson Matthey ownership DPT made an operating
profit of £0.8 million.
The acquisition of DPT will provide Johnson Matthey with
additional opportunities to grow its sales of catalysts and
technologies into emerging markets. The high oil price, coupled
with the depletion of known reserves, makes the winning of
more difficult oil deposits economic. This, along with increasing
demand for cleaner fuels, is transforming the market for
catalysts and purification materials used in oil, gas and
petrochemicals. It has generated investment in the economic
use of natural gas and coal, both as precursors for transport
fuels and in manufacturing petrochemical intermediates. For
example industry experts forecast that the gas to liquids
process, which converts natural gas into sulphur free
hydrocarbons, including diesel fuel, is viable at oil prices of
greater than $25 to $35 per barrel. Coal to chemicals processes
are estimated to be viable at oil prices of greater than $40 to
$50 per barrel in countries like China and the USA where coal
resources significantly exceed oil reserves. We have significantly
increased our R&D expenditure on the development of
catalysts for the production of clean synthetic liquid products from a wide range of hydrocarbon feedstocks which will be a
substantial growth market for PCT in the medium term. World
attention to the subject of low carbon energy inevitably involves
the use of hydrogen as a fuel and here Johnson Matthey is
already developing a range of appropriate new technologies.
The high price of oil also benefits Tracerco, PCT’s oil
processing services business, which saw record demand for
services and equipment from production platforms and
refineries in 2005/06.
The division’s Research Chemicals business achieved good
growth, successfully integrating the operations of Lancaster
Synthesis which was acquired in 2004/05. A new combined
catalogue was issued during the year which should provide a
further boost to growth. During 2005/06 the business has
pursued opportunities for expansion in the key Chinese and
Indian markets. A joint venture has been established in China
that provides a full service to this rapidly growing market and
investigations are underway into expanding the business’
warehousing and distribution facilities in India.
Fuel Cells
The same trends that are increasing demand for new catalysts
in PCT have also increased interest in fuel cells technologies
and 2005/06 witnessed significant developments in the fuel cell
market, particularly in Europe and Asia. One consequence of
these trends has been renewed interest in the use of phosphoric
acid fuel cells (PAFCs) for stationary applications. Johnson
Matthey has well established technology for components in this
area and is collaborating with fuel cell manufacturers on new
product development. Another recent development is the
emergence of small prototype direct methanol fuel cells used
as chargers for mobile phones or power sources for laptop
computers. The future development of this new market is still
uncertain but the Fuel Cells business is working with a number
of major consumer electronics companies to supply catalysts
and membrane electrode assemblies (MEAs) for their
development programmes.
There has also been increased activity in the development of
fuel cell powered buses for low carbon transport demonstrations
in major cities around the world. In the long term the need for
fuel cell cars remains as compelling as ever as the cost of pollution
control from conventional vehicles grows and concerns about
global warming and energy security become more pressing.
In 2005/06 the annual cost of our Fuel Cells business on
an IFRS basis fell by £0.5 million to £8.1 million. Under IFRS
accounting rules £1.6 million of the annual R&D cost was
capitalised in 2005/06 (£1.5 million in 2004/05) which lowered
the reported cost compared with UK GAAP . The business
benefited from an expanded range of customers and initial sales
of prototype products to the direct methanol fuel cells’ market.
During the year it has continued to develop its supply chain by
establishing development relationships and supply agreements
for key materials for manufacturing MEAs and other fuel cell
components.
Precious Metal Products Division
Description of the Business
Precious Metal Products Division is organised into three groups;
Platinum, Colour Technologies and Gold and Silver and
incorporates Johnson Matthey’s precious metals marketing,
fabrication and refining activities as well as its business
manufacturing functional and decorative coatings for glass
and ceramics.
Platinum
Consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and fabrication
activities. Marketing is headquartered in Royston, UK with
support facilities in Philadelphia and Hong Kong. We are the
world’s leading distributor of platinum group metals (pgms) and
the sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the world’s largest
producer of platinum. Our platinum fabrication business makes
a wide range of platinum group metal products primarily in the
UK and USA. Our Pgm Refining business recovers pgms from
spent catalysts and other secondary materials and refines
primary pgms from global mining operations. It has refining
facilities in the UK and USA.
Colour T echnologies
Headquartered in the Netherlands, our Colour Technologies
business manufactures black obscuration enamels and silver
conductive materials for automotive glass. It also makes colours,
enamels and decorative precious metal products for other glass
applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as
for tableware and other ceramic applications.
Gold and Silver
Comprises our worldwide gold and silver refining and bullion
manufacturing operations. Johnson Matthey is a market leader
in the refining of gold and silver. The business serves the world’s
mining industries and recycles secondary scrap material. We are
also a leading manufacturer of high purity small gold bars for
investment and jewellery manufacture. Gold and silver refining
operations are located in the USA, Canada and Hong Kong.
Performance in 2005/06
Precious Metal Products Division’s sales fell by 7% to
£2,962 million. The fall reflected the withdrawal from gold
refining in the UK in 2004/05 and a reduction in trading activity
in the first half of the year compared with the first half of
2004/05. Operating profit (before impairment and restructuring
costs) rose by 20% to £62.2 million. Much of the growth in
operating profit was generated by the manufacturing businesses.
Platinum
Profits from the division’s marketing and trading operations
were better than in 2004/05 particularly in the second half
of the year. Higher average pgm prices and increased price
volatility, especially in the rhodium market, provided more
favourable trading conditions. The price of platinum reached its
peak for 2005/06 of $1,084/oz in March 2006, an all time high
in dollar terms. The rise in the platinum price gathered pace
as the year progressed with speculative buying, particularly in
Japan, adding to the strong supply and demand fundamentals
that have been seen for a number of years. The average price
for the year was $942/oz, an 11% increase on 2004/05.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
11 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Autocatalyst
(net)
Jewellery Industrial
0
2
1
3
4
6
7
      5
Investment
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
South Africa Russia Others
0
6
8
7
5
4
3
2
1
9
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Autocatalyst
(net)
Electronics Dental
0
2
1
3
4
7
8
      6
Other
      5
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
South Africa Russia Others
0
6
5
4
3
2
1
7
Total consumption of platinum increased once more in
2005/06, a pattern unbroken since 1992. Demand for platinum
in autocatalysts increased by 9% with much of the growth
generated in Europe where diesel vehicles, which predominantly
use platinum catalysts, accounted for nearly 50% of light duty
vehicle registrations. However, usage in jewellery fell as the
rising price of platinum encouraged de-stocking and recycling of
old jewellery. Supplies of platinum increased, although at a lower
rate than anticipated as South African producers had a number
of unforeseen difficulties in reaching their expansion targets.
Overall, supplies fell short of demand for the seventh consecutive
year, contributing to the trend of rising platinum prices.
The palladium price also reached a peak for 2005/06 in
March, touching $345/oz. Supply and demand fundamentals
became increasingly irrelevant as hedge funds and institutional
investors extended already substantial long positions in the
market. The average price for the year was $228/oz, a modest
increase of 4% on 2004/05. Physical demand for palladium
increased in 2005/06, a third successive year of rising
consumption after a slump in 2002/03. Autocatalyst demand
was broadly flat whereas demand from the burgeoning market
for palladium jewellery in China grew by more than 50%.
Palladium supplies were slightly lower than in 2004/05 due to
a reduction in Russian stock sales. Although the physical market
was once again in surplus, this was overshadowed by activity in
the investment market.
The price of rhodium rose sharply in 2005/06, reaching a
peak of $4,350/oz in March. The average price of $2,544/oz was
more than double the average for 2004/05. Strong demand from
the automotive and glass industries coupled with speculative
interest left little metal to be offered in the spot market. This
additional pressure on a market which was already tight and
illiquid inevitably caused prices to rise dramatically.
The division’s pgm fabrication businesses also achieved
good growth with increasing sales to the industrial sector and
strong demand for medical device components. Demand for
core industrial products, such as catalytic gauzes, high specification
wires and complex fabrications, grew strongly as our market
share improved. This increased activity has necessitated an
expansion of our manufacturing plant at West Chester, USA
which will be completed in the first half of 2006/07. Our
medical parts business, based in California, had an excellent
year, led by our modern San Diego plant which enjoyed record
sales of precision machined components.
Pgm Refining was transferred from Catalysts into Precious
Metal Products Division at the beginning of the financial year.
In 2005 we announced a plan to restructure the business in
the UK and reduce the quantity of precious metals held in the
refinery. This was achieved by improved intake management
which refocused the business on refining pgm materials whilst
exiting the market for materials which contain predominantly
gold and silver. As a result of the successful completion of this
plan over £20 million of net cash has been generated from
metal reduction. Some parts of the process have been changed
and £6.0 million of fixed assets, which will no longer be used,
were written off in 2005/06.
Colour Technologies
Colour Technologies, which was transferred into the division
following the restructuring of the former Colours & Coatings
Division, achieved good growth in profits benefiting from cost
reductions undertaken last year and good sales of automotive
glass enamels particularly in the North American and Asian
markets. Also, its new range of unleaded products for
architectural and appliance glass applications, which was
launched in 2004/05, received full market acceptance and
contributed strongly to growth in 2005/06. The Tableware
business improved, benefiting from earlier cost reductions, the
last of which was its exit from the unprofitable decal business.
Following these changes,Tableware and Glass have been fully
integrated into a single Colour Technologies organisation.
12
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
Supply of Platinum 2001 -2005
Million oz
Demand for Platinum 2001 -2005
Million oz
Supply of Palladium 2001 -2005
Million oz
Demand for Palladium 2001 -2005
Million oz Gold and Silver
The division’s gold and silver businesses also had a good year
benefiting from the closure, in 2004/05, of its UK bullion
refinery which had been loss making and the transfer of some
of its business to our North American refineries. Despite the
higher gold price, volumes of secondary gold scrap refined by
our Hong Kong refinery were down on the prior year and
profit from this activity fell. However, sales of Johnson Matthey
group products into the South East Asian market, which are
coordinated through Hong Kong, continued to grow.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division
Description of the Business
Pharmaceutical Materials Division is a global, integrated supplier
of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), which provides
services to pharmaceutical companies through every phase
of the development and commercial manufacture of a
pharmaceutical product.
The division’s Macfarlan Smith (UK) and West Deptford
(USA) businesses provide a full range of commercial scale
manufacturing services for APIs to both generic and branded
pharmaceutical companies. Both businesses specialise in the
manufacture of low to medium volume, high value products,
especially controlled drugs.
Pharma Services (USA) provides contract research and
development and manufacturing services to pharmaceutical
companies from pre-clinical through to commercial launch.
The Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland business specialises
in the manufacture of prostaglandin APIs, which are very low
volume, high value, chemically complex molecules.
Performance in 2005/06
Pharmaceutical Materials Division’s sales rose by 2% to
£134 million with a recovery in the second half of the year.
Operating profit fell by 15% to £33.8 million as a result of
reduced income from carboplatin, which went off patent in
October 2004, and lower revenues in the division’s contract
research business. The fall in profits all occurred in the United
States, although trading improved in the second half. The
division’s European businesses performed well in the year.
West Deptford
Our active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing business
in the US, which is based in West Deptford, NJ, saw its profits
decline in 2005/06 following the expiry of the carboplatin
patent. Much of the future growth in the US business is
expected to come from the launch of new generic products by
our customers. These product launches can be subject to delays
in the US courts, which occurred in 2005/06 when we had
hoped to benefit from the launch of a significant new generic
controlled drug. We still hope to benefit from the launch of
that product in 2006/07 but timing remains uncertain. There
are several other attractive generic products in the late stages
of development which are expected to gain commercial
approval over the next few years. Commercialisation of opiate
drugs continues to progress with a number of customers
working to obtain regulatory approvals to market products
containing APIs manufactured at West Deptford.
Despite carboplatin going off patent the outlook for
platinum anticancer drugs remains encouraging. The market
continues to grow and Johnson Matthey is the leading supplier
of platinum containing APIs to the US market. Johnson Matthey
originally discovered Satraplatin
®
, a potential new drug to treat
prostate cancer which is currently in Phase III clinical trials, and
the company will receive royalty and manufacturing income if
this product is successfully launched.
Macfarlan Smith
Macfarlan Smith, which is based in Edinburgh, UK, performed
well in the year with sales and profits ahead of 2004/05. Sales
were up in most product areas with good growth in both bulk
opiates and low volume, high potency products, mainly analgesics,
where new capacity was installed in 2004/05. The major
expansion programme to increase capacity to manufacture
specialist opiates (oxycodone, hydromorphone and
buprenorphine), demand for which is growing rapidly, was
completed on time and has now been commissioned. The
world market for opiate drugs, which are primarily used to
treat pain, continues to grow. Use of these products increases
as the world’s population ages and people are generally less
tolerant of pain. Growth is also driven by the introduction of
new applications and new dosage forms which enable broader,
more controlled use of these medications.
Pharma Services
Pharma Services’ performance in 2005/06 was disappointing.
Revenue declined in the first half of the year as several major
projects were wound up by customers earlier than projected.
Performance in the second half improved, benefiting from new
business and a reduced cost base.
In addition to performing contract research and
development for third parties, Pharma Services has continued
to use its broad capabilities to support product development
for other businesses in the division. In 2005/06, Pharma Services
successfully developed manufacturing processes for new generic
products which will be marketed by the West Deptford and
Ireland businesses.
Ireland
The performance of Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland improved
in 2005/06 and the business continued to expand its customer
and product base. The development of new generic products
containing our prostaglandin APIs continues to make good
progress and several have been submitted for regulatory
approval.
Ceramics Division
Description of the Business
Headquartered in Spain, our Ceramics Division is a leading
global supplier of raw materials and intermediate products to
the tile and sanitaryware industries. The business has a presence
in all the major geographical regions with core manufacturing
facilities in Spain, Italy, UK, Brazil, USA, Malaysia, India and China.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
13 14
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
Above: Precision components used
in medical devices.
Left: Active pharmaceutical ingredient
(API) manufacture.
Right: Colours for decorating ceramic tiles. Performance in 2005/06
Ceramics is shown as a stand alone division this year following
the restructuring of our Colours & Coatings Division. That
restructuring included the sale of our Pigments & Dispersions
business, transfer of the Colour Technologies business to
Precious Metal Products Division and closure or consolidation
of a number of smaller manufacturing units.
The net impact has been to significantly reduce the cost
base which has improved operating profit and margins.
Ceramics Division also successfully grew its sales in 2005/06 by
10% to £182 million. Operating profit increased by 13% to
£21.3 million.
The division is a global supplier of decorative materials
to the ceramic industries particularly tile manufacturing. It is
realising the benefits of the investments made in recent years to
position it as one of the lowest cost global producers. Dedicated
sales and technical teams work closely with the tile producers
and this, combined with world class research and development
facilities at strategic locations around the world, have earned
the Ceramics business an excellent reputation for product
quality and customer support.
Sales were strong in China, which has a large and growing
tile market and where the division has a factory to supply local
consumption. Growth in Europe was less strong, with our Italian
and Spanish customers, who export around 50% of their
production outside the euro zone, continuing to suffer
downward pressure on volumes and prices, due to the strength
of the euro. However, sales into Eastern Europe, especially
Poland and Russia, showed good growth as the region’s
manufacturing base continued to expand.
Research & Development
Research and development is the lifeblood of Johnson Matthey’s
high technology businesses. We maintain a high level of R&D
expenditure to ensure the continuous flow of new products
and technologies to provide our customers with cost effective
solutions to legislated and technical requirements. In 2005/06
Johnson Matthey spent £62.7 million gross on research and
development.
Johnson Matthey Technology Centre
The Johnson Matthey Technology Centre (JMTC), located at
Sonning Common, UK is the group’s main centre for longer
term research. It employs over 140 scientists, specialists in the
fields of catalysis, precious metals, materials science and many
other disciplines in which Johnson Matthey operates. JMTC has
state of the art facilities for preparing and testing catalysts and
other products as well as a world class analytical science group,
equipped with the latest tools to characterise and understand
the materials with which Johnson Matthey works.
In addition to projects directly sponsored by the operating
divisions to meet their long term objectives, JMTC also runs a
set of core science projects to extend the group’s knowledge of
the science at the heart of many of its businesses, particularly in
the fields of catalyst engineering, modelling, preparation and
characterisation. This knowledge can then be applied to accelerate
and improve product development across the group. Examples
of how advanced modelling techniques are used to underpin the
group’s catalyst development programmes are described below.
JMTC also works in close collaboration with an extensive
network of technology centres and development groups within
Johnson Matthey’s global businesses and participates in
collaborative research and development programmes
worldwide. Examples of two long term projects currently
underway at JMTC are described below followed by a review
of R&D activities within the operating divisions.
Core Science Projects – Advanced Modelling
Johnson Matthey invests in the development and application
of leading edge multi-scale modelling skills to study catalyst
performance from atomic to plant scale. Modelling is a valuable
tool for the prediction of catalyst performance and
understanding of limitations that helps us to design experiments
and concepts leading to the next generation of catalysts.
Optimising Chemical Processes
In many areas of process catalysis, we have been using chemical
engineering modelling techniques to predict reactor
performance. These predictions can provide a reasonably
accurate overview of reactor behaviour and allow optimisation
of operation. More advanced modelling techniques are now
providing us with a much more detailed view of what happens
inside the reactor, allowing us to study catalysts and reactors
from scales of nanometres to metres. For example we are using
state of the art computational fluid dynamics to explore the
relationships between flow behaviour, heat transfer and catalyst
performance during steam reforming of hydrocarbons, while
molecular modelling codes allow us to gain insight into the
nanoscale phenomena that are taking place at the active sites
of a catalyst.
Aftertreatment Design
Experiments alone do not always provide a route to solving
emission problems. At JMTC we often start with thermodynamic
calculations which are a mathematical way of posing the
question ‘is this reaction possible?’ If the answer is ‘yes’ then we
can start looking for the right catalyst.
Part of the search involves modelling the possible
interactions of exhaust gas molecules with the surfaces of
different chemical components. This approach, called atomistic
modelling, allows us to identify the most likely active site and
reaction pathway on each surface based on the energy changes
that can take place. Our aim is to find the surface that provides
the fastest pathway to the thermodynamically favoured products.
At this point we enter a predominantly experimental phase.
The catalytically active surface has to be transformed from an
image on a computer screen into a highly durable material that
can survive the hostile and variable conditions that prevail in
an exhaust pipe. It can take many cycles of development and
laboratory testing before a real catalyst emerges.
In the final phase which determines whether the catalyst is
suitable for vehicle trials, we predict how it will perform when
integrated into a catalytic converter. This process of reactor
modelling takes into account several long range effects which
cannot be considered in atomistic modelling. These include the
rates at which the reactants diffuse from the fast flowing
exhaust gas to the catalyst surface and the transfer of heat
through the converter.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
15 Membrane Electrode Assemblies
Membrane Electrode Assemblies (MEAs) form the heart of a fuel
cell system as they contain the electrochemically active catalyst
layers that convert fuel and oxygen to electricity and water. Each
layer of an MEA has a different set of functions and must excel at
each of these for maximum performance and durability. All layers
except the central proton conducting membrane are porous and
must allow the simultaneous ingress of reactants and egress of
products. Even subtle changes in the structural arrangement of
the layers can affect performance and for this reason a
structurally realistic approach to modelling the layers is used.
Advanced imaging techniques capture the micro and nanoscopic
structure of real MEA layers which can then be simulated and
probed within computer models to quantify the properties of
that layer. Within the model new structures can be designed to
achieve the best balance of properties and then used to direct
experimental work to realise these structures in practice.
Long Term Research Projects
Low Carbon Technologies
The newly formed Low Carbon Technologies group at JMTC is
addressing the opportunities and challenges that will arise from
the increased demand for clean energy supply and use. The
group acts as a focus for activities across Johnson Matthey and
has interests in carbon capture and storage, distributed
hydrogen generation, biofuels, solar thermal technologies and
energy storage.
Johnson Matthey is an active participant in collaborative
research programmes worldwide allowing us to evaluate the
practical applications and market potential of these new
technologies. These include next generation hydrogen storage
where we are working with a range of leading academic and
industrial partners to apply our catalyst, materials and
engineering expertise to translate fundamental advances into
real life hydrogen storage solutions.
We are also a participant in the EU Framework 6
Hydrosol II project which aims to generate hydrogen directly
from water using concentrated solar energy at a cost that is
competitive with the US Department of Energy’s goals. The
project utilises a number of Johnson Matthey’s core skills that
are applicable to the development of hydrogen generation
technology.
Direct Methanol Fuel Cells
JMTC carries out long term fundamental research on fuel cells
and a key area of research is the development of new catalysts
and MEAs for direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs). DMFCs are
already emerging as a solution for standby and off-grid power
applications and we are working closely with customers to
ensure that their performance targets are met. DMFCs are also
being developed as a replacement for lithium-ion batteries for
portable electronic devices such as mobile phones and laptops,
and prototype demonstrations are expected to be trialled by
the major electronic companies within the next 12 months.
The demanding targets of this application include compactness,
simplicity and high reliability and will require continued
improvements in catalyst and membrane materials and new
approaches to MEA design and construction.
Catalysts Division
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies continues to invest in
scientists and state of the art equipment for the development
and testing of catalysts to meet our customers’ needs for
products which meet ever tightening emissions legislation
around the world. Through this investment, Johnson Matthey
has become a leader in diesel emission control technologies for
both heavy and light duty diesel applications including catalysed
soot filter technology for removal of soot from diesel exhausts.
In addition, Johnson Matthey continues to invest in the
development of improved products for the treatment of exhaust
from gasoline engines.
16
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review Following the significant expansion of our R&D facility
at Kitsuregawa, Japan in 2004/05, this year we have expanded
the site’s autocatalyst manufacturing facility. This combined
expansion in R&D and manufacturing capability has generated
new business during the year and allowed us to meet the
growth in demand for our products from Japanese car
manufacturers.
Johnson Matthey continues to expand its ECT R&D
facilities to cater for the demands of planned new emissions
regulations around the world and the business opportunities
this represents. Investments in 2006/07 will see expansion of
the R&D facilities at our Royston, UK and Gothenberg, Sweden
operations to further support ECT’s research efforts in the field
of diesel emission control technologies.
Process Catalysts and Technologies recently acquired Davy
Process Technology, the chemical process development and
licensing company previously owned by Yukos International. The
fit of this business with our broad palette of catalyst manufacturing
and development tools represents a very potent mix through
which we aim not only to develop improvements to existing
chemical processes but also achieve significant world scale step
changes in technology. Our key areas of focus for research
remain in the hydrocarbon to products and fuels areas and we
are engaged in a number of specific projects aimed both at
process improvement and enhancing catalyst performance.
These include programmes for improving the design and
efficiency of our gas heated reforming technology (used in
syngas based processes such as gas to liquids and methanol
manufacture) and other downstream catalyst applications. We
also continue to invest in R&D projects in the fine chemicals
and pharmaceuticals areas, focused both on new product
development and process efficiency improvements.
During the year, the Fuel Cells business’ R&D has focused
on hydrogen fuelled fuel cells while fundamental research on
methanol fuelled systems has continued at JMTC. The business
continues to make substantial investments in research at JMTC
to provide the technology pipeline the business needs. The
value of this long term commitment has been realised again this
year and we were able to respond to market opportunities for
membrane electrode assemblies for direct methanol fuel cells.
Previous research in this area gave us the understanding and
the technology options to rapidly release products and these
have been very well received by the market. Much of our
research work is conducted with partners and with customers
and this has led to new developments in membranes for fuel
cells which have shown outstanding improvements in durability.
Precious Metal Products Division
Precious Metal Products Division’s global research effort is
largely directed towards novel or improved products for its
pgm fabrication (Noble Metals) and Colour Technologies
businesses. Work continues at JMTC to produce a new range
of high performance silver powders for conductive tracks on
automotive glasses, with other work for the Colour Technologies
business aimed at developing more environmentally friendly
applications and stains with superior performance.
Significant progress has already been made by the Noble
Metals business on developing new catalysts for the ammonia
oxidation industry and more work is planned for 2006/07.
This is targeted to address customers’ desire for catalysts
which require less pgm and which minimise the production
of nitrous oxide, one of five greenhouse gases listed under
the Kyoto Protocol.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division
Pharmaceutical Materials Division’s research and development
is focused on commercial products to be manufactured and
marketed by the division’s four business units. Technology
required for the manufacture of commercial scale products
includes primarily the development of chemical manufacturing
processes and methods for the analysis of these products. This
technology is essential to achieve competitive market positions
and to obtain regulatory approval for products.
Contract drug development services offered by Johnson
Matthey Pharma Services include medicinal chemistry, process
development and initial scale-up of potential new drugs. Pharma
Services also offers substantial niche expertise in catalysis and
the handling of potent APIs. Each of Pharmaceutical Materials
Division’s businesses has developed substantial chemical
know-how in its respective market niches and they collaborate
closely on new technical challenges. Combined with Johnson
Matthey’s core expertise in catalysis, chiral catalysis and
organometallic chemistry, the division offers the pharmaceutical
marketplace a unique range of R&D capabilities.
Ceramics Division
The Ceramics Division is focused on research and development
programmes to support its global business and has R&D
facilities at its major operations around the world. The Ceramics
Technology Centre in Spezzano, Italy houses Johnson Matthey’s
innovative tile production line which incorporates industry
leading process and application technology for tile manufacturing.
Given that more emphasis is now being placed in Western
Europe upon high added value products rather than low
margin high volume products, Italy will focus its research
and development activities to help the division’s customers
meet the changing needs of the European market through
product differentiation. Research also continues into the use
of more energy efficient products and equipment within the
ceramics industry.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
17 18
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
Financial Review
Introduction
Johnson Matthey performed well in 2005/06. Profit before tax,
impairment and restructuring costs rose by 8% to £219.8 million.
Underlying earnings per share (before impairment, restructuring
and disposal costs) increased by 9% to 72.7 pence. T otal earnings
per share increased by 33% to 70.8 pence.
Cash generation was good. Before acquisitions and share
purchases the group had a positive free cash flow of £23.2 million,
despite investing 1.8 times depreciation on capital expenditure.
The balance sheet remains strong. Gearing (net debt / equity)
was slightly lower at 39.4% even after funding the acquisition
of DPT and the purchase of 1.9 million shares for the Johnson
Matthey Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT).
Return on assets (ROA) improved by 0.3% to 17.0%.
On a post tax basis that equates to a return of 12.0% which
is 4.0% above the group’s estimated cost of capital.
This year’s results have been prepared under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The impact of the
transition from UK GAAP to IFRS was set out in our Report
and Accounts for 2005 and is shown on pages 102 to 108 of
this report. Throughout this report all the financial figures for
2004/05 have been restated onto an IFRS basis. In the ten year
financial summary on pages 110 and 111 the years prior to
2004/05 are shown on a UK GAAP basis, since for a number
of IFRS standards it is not practical to restate back more than
one year.
Sales and Margins
Revenue (total sales) rose by 3% to £4,756 million. Catalysts
Division’s sales were well ahead of 2004/05 but sales in Precious
Metal Products Division were down, despite higher metal
prices, reflecting the withdrawal from gold refining in the UK in
2004/05 and lower trading activity in the first half of the year.
Johnson Matthey’s turnover is heavily impacted by the high
value of precious metals included in the group’s products,
particularly in Precious Metal Products Division. The total value
of sales varies each year according to metal prices, the mix of
metals sold and the level of trading activity. The value of the
precious metals included in sales is generally separately invoiced
and payment made within a short period. Consequently,
although return on sales (operating profit / revenue) for the
precious metals businesses is low, return on investment is high.
To provide a more useful measure of return on sales, the
table on page 19 shows return on sales by division excluding
the value of precious metals. In the year to 31st March 2006
sales excluding precious metals rose by 13%, driven by good
growth in Catalysts Division.
The group’s target for each of its divisions is to achieve
a return on sales excluding precious metals in excess of 10%.
All four divisions were ahead of that target in 2005/06.
The return for the total group fell by 0.7% to 17.5%. This
fall largely reflected a drop of 1.1% in Catalysts Division. Catalysts’
sales excluding precious metals grew by 17% in the year. Some of
John Sheldrick
Group Finance Director the benefits of earlier restructuring and continued progress in
Asia. A detailed review of the progress of each division is
included on pages 8 to 15.
The main impact of exchange rate movements on the
group’s results comes from the translation of foreign
subsidiaries’ profits into sterling. A quarter of the group’s profits
are made in North America, mainly in the USA. After several
years of weakness the US dollar strengthened from an average
rate of $1.85/£ in 2004/05 to an average of $1.79/£ in
2005/06. Some south east Asian currencies, notably the Chinese
renminbi and the Hong Kong dollar also strengthened. The
average rate for the euro was unchanged at €1.47/£, while the
South African rand strengthened slightly from R11.5/£ to
R11.4/£. Overall, exchange translation benefited operating profit
by £4.0 million compared with 2004/05.
Operating profit by division, before impairment and
restructuring costs, is shown in the table above, adjusted for
exchange translation. Translated at last year’s exchange rates,
operating profit before impairment and restructuring costs
would have increased by 7%.
In 2005 we announced a plan to restructure the Pgm
Refining business in the UK which is part of Precious Metal
Products Division. As a result of the successful completion of
this plan over £20 million of net cash has been generated from
metal reduction. Some parts of the refining process have been
changed and £6.0 million of process assets, which will no longer
be used, have been impaired and written off. After including
this impairment charge operating profit for 2005/06 was
£228.7 million which was 27% up on the equivalent figure for
2004/05 which included restructuring charges of £36.7 million.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
19
Exchange Rates Operating Profit
(before impairment and restructuring costs)
$/£ euro/£
March 2004 March 2006 March 2005
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
$/£ euro/£
2006 at 2005
Year to 31st March exchange
2006 2005 change rates change
£ million £ million % £ million %
– ––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts 134.2 122.5 +10 132.1 +8
Precious Metal Products 62.2 52.0 +20 61.2 +18
Pharmaceutical Materials 33.8 39.8 -15 33.5 -16
Ceramics 21.3 18.8 +13 20.8 +11
Corporate (16.8) (16.5) (16.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating Profit 234.7 216.6 +8 230.7 +7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
this growth was attributable to the increased cost of substrates
which are required for HDD catalysts and CSFs and which are
a pass through cost for Johnson Matthey. The division still achieved
10% operating profit growth which is more representative of
the underlying volume growth.
Return on Sales excluding Precious Metals
Return on
Sales excluding sales excluding
precious metals precious metals
1
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million % %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts 786 672 17.1 18.2
Precious Metal Products 245 225 25.3 23.1
Pharmaceutical Materials 127 125 26.6 31.9
Ceramics 182 166 11.7 11.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total Group 1,341 1,188 17.5 18.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1
Operating profit before impairment and restructuring costs divided by sales
excluding precious metals
Operating Profit / Exchange Translation
Operating profit before impairment and restructuring costs
rose by 8% to £234.7 million. Catalysts achieved good growth
in diesel products in Europe, good sales in Asia, and strong sales
of catalysts for hydrogen production and purification. Precious
Metal Products’ profit rose by 20% benefiting from favourable
trading conditions and good progress by the manufacturing
businesses. Pharmaceutical Materials’ operating profit was down
15% following expiry of the carboplatin patent and lower
revenues in contract research. Ceramics was up 13% reflecting Interest
The group’s net interest charge rose by £1.7 million to
£14.7 million. Average interest rates for floating rate US dollars
increased by nearly 2% from the very favourable levels
experienced in 2004/05, which more than offset the benefit
of lower average borrowings.
Profit before T ax
Profit before tax, impairment and restructuring costs increased
by 8% to £219.8 million. Including impairment and restructuring
charges profit before tax was 28% higher than 2004/05 at
£213.8 million.
Taxation
The group’s tax charge rose by £16.0 million to £62.5 million.
The increase largely reflected the tax relief on restructuring
costs included in last year’s results. On an underlying basis the
average tax rate was unchanged at 29.3%. The group continues
to benefit from tax credits on R&D expenditure. We reached
agreement with HM Revenue & Customs in the UK on several
years’ tax assessments which resulted in a repayment of 
tax which benefited the group’s cash flow. That amount had
already been recognised in current tax so there was no impact
on earnings.
Return on Investment
We set a target of 20% for the pre-tax return on assets (ROA)
for all our businesses with a minimum threshold of being ahead
of our cost of capital (11.3% on a pre-tax basis). For the group
as a whole ROA was 17.0% which was 0.3% up on last year.
We are targeting to achieve a gradual improvement in the return
over the next few years as the benefit of the investments we
have been making in new product development comes through.
On a post tax basis the return on invested capital was
12.0% (applying the group’s underlying tax rate of 29.3% to
operating profit in the calculation below). The estimated
weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the group is 8%.
The margin above the cost of capital for the year was 4.0%
which was 0.2% up on last year.
The ROAs for the individual divisions were as follows:
Return on Assets
Year to 31st March 2006
Average net
operating Return
assets on
employed
1
assets
2
£ million %
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts 838 16.0
Precious Metal Products 173 36.0
Pharmaceutical Materials 306 11.1
Ceramics 125 17.0
Corporate / other (64) n/a
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total Group 1,378 17.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1
Average of opening and closing segment assets less segment liabilities as
shown in note 1 on the accounts on pages 62 and 63. For the group, the
average of opening and closing equity plus net debt.
2
Operating profit before impairment and restructuring costs divided by
average operating assets employed.
The divisional figures have been restated compared with
last year’s report to reflect the change to IFRS accounting and
the transfer of Colour Technologies and Pgm Refining into
Precious Metal Products Division. Despite these changes
Precious Metal Products Division’s return remains well above
the group target. Catalysts’ and Ceramics’ ROAs were between
the cost of capital and the 20% target. Pharmaceutical Materials’
return dipped below the group’s cost of capital in 2005/06 but
is expected to improve in 2006/07.
Cash Flow
Johnson Matthey’s net cash flow from operating activities rose
by 16% to £212.3 million. Under the new IFRS rules net cash
flow from operating activities includes taxation which benefited
from the settlement in the UK. Working capital increased by
£40.6 million despite the inventory reduction in Pgm Refining,
largely as a result of the dramatic increase in the rhodium price
and the increased prices of some other materials which
affected both inventories and receivables.
Capital expenditure for the year was £124.0 million which
was 1.8 times depreciation. Most of the investment was focused
on Catalysts Division, with the other divisions spending at levels
close to depreciation.
Capital Expenditure to Depreciation
Year to 31st March 2006
Capital Capex /
expenditure Depreciation depreciation
£ million £ million (times)
––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
Catalysts 89.2 39.8 2.2
Precious Metal Products 13.7 13.0 1.1
Pharmaceutical Materials 9.9 10.0 1.0
Ceramics 6.5 6.3 1.0
Other 4.7 1.7 2.8
––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
Total Group 124.0 70.8 1.8
––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies spent £65 million
in the year with major investments on new capacity to
manufacture CSFs and HDD catalysts. We have built a new
factory at Royston, UK to manufacture diesel products and are
investing heavily in new capacity at our facility near Philadelphia,
to produce similar products in the USA. We are also expanding
rapidly in Asia with additional capacity in Japan and a new
factory in Korea. In Process Catalysts and Technologies we have
added capacity in AMOG to meet demand for catalysts for
hydrogen production and the expanding methanol market.
Despite the significant investment in capital expenditure
the group generated a positive free cash flow of £23.2 million
before acquisitions and share purchases.
We completed our previously announced programme of
share buy-backs in the year acquiring additional shares for the
ESOT. The net cash outflow on share purchases amounted to
£25.9 million. In February 2006 we acquired Davy Process
Technology Limited for a net cost, including debt acquired,
of £24.6 million. Including the effect of exchange translation
on foreign currency borrowings the group’s net debt rose by
£42.4 million to £412.0 million.
20
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review Net Cash Flow
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flow from operating activities 212.3 183.8
Interest / dividends (74.5) (71.3)
Capex / asset sales (114.6) (92.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Free cash flow 23.2 20.3
Acquisitions / disposals (24.3) 19.3
Shares bought (25.9) (16.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash flow (27.0) 23.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Pensions
The surplus on the group’s UK pension schemes increased by
£24.9 million to £68.7 million on an IFRS basis at 31st March
2006. The investment performance of the funds for the year
was very good reflecting favourable market conditions, but
liabilities also increased mainly as a result of a fall in the discount
rate used to measure them.
Worldwide, including provisions for the group’s post-
retirement healthcare schemes, the group had a net surplus of
£18.8 million on employee benefit obligations compared with
a net deficit of £3.0 million at 31st March 2005.
Capital Structure
In 2005/06 we invested significantly in future growth. Capital
expenditure amounted to 1.8 times depreciation and R&D
increased by 9%. In addition we acquired DPT and bought
back 1.9 million shares. Net debt increased by £42.4 million
to £412.0 million but equity also increased by £114.6 million
to £1,044.5 million, reflecting good earnings growth and an
increased surplus in the group’s UK pension fund. Gearing
(debt / equity) was slightly lower at 39.4%.
Our policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet and use
the cash generated to invest in organic growth and bolt-on
acquisitions. In the current financial year we expect to continue
to invest at a high level to enable us to take full advantage of
the current and future market opportunities arising in our
businesses. Capital expenditure is planned to be 1.6 times
depreciation and we expect working capital to increase,
particularly at the end of the financial year, when the US market
for HDD emission control products will start to grow rapidly.
Despite this continued investment we have capacity in the
balance sheet for increased borrowing. We therefore plan to
raise the group’s gearing to 50% over the next two years by
adding bolt-on acquisitions and buying back further shares. In
aggregate we expect to spend at least £200 million on these
initiatives both of which should be earnings accretive.
We also plan to continue to increase dividends in line with
earnings growth. The board is recommending to shareholders a
final dividend for 2005/06 of 21.0 pence, making a total for the
year of 30.1 pence an increase of 9% which is in line with
underlying earnings growth. The dividend for the year would
be covered 2.42 times by underlying earnings.
Borrowings
Since the acquisition of Synetix for £265.7 million in November
2002 the group’s net debt gradually reduced from £402.5 million
at 31st March 2003 to £369.6 million at 31st March 2005.
In 2005/06 net debt rose again to £412.0 million as a result
of funding the acquisition of DPT and completion of the
£50 million share buy-back programme.
The long term debt of US$230 million and £40 million put
in place in March 2003 to refinance the acquisition of Synetix
now has a weighted average maturity of eight years remaining.
The ten year 6.36% fixed rate debt of US$100 million issued 
in April 1996 was redeemed in April 2006 and is shown 
as maturing within one year in the maturity table below. This
was financed by a 4.935% fixed rate five year drawing of
US$100 million under a £75 million facility provided by the
European Investment Bank (EIB). The balance of this facility 
was borrowed in the form of floating rate sterling.
At 31st March 2006 the maturity profile of the group’s
debt was as follows:
Borrowings and Finance Leases
31st March 2006 31st March 2005
£ million % £ million %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Five to ten years 165.9 30 156.0 35
Two to five years 243.5 45 165.7 37
One to two years 45.3 8 89.8 20
Within one year 90.3 17 36.8 8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gross borrowings 545.0 100 448.3 100
Less: cash and deposits 133.0 78.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net debt 412.0 369.6
– ––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies
The group uses financial instruments, in particular forward
currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage the financial
risks associated with its underlying business activities and the
financing of those activities. The group does not undertake any
trading activity in financial instruments. Our treasury department
is run as a service centre rather than a profit centre.
Interest Rate Risk
At 31st March 2006 the group had net borrowings of
£412.0 million. Some 49% of this debt was at fixed rates with
an average interest rate of 5.43%. The remaining 51% of the
group’s net borrowings was funded on a floating rate basis.
A 1% change in all interest rates would have a 1.0% impact on
profit before tax, impairment and restructuring costs. This is
within the range the board regards as acceptable.
Liquidity
The group’s policy on funding capacity is to ensure that we
always have sufficient long term funding and committed bank
facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak borrowing
requirements. Johnson Matthey’s borrowings generally do not
exhibit large seasonal variations. Within long term debt of
£454.7 million at 31st March 2006, the group had borrowings
under committed bank facilities of £191.0 million. T otal
committed bank facilities amounted to £290.0 million of which
£99.0 million was undrawn at 31st March 2006. The group also
has a number of uncommitted facilities, including metal leases,
and overdraft lines at its disposal.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
21 Foreign Currency Risk
Johnson Matthey’s operations are located in over 30 countries,
providing global coverage. The majority of its profits are earned
outside the UK with the largest single investment being in the
USA. In order to protect the group’s sterling balance sheet and
reduce cash flow risk the group has financed most of its
investment in the USA, Europe and Japan by borrowing US
dollars, euros and yen respectively. Although a large element
of this funding is obtained by directly borrowing the relevant
currency, some is achieved through currency swaps which can
be more efficient and reduce costs and credit exposure. The
group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign
exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments
in foreign currencies. Currency options are occasionally used to
hedge foreign exchange exposures, usually when the forecast
receipt or payment amounts are uncertain. Details of the
contracts outstanding on 31st March 2006 are shown on
page 86.
Precious Metal Prices
Fluctuations in precious metal prices can have a significant
impact on Johnson Matthey’s financial results. Our policy for all
manufacturing businesses is to limit this exposure by hedging
against future price changes where such hedging can be done
at acceptable cost. The group does not take material exposures
on metal trading.
All the group’s stocks of gold and silver are fully hedged by
leasing or forward sales. Currently the majority of the group’s
platinum stocks are unhedged because of the lack of liquidity
in the platinum market.
Risks and Uncertainties
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which
could have a material impact on the group’s long term
performance.
Technological Change and Patents
Much of the group’s business is focused on selling products
which are technologically advanced or employ technologically
advanced processes in their manufacture. In most cases these
products are subject to continuous improvement as new
technology is developed. The group is exposed to the risk that
if it does not keep up with changes in the market place its
products will no longer be competitive. This is both a threat
and an opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as
well as lose it. The group’s strategy to meet this risk is to invest
significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve
leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient
added value to justify the long term investment required.
The group’s results are also impacted by the status of
patents. These include patents which the group itself registers
and maintains, as well as the risks arising from new third party
patents and the benefits that arise from the expiry of third
party patents. All the group’s divisions have significant registered
intellectual property. Pharmaceutical Materials Division supplies
active pharmaceutical ingredients to generic manufacturers and
can benefit when third party patents expire. If actual patent
lives differ from the expectations of the relevant group business,
such as by being extended or successfully challenged, this can
affect the group’s results. The group has established policies
both to monitor its existing patent portfolio and those of third
parties, taking appropriate action as necessary in respect of
infringement.
22
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
Platinum and Palladium Prices Rhodium Price
US$/oz
March 2004 March 2006 March 2005
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
Platinum Palladium
US$/oz
March 2004 March 2006 March 2005
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
Rhodium Legislation
Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of
Johnson Matthey’s products arises from new legislation
governing the environmental or health impact of its customers’
products in different jurisdictions worldwide. This is most
significant for Environmental Catalysts and Technologies where
historic and future growth depends on global tightening of
emissions limits for on road and off road vehicles. Legislation is
also relevant for some of the group’s other businesses. Process
Catalysts and Technologies manufactures products to remove
contaminants or to produce particularly pure chemicals. Colour
Technologies is supported by legislation phasing out lead,
cadmium and other heavy metals from glass and ceramic glazes.
The development of the fuel cells industry is also impacted by
clean air regulations and the drive towards zero emissions
within both local and national legislation.
Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the
development of such legislation its growth could be adversely
affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
Johnson Matthey monitors the development of legislation
globally and coordinates its development work to ensure it can
achieve greatest advantage from each new requirement. Regular
reviews are undertaken at the business and group level to
monitor growth and to investigate other areas of potential if
legislation slows.
Global, Political and Economic Conditions
Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the
world including several within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these
regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and
business risks associated with such international operations. The
group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements
including those for taxation, environmental, operational and
competitive matters. It is exposed to the effect of political risk
which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation
of assets, imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits
on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and
currencies. The group is exposed to possible natural
catastrophe risk, for example through major earthquake or
flood, and possible terrorist action. Management monitor such
risks, maintaining adequate insurance cover and amending
business procedures as appropriate to mitigate any exposure
while remaining in compliance with local and group
requirements.
Environmental Liabilities
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual
and potential obligations on the group to remediate contaminated
sites, both those currently owned and, also in some cases, those
which have been sold. Johnson Matthey’s environmental policies
are set out on page 30. The group incurs costs annually in
meeting these obligations and also maintains provisions for
potential liabilities. If existing provisions are inadequate to cover
any liabilities or the associated costs arising from environmental
obligations this could materially impact the group’s results.
Commercial Relationships
Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships
with a number of key customers and suppliers. The loss of any
of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening
in commercial terms could have a material impact on the
group’s results.
Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to
supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to
operate satisfactorily. From time to time the group undertakes
surveys of customer satisfaction which are reviewed by the
board. Some of the relationships are supported by long term
contracts, notably the group’s relationship with Anglo Platinum.
Foreign Exchange
Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the
group’s operating profit earned outside the UK. It has significant
investments outside the UK with the single largest investment
being in the USA. As such the group is exposed to movements
in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies,
particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively
impact results. The group’s policies for managing its foreign
currency exposures are set out in more detail on page 22.
Precious Metal Prices and Controls
A large proportion of the group’s activities involve managing
precious metals which have inherent risks associated with them
in addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
While the group could be vulnerable to a global disruption
in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access to world
markets for these metals and is not dependent on any one
source for obtaining supplies for operations.
Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate
significantly and this can have a material impact on Johnson
Matthey’s results. The group’s policies for managing this risk are
set out in more detail on page 22. The high value of precious
metals means that any process losses could be material and
there remains the possibility of theft or fraud. Johnson Matthey
has extensive experience in operating with precious metals and
employs strict security, assay and other process controls and
reviews to minimise any exposure. Policies are reviewed
regularly by the Chief Executive’s Committee and reported
to the Audit Committee.
Pensions
The group’s defined benefit pension funds are well funded with
a net surplus at 31st March 2006 of £51.5 million (see page 72).
However, this position is exposed to the risk of changes in
interest rates and the market values of investments as well as
inflation and increasing longevity of the members. The
assumptions used in calculating the funding position of the
pension funds are shown in detail on page 71. These risks are
mitigated by paying appropriate contributions into the funds
and through an investment asset allocation policy which has a
high level of probability of avoiding a material deficit based on
the results of an asset / liability matching study.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
23 Customer Market Dynamics
The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use
these products to serve a diverse range of end markets. The
group’s performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of
its customers’ end markets and their performance within these
markets. A significant loss of market share at or by a major
automotive customer could negatively impact the group’s
results. The group also has exposure to the wider automotive
sector as a whole which is served by a number of the group’s
divisions. While global car production levels have some effect
on the sales of Johnson Matthey’s products, other factors such
as tightening emissions legislation and the increasing technical
demands from catalysts play a more significant role.
Another key end market is for pharmaceutical products,
with Pharmaceutical Materials providing materials used in the
manufacture of controlled drugs and anticancer pharmaceuticals.
Johnson Matthey’s performance is influenced both by growth in
these markets and by the market share of its key customers.
Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry
developments and market share at customers to prevent the
group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
Competitor Risk
The group operates in highly competitive markets. Significant
product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of
price competition could all adversely affect the group’s results.
Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and
development in order to ensure the introduction of both new
products and improved production processes to allow the
group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets. The group
also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it
remains competitive.
Litigation and Investigations
The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and
standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Failure to comply properly with these laws, regulations and
standards could significantly damage the reputation and
performance of Johnson Matthey.
Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess compliance
with local and group policies, and provisions are made to rectify or
compensate for any breaches. In the ordinary course of business,
Johnson Matthey is subject to inspections and monitoring by
certain regulatory or enforcement bodies and by the quality
departments of some of its major customers. If existing
provisions are inadequate to cover any liabilities arising from such
investigations this could materially impact the group’s results.
Energy and Raw Materials
The group’s products contain a broad array of raw materials and
its operations require significant levels of energy, notably electricity
and natural gas. Any increases or volatility in prices and any
significant decrease in the availability of energy or raw materials
could affect the group’s results. Johnson Matthey coordinates its
global purchasing activities to obtain the best possible prices and
uses hedging and other contractual means where appropriate to
minimise this risk and to benefit where possible.
Credit Risk
Within certain divisions, the group derives a significant proportion
of its revenue from sales to major customers. Sales to individual
customers are frequently high if the value of precious metals is
included in the price. The failure of any such company to
honour its debts could materially impact the group’s results.
Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading
with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly
monitors its exposure. The Audit Committee receives a report
every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts
due and amounts significantly overdue within the group and the
relevant actions being taken. As at 31st March 2006, no single
outstanding balance exceeded 2% of the group’s market
capitalisation.
Resources
Johnson Matthey has significant resources to support its core
businesses. These have been built up over many years and
support the group’s competitive position in the key markets
which the group serves. Johnson Matthey continues to invest in
all the areas listed below to maintain its leading market positions.
Employees
Johnson Matthey’s most important resource is its people. We
have a highly qualified workforce with many of our employees
having trained in science and technology. We employ a high
proportion of PhDs not only in our research centres but also in
many different management positions throughout the company.
Johnson Matthey has a low staff turnover (see pages 31 and 32),
with many employees staying with the company for their whole
careers. We place great emphasis on recruitment and training
and our policies in these areas are set out on page 31.
Research & Development
One of the group’s strategies is to differentiate ourselves by
using our world class technology. We invest significantly in
research and development to develop new products and
manufacturing processes. We have a group technology centre
located at Sonning Common in the UK which is focused on
longer term research and has a worldwide reputation for
excellence in catalysis and precious metals technology. In
addition we have major research centres at Royston, Billingham
and Stockton-on-Tees in the UK located close to some of
our major businesses. Worldwide we have technical centres in
many countries including the US, Japan, Sweden, the Netherlands
and Italy.
Johnson Matthey’s R&D activities are described in more
detail on pages 15 to 17.
24
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review Patents and Know-how
Many of the inventions and intellectual property developed as a
result of our investment in R&D are patented, and we maintain
a large number of families of patents to support our businesses.
Equally important is know-how where the group has an
extensive knowledge base, particularly in the areas of catalysis
and precious metals, which can be used to develop new
products and services to meet customer needs.
Commercial Relationships
Many of our businesses provide products and services to other
companies and we have developed close working relationships
with many of our customers and work in collaboration with
them to develop new products. We also have a long standing
relationship with Anglo Platinum, the world’s largest platinum
miner, which has lasted for many decades. Through this
relationship Johnson Matthey and Anglo Platinum have developed
new markets for platinum group metals which have supported
the expansion of the platinum industry over many years.
Manufacturing Technology
Over the last decade the group has invested heavily in new
manufacturing capacity and technology. Capital expenditure has
run at a high multiple of depreciation (see page 20). As a result
of this investment the group has developed an infrastructure of
modern facilities located close to our major markets around
the world.
Market Position and Reputation
Johnson Matthey is generally ranked number one or two in the
major markets in which it operates. The group is a world leader
in catalysis and precious metals which provides a strong basis
for future development. The company started in 1817 and has
a worldwide reputation in the precious metals industry for
technical expertise and integrity. Our semi-annual publication
‘Platinum’ is acknowledged to be the most comprehensive
source of information on the platinum industry. We also publish
the ‘Platinum Metals Review’, a leading journal of scientific
research on the platinum group metals.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
25 26
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
Above: Process catalysts used in the
manufacture of hydrogen, methanol
and ammonia.
Left: Fine precious metal chemicals.
Right: Ceramics Division’s new energy efﬁcient
facility at Vall d’Alba, Spain. Corporate Social Responsibility
Johnson Matthey embraces a culture of continuous
improvement in all aspects of corporate social responsibility
(CSR). Our business objective is to deliver sustainable increases
in shareholder value through consistent and above average
growth in earnings per share, with growth in dividends in line
with growth in earnings. This is achieved through the
development of high added value products and services in
areas where our expertise provides competitive advantage,
specifically in our chosen fields of catalysis, precious metals, fine
chemicals and materials technology. CSR improvement is driven
by robust corporate policies, a comprehensive management
system and the commitment of our staff. There are three key
policy areas which provide the framework for the management
of corporate social responsibility: Environment, Health and
Safety (EHS); Employment; and Business Integrity and Ethics.
Innovation and technical leadership are at the very heart
of our business.We endeavour to apply our expertise to
exploiting technology and developing products and services
which support sustainable development by creating wealth
whilst making a positive contribution to the environment and
adding to improved health and social wellbeing. In managing our
business we seek to engender these aspirations at all levels of
our organisation and to encourage similar sentiments in those
with whom we work.
Johnson Matthey operates in accordance with well
established ethical, social and environmental policies. Over the
last year further initiatives have been undertaken to improve
our operational performance in these important areas. Details
of these initiatives can be found in the Johnson Matthey
Corporate Social Responsibility Report and are presented here
in summary. The full report can be found on the company’s
website at www.matthey.com.
During the year a CSR Compliance Committee was
established as a sub-committee of the Chief Executive’s
Committee (CEC), with specific responsibility for setting and
overseeing compliance with the standards for group CSR
performance through the development, adoption, dissemination
and implementation of appropriate group policies and other
operational measures. The introduction of a formal CSR
Compliance Committee allows more time to be devoted to
these important topics. The CSR Compliance Committee
comprises the division directors and senior representatives of
Group Legal, Internal Audit and Group EHS. In addition, key
CSR issues continue to be reviewed by the CEC on a monthly
basis with the Audit Committee reviewing the business risks
associated with CSR as a matter of routine.
As outlined in the Corporate Governance section
(see page 43) the board has embedded corporate social
responsibility into its risk management process. The board
reviews CSR matters on a formal basis every year. Corporate
social responsibility is championed at the highest level at
Johnson Matthey and the board has reviewed and endorsed
the full report.
Johnson Matthey Products and Technologies
Many of our products and technologies have a particularly
positive social and environmental impact. They range from
anticancer compounds to emission control technologies for cars,
trucks and buses, with the latter making a vital contribution to
improving air quality and public health around the world. In
addition, Johnson Matthey products and technologies have a
significant role to play in the energy sector as we strive for
improved energy efficiency, cleaner lower carbon fuels and
ultimately the transition to hydrogen as a key energy carrier
in conjunction with carbon capture and sequestration. In this
context our products range from chemical process catalysts
which improve resource use, yield and overall efficiency of many
industrial processes to fuel cell technologies which aim to make
an important contribution to the generation of electricity for
static and mobile applications with zero emissions at the point
of use. The stabilisation of the world’s climate will require a
significant contribution from industry in exploiting the
opportunity to develop more sustainable solutions for its
customers and by moving to more resource and energy efficient
manufacturing processes.This presents a number of business
opportunities where Johnson Matthey products and
technologies could be the key enabler in delivering long term
environmental benefits to society with the generation of further
value for our shareholders. Further details of Johnson Matthey’s
activities in addressing the challenges of future energy supply and
alternative energy sources are described on pages 34 to 37.
Hand in hand with product innovation, product safety is
critical to Johnson Matthey and sophisticated systems are in
place to ensure that a high level of protection is afforded to
our customers.
Whilst Johnson Matthey’s main contribution to sustainable
development will be through the excellence of our products
we also seek to achieve similar levels of excellence in the
management of the business and in the quality of our
manufacturing operations. Our expertise in processing valuable
precious metal materials provides us with a core competence
in the conservation, re-use and recycling of natural resources;
principles which are applied throughout our business.
Stakeholder Engagement
Johnson Matthey undertakes a wide range of engagement
activities focused on communication with individuals and
organisations who are impacted by its operations or who may
impact on the Johnson Matthey business, both at corporate and
divisional level. These include shareholders, fund managers,
employees, customers, communities and national and international
trade associations. Johnson Matthey has also continued to play
a leading advisory role through its participation in a number
of sector trade associations and government bodies. The
company is actively involved with national and local government
to inform the development of policy in areas where Johnson
Matthey technology and products can play a pivotal role, for
example in improving air quality, enabling the shift towards more
sustainable consumption and production and facilitating the
transition to a low carbon economy. Further details of Johnson
Matthey’s stakeholder engagement activities can be found in the
CSR report on the company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
27 Environment, Health and Safety
Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities
throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of
protection to the environment and to safeguard the health and
safety of its employees, customers and the community. The
company’s EHS policies provide the guiding principles that
ensure high standards are achieved at all sites around the world
and afford a means of promoting continuous improvement
based on careful risk assessment and a comprehensive EHS
management system.
The corporate objectives, policies and group EHS
management system define accountability and set the standards
against which conformance audits are assessed. A fundamental
revision of the group EHS management system was undertaken
during 2005 to reflect regulatory changes and advances in best
practice. These policies were communicated across the group
in early 2006. The group EHS management system is available
to all employees via the company intranet. A revised health
management strategy established in 2005 has been embedded
into corporate objectives, policies and the group EHS
management system.
EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson
Matthey’s corporate EHS management system and are vital to
the achievement of continuous improvement in all aspects of
EHS. All Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing and research
and development facilities are included in the audit programme.
Audits review conformance with the group EHS management
system and compliance with national legislation. The audit
frequency for each facility is determined by the scale, inherent
risk and past performance of the operation.
Audit reports are rated as excellent, routine, important 
or very important. The CSR Compliance Committee reviews 
all audit reports and appropriate follow up is taken on any
outstanding issues. A total of 29 compliance audits were
completed during 2005/06 against a group target of 25.
ISO 14001
Over the past year continued progress has been made with
the implementation of ISO 14001, in line with our target of
achieving registration at all major manufacturing sites by 2010.
Across the group, 59% of our staff now work at sites with
ISO 14001 (an increase of 6% on 2004/05), representing some
4,641 people. In addition a number of sites upgraded their
registration to the new ISO 14001:2004 standard.
Five manufacturing sites across the group have already
implemented plans to achieve ISO 14001 registration during
2006/07.
Regulation
Johnson Matthey continued to play an active role in industry
representations on the proposed Registration, Evaluation and
Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) regulations up to the
vote in the EU Parliament and the political decision made by
the EU Council in 2005. It is expected that the regulations will
be adopted in 2007 without further significant change. As a
result, efforts are now focused on the implementation of the
regulations and in minimising costs by working with industry
consortia within the sectors where Johnson Matthey is active.
The costs associated with implementing the regulations remain
at an estimated £10 million over a ten year period, assuming
collaboration and pooling of costs within the industry. Internal
resources will be strengthened as appropriate to ensure the
successful implementation of these important regulations.
The European Emissions Trading Scheme operated during
the year, having commenced in January 2005. Three European
sites fall under the directive, two in Spain and one in the UK.
The two Spanish sites continue to operate within their
prescribed allowances and the UK site benefits from the
opt-out applicable to UK sites participating in the pre-existing
Climate Change Agreement Scheme.
28
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
0
100
200
300
400
500
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
0
800
400
1,200
1,600
2,000
2,400
2,800
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
Total Acid Gas Emissions
Tonnes SO
2
equivalent
Total Global Warming Potential
Tonnes CO
2
equivalent (’000)
Energy Consumption
GJ (’000)
Water Consumption
Thousands m
3 Training
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in
environmental, health and safety performance at all our sites.
Over the past year staff of all grades have received training from
the wide range of courses available, including IOSH (Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health) accredited courses on managing
safely and site safety practices. Continuing emphasis is placed on
process hazard assessment training at all levels in the business.
Our major sites employ environment, health and safety training
specialists. Expert external trainers supplement in house
capabilities where necessary.
During the last year senior managers undertook formal
policy awareness training that covered the spectrum of group
policies including those applicable to EHS and the revised
group EHS management system. In addition many managers
completed the IOSH accredited ‘safety management for
executives’ training. This will be ongoing, covering senior as
well as middle management within the group.
A major accomplishment this year was the launch of the
AirsWeb accident and incident reporting software system.
During the year a series of training sessions were completed
worldwide on the new system, including briefings for all site,
general and senior management within the group.
Environmental, Health and Safety Performance
Johnson Matthey undertakes a comprehensive annual review
of group environmental performance covering all manufacturing
and research and development facilities. Where necessary, past
environmental data has been restated to reflect changes in the
business, for example divestments and site closure.
During the year an improvement in our environmental
performance has been achieved as a number of initiatives
introduced in previous years have yielded reductions in our key
emissions. As we seek to continue this trend, the majority of
our sites in Europe have set new environmental improvement
targets this year, with major sites across the rest of the world
due to set their targets during 2006/07.
The introduction of a formal reporting system for all types
of occupational illness has improved identification and provided a
more accurate measurement of the incidence of such conditions.
Sickness absence performance will now be reported formally
and will receive greater management attention. The incidence
of occupational asthma and dermatitis has been benchmarked
against the rest of the chemical industry. These conditions have
been allocated the highest priority for investment in risk
reduction measures in order to reduce their incidence.
More emphasis will also be placed on ergonomic risk
management to prevent musculoskeletal conditions and on
wellness programmes to improve musculoskeletal health and
reduce susceptibility to such injuries.
Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics
are compiled monthly at a group level. Our performance has
shown an improvement over the past year with a reduction in
the incidence of greater than three day accidents at Johnson
Matthey from 6.39 to 4.35 per 1,000 employees. The group
target to reduce the greater than three day accident rate to
5.00 before the year 2008 was surpassed in September 2005.
The total number of accidents that resulted in lost time was 84,
a 33% reduction compared to the previous year. During the
same period there was a decrease in the number of days lost per
year per 1,000 employees from 248 to 103.
Regrettably, an employee of Precious Metal Products
Division’s Precision Castings business at St Catharines, Canada,
sustained a serious head injury at work while operating a hand
held grinding tool and subsequently died from these injuries.
A full investigation, led by the local authorities, has been
completed and Johnson Matthey awaits the outcome of their
findings. This was the first fatality within Johnson Matthey in
over 25 years.
During the year Johnson Matthey was prosecuted by the
Health and Safety Executive in connection with an incident at
the Brimsdown, UK plant where an employee was seriously
injured during the operation of a reverberatory furnace in 2002.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
29
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
0
March 01 March 02 March 05 March 06 March 04 March 03
All accidents > 3 Day accidents
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Total Waste
Tonnes waste
Annual Accident Rate per 1,000 Employees The company pleaded guilty and was fined £50,000 in
January 2006.
A number of safety themed seminars have been completed
in order to raise awareness of pertinent safety issues and share
best working practices across the group. Seminars undertaken
during the past year included ‘machinery safety’ and ‘chlorine
use in the refining and manufacture of pgm salts’.
The AirsWeb accident and incident reporting system has
been successfully introduced and sites worldwide are using it
for reporting accidents to group. A significant number of sites
are also using AirsWeb to report on non-injury incidents,
learning incidents, environmental incidents and cases of
occupational illness.
Environmental, Health and Safety T argets
Johnson Matthey aims to continually improve environmental
performance. During 2005 the company established five year
absolute reduction targets at the majority of its European sites
covering environmental impacts pertinent to the specific facility
or operation. Examples of the targets set include:
• A 50% reduction in the amount of waste produced at
Joiners Square, Stoke-on-Trent, UK (Ceramics Division) by
improving the clay body manufacturing process and the
development of raw material recycling systems.
• A 10% reduction in the total annual energy usage at Noble
Metals, Royston, UK (Precious Metal Products Division) by
investment in improved technology induction furnaces.
• A reduction in process wastewater of 50% at Emmerich,
Germany (Catalysts Division) by means of ion exchange
and osmosis technologies that will reduce the demand for
fresh water by recycling used process water.
Each business will develop and implement an annual health
management plan to target investment in programmes that will
have the greatest impact on reducing health risks and costs and
improving productivity. A specific target has been set for all
businesses to improve occupational illness identification and
management.
One of the key aims of Johnson Matthey is to demonstrate
continuous improvement in safety performance. With the
attainment of the group target to reduce the greater than three
day accident rate to 5.00 in September 2005, the CEC has set
a new group target of zero greater than three day accidents.
The new target was introduced from April 2006.
The Ceramics Division has set a target that all
manufacturing sites within the division will attain OHSAS 18001
registration before 2010.
Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement
The Chief Executive’s Committee formulates and agrees a
written policy statement which forms the basis of the group
EHS management system. The board approves this policy
statement which is signed by the Chief Executive and is
available at each site throughout the Johnson Matthey group,
as well as being published externally.
This policy and its associated procedures are designed to
achieve the following corporate objectives:
• That all locations meet legal and group environment, health
and safety requirements.
• That the design, manufacture and supply of products is
undertaken so as to satisfy world class standards of health,
safety, environmental management and resource efficiency.
• That management systems are effective in maintaining
standards and fulfilling the challenge of securing continuous
improvement in environmental, health and safety
performance.
In order to achieve these objectives we will:
• Provide leadership and commitment as an expression
of the importance that the board and the senior
management team places on EHS issues.
• Ensure accountability by holding corporate management
and senior executives within each operating division and
business unit responsible for EHS performance.
• Provide the financial and human resources to allow EHS
issues to be given an appropriate level of priority.
• Provide good communication internally and externally and
encourage employee involvement and cooperation at all
levels in the organisation in meeting EHS objectives.
• Ensure competence on EHS matters through education,
training and awareness at all levels in the organisation,
including creating an understanding of individual
responsibilities for health, safety and the environment.
• Undertake assessments to identify the risks to health,
safety and the environment from company operations and
ensure that appropriate control measures are implemented.
• Ensure that new investments incorporate best practice and
promote innovation through their design and operation to
eliminate or minimise risks to health, safety and the
environment.
• Investigate incidents to identify the root cause and take
action to prevent recurrence.
• Promote programmes to achieve energy and resource
efficiency.
• Set key corporate objectives and performance targets
that can be measured and assessed, reporting results
in a meaningful and transparent way both internally
and externally.
• Undertake regular EHS inspections and audits of
operations, and review performance, to ensure continuous
improvement in EHS management.
The group EHS management system is reviewed regularly
to ensure that it reflects international best practice and our
growing understanding of the practical application of sustainable
development.
30
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review Human Capital Management
Johnson Matthey’s people are the group’s most valuable
resource. We are committed to recruiting high calibre
employees and providing them with the information, training
and working environment they need in order to perform at the
highest standards. We encourage all our employees to develop
to their maximum potential and we are committed to
supporting them with effective human resources policies and
practices that are strategically linked to the needs of our
business and our customers.
Implementation of Johnson Matthey Human Resources Policies
Johnson Matthey’s people policies are implemented through the
corporate human resources standards which set requirements
for operations throughout the group to follow. These standards
are supported either by detailed regional procedures and / or
business unit procedures. Policies reflect both regional best
practice and local legislation. Site specific human resources
policies and procedures are communicated to staff at inductions
and through staff handbooks. Human resources policies and
risks are examined by the Chief Executive’s Committee and the
CSR Compliance Committee.
Employment Policies
Equal Opportunities
It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and develop
employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of
gender, ethnic origin, age, religion or sexual orientation. Disabled
people and employees who become disabled are offered
employment consistent with their capabilities. The business
values the diversity of its people and employment applications
are welcomed from all sections of the community including
minority groups.
Training and Development of People
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of recruiting the
very highest calibre of employees, training them to achieve
challenging standards in the performance of their jobs, and
helping them develop to their maximum potential.
Our policy requires careful and regular reviews of
organisation structure, succession planning and the
development of high potential people to meet our business
goals. The Management Development and Remuneration
Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring
compliance with the Training and Development of People Policy
objectives to:
• Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
• Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
• Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
• Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
• Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
• Understand employees’ aspirations.
• Provide development opportunities to meet employees’
potential and aspirations.
Johnson Matthey recognises the need to maintain its ability
to recruit well qualified staff to support the development of the
business in new and emerging markets. This challenge will be
met through appropriate manpower planning, local recruitment
and the encouragement of international mobility. An increasing
level of training and development activity within Asia has been
established to reflect the growing importance of this region to
the business. In addition to local process operator training,
supervisor development and management initiatives, there have
been two major cross divisional programmes for managers
from within the Asian region, centred in Tokyo, Japan in July 2005
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
31 and Shanghai, China in March 2006. Cross cultural awareness
training continues to be an important component of career
foundation, middle manager and senior manager development
worldwide.
Johnson Matthey continues to have a steady requirement
for high calibre graduate recruits to meet immediate technical
and commercial job needs and for development to meet future
management requirements throughout the group. The
combination of direct scientific contact with key university
departments and a streamlined recruitment procedure ensures
a reliable supply of high calibre applicants worldwide.
Employee Relations and Communication
The quality of its employee relationships is a priority for
Johnson Matthey. The company has a low voluntary staff
turnover (8.0% in the calendar year 2005) with many
employees staying with the company for their whole careers.
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective
employee communications and particularly the value of face to
face dialogue. Information and comment is exchanged with
employees through the company’s in house magazine, regular
news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
Employees are also encouraged to access the company’s
intranet and website.
Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and
constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which
collectively represent 36% of all group employees worldwide.
Johnson Matthey facilities have established policies and
procedures through which employees can raise employment
related issues for meaningful consideration and resolution.
These arrangements have been further strengthened during the
year and in the US a confidential telephone helpline has been
established to give all employees the means to raise any issue
of personal concern.
The company supports employee share ownership and
where practicable offers employees the opportunity to
participate in share ownership plans which provide the facility
to purchase company shares with a company funded matching
component. Employees in six countries worldwide are able to
contribute to a company share ownership plan or a 401k
approved savings investment plan. Through these ownership
plans Johnson Matthey current and former employees
collectively held 1.4% of the company’s shares at 31st March
2006. During the year the company’s annual share matching
contribution amounted to 2.0% of profit before tax, impairment
and restructuring costs.
Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for
employees of its operations throughout the world. These
pension plans are a mixture of defined benefit or defined
contribution pension arrangements, savings schemes and
provident funds designed to provide appropriate retirement
benefits based on local laws, custom and market practice.
Activities over the Last Year
There have been a number of key development initiatives at
Johnson Matthey sites during the past year. Improvements to
employee communications have focused on the use of site
satisfaction and attitude surveys as a means of strengthening
and enhancing the two way dialogue with employees.
A particular feature of these activities has been the
continuing development of flexible working arrangements and
the further promotion of employee wellbeing through lifestyle
awareness and health education and screening programmes.
In 2005/06 a major initiative was launched to provide
policy awareness training for senior managers covering their
responsibilities for compliance with Johnson Matthey policies
for employees, commercial contracts and the management
of company assets. Over 100 senior managers will attend
these seminars during the first year. A parallel programme
of e-learning is also underway in the US.
32
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review
Ceramics
710
Pharmaceutical
Materials
585
Precious
Metal
Products
1,808
Catalysts
4,050
Corporate
251
Europe North
America
Asia Rest of
World
Group
% Male % Female
0
20
40
60
80
100
Europe North
America
Asia Rest of
World
Group
Voluntary
employee
turnover
Employee turnover
due to restructuring,
divestment or retirement
0
6
3
9
12
15
Rest of
World
644
Asia
683
North
America
2,126
Europe
3,951
Total Employees by Region
Average headcount for calendar year 2005
Total Employees by Division
Average headcount for calendar year 2005
Gender by Region
As at 31st December 2005
Employee Turnover by Region
For calendar year 2005 (%) Social and Ethical Matters
Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement
A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson
Matthey’s business since Percival Norton Johnson founded it in
1817. It gives customers the confidence that the company’s
products meet the standards claimed for them and that they
may safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson Matthey
for processing and safe keeping. Employees at all levels are
required to protect Johnson Matthey’s reputation for integrity.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards of
ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide through
the application of the following principles:
• Compliance with national and international laws and
regulations is required as a minimum standard.
• Reputable business practices must be applied worldwide.
• Conflicts of interest must be declared and appropriate
arrangements made to ensure that those with a material
interest are not involved in the decision making process.
• Improper payments of any kind are prohibited, similarly no
gift whose value is material and which may be interpreted
as a form of inducement should be accepted or offered by
Johnson Matthey employees.
• Reporting of business performance should be undertaken
in such a way that senior management is fully and properly
informed concerning the business’ true performance, risks
and opportunities in a timely manner.
• Ethical issues must be dealt with in an efficient and
transparent manner.
• A positive contribution to society as a whole, and specifically
to the communities in which we operate, must be ensured.
• We must seek to influence our suppliers to operate to
similar high standards as ourselves.
We support the principles set out within the United
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International
Labour Organisation Core Conventions.
All employees have a duty to follow the principles set out
in this policy statement. It is the responsibility of directors and
senior management to ensure that all employees who directly or
indirectly report to them are fully aware of Johnson Matthey’s
policies and values in the conduct of the company’s businesses.
It is also the responsibility of directors and senior management
to lead by example and to demonstrate the highest standards
of integrity in carrying out their duties on behalf of the company.
These issues are further safeguarded through corporate
governance processes and monitoring by the board and
sub-committees of the board.
Supply Chains
Management of the supply chain and contractor activities is a
core component of the group EHS management system. Whilst
we are confident of the human rights performance of our own
operations we recognise that business practices in the supply
chain are not always transparent and represent a risk that must
be managed.
Community Engagement Activities
Johnson Matthey is actively involved in programmes worldwide
that promote good community relations to foster a relationship
of understanding, trust and credibility. Guidance on site
requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system.
An annual review of community engagement activities
across the group has been carried out and shows that 95%
of all Johnson Matthey operations with over 50 employees
participate in activities within their local communities, a similar
percentage to last year. These activities are wide ranging and
include charitable giving, support for educational projects, the
advancement of science and economic regeneration projects.
Johnson Matthey employees also participate in activities or hold
community related roles outside of the work environment. The
company is supportive of this broader community engagement,
allowing employees time off during working hours as appropriate.
Overall, there has been an increase in the number of Johnson
Matthey sites both large and small that participate in community
engagement activities. The review demonstrates that more sites
are setting objectives and have specific budgets allocated to
their community programmes.
We will continue to encourage sites worldwide to engage
and invest in their local communities. Over the next year,
community engagement activity plans at sites worldwide will
be supported by further development of group guidelines and
tools to assist their implementation, as well as sharing of best
practice. A review of site community engagement activities will
be conducted once again and we will continue to focus on how
best to measure and improve the impact of our community
involvement.
Charitable Programmes
Johnson Matthey’s long history of support for charitable causes
is matched today through programmes at both a group and a
business unit level. The causes supported are aligned to issues
to which the Johnson Matthey business makes a contribution
and issues on which employees are passionate.
In 2005/06, Johnson Matthey supported 51 charitable
causes through its corporate annual donations programme.
These included support for organisations working in the areas
of arts and the environment, medical and health, science and
education and social welfare. 53% of these corporate donations
were in support of social welfare causes. A total of 24 additional
charitable causes received one-off donations through the
corporate programme during the year.
In the UK, Johnson Matthey continues to operate its annual
Charity of the Year programme and employee views are
considered when deciding on the charity. Breakthrough Breast
Cancer was chosen as our charity of the year for 2005/06 and
further details on the partnership are available in the CSR
report. Johnson Matthey sites around the world also lend
support to many other charities locally and nationally through
donations, employee time or loans of company facilities.
In response to the Asian Tsunami disaster, Johnson Matthey
pledged US$100,000 to go towards specific reconstruction
projects in the affected area. Three projects in Sri Lanka have
now been identified and funds allocated, further details of which
can be found in the CSR report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
33 In the financial year to 31st March 2006 Johnson Matthey
donated £340,000 to charitable organisations. This figure only
includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not
include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee
time. The company made no political donations in the year.
Verification
The board, Audit Committee, Chief Executive’s Committee and
CSR Compliance Committee review CSR issues as part of the
company’s risk management processes. A review of site based
environment, health and safety reporting systems forms part of
the group environmental, health and safety audit programme.
The board believes that the measures taken to review the CSR
information provide a suitable level of confidence without
external audit. Johnson Matthey utilises external specialists
where specific CSR issues are identified.
Case Study
Energy, a World in Transition
Headlines and news stories highlighting concerns over future
energy supplies, alternative energy sources and a shift towards a
low or zero carbon economy are now commonplace. We are
currently living in a ‘carbon world’ where most of our energy is
derived from fossil fuels and the impact of the resulting carbon
dioxide (CO
2
) emissions on the atmosphere is well publicised.
There is a growing and urgent consensus that we need to
reduce worldwide carbon emissions through the more efficient
use of energy and the introduction of alternative energy
sources, so starting a transition towards a lower carbon and
ultimately a hydrogen economy. As energy prices rise the
focus of the debate is on finding technological solutions to the
problem. Part of the solution is dependent on industry offering
more sustainable products and energy efficient manufacturing
processes to its customers and there are numerous challenges
associated with addressing these issues. Many offer current and
future business opportunities for Johnson Matthey where new
technology will be a key enabler in delivering benefits to society
and the generation of further value for shareholders.
Creating Business Opportunities
Stabilising and ultimately reducing the world’s CO
2
levels will
require massive changes right across the energy supply,
generation and distribution network. The efficiency balance
between central and distributed power generation is an
important factor, as is the capture of CO
2
when it is produced.
Bringing about energy efficiency improvements and mitigating
the CO
2
problem whilst securing energy supplies will require a
number of innovative technology approaches. Johnson Matthey
has a range of products that offer such sustainable solutions and
is developing new technology to meet the challenges associated
with meeting our future energy needs. Alongside these
developments Johnson Matthey is also focused on the
introduction of new process technology and initiatives to
minimise the environmental impact and improve the energy
efficiency of its own manufacturing operations.
Johnson Matthey Products, Technology and Research
Business Opportunities in Today’s Carbon World
In today’s carbon world where fossil fuels are the dominant
source of both energy and many raw materials, Johnson
Matthey’s products and technologies are already helping to
improve the resource efficiency of our industrial customers,
clean and purify fuels before use and contribute to the
reduction of emissions and the abatement of greenhouse gases.
Johnson Matthey is a world leader in the manufacture and
development of chemical process catalysts which are used in
a range of industrial processes. These include the generation
of commodity feedstocks such as hydrogen, methanol and
ammonia and the manufacture of chemical intermediates as
well as other speciality chemicals and pharmaceuticals. The
effective use of catalysts in industrial manufacturing processes
delivers substantial benefits in terms of both economics and
environmental burden. A well designed catalyst allows chemical
reactions to proceed under less harsh plant operating conditions
(for example lower temperature and pressure) and enables a
more efficient conversion of the raw materials to the desired
end product with the minimum of waste. Offering catalyst
products with increased lifetimes means that in most processes,
catalysts can be used for several years before replacement.
Additionally, in many cases spent catalyst products are
recovered and reprocessed, providing a high level of recycling.
As we continue to draw from the world’s fossil fuel
resources, a number of the feedstocks used (including sour
crude oil and coal) are becoming progressively ‘heavier’ and
‘dirtier’ at source, and contain significantly higher levels of
impurities such as sulphur which must be removed prior to
commercial or domestic use. Johnson Matthey’s portfolio
includes catalysts for the generation of hydrogen gas used for
the hydrocracking of heavy oil fractions into cleaner ‘light’ fuel
products such as jet fuel, diesel and LPG. Johnson Matthey also
supplies a wide range of purification catalysts used to remove
contaminants such as chlorine, hydrogen sulphide, carbonyl
sulphide and mercury from natural gas and other gaseous and
liquid hydrocarbons.
A serious threat to world CO
2
stabilisation and air quality
is the inevitable increase in the use of coal. The world has large
reserves of coal and its use in power generation has already
increased significantly as oil and gas prices have increased. In
addition, dramatic further rises in coal consumption are forecast
as developing countries such as China and India, lacking
significant indigenous oil and gas reserves, install new generating
capacity using this fuel. Unless coupled to new clean technology,
these old processes can be particularly polluting. Coal can be
converted to syngas (a mixture of hydrogen and carbon oxides)
by a gasification process. CO
2
can then be chemically removed
and sequestered to purify synthesis gas for fuel or chemical
synthesis. Synthesis gas produced directly from coal can be
optimised to manufacture methanol and this itself is a useful
starting material for a range of chemical products. Numerous
purification and catalytic steps are required in many of these
processes and Johnson Matthey supplies engineering technology
and catalyst products for several of these stages. Further
developments of these technologies are also key R&D goals for
the company.
34
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review Alongside a range of catalysts and technologies for the
cleaner and more efficient use of existing carbon based
resources, Johnson Matthey has also developed products for
the abatement of the harmful greenhouse gases produced by
some industrial processes. Nitrous oxide (N
2
O) is a greenhouse
gas with a global warming potency 310 times that of CO
2
. It is
a component of emissions from some chemical processes,
including those used in the manufacture of nitric acid and
caprolactam. Environmental regulations to limit N
2
O emissions
are likely to be implemented within the EU by 2008 and with
the recent introduction of incentives provided by the Clean
Development Mechanism (CDM) and Joint Implementation (JI)
Projects under the Kyoto Protocol, interest in N
2
O abatement
technology from the nitric acid industry has increased. Johnson
Matthey’s Amoxis-Hybrid
TM
catalyst technology has the
capability to achieve up to 90% reductions in N
2
O emissions in
both nitric acid and caprolactam manufacturing processes and
is specifically available for N
2
O abatement projects under the
Kyoto Protocol.
Enabling Technologies for a Lower Carbon World
The transition towards a low carbon emissions economy is
accompanied by the further introduction of technologies and
processes that reduce or eliminate carbon containing emissions
to atmosphere. In response to rapidly escalating gas and
electricity costs and the increasing environmental concern
surrounding the effects of burning fossil fuels, Johnson Matthey’s
Ceramics Division has recently launched its ThermECO
technology. The manufacture of ceramics is an energy intensive
process and the ThermECO range of ceramic clay body and
glaze products allows sanitaryware and tableware manufacturers
to process their products at significantly lower operating
temperatures, reducing their energy usage and hence their
CO
2
emissions.
Distributed power generation at point of use has the
potential to be significantly more energy efficient than
centralised power generation because the transmission losses
are less and any waste energy can also be used for heating or
cooling purposes. Fuel cells are particularly suited to distributed
generation since they are highly efficient, quiet, non-polluting
and are scalable from watts to mega watts. Johnson Matthey
continues to invest in fuel cell component development,
working with leading system manufacturers on a range of fuel
cell technologies. Early markets for fuel cells are now beginning
to be commercialised, covering applications such as backup and
uninterruptible power systems as well as battery replacement
for electronic items.
Given that fossil fuelled centralised power generation will
remain an important part of the world’s energy supply network
for the foreseeable future, carbon capture and storage (CCS)
technologies are gaining increased public, commercial and
governmental recognition as a route to reducing carbon
emissions. CCS involves the development of processes and
systems that capture and store CO
2
. Storage would typically
be in exhausted oil and gas wells, where the injection of CO
2
can also have the added benefit of improving yield from the
well. One example of CCS is a large scale plant in which a
hydrocarbon fuel (for example natural gas or LPG) is reformed
and purified in several catalytic steps to produce hydrogen and
CO
2
. The two gases are separated and hydrogen is used as a
fuel whilst CO
2
is injected and stored underground. Johnson
Matthey has key enabling technology relevant to this and other
CCS processes.
Biomass offers a sustainable alternative to petrochemical
feedstocks for the development of carbon neutral processes
and current high oil prices are stimulating interest in this area.
Johnson Matthey’s Davy Process Technology business has
demonstrated how industry can manufacture commodity
chemicals from renewable materials. The company has
developed and licenses several sustainable process technologies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
35 One example is a process for the manufacture of natural
detergent alcohols (used to make detergents and cosmetics)
from coconut and palm kernel oils and a number of
commercial scale plants have been licensed around the world.
Another sustainable process technology that has been
successfully licensed is for the manufacture of ethyl acetate, a
commodity solvent used in the chemical industry. Our new
green technology enables the manufacture of ethyl acetate
directly from bio-ethanol, a natural fermentation product from
crop starch. Ethyl acetate is an important industrial solvent
which degrades in the atmosphere to carbon dioxide and
water. Consequently the Davy Process Technology bio-process
route is carbon neutral and this is a distinct improvement over
the conventional multi-stage processing of petrochemicals that
are derived from fossil fuels.
Enabling Technology for a Hydrogen Economy
With the growing realisation that the world must reduce its
dependence on polluting and finite fossil fuel resources, the
longer term scenario for future energy supply is the ‘hydrogen
economy’ where hydrogen generated from low or zero carbon
sources is used in place of hydrocarbon fuels as a way of
transporting energy around the world.
Hydrogen can be derived in many different ways and
offers the potential to be an alternative or additional energy
carrier to power our homes and workplaces, transport and
industry. Johnson Matthey has a broad range of skills in
hydrogen processing ranging from the catalysts and technologies
used in its generation, to the materials used for its storage
and the development of systems to use it in fuel cells. As the
market for hydrogen develops and the scale and nature of the
processing required in enabling its use as a viable fuel expands,
Johnson Matthey is well placed to benefit from its considerable
expertise in this area.
Fuel cell technology, which has applied catalysis expertise at
its core, is by far the most efficient way of producing electricity
from hydrogen, the only by-product being pure water. Through
its dedicated Fuel Cells business, Johnson Matthey is developing
enabling technology for this new industry. However, even with
the increased efficiency of fuel cells, a truly sustainable hydrogen
economy will require that the hydrogen is produced from
renewable resources such as biomass or renewable electricity
and our scientists are working on a range of applications in this
area. Johnson Matthey is also addressing the issue of how
hydrogen will be transported and stored. For example, work is
well underway to develop novel materials that will allow low
pressure storage of hydrogen on board vehicles without
compromising their performance or range.
Initiatives for Sustainable Manufacturing Processes
We have seen how Johnson Matthey’s existing products and
developmental technologies can contribute towards more
sustainable use of the world’s resources. The company is also
focused on minimising the impact of its own manufacturing
processes through process modifications and the introduction
of initiatives which deliver environmental, energy and cost saving
benefits for the business.
Johnson Matthey actively seeks to improve its energy
efficiency through its capital expenditure projects, participation
in energy user groups and through input and response to a
range of broader initiatives and regulatory issues. Combined
heat and power (CHP) plants at our Royston and Brimsdown,
UK facilities have been operational since 2002 and the West
Deptford, US CHP unit was brought on line in 2003. All three
have delivered more efficient point of use generation of
electricity in addition to steam and hot water which are used
to provide heat for other duties on site. CHP also delivers
significant reductions in emissions when compared to centrally
generated power.
36
- Johnson Matthey
Operating and Financial Review The introduction of the Climate Change Levy (CCL) by
the UK Government in 2000 has resulted in a thorough review
of Johnson Matthey’s energy utilisation throughout its UK
operations. A series of incremental improvements and
investments in current energy efficient technologies has put
us on track to meet our 20% reduction target by 2010. The
combined performance of our Royston and Brimsdown sites
has already exceeded the milestone target, achieving a 30%
reduction. The company has also increased its focus on internal
environmental target setting by sites worldwide and with this
has actively encouraged the inclusion of energy efficiency targets.
Johnson Matthey recognises the value and benefits that can
be derived from good communication and knowledge sharing
across the group and at all levels of business activity. An energy
user group has been formed at our Royston, UK site with
representatives from all businesses to explore and share best
practice on energy efficiency. Since its formation in October
2005, the group’s output has already yielded initial ideas for
energy saving initiatives and in view of the positive outcomes
so far, plans are underway to set up a global Johnson Matthey
energy user group. As demand for Johnson Matthey’s emission
control technologies continues to grow, the Environmental
Catalysts and Technologies business has focused on increasing
plant uptime to deliver both cost and energy saving benefits.
The implementation of initiatives derived through working
groups has yielded significant economic and environmental
benefits including increased plant uptime, more efficient use of
raw materials and an overall decrease in the energy required
per unit of product.
As well as adopting current energy efficient technologies in
its operations, Johnson Matthey, in collaboration with other key
stakeholders, is working hard with the UK government and
other bodies to create the public / private partnerships and
policy mechanisms required to stimulate the development of
truly innovative environmental technologies. The success of this
initiative would allow dramatic improvements in CO
2
emissions
across the UK.
Working Towards a Sustainable Future
As the global trend continues towards improved energy
efficiency and the adoption of alternative energy resources,
Johnson Matthey products and technologies have an increasingly
significant role to play both now and in the future. We remain
focused on innovation and development to deliver sustainable
solutions for our customers and on minimising the impact of
our own manufacturing processes. The changing dynamics of
global energy source and supply continue to present
opportunities for Johnson Matthey to make a positive
contribution to society as a whole whilst delivering long term
value for our shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
37 L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA
Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, age 51;
joined Johnson Matthey in 1984; appointed Division Director,
Process Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having held a
series of senior management positions within Catalysts Division
in the US. Appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and
Technologies in August 2003 and to his current position in July 2004.
M B Dearden MA
Age 63; appointed a non-executive director in April 1999.
Currently Chairman of Minova International Limited and a non-
executive director of The Weir Group Plc and Travis Perkins plc.
Previously Chief Executive of Castrol International and a main
board director of Burmah Castrol plc. A, M, N
C D Mackay MBA, MA
Age 66; appointed a non-executive director in January 1999.
Currently Chairman of TDG plc, Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of Historic Royal Palaces and a member of the board
of INSEAD. Previously Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and
Group Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc.
Has also served on a number of boards including those of
HSBC Holdings plc, British Airways plc, Gucci Group NV and
Thistle Hotels plc. A, M, N
J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT
Group Finance Director, age 56; joined Johnson Matthey as
Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed
current job title in September 1995. Previously Group Treasurer
of The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of API
Group Plc. Currently a non-executive director of GKN plc.
N A P Carson BSc
Chief Executive, age 49; joined Johnson Matthey in 1980;
appointed Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having
held senior management positions in the Precious Metals Division
as well as Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
Appointed to the board as Managing Director, Catalysts &
Chemicals in August 1999 and additionally assumed board level
responsibility for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004. Currently Chairman,
Business Taskforce on Sustainable Consumption and Production.
Previously a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
A M Thomson MA, CA
Age 59; appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently Finance Director of Smiths Group plc. He was previously
Finance Director of the Rugby Group PLC and a non-executive
director of Laporte PLC. Prior to that he had held a succession
of senior financial positions with Courtaulds, Raychem Ltd. and
Rockwell International. A, M, N
Sir John Banham
Chairman, age 65; joined Johnson Matthey as Chairman Designate in
January 2006; appointed Chairman on 1st April 2006. Currently
Chairman of Spacelabs Healthcare Inc. and the Senior Independent
Director of Amvescap PLC and Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals Inc. He was
previously a director at McKinsey & Company, the first Controller of
the Audit Commission and is a former Director General of the
Confederation of British Industry. Previously a director of National
Power and National Westminster Bank, and Chairman of T armac plc,
Kingfisher plc, Geest plc,Whitbread PLC and Cyclacel Plc. N
D W Morgan MA, ACA
Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 48;
joined Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed an executive director in August 1999. Responsible for
the group’s corporate development activities and legal and
secretarial affairs. In addition, assumed board level responsibility
for Colours & Coatings Division and the company’s central
research activities in August 2002. Following the restructuring of
Colours & Coatings Division is now responsible for Ceramics
Division. Currently a member of the International Advisory Board
of Conduit Ventures Limited.
38
- Johnson Matthey
Board of Directors
From left to right: Catalysts
S M Christley Division Finance Director,
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
P C Framp Managing Director,
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies,
Europe
A M Myers President,
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies,
North America
D W Prest Director, Heavy Duty Diesel,
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
J F Walker Managing Director,
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies,
Asia
N P H Garner Division Finance Director,
Process Catalysts and Technologies
M T Durney President,
Catalysts and Chemicals
A C Hurst Managing Director,
Tracerco and Titanates
B C Singelais Vice President,
Research Chemicals
D J Tomlinson President,
Davy Process Technology
N Whitley Managing Director,
Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas
J C Frost Director,
Fuel Cells
Precious Metal Products
W F Sandford Division Director
B M O’Connell Division Finance Director
M Bedford Director,
Precious Metals Marketing
C C Howlett General Manager,
Noble Metals, Europe
J D Malanga General Manager,
Noble Metals, North America
A J McCullough General Manager,
Gold, North America
J J W Murkens Managing Director,
Colour T echnologies
G P Otterman Managing Director,
Pgm Refining
M C F Steel Market Research and
Planning Director,
Precious Metals Marketing
H Yap Managing Director,
Precious Metal Products, Hong Kong
Pharmaceutical Materials
F K Sheffy Division Director
A J Caruso Division Finance Director
J B Fowler Vice President and
General Manager,
Pharmaceutical Materials
R M Kilburn Vice President,
Pharma Services
D S Mercer Managing Director,
Macfarlan Smith
Ceramics
V Ros Division Director
S J O’Toole Division Finance Director
P Branco Managing Director,
Ceramics, Portugal and Brazil
J Cabedo General Manager,
Tile, Spain
J Montoliu Managing Director,
Zircon, Spain and USA
C Ricotta Managing Director,
Ceramics, Asia
G Romani Managing Director,
Ceramics, Italy
Corporate
G J Coates Group Treasurer
S Farrant Company Secretary and
Senior Legal Adviser
I D Godwin Director, Investor Relations
and Corporate Communications
V E Gough Group Reporting Controller
T Hassan Group Business Development
Director
I B C Huddart Group Taxation Manager
B A Murrer Director, 
Technology Centre
I F Stephenson Director,
Group Systems, Environment, Health
and Safety and Human Resources
Other Senior Management
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
39
I C Strachan
Age 63; appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc,
Transocean Inc., Xstrata plc and Rolls Royce Group plc. Previously
Chairman of Instinet Group Inc., Deputy Chairman of Invensys
Plc, Chief Executive of BTR plc and Deputy Chief Executive of
Rio Tinto plc. A, M, N
P N Hawker BSc, PhD, FRSC
Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies and
Pharmaceutical Materials, age 53; joined Johnson Matthey in 1985
as Research & Development Manager and was subsequently
Managing Director, Autocatalysts Europe and Division Director,
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies. Appointed Executive
Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003.
He was appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and
Technologies in July 2004 and assumed additional responsibility
for Pharmaceutical Materials Division in April 2006.
R J W Walvis
Age 59; appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc, an
Adviser to Amerada Hess Corporation Inc. and Chairman of the
Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Group NV. He was
previously Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell International
Limited and prior to that held a series of senior management
positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group. A, M, N
Committees of the Board
A Audit Committee
M Management Development and Remuneration Committee
N Nomination Committee The directors submit to shareholders their one hundred and fifteenth
annual report, together with the audited accounts of the group for
the year ended 31st March 2006.
Principal Activities
A review of the group’s principal activities and an indication of likely
future developments are set out in the Operating and Financial
Review on pages 6 to 37. A description of the group’s activities in
research and development can be found on pages 15 to 17 in the
Operating and Financial Review.
Business Review
The company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the
business of the group during the financial year ended 31st March 2006
and of the position of the group at the end of that financial year and 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group
(known as a ‘Business Review’). The information that fulfils the
requirements of the Business Review can be found in the following
sections of the Operating and Financial Review: Review of Results
2005/06 on pages 7 and 8, Operations on pages 8 to 17, Financial
Review on pages 18 to 22, Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 to 24,
Resources on pages 24 and 25 and Corporate Social Responsibility
on pages 27 to 37, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
Dividends
The interim dividend of 9.1 pence per share (2005 8.7 pence) was
paid in February 2006. The directors recommend a final dividend of
21.0 pence per share (2005 19.0 pence) making a total for the year
of 30.1 pence per share (2005 27.7 pence).
A dividend reinvestment plan is in place which allows shareholders
to purchase additional shares in the company with their dividend
payment. Further information and a mandate can be obtained from
Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details are set out on page 113.
Share Capital
Details of shares allotted during year are set out in note 30 on page 94.
At the 2005 annual general meeting (AGM), shareholders renewed
the company’s authority to make market purchases of up to
21,953,598 ordinary shares. No shares were purchased under this
authority during the year ended 31st March 2006 and at the
forthcoming AGM the board will again seek shareholders’ approval
to renew the annual authority for the company to make purchases
of its own shares through the market.
The Johnson Matthey Share Retention Trust purchased 1,893,000
shares during the year at a net cost of £25.3 million.
Employee Share Schemes
At 31st March 2006 4,867 current and former employees,
representing approximately 63% of employees worldwide, were
shareholders in Johnson Matthey through the group’s employee
share schemes, which held 3,015,773 shares (1.37% of issued
share capital). A total of 803 current and former executives held
options over 8,189,652 shares through the company’s executive
share option schemes.
Directors
Details of the directors of the company who served throughout the
year are shown on pages 38 and 39. Mr H M P Miles retired from
the board on 31st March 2006. Sir John Banham, appointed to the
board on 1st January 2006, offers himself for election at the
forthcoming AGM. Mr N A P Carson, Dr P N Hawker and Mr L C
Pentz retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election.
Directors’ Interests
Details of directors’ remuneration, service contracts and interests in
the shares of the company are set out in the Remuneration Report
on pages 46 to 51.
Other than service contracts, no director had any interest in any
material contract with any group company at any time during the year.
Substantial Shareholders
In accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985,
the company has been advised of the following interests in its issued
share capital as at 26th May 2006:
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 3.99%
Legal & General Group plc 3.53%
Zurich Financial Services 3.49%
Barclays PLC 3.34%
Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts
The group’s policy in relation to the payment of all suppliers (set out in
its Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations)
is that payment should be made within the credit terms agreed with
the supplier. At 31st March 2006, the company’s aggregate level of
‘creditor days’ amounted to 11 days. Creditor days are calculated 
by dividing the aggregate of the amounts which were outstanding 
as trade payables at the end of the year by the aggregate of the
amounts the company was invoiced by suppliers during the year 
and multiplying by 365 to express the ratio as a number of days.
Donations
During the year the group donated £340,000 (2005 £349,000) to
charitable organisations, of which £282,000 (2005 £280,000) was in
the UK. There were no political donations made in the year (2005 £ nil).
Directors’ Indemnities
The company has granted indemnities in favour of directors under
Deed Polls. These provisions were in force during the year ended
31st March 2006 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
The Deed Polls and the company’s Articles of Association are
available for inspection during normal business hours at the
company’s registered office and will be available at the AGM.
Going Concern
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has
sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future and have, therefore, adopted the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors
So far as each person currently serving as a director of the company
at the date this report is approved is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware and each
director hereby confirms that he has taken all the steps that he ought
to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a
resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the
reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 30th May
2006 and is signed on its behalf by:
Simon Farrant
Company Secretary
40
- Johnson Matthey
Directors’ Report
  Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
41
Corporate Governance
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) relating
to the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of
the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for
financial reporting, internal control and audit. This statement
describes how the principles of the Code have been applied. The
group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout
the year except that the board has taken the view that it is not
necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for the
Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major
shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless such
discussions are requested by shareholders. The methods by which
major shareholders’ views are communicated to the board as a
whole are discussed under ‘Relations with Shareholders’ below.
Directors and the Board
The board is responsible to the company’s shareholders for the
group’s system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives and
the stewardship of the company’s resources and is ultimately
responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters. The board
held seven meetings in the year and in addition met separately to
review the group’s long term strategy. The board delegates specific
responsibilities to board committees, as described below. The board
reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and
presentations to enable it to do so effectively. The Company
Secretary is responsible to the board, and is available to individual
directors, in respect of board procedures.
Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive. The board currently
comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive
directors and five independent non-executive directors. Sir John
Banham was appointed to the board as Chairman Designate on 
1st January 2006 and became Chairman on 1st April 2006 following
the retirement of Mr H M P Miles. Sir John Banham’s other
commitments are disclosed on page 38. The roles of Chairman and
Chief Executive are separate. The Chairman leads the board,
ensuring that each director, particularly the non-executive directors,
is able to make an effective contribution. He monitors, with
assistance from the Company Secretary, the information distributed
to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
The Chief Executive maintains day-to-day management
responsibility for the company’s operations, implementing group
strategies and policies agreed by the board.
Mr C D Mackay is the Senior Independent Director. The role of non-
executive directors is to enhance independence and objectivity of
the board’s deliberations and decisions. All non-executive directors
are independent of management and free from any business or
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of
their independent judgment. The executive directors have specific
responsibilities, which are detailed on pages 38 and 39, and have
direct responsibility for all operations and activities.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every
three years. The board composition allows for changes to be made
with minimum disruption.
During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation of its
performance and the performance of its committees and the
individual directors. A questionnaire, prepared by the Chairman with
the assistance of the Company Secretary, was completed by all
directors other than the Chairman. The questionnaire focused on the
operation of the board, its committees and individual directors’
contributions. A summary of the responses was prepared by the
Company Secretary and discussed at a board meeting. In addition,
during the year, led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-
executive directors met without the Chairman present to consider
evaluation of the Chairman’s performance.
Committees of the Board
The Chief Executive’s Committee is responsible for the
recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and
on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate. It is also
responsible for the executive management of the group’s business.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets
monthly. It comprises the executive directors and three senior
executives of the company.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose
purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its
responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control. The
Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson. 
It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the
group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director
and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation. 
A report from the Committee on its activities is given on page 44.
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board
responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on
the appointment of new directors. The Committee is chaired by the
Chairman and also comprises all the independent non-executive
directors. A report from the Committee on its activities is given on
page 45.
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee 
is a sub-committee of the board, which determines on behalf of the
board the remuneration of the executive directors. The Committee is
chaired by Mr C D Mackay and comprises all the independent non-
executive directors. The group Chairman, Chief Executive and the
Director of Human Resources attend by invitation except when their
own performance and remuneration are discussed. Further details
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51. 42
- Johnson Matthey
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51 includes details of
remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The board considers effective communication with shareholders,
whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to
be extremely important.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its
half year and full year results are announced and an interim report
and a full report are issued to shareholders. These reports are
posted on Johnson Matthey’s website (www.matthey.com). At the
same time, executive directors give presentations on the results to
institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other
international centres. Copies of major presentations are also posted
on the company’s website.
The company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) takes place in
London and formal notification is sent to shareholders with the
annual report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors are available for questions, formally during the AGM
and informally afterwards. Details of the 2006 AGM are set out in
the notice of the meeting enclosed with this annual report.
Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that
their views are communicated to the board as a whole. The
Chairman also discusses governance and strategy directly with
major shareholders. The board believes that appropriate steps have
been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the
board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders
about the company. Sir John Banham, prior to taking up his
appointment as Chairman, met with each of the company’s top
three shareholders individually to discuss governance and other
matters. The board is provided with brokers’ reports and feedback
from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis. The canvassing
of major shareholders’ views for the board in a detailed investor
survey is conducted every two years by external consultants. The
board has taken the view that these methods, taken together, are a
practical and efficient way both for the Chairman to keep in touch
with major shareholder opinion on governance and strategy and for
the Senior Independent Director to learn the views of major
shareholders and to develop a balanced understanding of their
issues and concerns. The Senior Independent Director is available
to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Accountability, Audit and Control
The statement of the Responsibility of Directors for the preparation 
of the directors’ report and the accounts is set out on page 52.
In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a
balanced and understandable assessment of the group’s financial
position and prospects.
The group’s organisational structure is focused on its four divisions.
These are all separately managed but report to the board through a
board director. The executive management team receives monthly
summaries of financial results from each division through a
standardised reporting process.
The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process
including forecasts for the next two years. Variances from budget
are closely monitored.
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s system of internal
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. The internal control
systems are designed to meet the group’s needs and address the
risks to which it is exposed. Such a system can provide reasonable
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the company which has
been in place during the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The board regularly
reviews this process.
The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the
board and updated on an annual basis. At the business level the
processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part
of the control environment. Key risks and internal controls are the
subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executive’s Committee.
Committees of the Board (continued)
Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2005/06 was as follows:
Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee
Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to
Director attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
H M P Miles 7 6 – – 2 2 – –
Sir John Banham
(1)
21 –1
(2)
––––
N A P Carson 7 7 – 4
(2)
–2
(2)
–4
(2)
M BDearden 7 7442244
P NHawker 7 7––––––
C DMackay 77442244
D WMorgan 7 7––––––
L CPentz 7 7––––––
J N Sheldrick 7 7 – – – – – 4
(2)
I C Strachan 7 6 4 4 2 2 4 3
A MThomson 77442244
R J WWalvis 77442244
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Notes
(1)
Appointed January 2006.
(2)
Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting. Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
43
Corporate Governance
Accountability, Audit and Control (continued)
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group
operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and
authority limits of the various board and executive committees and
also specifies what may be decided without central approval. It is
supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals
issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or
departments. The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with
which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical
controls over precious metals held at the group’s sites.
The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the group’s
systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity
of the financial information reported to the board. The Audit
Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and
receives the reports produced by the internal audit function on a
regular basis. Actions are agreed with management in response to
the internal audit reports produced.
In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the
maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance
with group policies. These assessments are summarised by the
internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit
Committee.
The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year
ended 31st March 2006 and the period up to 30th May 2006 has
been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance included
with the Code and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the
system of internal control.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the
identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical
and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other
business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board and
the Chief Executive’s Committee.
A review of the group’s policies and targets for corporate social
responsibility (CSR) is set out on pages 27 to 37. A full version of
the report is available on the company’s website.
The identification, assessment and management of environment,
health and safety (EHS) risks are the responsibility of the CSR
Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Chief
Executive’s Committee, comprising the division directors, the
Director of EHS, the Company Secretary and other appropriate
professional staff. Performance is monitored using monthly statistics
and detailed site audit reports. EHS performance is reviewed on a
regular basis by the Chief Executive’s Committee and an annual
review is undertaken by the board.
Risks from employment and people issues are identified and
assessed by the Chief Executive’s Committee and reported to the
board.
Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable
business practices and the group’s position on ethical issues. The
Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further
operational guidelines to reinforce these.
The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social
responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through
the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the
internal audit function. 44
- Johnson Matthey
Audit Committee Report
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose
responsibilities include:
• Reviewing the interim and full year accounts and results
announcements of the company and any other formal
announcements relating to the company’s financial performance
and recommending them to the board for approval.
• Reviewing the group’s systems for internal financial control and
risk management.
• Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s
internal audit function and considering regular reports from
internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management.
• Considering the appointment of the external auditors; overseeing
the process for their selection; and making recommendations to
the board in relation to their appointment (to be put to
shareholders for approval at a general meeting).
• Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of
the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their
audit, agreeing their remuneration, and considering their reports
on the company’s accounts, reports to shareholders and
systems of internal financial control and risk management.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on
the company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive
directors. Biographical details of the independent directors are set
out on pages 38 and 39. Their remuneration is set out on page 48.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson. The
group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of
Internal Audit and external auditors (KPMG Audit Plc) attend Audit
Committee meetings by invitation. The Committee also meets
separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external
auditors without management being present. The Company
Secretary, Mr S Farrant, is secretary to the Audit Committee.
Main Activities of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended
31st March 2006. At its meeting on 25th May 2005 the Committee
reviewed the company’s preliminary announcement of its results for
the financial year ended 31st March 2005, and the draft report and
accounts for that year. The Committee received reports from the
external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the
accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and
their comments on risk management and control matters. The
company’s restatement of the results for the year under International
Financial Reporting Standards was reviewed and discussed with the
external auditors. The Committee also reviewed the group’s
Corporate Social Responsibility Report which is available on the
company’s website at www.matthey.com.
The Audit Committee met on 26th July 2005 to receive reports on
internal controls from both the internal and external auditors.
Changes to the Group Control Manual were ratified. The external
auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for the
forthcoming year. The Committee also reviewed the performance
of both the internal and external auditors.
At its meeting on 21st November 2005 the Audit Committee
reviewed the company’s interim results, the half year report and the
external auditors’ review.
At its meeting on 24th January 2006 the Audit Committee reviewed
management’s and internal audit’s reports on the effectiveness of
the company’s systems for internal financial control and risk
management. The Committee reviewed the group’s credit control
procedures and risks, controls over precious metals, IT controls and
corporate social responsibility reporting arrangements.
Independence of External Auditors
Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had
safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’
objectivity and independence could be compromised. Our policy in
respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows:
• Audit related services – the external auditors are invited to
provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must or
are best placed to undertake. This includes formalities relating to
borrowings, shareholders’ and other circulars, various other
regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and
disposals.
• Tax consulting – in cases where they are best suited, we use the
external auditors. All other significant tax consulting work is put
out to tender.
• General consulting – in recognition of public concern over the
effect of consulting services on auditors’ independence, our
policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for
general consulting work.
Internal Audit
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of
the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during
the year and the department’s resource requirements and also
approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2007.
On behalf of the Committee:
Alan Thomson
Chairman of the Audit Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
45
Nomination Committee Report
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose
purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary,
dismissal of executive and non-executive directors. The full terms of
reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the
company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Composition of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent 
non-executive directors together with the group Chairman. The
quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of
whom must be an independent non-executive director. Biographical
details of the independent directors and the Chairman are set out on
pages 38 and 39. Their remuneration is set out on page 48.
The group Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee,
although the Chairman may not chair the Committee when it is
dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the
company. A non-executive director may not chair the Committee
when it is dealing with a matter relating to that non-executive
director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee
meetings. However, other individuals, such as the Chief Executive,
the Director of Human Resources and external advisers, may be
invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when
appropriate.
The Director of Human Resources, Mr I F Stephenson, acts as
secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that it
requires from any officer or employee of the company or its
subsidiaries. In connection with its duties, the Committee is
authorised by the board to take such independent advice (including
legal or other professional advice, at the company’s expense) as it
considers necessary, including requests for information from or
commissioning investigations by external advisers.
Main Activities of the Nomination Committee
In the year under review, Sir John Banham joined the board as
Chairman Designate with effect from 1st January 2006 and was
appointed as Chairman of the board with effect from 1st April 2006
following Mr H M P Miles’ retirement. There were no other board
appointments.
During the financial year ended 31st March 2006, the Nomination
Committee conducted a process to identify a successor to Mr Miles
through a sub-committee comprising Mr M B Dearden and Mr A M
Thomson and with the assistance of external search consultants.
Open advertising was not used. The Nomination Committee met
twice during the year in connection with the selection process.
On behalf of the Committee:
Sir John Banham
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 46
- Johnson Matthey
Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report to Shareholders
Management Development and Remuneration Committee and
its Terms of Reference
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee 
of the board comprises all the independent non-executive directors
of the company as set out on pages 38 and 39. The Chairman 
of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee is
Mr C D Mackay. The group Chairman is not a member of the
Committee but may attend by invitation.
The Committee’s terms of reference include determination on behalf
of the board of fair remuneration for the executive directors and the
group Chairman, which recognises their individual contributions to
the company’s overall performance. In addition the Committee
assists the board in ensuring that the senior management of the
group are recruited, developed and remunerated in an appropriate
fashion. The Director of Human Resources, Mr I F Stephenson, acts
as secretary to the Committee. The full terms of reference of the
Committee are available on the company’s website at
www.matthey.com.
Non-executive directors’ remuneration is determined by the board,
within the limits prescribed by the company’s Articles of Association.
The remuneration consists of fees, which are set following advice
taken from independent consultants and are reviewed at three year
intervals.
Executive Remuneration Policy
The Committee believes strongly that remuneration policy should be
completely aligned with shareholder interests. The Committee
recognises that, in order to maximise shareholder value, it is
necessary to have a competitive pay and benefits structure. The
Committee also recognises that there is a highly competitive market
for successful executives and that the provision of appropriate
rewards for superior performance is vital to the continued growth of
the business. To assist with this, the Committee appoints and
receives advice from independent remuneration consultants on the
pay and incentive arrangements prevailing in comparably sized
industrial companies in each country in which Johnson Matthey has
operations. During the year such advice was received from the Hay
Group, which also provided advice on job evaluation, and the
Monks Partnership. Watson Wyatt and PricewaterhouseCoopers
provided actuarial services and pensions advice respectively. The
Committee also receives recommendations from the Chief Executive
on the remuneration of those reporting to him as well as advice from
the Director of Human Resources. Total potential rewards are
earned through the achievement of demanding performance targets
based on measures that represent the best interests of shareholders.
The remuneration policy is reviewed by the Committee annually.
Remuneration consists of basic salary, annual bonus, a long term
incentive plan, share options and other benefits. Salaries are based
on median market rates with incentives providing the opportunity for
upper quartile total remuneration, but only for achieving outstanding
performance. Following a comprehensive review by the Committee,
which included advice from independent consultants, and after
extensive consultation with the company’s major institutional
investors, shareholder approval was obtained for changes in 2004
to the long term incentive plan and the share option scheme.
To ensure the interests of the executive directors remain aligned with
those of the shareholders, they are encouraged to build up over
time and hold a shareholding in the company equal to at least one
times their basic salary.
Executive directors’ remuneration consists of the following:
• Basic Salary – which is in line with the median market salary for
each director’s responsibilities as determined by independent
surveys. Basic salary is normally reviewed on 1st August each
year and the Committee takes into account individual
performance and promotion during the year. Where an internal
promotion takes place, the median salary relative to the market
would usually be reached over a period of a few years, which
can give rise to higher than normal salary increases while this is
being achieved.
• Annual Bonus – which is paid as a percentage of basic salary
under the terms of the company’s Executive Compensation Plan
(which also applies to the group’s 160 or so most senior
executives). The executive directors’ bonus award is based on
consolidated profit before tax, impairment and restructuring costs
(PBT) compared with the annual budget. The board of directors
rigorously reviews the annual budget to ensure that the budgeted
PBT is sufficiently stretching. An annual bonus payment of 30%
of basic salary (prevailing at 31st March) is paid if the group
meets the annual budget. This bonus may rise to 65% of basic
salary if the group achieves PBT of 107.5% of budget. There is a
provision that a maximum 100% of basic salary may be paid to
the Chief Executive and the other executive directors if 115% of
budgeted PBT is achieved. PBT must reach 95% of budget for a
minimum bonus of 15% to be payable. The Committee has
discretion to vary the awards made. The bonus awarded to
executive directors in 2005/06 was 43.5% of salary at 31st
March 2006.
• Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) – which was established in
1998 and is designed to achieve above average performance
and growth. It allows share allocations of up to a maximum of
125% of basic annual salary each year to directors and
executives. The allocation in 2005 was 100% of basic annual
salary for executive directors and 125% for the Chief Executive.
The release of the share allocation is subject to the achievement
of certain stretching performance targets measured over the
three year period from the date of allocation.
Share allocations made prior to 2004 – Share allocations made
prior to 2004 are subject to the achievement of performance
targets which contain two components – relative total
shareholder return (TSR) and absolute TSR.
The first component (50% of the allocation) compares the
company’s TSR over the three year performance period with that
of a comparator group. The comparator group comprises those
companies placed 51-150 in the FTSE Index. All of the shares
are released if the company ranks in the 75th percentile or
above. Between 35% and 100% of the allocated shares are
released on a straight line basis if the company ranks between
the 50th and 75th percentiles. None of the shares are released if
the company ranks in the 50th percentile or below. In addition,
the company’s earnings per share (EPS) must be at least equal
to the increase in UK RPI plus 2% per annum over the three year
performance period before any release is made.
The second component (50% of the allocation) measures
absolute TSR. All of the shares are released if the absolute TSR
growth over the three year performance period is 45% or more.
Pro rata allocations on a straight line basis of between 50% and
100% are released if absolute TSR growth is between 30% and
45%. Half of the allocated shares are released if TSR growth is
30%. No shares are released for TSR growth of less than 30%.
Share allocations made from 2004 onwards – In 2004
shareholder approval was obtained to change the LTIP
performance target. The change followed recommendations
made by the Committee resulting from its review of the
company’s executive remuneration undertaken with the help of
the Hay Group. The change was one of a number of changes
made to executive incentives, effective for the 2004/05 financial
year, as a means of recruiting and retaining key employees and
of providing an incentive and focus for further improving the
company’s performance over the coming years. The effect of the
change was that, for allocations made in 2004 onwards, the Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
47
Directors’ Emoluments 2005/06
Total prior
Total year
Date of Annual excluding excluding
service Date of Salary bonus Benefits pension pension
agreement appointment £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
(3)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Executive
N A P Carson 1.8.99 1.8.99 517 239 29 785 714
P N Hawker 1.8.03 1.8.03 253 118 16 387 366
D W Morgan 1.8.99 1.8.99 275 122 25 422 457
L C Pentz
(1)
1.1.06 1.8.03 293 118 123 534 540
J N Sheldrick
(2)
24.11.97 3.9.90 367 163 14 544 581
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Total 1,705 760 207 2,672 2,658
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Remuneration Report
release of shares is subject entirely to a relative TSR performance
target. This compares the company’s TSR over the three year
performance period with that of a comparator group which
comprises those companies placed 51-150 in the FTSE Index.
All of the allocated shares are released if the company ranks in
the 75th percentile or above. Between 35% and 100% of the
shares are released on a straight line basis if the company ranks
between the 50th and 75th percentiles. None of the shares are
released if the company ranks in the 50th percentile or below. In
addition, the company’s EPS must be at least equal to the
increase in UK RPI plus 2% per annum over the three year
performance period before any release is made.
• Share Options – Since 2001 options have been granted under
the Johnson Matthey 2001 Share Option Scheme (the 2001
Scheme). Options are granted at the market value of the
company’s shares at the time of grant and are subject to
performance targets over a three year period. Options may be
exercised upon satisfaction of the relevant performance targets.
Approximately 800 employees are granted options under the
2001 Scheme each year.
Options granted prior to 2004 – Prior to 2004, options granted to
the executive directors under the 2001 Scheme were up to a
maximum of 100% of basic annual salary each year. Such
options can only be exercised if the company’s EPS has 
grown by at least UK RPI plus 4% per annum over any three
consecutive years during the life of the option. These options 
are subject to annual retesting until they lapse on the tenth
anniversary of grant.
There are also options outstanding under the Johnson Matthey
1995 UK and Overseas Executive Share Option Scheme. The
last option grant under this scheme was made in 2000. All
options were granted in annual tranches up to the maximum
permitted of four times earnings and were subject to a
performance target of EPS growth of UK RPI plus 2% over the
three year performance period. Option grants were not made to
executive directors in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000.
Options granted from 2004 onwards – In 2004 shareholder
approval was obtained for certain changes to the 2001 Scheme.
The changes followed the review of the company’s executive
remuneration by the Committee, as referred to above. As a result
of the changes, grants made from 2004 onwards are no longer
eligible for retesting and are subject to a three year performance
target of EPS growth of UK RPI plus 3% per annum. If the
performance target is not met at the end of the three year
performance period, the options will lapse. In addition, to reduce
the cost calculated under the International Financial Reporting
Standard IFRS 2 – ‘Share-based Payment’, gains are capped at
100% of the grant price.
Additional changes introduced in 2004 provide a further incentive
to executive directors to deliver growth. The Committee has the
discretion to award grants greater than 100% of basic annual
salary. Grants above this threshold are, however, subject to
increasingly stretching performance targets. Grants between
100% and 125% of basic annual salary are subject to EPS
growth of UK RPI plus 4% per annum and grants between 125%
and 150% of basic annual salary are subject to EPS growth of
UK RPI plus 5% per annum. In 2005 the executive directors
were granted options equal to 150% of salary.
• Pensions – all the executive directors are members of the
Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme in the UK,
including Mr L C Pentz who joined the scheme in January 2006.
Prior to this Mr Pentz was a member of the Johnson Matthey
Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan in the US. Under the UK
scheme, members are entitled to a pension based on their
service and final pensionable salary subject to HM Revenue &
Customs limits. The scheme also provides life assurance cover of
four times annual salary. The normal pension age for directors is
60. None of the non-executive directors are members of the
schemes. Details of the individual arrangements for executive
directors are given on pages 50 and 51.
• Other Benefits – available to the executive directors are private
medical insurance, a company car and membership of the
group’s employee share incentive plans which are open to all
employees in the countries in which the group operates such
schemes.
• Service Contracts – The executive directors are employed on
contracts subject to one year’s notice at any time. On early
termination of their contracts the directors would normally be
entitled to 12 months’ salary and benefits. Directors’ Emoluments 2005/06 (continued)
Total prior
Total year
Date of excluding excluding
letter of Date of Fees Benefits pension pension
appointment appointment £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Non-Executive
(4)
H M P Miles (Chairman)
(5)
26.2.90 1.3.90 220 – 220 228
Sir John Banham 10.12.05 1.1.06 31
(6)
–31
(6)
–
M B Dearden 5.1.99 1.4.99 40 – 40 40
C D Mackay 5.1.99 27.1.99 45
(7)
–4545
I C Strachan 10.12.01 23.1.02 40 – 40 40
A M Thomson 1.8.02 24.9.02 45
(8)
–4545
R J W Walvis 1.8.02 24.9.02 40 – 40 40
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Total 461 – 461 438
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Notes
(1)
Mr Pentz’s emoluments from 1st January 2006 are based on UK salary and benefits. Prior to that Mr Pentz’s emoluments were based on US basic salary
adjusted for the cost of living differential in the UK including UK taxation. The company provided him, for two years only from 1st January 2004, with an
expatriation package commensurate with the company’s policy on international assignments, including accommodation costs, education expenses and
relocation expenses.
(2)
Mr Sheldrick is a non-executive director of GKN plc. His fees for the year were £43,500. This amount is excluded from the table above and retained by him.
(3)
Excludes the emoluments of Mr Clark who retired as a director on 20th July 2004. His emoluments were £354,000 bringing the total to £3,012,000.
(4)
Non-executive fees were last reviewed on 1st April 2004.
(5)
Mr Miles retired as Chairman on 31st March 2006.
(6)
Sir John Banham’s fee for the initial period of service as a non-executive director and Chairman Designate from 1st January 2006 to 31st March 2006 was
£31,250 (£125,000 per annum). His fee from 1st April 2006 is £250,000 per annum.
(7)
Includes £5,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee.
(8)
Includes £5,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Directors’ Interests
The interests of the directors as at 31st March 2006 in the shares of the company according to the register required to be kept by section
325(1) of the Companies Act 1985 were:
1. Ordinary Shares
31st March 31st March
2006 2005
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Sir John Banham 4,000 –
(1)
N A P Carson 50,919 50,484
M B Dearden 2,000 2,000
P N Hawker 7,966 7,544
C D Mackay 12,500 12,500
H M P Miles 562 562
D W Morgan 36,257 35,873
L C Pentz 11,414 10,614
J N Sheldrick 63,321 52,907
I C Strachan 1,000 1,000
A M Thomson 2,165 2,116
R J W Walvis 1,000 1,000
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
(1)
at date of appointment.
All of the above interests were beneficial. The executive directors are also deemed to be interested in shares held by two employee share
ownership trusts (see note 30 on page 94).
Directors’ interests as at 26th May 2006 were unchanged from those listed above, other than that the Trustees of the Johnson Matthey
Share Incentive Plan have purchased on behalf of Messrs Carson, Hawker, Morgan and Sheldrick a further 54 ordinary shares each and
on behalf of Mr Pentz a further 51 ordinary shares.
Remuneration Report
48
- Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
49
Directors’ Interests (continued)
2. Share Options
As at 31st March 2006, individual holdings under the company’s executive share option schemes were as set out below. Options are not
granted to non-executive directors.
Ordinary Exercise Date from Total number of
Date of shares under price which Expiry ordinary shares
grant option (pence) exercisable
(1)
date under option
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
N A P Carson 14.7.98 15,964 524.00 14.7.01 14.7.08
22.7.99 18,035 585.50 22.7.02 22.7.09
18.7.01 19,391 1,083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 28,901 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 33,407 898.00 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 75,678 892.00 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 77,102 1,070.00 20.7.08 20.7.15 268,478
(2005 191,376)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
P N Hawker 19.7.00 6,130 942.00 19.7.03 19.7.10
18.7.01 10,253 1,083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 15,606 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 21,158 898.00 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 36,746 892.00 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 37,850 1,070.00 20.7.08 20.7.15 127,743
(2005 89,893)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
D W Morgan 18.7.01 18,098 1,083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 25,433 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 26,726 898.00 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 44,397 892.00 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 39,252 1,070.00 20.7.08 20.7.15 153,906
(2005 147,961)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
L C Pentz 22.7.99 12,158 585.50 22.7.02 22.7.09
19.7.00 8,224 942.00 19.7.03 19.7.10
18.7.01 12,952 1,083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 17,730 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 22,185 898.00 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 34,857 892.00 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 37,850 1,070.00 20.7.08 20.7.15 145,956
(2005 121,087)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
J N Sheldrick 18.7.01 25,854 1,083.00 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 34,682 865.00 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 36,191 898.00 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 58,861 892.00 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 52,570 1,070.00 20.7.08 20.7.15 208,158
(2005 191,076)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
(1)
subject to meeting the relevant performance targets.
Between 1st April 2005 and 31st March 2006 the following options were exercised:
Exercise Market price
Date of Date of Options price on exercise
grant exercise exercised (pence) (pence)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
D W Morgan 14.7.98 8.12.05 15,835 524.00 1,297.00
22.7.99 8.12.05 17,472 585.50 1,297.00
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
L C Pentz 14.7.98 24.11.05 12,981 524.00 1,269.00
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
J N Sheldrick 27.11.97 22.12.05 35,488 553.00 1,404.00
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Gains made on exercise of options by directors during the year totalled £645,429 (2005: nil).
The closing market price of the company’s shares at 31st March 2006 was 1,396 pence and the range during 2005/06 was 915 pence
to 1,482 pence.
Remuneration Report Directors’ Interests (continued)
3. LTIP Allocations
Number of allocated shares:
Market price
As at Allocations at date Shares Allocations As at
31st March during the of allocation released during lapsed during 31st March
2005 year (pence) the year the year
(1)
2006
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
N A P Carson 121,481 68,578 1,002.50 – 24,272 165,787
P N Hawker 57,721 26,932 1,002.50 – 11,650 73,003
D W Morgan 78,204 27,930 1,002.50 – 21,359 84,775
L C Pentz 59,086 26,932 1,002.50 – 13,235 72,783
J N Sheldrick 105,260 37,406 1,002.50 – 29,126 113,540
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
(1)
shares allocated in 2002 reached their three year maturity on 1st August 2005. As the relevant performance conditions were not met all of these allocations
lapsed.
Pensions
Pensions and life assurance benefits for the executive directors are provided through the company’s final salary occupational pension
scheme for UK employees – the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme (JMEPS) – which is constituted under a separate Trust
Deed. JMEPS is an exempt approved scheme under Chapter I of Part XIV of the Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988. It is an
authorised scheme for the purposes of the Finance Act 2004. Members are contracted out of the State Second Pension. Pension and
life assurance benefits for Mr Pentz for the period up to 31st December 2005 were provided through the Johnson Matthey Inc. Salaried
Employees Pension Plan for employees in the United States, and a separate Senior Executive Retirement Plan. From 1st January 2006,
following his transfer to the UK, these benefits have been provided through JMEPS.
The Finance Act 2004 introduced changes to the taxation of benefits payable from authorised UK pension schemes. The changes were
effective from 6th April 2006. Unless protected under transitional arrangements, retirement benefits that exceed a capital value – called
the Life Time Allowance – will be subject to an additional tax charge. Any such tax charge arising out of membership of JMEPS will be
paid by the member at the point of retirement and benefits will be reduced accordingly. Executive directors whose retirement benefits are
valued in excess of the Life Time Allowance may withdraw from service in JMEPS and receive an annual payment of 25% of basic salary
instead. This payment is commensurate with the cost to the company of providing JMEPS benefits. The Act also enables authorised
schemes to remove the restriction imposed by the ‘earnings cap’ under the Finance Act No. 2, 1989 (see note 5 below).
Disclosure of directors’ pension benefits has been made under the requirements of the United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing Rules
and in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The information below sets out the disclosures under the
two sets of requirements.
a. United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing Rules
Increase in Estimated
accrued Total Total transfer
Director’s pension accrued accrued value of
Years of contributions during the pension as at pension as at increase (less FURBS FURBS
Age as at service at to JMEPS in year (net of 31st March 31st March director’s contribution related tax
31st March 31st March the year
(1)
inflation)
(2)
2006
(3)
2005 contributions)
(4)
in the year
(5)
payments
(5)
2006 2006 £’000 £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 £’000 £’000
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
N A P Carson 48 25 21 50 259 203 542 – –
P N Hawker 52 20 10 27 127 98 347 – –
D W Morgan 48 17 4 3 40 36 28 65 43
L C Pentz
(6)
50 21 1 3 42 36 15 – –
J N Sheldrick 56 15 4 3 46 41 48 88 59
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
b. Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002
Estimated Estimated
Increase in Total transfer value Transfer value increase
Director’s accrued accrued of accrued of accrued in transfer
contributions pension pension as at pension as at pension at value (net of FURBS FURBS
to JMEPS in during the 31st March 31st March 31st March director’s contribution related tax
the year
(1)
year 2006
(3)
2006
(4)
2005
(4)
contribution) in the year
(5)
payments
(5)
£’000 £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
N A P Carson 21 56 259 2,887 2,038 828 – –
P N Hawker 10 29 127 1,707 1,185 512 – –
D W Morgan 4 4 40 426 345 77 65 43
L C Pentz
(6)
1 3 42 311 141 169 – –
J N Sheldrick 4 4 46 735 606 125 88 59
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Remuneration Report
50
- Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
51
Pensions (continued)
Notes
(1)
Members’ contributions are at the general scheme rate of 4% of pensionable pay, i.e. basic salary excluding bonuses. In accordance with the JMEPS
rules, Mr Pentz started contributing on 1st January 2006.
(2)
The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase for inflation.
(3)
The entitlement shown under ‘Total accrued pension at 31st March 2006’ is the pension which would be paid annually on retirement, based on
pensionable service to 31st March 2006. The pension would, however, be subject to an actuarial reduction of 0.3% per month for each month that
retirement precedes age 60.
(4)
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note 11, less directors’ contributions.
No allowance has been made in the transfer values for any discretionary benefits that have been or may be awarded under JMEPS. The transfer values
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 have been calculated at the start and the end of the year and, therefore, take account of
market movements.
(5)
The JMEPS’ benefits and contributions for Messrs Morgan and Sheldrick in respect of service up to 5th April 2006 are restricted by reference to the
‘earnings cap’ imposed by the Finance Act No. 2, 1989. Contributions have therefore been paid to Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Schemes
(FURBS) established by the company, independently of JMEPS, with effect from 1st April 2000. The purpose of each FURBS is to provide retirement and
death benefits in relation to basic salary in excess of the earnings cap. Because FURBS are not exempt approved under Chapter I of Part XIV of the
Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988, payments have been made to meet the tax liabilities in respect of these contributions. No FURBS payments will
be made after 5th April 2006. Benefits in respect of service from 6th April 2006 will be provided by JMEPS in accordance with the normal scheme rules.
(6)
Mr Pentz is a US citizen but became a member of JMEPS on 1st January 2006. Prior to that he was a member of the Johnson Matthey Inc. Salaried
Employees Pension Plan (a non-contributory defined benefit arrangement) and a US savings plan (401k). He also has benefits in a Senior Executive
Retirement Plan. The pension values reported above are the aggregate for his separate membership of the UK and US pension schemes and the Senior
Executive Retirement Plan. US entitlements have been converted to sterling by reference to exchange rates on 31st March 2005 and 31st March 2006.
The company’s contributions to the US savings plan (401k) for the period up to 31st December 2005 are included in his benefits in the table on page 47.
Johnson Matthey Total Shareholder Return, FTSE 100 and FTSE 350 rebased to 100
The following graph charts total cumulative shareholder return of the company for the five year period from 31st March 2001 to
31st March 2006 against the FTSE 100 and the FTSE 350, as the most appropriate comparator groups, with each rebased to 100
at 1st April 2001. Johnson Matthey joined the FTSE 100 on 12th June 2002.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 30th May 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Charles Mackay
Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Report
40
60
80
100
120
160
140
200
180
March 2001 March 2002 March 2003 March 2004 March 2005 March 2006
Johnson Matthey
FTSE 100
FTSE 350 The directors are responsible for preparing the directors’ report and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company accounts for each financial year. Under that law the directors have
elected to prepare both the group and the parent company accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as
adopted by the European Union (EU).
The group and parent company accounts are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the
group and parent company and the performance for that period; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts that
references in the relevant part of that Act to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the group and parent company accounts, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; and
• prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company will continue
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have a general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Responsibility of Directors
for the preparation of the directors’ report and the accounts
52
- Johnson Matthey We have audited the group and parent company accounts (the ‘accounts’) of Johnson Matthey Plc for the year ended 31st March 2006
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent
Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related
notes. These accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the tabulated information and
related footnotes set out in the directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51 disclosing the directors’ emoluments and compensation,
share options, long term incentive plan, pensions and other matters specified by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the directors’ Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance statement and
the accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU as set out in the
Responsibility of Directors statement on page 52.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group
accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is
consistent with the accounts. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and
Financial Review that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report. We also report to you, if in our opinion,
the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or
if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of
the group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts. We consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the
preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31st
March 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31st March 2006;
• the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the accounts.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
31st May 2006
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Johnson Matthey Public Limited Company
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
53 2006 2005
Notes £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Revenue 1,2 4,755.9 4,626.2
Cost of materials sold (3,946.0) (3,873.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net revenues 809.9 752.4
Other cost of sales (397.7) (372.6)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gross profit 412.2 379.8
Distribution costs (85.9) (81.5)
Administrative expenses (91.6) (81.7)
Impairment and restructuring costs 3 (6.0) (36.7)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit 1,4 228.7 179.9
Interest payable 6 (31.7) (32.2)
Interest receivable 7 17.0 19.2
Share of (loss) / profit of associates (0.2) 0.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 213.8 167.4
Income tax expense 8 (62.5) (46.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year from continuing operations 151.3 120.9
Loss for the year from discontinued operations 40 – (6.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year 151.3 114.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 152.1 115.5
Minority interests 33 (0.8) (1.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
151.3 114.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
pence pence
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share attributable to the equity holders of the parent company
Continuing operations
Basic 10 70.8 56.1
Diluted 10 70.5 56.0
Total
Basic 10 70.8 53.2
Diluted 10 70.5 53.1
The notes on pages 62 to 109 form an integral part of the accounts.
54
- Johnson Matthey
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
55
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 661.1 593.0 235.6 227.5
Goodwill 15 402.4 375.1 248.2 248.2
Other intangible assets 16 41.3 27.4 6.1 7.3
Investments in subsidiaries 17 – – 492.5 455.2
Investments in associates 18 4.3 4.8 – –
Deferred income tax assets 29 4.4 2.0 – –
Available-for-sale investments 19 5.9 1.9 – –
Other receivables 22 0.2 – 195.5 318.0
Post-employment benefits net assets 13 75.0 45.2 70.6 43.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current assets 1,194.6 1,049.4 1,248.5 1,300.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current assets
Inventories 20 345.8 307.3 120.6 125.1
Current income tax assets 3.6 2.2 – 15.9
Trade and other receivables 22 478.5 363.4 1,110.4 920.6
Available-for-sale investments 19 0.1 0.6 – –
Cash and deposits 24 133.0 78.7 26.6 15.2
Other financial assets 25 3.2 – 3.4 –
Other current assets 7.1 7.1 7.1 7.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current assets 971.3 759.3 1,268.1 1,083.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 2,165.9 1,808.7 2,516.6 2,383.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (385.2) (294.3) (604.6) (719.7)
Current income tax liabilities (66.0) (12.3) (12.7) –
Borrowings and finance leases 24 (90.3) (36.8) (85.5) (42.1)
Other financial liabilities 26 (4.2) – (4.3) –
Provisions 28 (9.1) (26.5) (2.0) (21.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current liabilities (554.8) (369.9) (709.1) (782.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 24 (454.7) (411.5) (327.1) (297.6)
Deferred income tax liabilities 29 (49.7) (44.6) (25.6) (30.1)
Employee benefits obligations 13 (56.2) (48.2) (12.1) (10.2)
Provisions 28 (5.2) (3.9) (4.6) (4.9)
Trade and other payables 23 (0.8) (0.7) (227.0) (198.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current liabilities (566.6) (508.9) (596.4) (541.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities (1,121.4) (878.8) (1,305.5) (1,324.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 1,044.5 929.9 1,211.1 1,059.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equity
Share capital 30 220.2 219.5 220.2 219.5
Share premium account 32 144.4 139.8 144.4 139.8
Shares held in employee share ownership trusts 32 (63.0) (37.7) (62.6) (37.3)
Other reserves 31 28.5 6.3 4.2 6.5
Retained earnings 32 708.0 594.5 904.9 731.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
32 1,038.1 922.4 1,211.1 1,059.9
Minority interests 33 6.4 7.5 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity 1,044.5 929.9 1,211.1 1,059.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 30th May 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
N A P Carson
Directors
J N Sheldrick
The notes on pages 62 to 109 form an integral part of the accounts.
Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets
as at 31st March 2006 Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 213.8 167.4 229.5 657.4
Adjustments for:
Share of loss / (profit) in associates 0.2 (0.5) – –
Discontinued operations – 0.4 – –
Depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale of non-current assets
and investments 76.7 66.1 34.3 37.2
Share-based payments 3.2 2.8 3.2 2.8
(Increase) / decrease in inventories (25.6) (38.2) 4.5 (1.5)
(Increase) / decrease in receivables (78.7) 9.1 (67.3) (337.0)
Increase / (decrease) in payables 63.7 19.2 (88.0) (137.8)
(Decrease) / increase in provisions (18.1) 5.4 (15.1) 24.6
Employee benefits obligations charge less contributions (9.3) (8.0) (7.8) (8.3)
Changes in fair value of financial instruments (12.4) – 2.1 –
Dividend income – – (159.0) (645.8)
Net interest 14.7 13.0 (14.7) 21.0
Income tax (paid) / received (15.9) (52.9) 9.2 (18.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities 212.3 183.8 (69.1) (405.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from associates 0.1 0.2 – –
Dividends received from subsidiaries – – 170.0 645.8
Purchases of non-current assets and investments 35 (120.3) (96.3) (90.0) (38.9)
Proceeds from sale of non-current assets and investments 5.7 4.1 0.5 0.7
Purchases of businesses and minority interests 35 (24.3) (4.0) – 8.3
Net proceeds from sale of business 35 – 23.3 – 22.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash (outflow) / inflow from investing activities (138.8) (72.7) 80.5 638.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flows from financing activities
Net purchase of own shares 35 (25.9) (16.1) (25.9) (16.1)
Proceeds from / (repayment of) borrowings and finance leases 35 82.3 (50.6) 83.6 (154.4)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company 9 (60.4) (58.4) (60.4) (58.4)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (0.2) (0.2) – –
Interest paid (30.6) (32.1) (53.8) (64.6)
Interest received 16.6 19.2 69.2 43.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash (outflow) / inflow from financing (18.2) (138.2) 12.7 (250.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year 55.3 (27.1) 24.1 (16.8)
Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents 5.8 0.1 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 64.0 91.0 (14.1) 2.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 36 125.1 64.0 10.0 (14.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Reconciliation to net debt
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year 55.3 (27.1) 24.1 (16.8)
(Proceeds from) / repayment of borrowings and finance leases (82.3) 50.6 (83.6) 154.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (27.0) 23.5 (59.5) 137.6
Borrowings acquired with subsidiaries (1.4) – – –
Exchange differences on net debt (13.4) 1.4 (1.4) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Movement in net debt in year (41.8) 24.9 (60.9) 137.6
Net debt at beginning of year (after adjustment to opening position for IAS 39) 34 (370.2) (394.5) (325.1) (462.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net debt at end of year 24 (412.0) (369.6) (386.0) (324.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The notes on pages 62 to 109 form an integral part of the accounts.
56
- Johnson Matthey
Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
57
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments
and related loans 42.3 (2.0) (0.3) –
Fair value gain on available-for-sale investments transferred to profit on sale (0.8) – – –
Cash flow hedges – losses taken to equity (3.6) – (3.4) –
Cash flow hedges – transferred to income statement in the year (2.6) – (2.2) –
Fair value losses on net investment hedges (12.5) – – –
Actuarial gain / (loss) on post-employment benefits assets and liabilities 13 19.6 (16.1) 17.2 (7.1)
Tax on above items taken directly to or transferred from equity (7.8) 5.8 (4.0) 2.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net income / (expense) recognised directly in equity 34.6 (12.3) 7.3 (5.0)
Profit for the year 151.3 114.5 215.6 656.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total recognised income and expense relating to the year 185.9 102.2 222.9 651.4
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – hedging reserve 34 2.1 – 2.0 –
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – available-for-sale reserve 34 0.7 – – –
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – retained earnings 34 (0.1) – (0.1) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
188.6 102.2 224.8 651.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total recognised income and expense attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 186.7 103.2 222.9 651.4
Minority interests (0.8) (1.0) – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
185.9 102.2 222.9 651.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 2.7 – 1.9 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The notes on pages 62 to 109 form an integral part of the accounts.
Consolidated and Parent Company Statements
of Recognised Income and Expense
for the year ended 31st March 2006 The group’s and parent company’s significant accounting policies are:
Basis of accounting and preparation
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations issued by the
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) or the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) as adopted by the
European Union. For Johnson Matthey, there are no differences between IFRS as adopted by the European Union and full IFRS as published
by the International Accounting Standards Board and so the accounts comply with IFRS.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as explained below.
Previous accounts were prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) and reconciliations converting the group’s
results and the parent company’s balance sheet from UK GAAP to IFRS for the year ended 31st March 2005 and the group’s and parent
company’s balance sheets at 1st April 2004 (the date of transition) are presented in note 44.
Johnson Matthey has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 – ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’
not to restate comparative information to comply with International Accounting Standard (IAS) 32 – ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation’, IAS 39 – ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and IFRS 4 – ‘Insurance Contracts’. Note 34 details the
adjustment to the balance sheets at 1st April 2005 for the implementation of these standards. The group and parent company have also
adopted the amendment to IAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’, which permits the full recognition of actuarial gains or losses that occur in the year
in the statement of recognised income and expense, and the amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4, which ensures that financial guarantee
contracts are included in the balance sheet where appropriate.
The parent company has not presented its own income statement and related notes as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent company and all its subsidiaries, including employee share ownership trusts,
and include the group’s interest in associates.
Entities over which the group has the ability to exercise control are accounted for as subsidiaries. Entities that are not subsidiaries or joint
ventures but where the group has significant influence (i.e. the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions) are
accounted for as associates.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are included in the consolidated accounts using the equity method of accounting.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are consolidated from or up to the effective date of acquisition or disposal
respectively. The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated. No profit is taken on transactions between subsidiaries and the group’s share
of profits on transactions with associates is also eliminated.
In the parent company balance sheet, businesses acquired by the parent company from other group companies are incorporated at book
value at the date of acquisition. Where the consideration given exceeds the book value of the assets acquired this difference is accounted for
as goodwill.
Revenue
Revenue comprises all sales of goods and rendering of services at the fair value of consideration received or receivable after the deduction of
any trade discounts and excluding sales taxes. Revenue is recognised when it can be measured reliably and the significant risks and rewards
of ownership are transferred to the customer. With the sale of goods this generally occurs when the goods are despatched or made available
to the customer, except for the sale of consignment products located at customers’ premises where revenue is recognised on notification that
the product has been used. With the rendering of services revenue is generally recognised by reference to the stage of completion as
measured by the proportion that costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total costs. With royalties this generally occurs in accordance
with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Construction contracts
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of
completion. This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs
incurred that it is probable will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
58
- Johnson Matthey
Accounting Policies
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
59
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions are recorded in local currency at the exchange rate at the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets
and liabilities are retranslated into local currency at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
Income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches are translated into sterling at the average rates for the
year. Balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches, including any fair value adjustments and including related goodwill,
are translated into sterling at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches, less exchange
differences arising on related foreign currency financial instruments which hedge the group’s net investment in these operations, are taken
to a separate component of equity. The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 to deem the cumulative translation
difference for all overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches to be zero at 1st April 2004.
Other exchange differences are taken to operating profit.
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred unless it meets the IFRS recognition criteria for
capitalisation. When the recognition criteria have been met any further development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the income statement in the year incurred.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. Finance costs are not
capitalised.
Depreciation is generally provided using the straight line method to write off the cost less estimated residual value over the useful life of the
asset. The estimated useful lives vary according to the class of the asset, but are typically: leasehold property 30 years (or the life of the lease
if shorter); freehold buildings 30 years; and plant and equipment 4 to 10 years. Freehold land is not depreciated.
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business when the fair value of the consideration given exceeds the fair value attributed to the net
assets acquired. It is subject to annual impairment reviews.
The group and parent company have taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 and so goodwill arising on acquisitions made
before 1st April 2004 is included at the carrying amount at that date less any subsequent impairments. Up to 31st March 1998 goodwill was
eliminated against reserves.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment. They are amortised in accordance
with the relevant income stream or by using the straight line method over their useful lives from the time they are first available for use. The
estimated useful lives vary according to the specific asset but are typically: 1 to 8 years for customer contracts and relationships; 3 to 8 years
for capitalised software; 3 to 10 years for patents, trademarks and licences; and 3 to 8 years for capitalised development currently being
amortised.
Intangible assets which are not yet being amortised are subject to annual impairment reviews.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the parent company’s balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment. Any distributions from
pre-acquisition profits are recognised as a reduction to the cost of the investment.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group. The assets
are included in property, plant and equipment or capitalised software and the capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as
obligations under finance leases. The assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income statement.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and the rentals payable are expensed on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Accounting Policies
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Grants
Grants related to assets are included in deferred income and released to the income statement in equal instalments over the expected useful
lives of the related assets.
Grants related to income are generally deducted in reporting the related expense.
Precious metal inventories
Inventories of gold, silver and platinum group metals are valued according to the source from which the metal is obtained. Metal which has
been purchased and committed to future sales to customers or hedged in metal markets is valued at the price at which it is contractually
committed or hedged, adjusted for unexpired contango and backwardation. Other precious metal inventories owned by the group, which are
unhedged, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the weighted average cost formula.
Other inventories
Non precious metal inventories are valued at the lower of cost, including attributable overheads, and net realisable value. Except where costs
are specifically identified, the first-in, first-out or weighted average cost formulae are used to value inventories.
Derivative financial instruments
The group and parent company use derivative financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage
the financial risks associated with their underlying business activities and the financing of those activities. The group and parent company do
not undertake any trading activity in derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value. Derivative financial instruments may be designated at inception as fair value
hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges if appropriate.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative financial instruments that are not designated as or are not determined to be effective hedges are
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement, together
with the related changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. If the hedged item
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amount recognised in equity is transferred out of equity and included in the
initial carrying amount of the asset or liability. Otherwise, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same
period that the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
Other financial instruments
All other financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequent measurement is as follows:
• Unhedged borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
• Available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity. On disposal of the
investment the amount recognised in equity will be transferred to the income statement at the trade date.
• All other financial assets and liabilities, including short term receivables and payables, are measured at amortised cost less any 
impairment provision.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand, including short term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less from the
date of acquisition. The group and parent company routinely use short term bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as an
integral part of their cash management policy. Therefore cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statements are cash and deposits less
bank overdrafts. Offset arrangements across group businesses have been applied to arrive at the net cash and overdraft figures.
Taxation
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when they relate to items recognised directly in equity when the
related tax is also recognised in equity.
Current tax is the amount of income tax expected to be paid in respect of the taxable profits using the tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amount in the balance sheet. It is provided using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset or liability
is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised. No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries, branches and associates where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
60
- Johnson Matthey
Accounting Policies
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
61
Provisions and contingencies
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made of a probable
adverse outcome, for example warranties, environmental claims and restructurings. Otherwise, material contingent liabilities are disclosed
unless the transfer of economic benefits is remote. Contingent assets are only disclosed if an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
The group considers financial guarantees of its share of the borrowings and precious metal leases of its associates to be insurance contracts.
The parent company considers financial guarantees of its subsidiaries’ borrowings and precious metal leases to be insurance contracts.
These are treated as contingent liabilities unless it becomes probable that they will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments and employee share ownership trusts (ESOTs)
The fair value of outstanding share options granted to employees and shares allocated to employees under the long term incentive plan after
7th November 2002 is calculated using an adjusted Black-Scholes options valuation model and the resulting cost is charged to the income
statement over the relevant vesting periods, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting where appropriate.
The group and parent company provide finance to the ESOTs to purchase company shares in the open market. Costs of running the ESOTs
are charged to the income statement. The cost of shares held by the ESOTs are deducted in arriving at equity until they vest unconditionally
in employees.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The group operates a number of contributory and non-contributory plans, mainly of the defined benefit type, which require contributions to be
made to separately administered funds.
The costs of the defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit plans, the group and parent company recognise the net assets or liabilities of the schemes in their balance sheets.
Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality
corporate bonds. Assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date. The changes in scheme assets and liabilities, based on
actuarial advice, are recognised as follows:
• The current service cost is spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees’ services based on
the most recent actuarial valuation and is deducted in arriving at operating profit.
• The interest cost, based on the discount rate at the beginning of the year and the present value of the defined benefit obligation during the
year, is included in operating profit.
• The expected return on plan assets, based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the related
obligation and amended for changes in the fair value of plan assets as a result of contributions paid in and benefits paid out, is included in
operating profit.
• Actuarial gains and losses, representing differences between the expected return and actual return on plan assets, differences between
actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are
recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in the year they occur.
• Past service costs are spread evenly over the period in which the increases in benefit vest and are deducted in arriving at operating profit.
If an increase in benefits vests immediately, the cost is recognised immediately.
• Gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments are included in operating profit.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet applied
IFRS 7 – ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ was issued in August 2005 and is required to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after
1st January 2007. It revises and enhances the disclosure required by IAS 30 – ‘Disclosure in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar
Financial Institutions’ and IAS 32 – ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’.
Accounting Policies
for the year ended 31st March 2006 62
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
1 Segmental information
By business segment
For management purposes, the group is organised into four operating divisions – Catalysts, Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical
Materials and Ceramics. Their principal activities are described on pages 8 to 15. Sales between segments are made at market prices,
taking into account the volumes involved.
Year ended 31st March 2006
Precious Metal Pharmaceutical
Catalysts Products Materials Ceramics Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sales to external customers 1,477.4 2,962.4 133.9 182.2 – 4,755.9
Inter-segment sales 17.4 676.9 1.2 4.4 (699.9) –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue 1,494.8 3,639.3 135.1 186.6 (699.9) 4,755.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales excluding the value of precious metals 786.4 245.4 127.2 182.2 – 1,341.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Segment result before impairment and
restructuring costs 134.2 62.2 33.8 21.3 – 251.5
Impairment and restructuring costs – (6.0) – – – (6.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Segment result 134.2 56.2 33.8 21.3 – 245.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unallocated corporate expenses (16.8)
––––––––––––
Operating profit 228.7
Net interest payable (14.7)
Share of loss of associates (0.2) – (0.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 213.8
Income tax expense (62.5)
––––––––––––
Profit for the year 151.3
––––––––––––
Segment assets 1,118.4 305.8 331.3 164.6 (26.7) 1,893.4
Investments in associates – 4.3 – – – 4.3
Cash and deposits 133.0
Current and deferred income tax assets 8.0
Post-employment benefits net assets 75.0
Unallocated corporate assets 52.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 2,165.9
––––––––––––
Segment liabilities 206.5 117.1 24.1 38.0 (26.7) 359.0
Borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 545.0
Current and deferred income tax liabilities 115.7
Employee benefits obligations 56.2
Unallocated corporate liabilities 45.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities 1,121.4
––––––––––––
Segment capital expenditure 89.2 13.7 9.9 6.5 – 119.3
Corporate capital expenditure 4.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total capital expenditure 124.0
––––––––––––
Segment depreciation and amortisation 39.8 13.0 10.0 6.3 – 69.1
Corporate depreciation 1.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total depreciation and amortisation 70.8
––––––––––––
Significant non-cash expenses other than
depreciation – 7.7 – – – 7.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– 1 Segmental information (continued)
By business segment (continued)
Year ended 31st March 2005
Precious Metal Pharmaceutical
Catalysts Products Materials Ceramics Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sales to external customers 1,157.2 3,171.0 131.8 166.2 – 4,626.2
Inter-segment sales 34.8 496.2 0.2 9.5 (540.7) –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue 1,192.0 3,667.2 132.0 175.7 (540.7) 4,626.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales excluding the value of precious metals 672.1 224.8 124.6 166.2 – 1,187.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Segment result before impairment and
restructuring costs 122.5 52.0 39.8 18.8 – 233.1
Impairment and restructuring costs (3.0) (30.0) – (3.7) – (36.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Segment result 119.5 22.0 39.8 15.1 – 196.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unallocated corporate expenses (16.5)
––––––––––––
Operating profit 179.9
Net interest payable (13.0)
Share of profit of associates 0.5 – 0.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 167.4
Income tax expense (46.5)
––––––––––––
Profit for the year from continuing operations 120.9
Loss for the year from discontinued operations
(note 40) (6.4)
––––––––––––
Profit for the year 114.5
––––––––––––
Segment assets 907.2 237.1 326.5 155.7 (15.6) 1,610.9
Investments in associates – 4.7 – 0.1 – 4.8
Cash and deposits 78.7
Current and deferred income tax assets 4.2
Post-employment benefits net assets 45.2
Unallocated corporate assets 64.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 1,808.7
––––––––––––
Segment liabilities 142.3 79.9 22.1 32.3 (15.6) 261.0
Borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 448.3
Current and deferred income tax liabilities 56.9
Employee benefits obligations 48.2
Unallocated corporate liabilities 64.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities 878.8
––––––––––––
Segment capital expenditure 64.4 13.4 16.8 2.8 – 97.4
Capital expenditure on discontinued operations 1.1
Corporate capital expenditure 2.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total capital expenditure 100.9
––––––––––––
Segment depreciation and amortisation 36.0 13.2 9.6 6.0 – 64.8
Depreciation on discontinued operations 0.8
Corporate depreciation 2.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total depreciation and amortisation 67.6
––––––––––––
Significant non-cash expenses other than
depreciation 0.7 7.8 – – – 8.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
63
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 64
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
1 Segmental information (continued)
By geographical segment
Pharmaceutical Materials is located in Europe and North America. All of the other divisions of the group have a presence in each of the
geographical segments.
Year ended 31st March 2006
North Rest of
Europe America Asia the World Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales by geographical destination 1,959.5 1,132.8 1,124.2 539.4 – 4,755.9
Carrying value of segment assets by location 1,322.0 294.1 170.4 162.9 (56.0) 1,893.4
Capital expenditure by location of assets 61.3 42.5 13.7 6.5 – 124.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2005
North Rest of
Europe America Asia the World Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales by geographical destination 2,032.6 995.8 1,228.7 369.1 – 4,626.2
Carrying value of segment assets by location 1,097.4 364.1 111.9 75.5 (38.0) 1,610.9
Capital expenditure by location of assets 58.4 27.0 8.6 6.9 – 100.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2Revenue
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sale of goods 4,664.9 4,549.5
Rendering of services 86.6 72.1
Royalties / licence income 4.4 4.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue 4,755.9 4,626.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
3 Impairment and restructuring costs
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Impairment of UK Pgm Refining assets (Precious Metal Products) 6.0 –
Closure of UK gold and silver bullion refinery (Precious Metal Products) – 13.2
Restructuring of UK Pgm Refining (Precious Metal Products) – 10.2
Restructuring of Colour Technologies following disposal of Pigments & Dispersions (Precious Metal Products) – 6.6
Restructuring of Ceramics following disposal of Pigments & Dispersions – 3.7
Acquisition integration costs for Activated Metals and Chemicals, Inc. (AMC) (Catalysts) – 1.0
Acquisition integration costs for Lancaster Synthesis (Catalysts) – 2.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total impairment and restructuring costs 6.0 36.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group has decided to stop using parts of the pgm refining process and so has fully impaired the associated plant and equipment. 4 Operating profit
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit is arrived at after charging / (crediting):
Total research and development expenditure 62.7 57.4
less development expenditure capitalised (6.7) (5.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Research and development charged 56.0 52.0
less external funding received – from government grants (1.2) (2.9)
– from other organisations (2.7) (1.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net research and development 52.1 47.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other government grants (0.1) (0.2)
Inventories recognised as an expense 3,946.0 3,873.8
Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense 3.0 2.2
Reversal of write-down of inventories arising from increases in net realisable value (0.3) (0.2)
Net (gains) / losses on foreign exchange (0.5) 0.1
Net losses on foreign currency forwards held for trading 0.1 –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 64.7 62.7
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets included in other cost of sales 1.4 1.1
Amortisation of other intangible assets included in – other cost of sales 2.2 1.8
– distribution costs 0.2 0.1
– administrative expenses 2.3 1.9
Operating lease rentals payable – minimum lease payments 9.1 7.8
5 Fees paid to auditors
2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Audit services – statutory audit – parent company 0.4 0.4
– subsidiary undertakings 0.6 0.6
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1.0 1.0
– audit-related regulatory reporting 0.1 0.2
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total fees for audit services 1.1 1.2
Further assurance services – due diligence – 0.2
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total fees for further assurance services – 0.2
Tax services – compliance 0.2 0.2
– advisory services 0.1 0.1
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total fees for tax services 0.3 0.3
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total fees paid to group auditors 1.4 1.7
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Included above are non-audit fees paid to auditors and their associates in the United Kingdom of £0.1 million (2005 £0.2 million).
Audit fees paid to other auditors were £0.1 million (2005 £ nil).
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
65
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 66
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
6 Interest payable
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 18.7 18.8
Other interest payable 12.9 13.4
Net loss on remeasurement of fair value hedges and related hedged items to fair value 0.1 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total interest payable 31.7 32.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
7 Interest receivable
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interest receivable 8.3 6.2
Interest receivable on interest rate swaps 8.4 13.0
Remaining gain on remeasurement of net investment hedging instruments to fair value 0.2 –
Net gain on remeasurement of foreign currency swaps held for trading 0.1 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total interest receivable 17.0 19.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
8 Taxation
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current tax
Corporation tax on profits for the year 63.3 34.1
Adjustment for prior years (0.9) (2.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current tax 62.4 31.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.0 16.5
Changes in tax rates and laws (0.3) –
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (1.7) –
Adjustment to estimated recoverable amount of deferred tax assets arising in prior years 0.1 (1.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total deferred tax 0.1 14.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Tax expense 62.5 46.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 213.8 167.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Tax expense at UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2005 30%) 64.1 50.2
Effects of:
Overseas tax rates 1.5 2.7
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.3 0.7
Net utilisation of tax losses and tax holidays (1.4) (0.6)
Adjustments for prior years (0.8) (4.1)
Research and development credits (2.4) (2.3)
Other 0.2 (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Tax expense for the year 62.5 46.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group has benefited from a reduction in the applicable tax rate in a number of jurisdictions which has reduced the tax expense
compared with what it would have been had the previous rates prevailed. 9 Dividends
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2003/04 final ordinary dividend paid – 18.2 pence per share – 39.5
2004/05 interim ordinary dividend paid – 8.7 pence per share – 18.9
2004/05 final ordinary dividend paid – 19.0 pence per share 40.9 –
2005/06 interim ordinary dividend paid – 9.1 pence per share 19.5 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total dividends 60.4 58.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
A final dividend of 21.0 pence per ordinary share has been proposed by the board which will be paid on 1st August 2006 to shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 9th June 2006. The estimated amount to be paid is £44.9 million. In accordance with IFRS
accounting requirements this dividend has not been recognised in these accounts.
10 Earnings per ordinary share
2006 2005
pence pence
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total
Basic 70.8 53.2
Diluted 70.5 53.1
Continuing
Basic 70.8 56.1
Diluted 70.5 56.0
Discontinued
Basic – (2.9)
Diluted – (2.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings
Profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent company 152.1 121.9
Loss for the year from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the parent company – (6.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 152.1 115.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2006 2005
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Basic 214,895,523 217,005,241
Dilution for share options and long term incentive plan 967,320 497,097
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Diluted 215,862,843 217,502,338
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share before impairment and restructuring costs are calculated as follows:
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 152.1 115.5
Loss for the year from discontinued operations – 6.4
Impairment and restructuring costs 6.0 36.7
Tax thereon (1.8) (13.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year before impairment and restructuring costs 156.3 145.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2006 2005
pence pence
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per share before impairment and restructuring costs
Basic 72.7 67.0
Diluted 72.4 66.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
67
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 68
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
11 Employee and key management personnel costs
11a Employee numbers
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The average monthly number of employees during the year was:
Catalysts 4,129 3,941 1,311 1,206
Precious Metal Products 1,788 1,881 708 880
Pharmaceutical Materials 580 610 267 260
Ceramics 699 748 67 95
Corporate and Central Research 255 231 223 200
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Average number of employees – continuing 7,451 7,411 2,576 2,641
Discontinued operations – 121 – 106
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Average number of employees – total 7,451 7,532 2,576 2,747
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Actual number of employees at 31st March 7,718 7,354 2,633 2,552
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The number of temporary employees included above at 31st March 2006 was 174 (2005 90) for the group and 39 (2005 12) for the
parent company.
11b Employee benefits expense
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Wages and salaries 220.4 212.3 89.1 90.9
Social security costs 24.1 23.5 8.1 7.8
Pension and other post-employment costs 18.5 12.9 10.9 5.3
Share-based payments 7.6 7.0 6.5 6.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total employee benefits expense 270.6 255.7 114.6 110.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Termination benefits of £5.7 million (2005 £7.3 million) for the group and £5.3 million (2005 £5.9 million) for the parent company are not
included above.
11c Key management personnel
The key management of the group and parent company consist of the board of directors and the members of the Chief Executive’s
Committee. Their compensation charged in the year was:
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Short term employee benefits 3.5 4.0
Pension and other post-employment costs 0.7 0.6
Share-based payments 0.9 0.6
Termination payments – 0.5
Non-executive directors’ fees and benefits 0.5 0.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total compensation of key management personnel 5.6 6.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other than the compensation above there were no transactions with any key management personnel. There were no balances
outstanding at the year end.
Information on the directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51. 1 2 Share-based payments
Share options
Equity settled share options are granted to employees at the market value of the company’s shares at the time of grant and are subject to
performance targets over a three year period and have a maximum life of ten years. The number of shares over which options are granted
is based on a percentage of the employee’s salary and since 2001 approximately 800 employees have been granted options each year.
Options granted in 2004 onwards are subject to a minimum three year performance target of earnings per share (EPS) growth of UK
RPI plus 3% per annum. Other performance targets are EPS growth of UK RPI plus 4% per annum and EPS growth of UK RPI plus
5% per annum. If the performance targets are not met at the end of the three year performance period, the options will lapse. Also,
gains are capped at 100% of the grant price.
Options granted in 2001 to 2003 can only be exercised if the normalised EPS has grown by at least UK RPI plus 4% per annum over any
three consecutive years during the life of the options. That target has not been met and none of these option grants is yet exercisable.
They are subject to annual retesting until they lapse on the tenth anniversary of grant.
Some options granted in 2000 and before are still outstanding. These were subject to a performance target of EPS growth of UK RPI
plus 2% over the three year performance period. Since that target has been met all these options are exercisable.
Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
Under the LTIP, shares are allocated to directors and certain key executives of the group based upon a percentage of salary and are
subject to performance conditions over a three year period. At 31st March 2006, shares allocated in 2003, 2004 and 2005 were
outstanding in respect of which the performance period has not expired.
For allocations made in 2004 onwards the release of shares is subject to a relative total shareholder return (TSR) compared to those
companies ranked 51 to 150 in the FTSE index over a three year period. All shares are released if the company ranks in the 75th
percentile or above. Between 35% and 100% of the shares are released on a straight line basis if the company ranks between the 50th
and 75th percentiles. No shares are released if the company ranks in the 50th percentile or below. In addition EPS growth must be at
least equal to UK RPI plus 2% per annum over the three year performance period before any release is made.
For allocations made prior to 2004, 50% of the allocation is subject to the relative TSR target described above. For the remaining 50%,
release is subject to absolute TSR growth over the three year period. All shares are released if the absolute TSR growth is 45% or
more. Pro-rata allocations on a straight line basis of between 50% and 100% are released if absolute TSR growth is between 30% and
45%. Half of the allocated shares are released if TSR growth is 30%. No shares are released if growth is below 30%. In addition EPS
growth must be at least equal to UK RPI plus 2% per annum over the three year performance period before any release is made.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) – UK and overseas
Under the SIP, all employees with at least one year of service with the group and who are employed by a participating group company
are entitled to contribute up to 2.5% of basic pay each month, subject to a £125 per month limit. The plan trustees buy shares
(partnership shares) at market value each month with the contributions. For each partnership share purchased, the group purchases
two shares (matching shares) which are allocated to the employee. In the UK SIP, if the employee sells or transfers partnership shares
within three years from the date of allocation, the linked matching shares are forfeited. In the overseas SIP, partnership shares and
matching shares are subject to a three year holding period and cannot be sold or transferred during that time.
401k approved savings investment plans (401k plans)
In the US there are two 401k plans, one for salaried employees and one for hourly employees. Salaried employees may contribute up
to 50% of their base pay and hourly up to 20% of their base pay, both subject to a statutory limit. Salaried employees choosing
Johnson Matthey Plc shares matching are matched 100% of the first 4% contributed and hourly employees are matched 50% of the
first 2% contributed. Employees may contribute after one month of service and are eligible for matching after one year of service.
Further details of the directors’ remuneration under share-based payment plans are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51.
Activity relating to share options was:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise exercise
Number of price Number of price
options pence options pence
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the start of the year 7,282,342 891.85 6,183,642 869.71
Granted during the year 2,207,614 1,070.00 2,080,347 892.00
Forfeited during the year (594,700) 944.68 (460,477) 924.94
Exercised during the year (705,604) 750.62 (521,170) 604.47
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the end of the year 8,189,652 984.23 7,282,342 891.86
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Exercisable at the end of the year 504,790 776.65 1,228,680 764.26
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. The average share price during the year was 1,193.92 pence
(2005 946.97 pence).
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
69
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 70
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
1 2 Share-based payments (continued)
Details of share options outstanding at the end of the year are:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of remaining life Number of remaining life
options years options years
–––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Range of exercise price
300 pence to 400 pence 1,126 3.0 3,057 2.4
400 pence to 500 pence 307 3.3 486 4.3
500 pence to 600 pence 218,243 2.8 568,889 3.7
600 pence to 700 pence 952 1.5 3,342 2.4
800 pence to 900 pence 4,665,693 7.4 5,059,372 8.4
900 pence to 1,000 pence 284,162 4.3 652,906 5.3
1,000 pence to 1,100 pence 3,019,169 8.2 994,290 6.3
–––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
8,189,652 7.5 7,282,342 7.5
–––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
The fair value of share options granted during the year was 192.4 pence per option (2005 162.1 pence per option). An adjusted 
Black-Scholes option pricing model was used to determine the fair value of the options granted. The inputs to the model were:
2006 2005
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Share price 1,070p 892p
Exercise price 1,070p 892p
Expected volatility 27.1% 33.9%
Expected option life 5 years 5 years
Expected dividend rate 2.59% 2.96%
Risk free interest rate 4.260% 5.105%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the company’s share price over the previous three years.
The expected option life takes into account the effects of expected early exercise, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations
based on the history of previous option grants. Given the low employee turnover and the consistency of the historical average option
life Black-Scholes is considered to be a suitable stochastic model to use for fair valuing Johnson Matthey’s share options.
During the year 423,030 (2005 457,974) shares were allocated under the LTIP with a fair value at allocation date of 389.5 pence per
share allocation (2005 346.7 pence per share allocation). The fair value was determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model
with a zero exercise price, a share price at date of allocation of 1,002.5 pence (2005 897 pence) and an expected dividend rate of
2.76% (2005 2.94%). The fair value was adjusted to take account of the TSR performance condition.
Activity relating to the LTIP was:
2006 2005
Number of Number of
allocated allocated
shares shares
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the start of the year 1,205,842 1,165,749
Allocated during the year 423,030 457,974
Forfeited during the year (29,626) (67,865)
Expired during the year (377,252) (350,016)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,221,994 1,205,842
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
281,921 (2005 351,607) matching shares under the SIP and 91,595 (2005 92,217) shares under the 401k plans were allocated to
employees during the year. They are nil cost awards on which performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is based on the market value of the shares at that date.
The total expense recognised during the year in respect of equity settled share-based payments, taking into account expected lapses
due to leavers and the probability that EPS performance conditions will not be met, was £7.6 million (2005 £7.0 million). 1 3 Post-employment benefits
13a Group
The group operates a number of post-employment benefits plans around the world, the forms and benefits of which vary with
conditions and practices in the countries concerned. The majority of the plans are defined benefit which require contributions to be
made into separately administered funds and retirement benefits are based on factors such as employees’ pensionable salary and
length of service. Some of the plans are defined contribution, where the retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising
from contributions paid in respect of each employee. The group also makes payments to employees’ personal pension plans. The
amount recognised as an expense for defined contribution plans was £2.9 million (2005 £2.6 million).
The major defined benefit plans are pension plans and post-retirement medical plans in the UK and the US. The pension plans are final
salary plans except for the US hourly plan which is a fixed benefit based upon years of service. Full actuarial valuations were carried out
at 1st April 2003 for the main UK pension plan and 30th June 2005 for the US pension plans and the valuations of all of the UK and
US plans were updated to 31st March 2006 by qualified independent actuaries. A full triennial actuarial valuation as at 1st April 2006 for
the main UK pension plan will be carried out in 2006/07.
The main assumptions were:
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
UK plans US plans Other plans UK plans US plans Other plans
%%% %%%
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Rate of increase in salaries 4.40 4.25 3.57 4.30 4.25 3.41
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.90 – 2.31 2.80 – 2.12
Discount rate 4.90 5.75 4.66 5.40 5.75 4.51
Inflation 2.90 2.75 2.66 2.80 2.75 2.42
Current medical benefits cost trend rate 6.90 10.00 – 5.80 9.50 –
Ultimate medical benefits cost trend rate 6.90 5.00 – 5.80 5.00 –
The group uses certain mortality assumptions when calculating plan obligations. The current mortality assumptions for all major plans
retain prudent allowance for future improvements in longevity and take account of experience.
The mortality tables used for the group’s largest plan, which is in the UK, were PMA92C03 with a one year age rating for male
members retiring in normal health and PFA92C03 with a one year age rating for female members retiring in normal health. Allowance for
future mortality improvements was made by deducting 0.25% per annum from the discount rate used for calculation purposes. Shorter
longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill-health. These tables lead to a further life expectancy of an
average member currently aged 63 (the plan’s normal retirement age for the majority of its members) and one who retires at age 63 in
23 years time of:
Male Female
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Retiring today at age 63 20.6 23.7
Retiring in 23 years time at 63 22.1 25.1
The mortality tables used for the other larger plans were:
US 1983 Group Annuity Tables
Netherlands GBM/V 1995-2000 (-1, -2)
Canada UP 94 generational (including allowance for future mortality improvements)
South Africa PA(90), rates down 2 years
A one percentage point change in the assumed medical cost trend rates would have the following effects on:
One percentage point increase One percentage point decrease
UK plans US plans UK plans US plans
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006
Post-retirement medical plan expense 0.2 0.3 (0.2) (0.3)
Post-retirement medical plan defined benefit obligation 2.0 4.0 (1.6) (3.2)
At 31st March 2005
Post-retirement medical plan expense 0.2 0.3 (0.1) (0.3)
Post-retirement medical plan defined benefit obligation 1.5 3.7 (1.3) (2.9)
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
71
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 72
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
The fair values and expected rates of return for plan assets were:
UK pensions US pensions Other
Expected rate Expected rate Expected rate
of return Value of return Value of return Value
% £ million % £ million % £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006
Equities 7.75 411.2 8.00 56.1 7.62 12.1
Bonds 4.50 345.5 5.20 22.9 3.38 3.9
Property 6.00 48.4 – – 4.00 0.1
Insurance policies – – – – 3.82 9.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
6.25 805.1 7.19 79.0 5.58 25.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005
Equities 8.00 366.6 8.00 40.4 7.00 3.3
Bonds 4.90 249.0 4.50 23.7 4.50 3.5
Property 6.25 41.8 – – – –
Insurance policies – – – – 3.82 8.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
6.71 657.4 6.71 64.1 4.68 14.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The defined benefit pension plans do not invest directly in Johnson Matthey Plc shares and no property or other assets owned by the
pension plans is used by the group. The overall expected rate of return is determined on a country by country basis by reference to
market expectations for each class of asset. It is based upon the forecasts of actuaries and market professionals.
The net post-employment benefits assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are analysed as:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006
Present value of funded obligations (736.4) – (90.4) – (28.0) (854.8)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (11.9) – (20.2) (2.9) (35.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Defined benefit obligation (736.4) (11.9) (90.4) (20.2) (30.9) (889.8)
Fair value of plan assets 805.1 – 79.0 – 25.1 909.2
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.6 – 2.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net retirement benefits assets and liabilities 68.7 (11.9) (11.4) (17.6) (5.8) 22.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005
Present value of funded obligations (613.6) – (75.7) – (18.7) (708.0)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (10.0) – (17.9) (2.6) (30.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Defined benefit obligation (613.6) (10.0) (75.7) (17.9) (21.3) (738.5)
Fair value of plan assets 657.4 – 64.1 – 14.9 736.4
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.0 – 2.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net retirement benefits assets and liabilities 43.8 (10.0) (11.6) (15.9) (6.4) (0.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
These are included in the balance sheet as:
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
Post- Post-
employment Employee employment Employee
benefits benefits benefits benefits
net assets obligations Total net assets obligations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
UK pension plans 70.6 (1.9) 68.7 43.8 – 43.8
UK post-retirement medical benefits plan – (11.9) (11.9) – (10.0) (10.0)
US pension plans – (11.4) (11.4) – (11.6) (11.6)
US post-retirement medical benefits plan – (17.6) (17.6) – (15.9) (15.9)
Other plans 4.4 (10.2) (5.8) 1.4 (7.8) (6.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total post-employment plans 75.0 (53.0) 22.0 45.2 (45.3) (0.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other long term employee benefits (3.2) (2.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total long term employee benefits obligations (56.2) (48.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Movements in the defined benefit obligation during the year were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 (556.3) (9.3) (69.3) (15.5) (16.2) (666.6)
Current service cost – in operating profit (17.1) (0.3) (3.2) (0.6) (1.0) (22.2)
Current service cost – capitalised (0.2) – – – – (0.2)
Past service cost (1.1) – – – (0.1) (1.2)
Interest cost (29.9) (0.5) (4.0) (0.8) (0.8) (36.0)
Employee contributions (2.9) – – – – (2.9)
Actuarial loss (33.0) (0.1) (3.5) (1.9) (4.2) (42.7)
Curtailment gains 3.9 – – – – 3.9
Benefits paid 23.0 0.2 2.2 0.4 1.0 26.8
Exchange adjustments – – 2.1 0.5 – 2.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 (613.6) (10.0) (75.7) (17.9) (21.3) (738.5)
Current service cost – in operating profit (18.7) (0.3) (3.7) (0.6) (1.4) (24.7)
Current service cost – capitalised (0.2) – – – – (0.2)
Past service cost (1.3) – (0.1) 0.8 (0.1) (0.7)
Interest cost (32.7) (0.5) (4.6) (1.0) (1.0) (39.8)
Employee contributions (2.9) – – – (0.1) (3.0)
Actuarial loss (55.0) (1.5) (1.7) (0.3) (7.7) (66.2)
Curtailment losses (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Liabilities extinguished on settlements – – – – 0.9 0.9
Acquisitions (34.2) – – – – (34.2)
Benefits paid 22.3 0.4 2.4 0.4 1.1 26.6
Exchange adjustments – – (7.0) (1.6) (1.3) (9.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 (736.4) (11.9) (90.4) (20.2) (30.9) (889.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
73
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 74
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets during the year were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 598.2 – 59.6 – 14.3 672.1
Expected return on plan assets 40.2 – 4.1 – 0.9 45.2
Actuarial gain / (loss) 26.0 – (1.1) – (0.3) 24.6
Employee contributions 2.9 – – – – 2.9
Company contributions 13.1 0.2 5.5 0.4 1.0 20.2
Benefits paid (23.0) (0.2) (2.2) (0.4) (1.0) (26.8)
Exchange adjustments – – (1.8) – – (1.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 657.4 – 64.1 – 14.9 736.4
Expected return on plan assets 44.2 – 4.6 – 0.9 49.7
Actuarial gain 76.4 – 1.0 – 8.1 85.5
Employee contributions 2.9 – – – 0.1 3.0
Company contributions 17.0 0.4 5.7 0.4 1.7 25.2
Acquisitions 29.5 – – – – 29.5
Benefits paid (22.3) (0.4) (2.4) (0.4) (1.1) (26.6)
Assets distributed on settlements – – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Exchange adjustments – – 6.0 – 1.5 7.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 805.1 – 79.0 – 25.1 909.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The actual return on plan assets for UK plans was £120.6 million (2005 £66.2 million) and for US plans was £5.6 million (2005 £3.0 million).
Movements in the reimbursement rights during the year were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 – – – – – –
Actuarial gain – – – 2.0 – 2.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Expected return – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Actuarial gain – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Exchange adjustments – – – 0.2 – 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 – – – 2.6 – 2.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 – – – – – –
Recognised in year (7.0) (0.1) (4.6) 0.1 (4.5) (16.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 (7.0) (0.1) (4.6) 0.1 (4.5) (16.1)
Recognised in year 21.4 (1.5) (0.7) – 0.4 19.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 14.4 (1.6) (5.3) 0.1 (4.1) 3.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
Amounts recognised in income in respect of these plans were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2006
Current service cost (18.7) (0.3) (3.7) (0.6) (1.4) (24.7)
Interest on plan liabilities (32.7) (0.5) (4.6) (1.0) (1.0) (39.8)
Expected return on plan assets 44.2 – 4.6 – 0.9 49.7
Expected return on reimbursement rights – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Curtailment losses (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Settlement losses – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Past service cost (1.3) – (0.1) 0.8 (0.1) (0.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Charge to income (8.6) (0.8) (3.8) (0.7) (1.7) (15.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2005
Current service cost (17.1) (0.3) (3.2) (0.6) (1.0) (22.2)
Interest on plan liabilities (29.9) (0.5) (4.0) (0.8) (0.8) (36.0)
Expected return on plan assets 40.2 – 4.1 – 0.9 45.2
Curtailment gains 3.9 – – – – 3.9
Past service cost (1.1) – – – (0.1) (1.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Charge to income (4.0) (0.8) (3.1) (1.4) (1.0) (10.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Of the total charge for the year, £9.8 million (2005 £8.8 million) has been included within other cost of sales, £1.7 million (2005 £2.3 million)
has been included in distribution costs, £4.1 million (2005 £2.6 million) has been included in administrative expenses, £ nil (2005 £2.3 million
credit) has been included in impairment and restructuring costs and £ nil (2005 £1.1 million credit) has been included in the loss for the
year from discontinued operations.
Subject to to the outcome of the triennial valuation of the UK pension plans currently underway it is estimated that the group will
contribute about £29 million to the post-employment defined benefit plans during the year ending 31st March 2007.
History of the plans and experience adjustments are:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2006
Present value of defined benefit obligation (736.4) (11.9) (90.4) (20.2) (30.9) (889.8)
Fair value of plan assets 805.1 – 79.0 – 25.1 909.2
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.6 – 2.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in the plan 68.7 (11.9) (11.4) (17.6) (5.8) 22.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 0.7 1.7 (1.2) 0.3 (1.0) 0.5
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 79.7 – 1.0 – (0.2) 80.5
Year ended 31st March 2005
Present value of defined benefit obligation (613.6) (10.0) (75.7) (17.9) (21.3) (738.5)
Fair value of plan assets 657.4 – 64.1 – 14.9 736.4
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.0 – 2.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in the plan 43.8 (10.0) (11.6) (15.9) (6.4) (0.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 0.8 0.4 (0.6) (0.9) (1.1) (1.4)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 26.0 – (1.1) – 0.4 25.3
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
75
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 76
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006
1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3b Parent
The parent company is the sponsoring employer of the group’s main UK defined benefit pension plan and the UK post-retirement
medical benefits plan. There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost for the plan to the
individual group entities. The company pays contributions at a rate of 20% of pensionable pay. The main assumptions used for these
plans are disclosed in note 13a.
The fair values and expected rates of return for defined benefit pension plan assets were:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Expected rate Expected rate
of return Value of return Value
% £ million % £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equities 7.75 386.2 8.00 366.6
Bonds 4.50 339.3 4.90 249.0
Property 6.00 48.4 6.25 41.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
6.22 773.9 6.71 657.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The defined benefit pension plan does not invest in Johnson Matthey shares and no property or other assets owned by the pension
plan is used by the company. The overall expected rate of return is determined by reference to market expectations for each class of
asset. It is based upon a combination of historical analysis and the forecasts of market professionals.
The net post-employment benefits assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are analysed as:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Present value of funded obligations (703.3) – (613.6) –
Present value of unfunded obligations – (11.9) – (10.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Defined benefit obligation (703.3) (11.9) (613.6) (10.0)
Fair value of plan assets 773.9 – 657.4 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net retirement benefits assets and liabilities 70.6 (11.9) 43.8 (10.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other long term employee benefits (0.2) (0.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total long term employee benefits obligations (12.1) (10.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Movements in the defined benefit obligation during the year were:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year (613.6) (10.0) (556.3) (9.3)
Current service cost – in operating profit (18.5) (0.3) (17.1) (0.3)
Current service cost – capitalised (0.2) – (0.2) –
Past service cost (1.3) – (1.1) –
Interest cost (32.5) (0.5) (29.9) (0.5)
Employee contributions (2.8) – (2.9) –
Actuarial loss (56.5) (1.5) (33.0) (0.1)
Curtailment (losses) / gains (0.1) – 3.9 –
Benefits paid 22.2 0.4 23.0 0.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year (703.3) (11.9) (613.6) (10.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
77
1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3b Parent (continued)
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets during the year were:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 657.4 – 598.2 –
Expected return on plan assets 43.9 – 40.2 –
Actuarial gain 75.2 – 26.0 –
Employee contributions 2.8 – 2.9 –
Company contributions 16.8 0.4 13.1 0.2
Benefits paid (22.2) (0.4) (23.0) (0.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 773.9 – 657.4 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The actual return on plan assets was £119.1 million (2005 £66.2 million).
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense were:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year (7.0) (0.1) ––
Recognised in year 18.7 (1.5) (7.0) (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 11.7 (1.6) (7.0) (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Subject to the outcome of the triennial valuation of the pension plan currently underway it is estimated that the company will contribute
about £19 million to the post-employment defined benefit plans during the year ending 31st March 2007.
History of the plans and experience adjustments are:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Present value of defined benefit obligation (703.3) (11.9) (613.6) (10.0)
Fair value of plan assets 773.9 – 657.4 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in the plan 70.6 (11.9) 43.8 (10.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 0.8 1.7 0.8 0.4
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 75.2 – 26.0 –
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 1 4 Property, plant and equipment
14a Group
Assets in
Freehold land Long & short Plant & the course of
& buildings leasehold machinery construction Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2004 219.6 16.8 666.4 51.3 954.1
Additions 13.3 1.7 58.0 18.8 91.8
Acquisitions – – 0.3 – 0.3
Reclassifications 8.0 (2.2) 25.6 (31.4) –
Disposals (2.1) (0.1) (28.9) – (31.1)
Disposal of business (4.9) – (24.0) – (28.9)
Exchange adjustments (2.0) 0.2 (4.0) (0.5) (6.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 231.9 16.4 693.4 38.2 979.9
Additions 19.4 0.5 68.9 25.2 114.0
Acquisitions 6.6 0.2 3.4 0.4 10.6
Reclassifications 1.9 – 5.4 (7.3) –
Disposals – (0.1) (18.5) (3.7) (22.3)
Exchange adjustments 9.3 0.5 29.5 2.4 41.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 269.1 17.5 782.1 55.2 1,123.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1st April 2004 49.8 6.6 301.5 – 357.9
Charge for the year 6.8 1.0 54.9 – 62.7
Reclassifications 1.1 (1.1) – ––
Disposals (0.9) – (19.9) – (20.8)
Disposal of business (0.7) – (9.4) – (10.1)
Exchange adjustments (0.6) (0.1) (2.1) – (2.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 55.5 6.4 325.0 – 386.9
Charge for the year 7.3 0.8 56.6 – 64.7
Impairment losses (note 3) 1.0 – 5.0 – 6.0
Disposals – (0.1) (12.7) – (12.8)
Exchange adjustments 2.5 0.2 15.3 – 18.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 66.3 7.3 389.2 – 462.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 202.8 10.2 392.9 55.2 661.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2005 176.4 10.0 368.4 38.2 593.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2004 169.8 10.2 364.9 51.3 596.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of plant and machinery includes £3.4 million (2005 £3.7 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Compensation received for impaired or lost property, plant and equipment was £ nil (2005 £ nil).
78
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
79
1 4 Property, plant and equipment
1 4b Parent company
Assets in
Freehold land Long & short Plant & the course of
& buildings leasehold machinery construction Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2004 64.9 1.9 236.5 15.1 318.4
Additions 2.9 – 25.8 11.8 40.5
Reclassifications 0.8 – 16.6 (17.4) –
Acquisition of businesses from subsidiaries 5.6 – 40.1 7.8 53.5
Disposals (1.8) – (23.9) – (25.7)
Disposal of business (4.9) – (22.8) – (27.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 67.5 1.9 272.3 17.3 359.0
Additions 11.4 – 32.8 – 44.2
Reclassifications – – 2.3 (2.3) –
Disposals – – (15.6) – (15.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 78.9 1.9 291.8 15.0 387.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1st April 2004 19.3 1.7 102.7 – 123.7
Charge for the year 2.5 0.1 21.4 – 24.0
Acquisition of businesses from subsidiaries 0.2 – 8.9 – 9.1
Disposals (0.7) – (15.1) – (15.8)
Disposal of business (0.7) – (8.8) – (9.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 20.6 1.8 109.1 – 131.5
Charge for the year 2.4 – 22.3 – 24.7
Impairment losses 1.0 – 5.0 – 6.0
Disposals – – (10.2) – (10.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 24.0 1.8 126.2 – 152.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 54.9 0.1 165.6 15.0 235.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2005 46.9 0.1 163.2 17.3 227.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2004 45.6 0.2 133.8 15.1 194.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of plant and machinery includes £3.4 million (2005 £3.7 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
15 Goodwill
Parent
Group company
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2004 377.1 106.6
Additions, fair value adjustments and adjustments to consideration (note 39) 0.6 –
Acquisition of businesses from subsidiaries – 141.6
Disposals (1.7) –
Exchange adjustments (0.9) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 375.1 248.2
Additions, fair value adjustments and adjustments to consideration (note 39) 22.1 –
Exchange adjustments 5.2 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 402.4 248.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Impairment
At 1st April 2004, 31st March 2005 and 31st March 2006 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 402.4 248.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2005 375.1 248.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2004 377.1 106.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 15 Goodwill (continued)
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to
benefit from that business combination. Goodwill is allocated as follows:
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts
Synetix 193.9 192.2 132.2 132.2
Research Chemicals 21.3 21.3 – –
Johnson Matthey Tennessee 21.5 19.7 – –
Davy Process Technology Limited (DPT) 21.9 – – –
Other Catalysts 5.9 5.7 – –
Precious Metal Products 2.1 1.9 – –
Pharmaceutical Materials
Macfarlan Smith 116.0 116.0 116.0 116.0
Pharma Services / Ireland 19.4 18.1 – –
Ceramics 0.4 0.2 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
402.4 375.1 248.2 248.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group and parent company test goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be
impaired. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined using value in use calculations which use cash flow projections based
on financial budgets and plans approved by management, generally covering a three year period. The budgets and plans are based on
a number of key assumptions including market share, expected changes to selling prices, product profitability, the likelihood and timing
of new product launches, foreign exchange rates, precious metal prices and other direct input costs. Market share, changes in selling
prices, product profitability, precious metal prices and other direct input costs are based on past experience and management’s
expectations of future changes in the markets using external sources of information where appropriate. Foreign exchange rates are
based on actual rates at the time the budgets were prepared and are held constant over the three years. New product launches are
based on management’s best estimate of what may happen. Apart from as discussed below, it is not considered that a reasonably
possible change in any of these assumptions would generate a different impairment test outcome. These cash flows are then
extrapolated using the long term average growth rates for the relevant products, industries and countries in which the CGUs operate.
The cash flows are discounted at the group’s estimated pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 11.3% (2005 11.3%, 2004 11.4%),
as this is considered to be a discount rate a typical third party purchaser would also use to value the significant CGUs.
For Synetix the long term average growth rate is 5% (2005 5%) and these extrapolated cash flows are further adjusted to take into
account the expected long term cash flows of its gas to liquids business.
For Research Chemicals the long term average growth rate is 4% (2005 4%), for Johnson Matthey Tennessee 3% (2005 3%), for DPT
3% and Macfarlan Smith 6% (2005 6%).
For Pharma Services / Ireland, where its cash flows are expected to grow significantly due to new prostaglandin product launches over
the next few years, cash flow projections cover a six year period and then a long term average growth rate of 6% (2005 6%) is used to
extrapolate these cash flows. If some of these product launches do not happen as expected an impairment loss may arise.
80
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
81
16 Other intangible assets
16a Group
Customer Patents,
contracts and Computer trademarks Development
relationships software and licences expenditure Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2004 – 24.3 – 13.5 37.8
Additions – 3.7 – 5.4 9.1
Acquisitions 0.2 – – – 0.2
Disposals – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 0.2 27.6 – 18.8 46.6
Additions – 2.6 0.7 6.7 10.0
Acquisitions 6.7 – 1.9 – 8.6
Exchange adjustments – 0.9 – 1.2 2.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.9 31.1 2.6 26.7 67.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1st April 2004 – 12.4 – 2.3 14.7
Charge for the year 0.1 3.7 – 1.1 4.9
Disposals – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) – – (0.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 0.1 15.7 – 3.4 19.2
Charge for the year 0.9 3.8 – 1.4 6.1
Exchange adjustments – 0.6 – 0.1 0.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 1.0 20.1 – 4.9 26.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 5.9 11.0 2.6 21.8 41.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2005 0.1 11.9 – 15.4 27.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2004 – 11.9 – 11.2 23.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of development expenditure includes £18.1 million (2005 £11.9 million) which is not yet being amortised as the
assets are not yet available for use. These assets are tested for impairment annually and no impairment has been found.
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 16 Other intangible assets (continued)
16b Parent company
Computer Development
software expenditure Total
£ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2004 10.3 3.1 13.4
Additions 1.7 0.3 2.0
Disposals (0.2) – (0.2)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 11.8 3.4 15.2
Additions 0.9 0.3 1.2
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 12.7 3.7 16.4
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1st April 2004 4.8 1.0 5.8
Charge for the year 1.8 0.5 2.3
Disposals (0.2) – (0.2)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 6.4 1.5 7.9
Charge for the year 1.8 0.6 2.4
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 8.2 2.1 10.3
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 4.5 1.6 6.1
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2005 5.4 1.9 7.3
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2004 5.5 2.1 7.6
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of development expenditure includes £0.3 million (2005 £0.6 million) which is not yet being amortised as the
assets are not yet available for use. These assets are tested for impairment annually and no impairment has been found.
1 7 Investments in subsidiaries
Cost of
investments in
subsidiary Accumulated Carrying
undertakings impairment amount
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 456.7 – 456.7
Impairment loss – (1.5) (1.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 456.7 (1.5) 455.2
Additions 40.6 – 40.6
Acquisition from subsidiaries 8.2 – 8.2
Impairment loss – (0.5) (0.5)
Dividends received out of pre-acquisition profits of subsidiary (11.0) – (11.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 494.5 (2.0) 492.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The principal subsidiaries are shown on page 109.
82
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
83
18 Investments in associates
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 4.8 4.6
Group’s share of (loss) / profit of associates for the year (0.2) 0.5
Dividends paid (0.1) (0.2)
Purchase of remaining interests (0.1) –
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 4.3 4.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group’s associate is AGR Matthey, which is a partnership operating in Australia in which the group has a 20% interest. Oximet SrL,
which is incorporated in Italy, was an associate, with the group holding a 33% interest, until the group bought out the remaining
interests on 6th September 2005 (see note 39).
Summarised financial information in respect of the group’s associates is:
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 28.1 36.9
Total liabilities (12.9) (19.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 15.2 17.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue 19.6 21.0
Total (loss) / profit for the year (1.2) 1.9
19 Available-for-sale investments
Group
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current
Unquoted investments 5.9 1.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current available-for-sale investments 5.9 1.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current
Investments quoted on the London Stock Exchange 0.1 –
Investments quoted on overseas stock exchanges – 0.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The 2005 numbers are investments held at cost as the group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 not to restate
comparative information to comply with IAS 39. At 31st March 2005 the market value of investments listed on the London Stock
Exchange was £0.1 million and on overseas stock exchanges £1.4 million.
20 Inventories
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Raw materials and consumables 76.1 63.1 23.0 21.6
Work in progress – precious metals 90.2 85.4 48.3 59.1
– other 36.5 34.7 21.3 19.8
Finished goods and goods for resale 143.0 124.1 28.0 24.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
345.8 307.3 120.6 125.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group also holds customers’ materials in the process of refining and fabrication and for other reasons.
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 2 1 Construction contracts
Group
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Contract revenue recognised 6.8 –
Contracts in progress at period end:
Costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 6.6 –
Amount of advances received 12.3 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
22 Trade and other receivables
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current
Trade receivables 422.5 327.3 159.8 119.0
Allowances for bad and doubtful debts (6.4) (5.6) (1.2) (1.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Trade receivables net of allowances 416.1 321.7 158.6 117.5
Amounts receivable from construction contract customers 9.1 – – –
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries – – 938.8 790.3
Prepayments and accrued income 26.7 20.4 9.9 9.2
Other receivables 26.6 21.3 3.1 3.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current trade and other receivables 478.5 363.4 1,110.4 920.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries – – 195.5 318.0
Other receivables 0.2 – – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current trade and other receivables 0.2 – 195.5 318.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
23 Trade and other payables
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current
Trade payables 203.9 153.9 53.7 30.1
Amounts payable to construction contract customers 16.6 – – –
Amounts payable to associates – 0.2 – –
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – – 480.0 621.6
Accruals and deferred income 114.8 99.7 43.0 47.1
Other payables 49.9 40.5 27.9 20.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current trade and other payables 385.2 294.3 604.6 719.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – – 227.0 198.3
Other payables 0.8 0.7 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current trade and other payables 0.8 0.7 227.0 198.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
84
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
85
24 Net debt
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current borrowings, finance leases and related swaps
Bank, other loans and related swaps
4.95% US Dollar Bonds 2015 109.9 108.9 109.9 108.9
5.17% Sterling Bonds 2013 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0
4.935% US Dollar EIB Loan 2011 57.6 – 57.6 –
4.25% US Dollar Bonds 2010 17.3 19.0 17.3 19.0
6.36% US Dollar Bonds 2006 – 52.9 – 52.9
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 5.0 – 5.0 –
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 5.6 – 5.6 –
Other repayable after five years 5.5 4.5 – –
Other repayable from four to five years 18.8 – 18.5 –
Other repayable from three to four years 0.3 – – –
Other repayable from two to three years 146.3 145.9 31.4 37.1
Other repayable from one to two years 45.0 36.6 38.4 36.0
Finance leases repayable
After five years 2.3 2.6 2.3 2.6
From four to five years 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
From three to four years 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
From two to three years 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
From one to two years 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 454.7 411.5 327.1 297.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current borrowings and finance leases
Bank overdrafts 7.9 14.7 16.6 29.3
6.36% US Dollar Bonds 2006 57.6 – 57.6 –
Other bank and other loans 24.5 21.8 11.0 12.5
Finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current borrowings and finance leases 90.3 36.8 85.5 42.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 545.0 448.3 412.6 339.7
Less cash and deposits 133.0 78.7 26.6 15.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net debt 412.0 369.6 386.0 324.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Of the 4.95% US Dollar Bonds 2015 US$35.0 million have been swapped into sterling at 5.15% and US$165.0 million have been
swapped into floating rate US dollars. All the 4.25% US Dollar Bonds 2010 have been swapped into sterling at 4.93%. The interest rate
implicit in the finance leases is 5.9% and the lease term ends in 2017. Apart from the bonds, EIB loan and finance leases shown
separately above, all the loans, overdrafts and bank deposits are denominated in various currencies and bear interest at commercial
floating rates.
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 25 Other financial assets
Parent
Group company
2006 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Forward foreign exchange contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges 0.1 0.3
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps held for trading 2.5 2.6
Foreign exchange swaps designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations 0.1 –
Embedded derivatives 0.5 0.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
3.2 3.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
26 Other financial liabilities
Parent
Group company
2006 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Forward foreign exchange contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges 1.2 1.2
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps held for trading 2.3 3.1
Foreign exchange swaps designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations 0.7 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
4.2 4.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
27 Financial risk management
The group’s and parent company’s activities expose them to a variety of financial risks including market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk
and cash flow interest rate risk. Market risk includes currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk. The main financial risks
managed by the group and parent company, under policies approved by the board, are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity
risk and credit risk. The group and parent company use derivative financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and
currency swaps, to manage their financial risks associated with their underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
The group and parent company do not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments.
The group and parent company adopted IAS 32 – ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures and Presentation’ and IAS 39 – ‘Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ with effect from 1st April 2005 without restating prior periods. Consequently, the
accounting policies under UK GAAP have been used for the year ended 31st March 2005 and therefore the comparative information for
2005 is shown separately after the 2006 information. Under UK GAAP the parent company is exempt from disclosing information on
financial instruments.
27a Interest rate risk – 2006
The group’s and parent company’s interest rate risk arises from their fixed rate borrowings (fair value risk) and floating rate borrowings
(cash flow risk). Their policy is to optimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings. They manage their risk by reviewing
the profile of their debt regularly on a currency by currency basis and by selectively using interest rate and cross currency swaps.
The group and parent company have designated the US dollar fixed rate to US dollar floating rate swaps as fair value hedges as they
hedge the changes in fair value of the bond attributable to changes in interest rates. The group and parent company have designated
the US dollar fixed interest rate to sterling fixed interest rate cross currency swaps as cash flow hedges as they hedge the movement
in the cash flows of the hedged bonds attributable to changes in the US dollar / sterling exchange rate. The cash flows are expected
to occur in 2010 and 2015 when the respective bonds which they hedge mature. The interest element of the cash flow hedges is
realised in the income statement each year and the exchange effect is expected to be realised in the income statement in 2010 and
2015. At 31st March 2006, 49% of the group’s net debt and 52% of the company’s net debt was at fixed rates with an average interest
rate of 5.43%. The remaining debt is funded on a floating rate basis. A 1% change in all interest rates would have a 1.0% impact on
the group’s profit before tax. This is within the range the board regards as acceptable.
86
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
87
27 Financial risk management (continued)
27b Foreign currency risk – 2006
The group operates globally with the majority of its profits earned outside the UK. It has significant investments outside the UK with
the largest single investment being in the USA. In order to protect the group’s sterling balance sheet and reduce cash flow risk the
group has financed most of its investment in the USA, Europe and Japan by borrowing US dollars, euros and yen respectively.
Although a large element of this funding is obtained by directly borrowing the relevant currency, some is achieved through currency
swaps which can be more efficient and reduce costs and credit exposure. The group has designated the currency swaps and one
loan as hedges of net investments in foreign operations as they hedge the changes in values of the subsidiaries’ net assets against
movements in exchange rates.
The main currencies of the net debt after taking into account the effect of the currency swaps at 31st March 2006 were:
Group Parent company
Borrowings Cash Borrowings Cash
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sterling 118.4 105.5 117.2 84.2
US dollar 287.5 36.5 152.6 16.2
Euro 173.1 7.6 184.4 –
Japanese yen 24.8 4.3 24.8 –
Hong Kong dollar – 17.4 – –
Chinese renminbi 11.6 6.2 6.0 –
Malaysian ringgit 0.1 8.7 – –
Brazilian real – 7.8 – –
Other currencies 4.1 13.6 2.2 0.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
619.6 207.6 487.2 101.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group and parent company use forward exchange contracts, and occasionally currency options, to hedge foreign exchange
exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign currencies. These are designated and accounted for as cash flow
hedges. The majority of the cash flows are expected to occur and the hedge effect realised in the income statement in the year ending
31st March 2007.
The main impact of movements in exchange rates on the group’s results arises on translation of overseas subsidiaries’ profits into
sterling. The group’s largest exposure is to the US dollar and a 5 cent (2.8%) movement in the average exchange rate for the US dollar
against sterling has a 0.8% impact on operating profit. The group is also exposed to the euro and a 5 cent (3.4%) movement in the
average exchange rate for the euro against sterling has a 0.6% impact on operating profit. This exposure is part of the group’s
economic risk of operating globally which is essential to remain competitive in the markets in which the group operates.
27c Liquidity risk – 2006
The group’s and parent company’s policy on funding capacity is to ensure that they always have sufficient long term funding and
committed bank facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak borrowing requirements. The group’s and parent company’s borrowings
generally do not exhibit large seasonal variations. Within long term debt of £454.7 million at 31st March 2006, the group had
borrowings under committed bank facilities of £191.0 million. The parent company’s long term debt at 31st March 2006 was 
£327.1 million including committed bank borrowings of £69.8 million. The group and parent company also have a number of
uncommitted facilities, including metal leases, and overdraft lines at their disposal.
Parent
Group company
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 45.1 45.1
Expiring in more than two years 53.9 53.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
99.0 99.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 27 Financial risk management (continued)
27d Credit risk – 2006
Within certain divisions, the group and parent company derive a significant proportion of their revenue from sales to major customers.
Sales to individual customers are frequently high if the value of precious metals is included in the price. The failure of any such company
to honour its debts could materially impact the group’s and parent company’s results. The group and parent company derive significant
benefit from trading with their large customers and manage the risk at many levels. Each business and division has a credit committee
that regularly monitors its exposure. The Audit Committee receives a report every six months that details all significant credit limits,
amounts due and amounts significantly overdue within the group and the relevant actions being taken. As at 31st March 2006, no
single outstanding balance exceeded 2% of the company’s market capitalisation.
The credit risk on cash and deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high
credit ratings. As at 31st March 2006, the maximum exposure with a single bank for net deposits was £16.5 million for the group and
£14.4 million for the parent company, whilst the largest mark to market exposure for forward foreign exchange contracts to a single
bank was £0.5 million for the group and parent company.
The group guarantees its share of the borrowings and precious metal leases of its associates and its exposure at 31st March 2006 was
£1.5 million (2005 £2.1 million). The parent company also guarantees some of its subsidiaries’ borrowings, partly through interest
netting arrangements, and precious metal leases and its exposure at 31st March 2006 was £155.0 million (2005 £142.1 million).
27e Fair value of financial instruments – 2006
Group Parent company
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Quoted available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.1 – –
Unquoted available-for-sale investments 5.9 5.9 – –
Trade receivables 416.1 416.1 158.6 158.6
Trade payables (203.9) (203.9) (53.7) (53.7)
Amounts receivable from construction contract customers 9.1 9.1 – –
Amounts payable to construction contract customers (16.6) (16.6) – –
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries – – 1,134.3 1,136.9
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – – (707.0) (707.0)
Other receivables 13.9 13.9 3.1 3.1
Other payables (49.9) (49.9) (27.9) (27.9)
Cash and deposits 133.0 133.0 26.6 26.6
US Dollar Bonds 2006, 2010 and 2015 (184.8) (182.9) (184.8) (182.9)
US Dollar EIB Loan 2011 (57.6) (56.3) (57.6) (56.3)
Sterling Bonds 2013 (40.0) (39.4) (40.0) (39.4)
Other non-current borrowings and finance leases (219.3) (219.3) (91.7) (91.7)
Other current borrowings and finance leases (32.7) (32.7) (27.9) (27.9)
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges (5.0) (5.0) (5.0) (5.0)
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges (5.6) (5.6) (5.6) (5.6)
Forward foreign exchange contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges (1.1) (1.1) (0.9) (0.9)
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps held for trading 0.2 0.2 (0.5) (0.5)
Foreign exchange swaps designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign
operations (0.6) (0.6) – –
Embedded derivatives 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
Non-current other payables (0.8) (0.8) – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(239.1) (235.3) 120.5 126.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The fair value of quoted investments is based on market value. It is not possible to determine reliably the fair value of the unquoted
available-for-sale investments. The fair values of the bonds and interest rate swaps are calculated by discounting future cash flows to
net present values using appropriate market interest rates prevailing at the year end. The fair value of the cross currency interest rate
swaps is the market value of equivalent swaps which could be taken out at the balance sheet date with the same banks, the same
maturity dates and identical terms. The fair value of forward exchange contracts and currency swaps represents the unrealised gain or
loss on revaluation of the contracts to year end forward exchange rates obtained from the banks the contracts are with. The fair value
of the embedded derivatives are calculated by using a suitable valuation technique. The fair value of all other financial instruments is
approximately equal to book value due to their size, short term nature or the fact that they bear interest at floating rates.
88
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
89
27 Financial risk management (continued)
27f Financial instruments accounting policies – 2005
Financial instruments were accounted for as follows in the year ended 31st March 2005:
• Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign
currencies. These forward contracts were revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised
gains and losses arising on revaluation were included in other receivables / other payables. At maturity, or when the contract ceases
to be a hedge, gains and losses were taken to the income statement.
• Currency options are occasionally used to hedge foreign exchange exposures, usually when the forecast receipt or payment
amounts are uncertain. Option premia were recognised at their historic cost in the group balance sheet as prepayments or accruals
and released to the income statement, net of any realised gains, when the outcome became certain on a straight line basis over the
remaining term of the option.
• Interest rate swaps are occasionally used to hedge the group’s exposure to movements in interest rates. The interest payable or
receivable on such swaps was accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings. Interest rate swaps were not
revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
• Currency swaps are used to reduce costs and credit exposure where the group would otherwise have cash deposits and
borrowings in different currencies. The difference between spot and forward rate for these contracts was recognised as part of the
net interest payable over the period of the contract. These swaps were revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date
and any aggregate unrealised gains or losses arising on revaluation were included in other receivables / other payables. Realised
gains and losses on these currency swaps were taken to reserves in the same way as for the foreign investments and borrowings to
which the swaps related.
The group has taken advantage of the exemption available for short term receivables and payables.
27g Interest rate risk – 2005
At fixed At floating
interest rates interest rates Total
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Financial liabilities
Sterling 85.2 73.5 158.7
US dollar 52.9 227.8 280.7
Euro – 176.1 176.1
Japanese yen – 25.1 25.1
Chinese renminbi – 6.8 6.8
South African rand – 0.3 0.3
Other currencies – 2.1 2.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
138.1 511.7 649.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Weighted
Weighted average period
average for which rates
interest rates are fixed
% Years
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Fixed rate financial liabilities
Sterling 5.15 8
US dollar 6.36 1
The financial liabilities of the group comprised:
£ million
––––––––––––
Total borrowings and finance leases 448.3
Borrowings generated by swaps 193.8
Non-equity minority interests 7.0
Other payables falling due after more than one year 0.7
––––––––––––
649.8
––––––––––––
Floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings, overdrafts and preference shares issued to minority shareholders bearing
interest and dividends at commercial rates.
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 27 Financial risk management (continued)
27g Interest rate risk – 2005 (continued)
At floating Interest
interest rates free Total
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Financial assets
Sterling 217.8 – 217.8
US dollar 15.5 1.9 17.4
Euro 9.9 – 9.9
Japanese yen 4.2 – 4.2
Brazilian real 5.1 – 5.1
Swiss franc 4.4 – 4.4
Hong Kong dollar 3.4 – 3.4
Other currencies 12.2 0.6 12.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
272.5 2.5 275.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The financial assets of the group comprised:
£ million
––––––––––––
Cash and deposits 78.7
Deposits generated by swaps 193.8
Unlisted investments 1.9
Listed investments 0.6
––––––––––––
275.0
––––––––––––
Floating rate financial assets comprise bank deposits bearing interest at commercial rates. Interest free financial assets are shares held
in publicly quoted companies and an investment in Conduit Ventures Fund.
27h Currency exposures – 2005
After taking into account the effects of forward exchange contracts the group does not have any significant currency exposures on
monetary assets and liabilities.
27i Maturity of financial liabilities – 2005
£ million
––––––––––––
In one year or less, or on demand 230.6
In more than one year but not more than two years 90.4
In more than two years but not more than five years 165.7
In more than five years 163.1
––––––––––––
649.8
––––––––––––
27j Undrawn committed borrowing facilities – 2005
£ million
––––––––––––
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 54.0
Expiring in more than two years 54.1
––––––––––––
108.1
––––––––––––
90
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
91
27 Financial risk management (continued)
27k Market price risk – 2005
The group monitors its interest rate and currency risks and other market price risks to which it is exposed primarily through a process
known as ‘sensitivity analysis’. This involves estimating the effect on profit before tax over various periods of possible changes in
interest rates and exchange rates.
Most of the group’s borrowings and deposits are at floating rates. A 1% change in all interest rates would have a 1.1% impact on profit
before tax and restructuring costs. This is within the range the board regards as acceptable.
The main impact of movements in exchange rates on the group’s results arises on translation of overseas subsidiaries’ profits into
sterling. The group’s largest exposure is to the US dollar since Johnson Matthey’s largest single overseas investment is in the US. 
A 5 cent (2.7%) movement in the average exchange rate for the US dollar against sterling has a 0.8% impact on total operating profit.
The group is also exposed to the euro. A 5 cent (3.4%) movement in the average exchange rate for the euro against sterling has a
0.6% impact on operating profit. This exposure is part of the group’s economic risk of operating globally which is essential to remain
competitive in the markets in which the group operates.
27l Fair value of financial instruments – 2005
Book Fair
value value
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and deposits 78.7 78.7
Fixed assets investments unlisted 1.9 1.9
Short term investments listed on the London Stock Exchange – 0.1
Short term investments listed on overseas stock exchanges 0.6 1.4
Borrowings and finance leases falling due within one year (36.8) (36.8)
US Dollar Bonds 2006, 2010 and 2015 (180.8) (179.2)
Sterling Bonds 2013 (40.0) (38.8)
Other borrowings and finance leases falling due after more than one year (190.7) (190.7)
Other payables falling due after more than one year (0.7) (0.7)
Non-equity minority interests (7.0) (7.0)
Interest rate swaps – (4.1)
Forward exchange contracts – 3.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(374.8) (371.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The fair value of listed investments is based on market value. The fair values of the bonds and interest rate swaps are calculated by
discounting future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market interest rates prevailing at the year end. The fair value of
forward exchange contracts represents the unrealised gain or loss on revaluation of the contracts to year end exchange rates. The fair
value of all other financial instruments is approximately equal to book value due to their size, short term nature or the fact that they bear
interest at floating rates.
27m Gains and losses on hedges – 2005
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign
currencies. These forward contracts are revalued to the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised
gains and losses arising on revaluation are included in other receivables / other payables. At maturity, or when the contract ceases to
be a hedge, gains and losses are taken to the income statement. Interest rate swaps are occasionally used to hedge the group’s
exposure to movements in interest rates. The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest
arising on deposits or borrowings. Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
Total net
Gains Losses gains / (losses)
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unrecognised gains and losses at 31st March 2004 11.0 – 11.0
Gains / losses recognised in the year 8.9 – 8.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gains and losses arising before 31st March 2004 not recognised in 2004/05 2.1 – 2.1
Gains and losses arising in 2004/05 not recognised in 2004/05 2.0 4.8 (2.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unrecognised gains and losses at 31st March 2005 4.1 4.8 (0.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Of which gains and losses expected to be recognised in the year to 31st March 2006 4.1 0.7 3.4
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 28 Provisions and contingent liabilities
28a Group
Warranty &
Restructuring technology Other
provisions provisions provisions Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 25.0 2.3 3.1 30.4
Charge for year – 0.7 4.3 5.0
Acquisitions – 5.6 0.8 6.4
Utilised (24.3) (0.8) (1.7) (26.8)
Released – (0.3) (0.7) (1.0)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 0.8 7.6 5.9 14.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current 9.1 26.5
Non-current 5.2 3.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total provisions 14.3 30.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The restructuring provisions relate to Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products Division and are expected to be fully spent in 2007.
The warranty and technology provisions represent management’s best estimate of the group’s liability under warranties granted and
remedial work required under technology licences, based on past experience in Catalysts Division. Warranties generally cover a period
up to three years.
The other provisions include environmental, legal and relocation provisions. Amounts provided reflect management’s best estimate of
the expenditure required to settle the obligations at the balance sheet date. It is possible that these and further contingent
environmental and legal liabilities may give rise to expenditure above that provided. Further details of environmental and legal provisions
and contingent liabilities are not provided to avoid the potential of seriously prejudicing the group’s stance in law.
28b Parent company
Restructuring Warranty Other
provisions provisions provisions Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 20.3 1.4 4.3 26.0
Charge for year 1.5 – 2.6 4.1
Utilised (21.2) (0.3) (1.0) (22.5)
Released (0.3) (0.3) (0.4) (1.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 0.3 0.8 5.5 6.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current 2.0 21.1
Non-current 4.6 4.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total provisions 6.6 26.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The restructuring provisions relate to Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products Division and are expected to be fully spent in 2007.
The warranty provisions represent management’s best estimate of the parent company’s liability under warranties granted, based on past
experience in Catalysts Division.
The other provisions include relocation provisions and provisions to buy metal to cover positions created by the parent company selling
metal belonging to subsidiaries. Amounts provided reflect management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the
obligations at the balance sheet date.
92
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
93
29 Deferred taxation
29a Group
Translation
Property, Post- differences
plant & employment on foreign
equipment benefits currency loans Inventories Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 62.2 3.8 (21.0) (13.0) (2.6) 29.4
Charge / (credit) to income 7.4 2.5 – (0.5) 5.3 14.7
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – (4.2) 4.9 – (0.1) 0.6
Exchange adjustments (2.4) 0.3 1.6 – (1.6) (2.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 67.2 2.4 (14.5) (13.5) 1.0 42.6
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – – – 1.2 1.2
Charge / (credit) to income 3.1 (3.5) (0.2) (17.9) 18.6 0.1
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – 4.4 6.3 – (9.5) 1.2
Acquisitions (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Exchange adjustments – – 0.4 – (0.1) 0.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 70.2 3.3 (8.0) (31.4) 11.2 45.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2006 2005
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deferred tax assets 4.4 2.0
Deferred tax liabilities 49.7 44.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
45.3 42.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits not recognised on the balance sheet are £42.9 million
(2005 £42.9 million).
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised on temporary differences of £519.4 million (2005 £368.7 million) associated with
investments in subsidiaries and associates, other than in the case of the group’s captive insurance company where cumulative deferred
tax of £1.2 million (2005 £0.8 million) has been provided on an accrued dividend.
29b Parent company
Translation
Property, Post- differences
plant & employment on foreign
equipment benefits currency loans Inventories Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 28.9 12.6 – (13.0) (3.7) 24.8
(Credit) / charge to income (0.7) 2.7 – (1.7) 0.9 1.2
Acquisition of businesses from subsidiaries 5.7 – ––– 5.7
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – (2.1) – – 0.5 (1.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 33.9 13.2 – (14.7) (2.3) 30.1
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – – – 0.8 0.8
Charge / (credit) to income 2.7 2.4 – (12.1) 1.3 (5.7)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – 5.6 (1.6) – (3.6) 0.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 36.6 21.2 (1.6) (26.8) (3.8) 25.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits not recognised on the balance sheet are £3.6 million
(2005 £3.6 million).
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 30 Share capital
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Number £ million Number £ million
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
Ordinary shares of £1 each
At 1st April 2004 291,550,000 291.6 220,605,536 220.6
Purchase of own shares – – (1,604,000) (1.6)
Share options exercised – – 521,170 0.5
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 291,550,000 291.6 219,522,706 219.5
Share options exercised – – 705,604 0.7
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 291,550,000 291.6 220,228,310 220.2
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
Details of outstanding share options and allocations under the company’s long term incentive plan which have yet to mature are
disclosed in note 12.
At the last Annual General Meeting on 19th July 2005 shareholders approved a resolution for the company to make purchases of its
own shares up to a maximum number of 21,953,598 shares. The resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this year’s Annual
General Meeting. The company will purchase its own shares when the board believes it to be in the best interests of the shareholders
generally and will result in an increase in earnings per share.
The group’s employee share ownership trusts (ESOTs) also buy shares on the open market and hold them in trust for employees
participating in the group’s executive share option schemes and long term incentive plan. At 31st March 2006 the group’s ESOTs held
6,319,743 shares (2005 4,426,743 shares) which had not yet vested unconditionally in employees. Computershare Trustees (CI) Limited,
as trustee for the ESOTs, has waived its dividend entitlement. At 31st March 2006 the parent company’s ESOT held 6,255,162 shares
(2005 4,362,162 shares) which had not yet vested unconditionally in employees.
31 Other reserves
31a Group
Capital Foreign Available- Total
redemption currency for-sale Hedging other
reserve translation reserve reserve reserves
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 4.9 – – – 4.9
Purchase of own shares 1.6 – – – 1.6
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net
investments and related loans – (2.0) – – (2.0)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – 1.8 – – 1.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 6.5 (0.2) – – 6.3
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – 0.7 2.1 2.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 6.5 (0.2) 0.7 2.1 9.1
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – – (3.6) (3.6)
Transferred to income statement – – – (2.6) (2.6)
Available-for-sale investments:
Transferred to income statement on sale – – (0.8) – (0.8)
Fair value losses on net investment hedges – (12.5) – – (12.5)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net
investments and related loans – 42.3 – – 42.3
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – (5.4) 0.2 1.8 (3.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.5 24.2 0.1 (2.3) 28.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
94
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
95
31 Other reserves (continued)
31b Parent company
Capital Foreign Total
redemption currency Hedging other
reserve translation reserve reserves
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 4.9 – – 4.9
Purchase of own shares 1.6 – – 1.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 6.5 – – 6.5
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – 2.0 2.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 6.5 – 2.0 8.5
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – (3.4) (3.4)
Transferred to income statement – – (2.2) (2.2)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments and 
related loans – (0.4) – (0.4)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – – 1.7 1.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.5 (0.4) (1.9) 4.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
32 Changes in equity – attributable to equity holders of the parent company
32a Group
Equity
Share Shares attributable to
Share premium held in Other Retained equity holders of
capital account ESOTs reserves earnings parent company
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 220.6 137.1 (28.8) 4.9 562.8 896.6
Retained profit for the year – – – – 115.5 115.5
Actuarial loss on post-employment benefits assets
and liabilities – – – – (16.1) (16.1)
Dividends paid – – – – (58.4) (58.4)
New share capital subscribed 0.5 2.7 – – – 3.2
Purchase of own shares (1.6) – – 1.6 (16.3) (16.3)
Purchase of shares for ESOTs – – (8.9) – – (8.9)
Share-based payments – – – – 7.0 7.0
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – – – (4.2) (4.2)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency
net investments and related loans – – – (2.0) – (2.0)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – 1.8 4.2 6.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 219.5 139.8 (37.7) 6.3 594.5 922.4
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – – 2.8 (0.1) 2.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 219.5 139.8 (37.7) 9.1 594.4 925.1
Retained profit for the year – – – – 152.1 152.1
Actuarial gain on post-employment benefits assets
and liabilities – – – – 19.6 19.6
Dividends paid – – – – (60.4) (60.4)
New share capital subscribed 0.7 4.6 – – – 5.3
Purchase of shares for ESOTs – – (25.3) – – (25.3)
Share-based payments – – – – 7.6 7.6
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – – – (4.4) (4.4)
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – – (3.6) – (3.6)
Transferred to income statement – – – (2.6) – (2.6)
Available-for-sale investments:
Transferred to income statement on sale – – – (0.8) – (0.8)
Fair value losses on net investment hedges – – – (12.5) – (12.5)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency
net investments and related loans – – – 42.3 – 42.3
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – (3.4) (0.9) (4.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 220.2 144.4 (63.0) 28.5 708.0 1,038.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 32 Changes in equity – attributable to equity holders of the parent company (continued)
32b Parent company
Equity
Share Shares attributable to
Share premium held in Other Retained equity holders of
capital account ESOTs reserves earnings parent company
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 220.6 137.1 (28.4) 4.9 151.8 486.0
Retained profit for the year – – – – 656.4 656.4
Actuarial loss on post-employment benefits assets
and liabilities – – – – (7.1) (7.1)
Dividends paid – – – – (58.4) (58.4)
New share capital subscribed 0.5 2.7 – – – 3.2
Purchase of own shares (1.6) – – 1.6 (16.3) (16.3)
Purchase of shares for ESOTs – – (8.9) – – (8.9)
Share-based payments – – – – 6.2 6.2
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – – – (3.4) (3.4)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – – 2.2 2.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 219.5 139.8 (37.3) 6.5 731.4 1,059.9
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – – 2.0 (0.1) 1.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 219.5 139.8 (37.3) 8.5 731.3 1,061.8
Retained profit for the year – – – – 215.6 215.6
Actuarial gain on post-employment benefits assets
and liabilities – – – – 17.2 17.2
Dividends paid – – – – (60.4) (60.4)
New share capital subscribed 0.7 4.6 – – – 5.3
Purchase of shares for ESOTs – – (25.3) – – (25.3)
Share-based payments – – – – 6.5 6.5
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – – – (3.3) (3.3)
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – – (3.4) – (3.4)
Transferred to income statement – – – (2.2) – (2.2)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency
net investments and related loans – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – 1.7 (2.0) (0.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 220.2 144.4 (62.6) 4.2 904.9 1,211.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
33 Minority interests
£ million
––––––––––––
At 1st April 2004 9.4
Share of retained loss for the year (1.0)
Dividends (0.5)
Purchase of remaining minority interest in Johnson Matthey India Private Limited (0.4)
––––––––––––
At 31st March 2005 7.5
Share of retained loss for the year (0.8)
Dividends (0.3)
––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.4
––––––––––––
96
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
97
34 IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments
The adjustment to the balance sheet at 1st April 2005 for the implementation of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 is:
Parent
Group company
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current available-for-sale investments 0.9 –
Other financial assets 4.4 4.2
Current trade and other payables (0.4) (0.4)
Other financial liabilities (0.5) (0.5)
Non-current borrowings, finance leases and related swaps (0.6) (0.6)
Deferred income tax liabilities (1.1) (0.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 2.7 1.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Hedging reserve 2.1 2.0
Available-for-sale reserve 0.7 –
Retained earnings (0.1) (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity 2.7 1.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35 Gross cash flows
35a Purchases of non-current assets and investments
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 109.8 86.2 40.0 36.9
Purchases of intangible assets 10.0 9.1 1.2 2.0
Purchase of investments in subsidiaries – – 48.8 –
Purchases of available-for-sale investments 0.5 1.0 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
120.3 96.3 90.0 38.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35b Purchases of businesses and minority interests
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Purchase of businesses 41.6 3.6 – –
Cash acquired with businesses (17.3) – – 8.3
Purchase of minority interests – 0.4 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
24.3 4.0 – 8.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35c Net proceeds from sale of business
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Disposal of Pigments & Dispersions business – 23.4 – 22.8
Cash disposed of with Pigments & Dispersions business – (0.1) – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
– 23.3 – 22.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 35d Net purchase of own shares
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Issue of ordinary share capital 5.3 3.2 5.3 3.2
Purchase of own shares (31.2) (19.3) (31.2) (19.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(25.9) (16.1) (25.9) (16.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35e Proceeds from / (repayment of) borrowings and finance leases
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Increase / (decrease) in borrowings falling due within one year 45.2 (9.4) 56.1 (3.6)
Increase / (decrease) in borrowings falling due after more than one year 37.4 (40.9) 27.8 (150.6)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
82.3 (50.6) 83.6 (154.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
36 Cash and cash equivalents
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and deposits 133.0 78.7 26.6 15.2
Bank overdrafts (7.9) (14.7) (16.6) (29.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and cash equivalents 125.1 64.0 10.0 (14.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
37 Precious metal operating leases
The group leases precious metals from banks for specified periods (typically a few months) and for which the group pays a fee. These
arrangements are classified as operating leases. The group holds sufficient precious metal inventories to meet all the obligations under
these lease arrangements as they fall due. At 31st March 2006 precious metal leases were £93.2 million (2005 £102.1 million).
38 Commitments
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided 5.8 7.5 3.0 4.9
Future minimum amounts payable under non-cancellable operating leases
Within one year 9.6 8.4 2.0 3.0
From one to five years 12.8 11.9 3.9 4.6
After five years 14.4 12.2 6.7 6.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
36.8 32.5 12.6 14.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Future minimum amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
From one to five years 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8
After five years 2.7 3.2 2.7 3.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
5.0 5.5 5.0 5.5
Less future finance charges (1.3) (1.5) (1.3) (1.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Present value of finance lease obligations 3.7 4.0 3.7 4.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
98
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
99
39 Acquisitions
If all acquisitions had been completed on 1st April 2005 the revenue for the group would have been £4,794.8 million and its profit for
the year £154.3 million.
Davy Process Technology Limited
On 1st February 2006 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Davy Process Technology Limited (DPT). DPT develops
chemical process technologies and licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries. Its revenue is generated
through the licensing of its proprietary technologies and from the sale of associated basic engineering packages, catalysts, specialist
equipment and other services.
The value of the net assets acquired is provisional, pending detailed investigation into the liabilities acquired and obtaining a surveyor’s
report on a building acquired. The net assets acquired were:
Carrying
amounts
under IFRS Estimated
immediately fair value
prior to Fair value at time of
acquisition adjustments acquisition
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Property, plant and equipment 11.4 (0.8) 10.6
Intangible assets – customer contracts and relationships – 6.7 6.7
Intangible assets – patents – 1.9 1.9
Non-current available-for-sale investments 3.4 – 3.4
Deferred income tax assets 0.8 (0.7) 0.1
Trade and other receivables 14.9 (0.3) 14.6
Cash and deposits 17.4 – 17.4
Trade and other payables (20.6) (1.5) (22.1)
Current income tax liabilities (1.4) – (1.4)
Non-current borrowings (1.4) – (1.4)
Employee benefit obligations (3.7) (1.0) (4.7)
Provisions (3.8) (2.6) (6.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total net assets acquired 17.0 1.7 18.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill on acquisition 21.9
––––––––––––
40.6
––––––––––––
Satisfied by: £ million
––––––––––––
Purchase consideration – cash 39.9
Costs incurred – cash 0.7
––––––––––––
40.6
––––––––––––
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition was: £ million
––––––––––––
Cash consideration and costs 40.6
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 17.4
––––––––––––
Net cash outflow 23.2
Borrowings acquired 1.4
––––––––––––
Increase in net debt 24.6
––––––––––––
The goodwill arising is attributable to future research and sales synergies arising from the combination.
From 1st February 2006 its results are included in Catalysts and were:
£ million
––––––––––––
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition by Johnson Matthey 1.6
Amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition by Johnson Matthey (0.8)
––––––––––––
Operating profit 0.8
Net interest receivable 0.1
––––––––––––
Profit before tax 0.9
Income tax expense (0.6)
––––––––––––
Net profit 0.3
––––––––––––
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 39 Acquisitions (continued)
Oximet SrL
On 6th September 2005 the group acquired the remaining 67% of the share capital of Oximet SrL, which it did not already own for
£0.4 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired were inventories of £0.2 million, trade and other receivables of £1.0 million, trade
and other payables of £0.8 million and bank overdrafts of £0.1 million. The fair value of the associate immediately prior to the
acquisition was £0.1 million resulting in goodwill of £0.2 million. The goodwill arising is attributable to future synergies arising from the
combination. The net cash outflow on acquisition was £0.5 million, consisting of £0.4 million of cash consideration and £0.1 million of
bank overdrafts classed as cash and cash equivalents. From 6th September 2005 it contributed no net profit to the group’s profit for
the year and its results are included in Ceramics.
Lancaster Synthesis acquired in the year ended 31st March 2005
On 30th September 2004 the group acquired the business of Lancaster Synthesis Limited (Lancaster) from Clariant AG. Lancaster
manufactures and distributes organic compounds for research and development purposes and is headquartered in Morecambe, UK.
It has been fully integrated with the group’s existing catalogue businesses and so its post acquisition results are not identifiable and are
included in Catalysts.
The assets and liabilities acquired were:
Carrying
amounts
under IFRS
immediately Fair value
prior to Fair value at time of
acquisition adjustments acquisition
£ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Property, plant and equipment 0.8 (0.7) 0.1
Intangible assets – customer contracts and relationships – 0.2 0.2
Inventories 9.5 (6.7) 2.8
Trade and other receivables 0.8 – 0.8
Trade and other payables (0.3) (0.8) (1.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total net assets acquired 10.8 (8.0) 2.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill on acquisition –
––––––––––––
2.8
––––––––––––
Satisfied by: £ million
––––––––––––
Purchase consideration – cash 2.3
Costs incurred – cash 0.5
––––––––––––
2.8
––––––––––––
Johnson Matthey India Private Limited minority interest acquired in the year ended 31st March 2005
On 27th August 2004 the group acquired the remaining 10% of Johnson Matthey India Private Limited for £0.4 million. The fair value of
the minority interest immediately prior to the purchase was £0.4 million.
Medical hypotube manufacturing business acquired in the year ended 31st March 2005
On 1st May 2004 the group acquired a medical hypotube manufacturing business based in California, USA from Burkey Machine and
Tool Corporation for £0.3 million. The fair value of the assets acquired was £0.1 million resulting in goodwill of £0.2 million.
Activated Metals and Chemicals, Inc. acquired in the year ended 31st March 2004
On 30th March 2004 the group acquired the Activated Metals and Chemicals, Inc. group of companies (AMC) and the estimated
goodwill disclosed in the accounts for the year ended 31st March 2004 was £19.4 million. During the year ended 31st March 2005
further fair value adjustments were made to include payables not previously recognised of £0.8 million and deferred consideration was
increased by £0.1 million. These increased goodwill by £0.9 million. Also, during the year a further £0.6 million of outstanding
consideration was paid and during the year ended 31st March 2005 £0.4 million of outstanding consideration and £0.1 million of
accrued costs were paid.
Cascade Biochem Limited acquired in the year ended 31st March 2003
On 17th October 2002 the group acquired Cascade Biochem Limited. During the year ended 31st March 2005 the estimate of deferred
consideration was reduced by a further £0.5 million. Consequently, goodwill was reduced by £0.5 million.
100
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
101
40 Discontinued operations
There were no discontinued operations in the year. 
The discontinued operations in the year ended 31st March 2005 were the Pigments & Dispersions business which was sold to
Rockwood Pigments (UK) Limited on 1st September 2004. The results of the discontinued operations included in the consolidated
income statement for the year ended 31st March 2005 were:
£ million
––––––––––––
Revenue 12.3
Expenses (11.9)
––––––––––––
Operating profit 0.4
Income tax expense (0.1)
Loss on sale of discontinued operations (9.5)
Income tax credit on loss on sale of discontinued operations 2.8
––––––––––––
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (6.4)
––––––––––––
Net cash inflow from operating activities of discontinued operations 0.5
Net cash outflow from investing activities of discontinued operations (1.0)
Net cash outflow from financing activities of discontinued operations (0.1)
The Pigments & Dispersions business had a presence in each of the geographical segments:
North Rest of
Europe America Asia the World Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales by geographical destination 7.0 1.7 1.1 2.5 12.3
41 Transactions with related parties
Transactions between the parent company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and so
are only disclosed for the parent company’s accounts. The group’s associates, as described in note 18, are related parties. Guarantees
of subsidiaries’ and associates’ borrowings are disclosed in note 27d.
Group Parent company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Trading transactions with associates
Purchases of raw materials 0.2 0.5 – –
Amounts payable to associates – 0.2 – –
Trading transactions with subsidiaries
Sales of goods – – 832.6 823.5
Purchases of goods – – 150.7 121.8
Income from service charges – – 2.2 2.7
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries – – 31.9 25.8
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – – 9.6 8.4
The group’s post-employment plans are related parties and the group’s and parent company’s transactions with them are disclosed in
notes 13a and 13b respectively.
The transactions with key management personnel are described in note 11c.
42 Post balance sheet events
Since 31st March 2006 some small acquisitions have taken place. On 13th April 2006 the group purchased most of the business
of United Farmaceuticals for £1.9 million and on 21st April 2006 it purchased the Quest TruTec Process Diagnostics business for
£3.8 million. The fair value exercise for these acquisitions has not yet been completed.
43 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Key sources of estimation uncertainty are disclosed in the appropriate notes.
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 44 Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS
Reconciliations of profit before tax and net assets
Group
31st March
2005
Explanation £ million
––––––––––––
Profit before tax under UK GAAP 131.0
Discontinued operations a 14.9
Goodwill amortisation b 20.9
Goodwill amortisation on associates b 0.1
Development capitalised in the year c 5.4
Amortisation of capitalised development c (1.1)
Share options and long term incentive plans d (4.1)
Employee benefits e 0.3
––––––––––––
Profit before tax under IFRS 167.4
––––––––––––
Group Parent company
31st March 1st April 31st March 1st April
2005 2004 2005 2004
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets under UK GAAP 868.7 871.6 985.9 428.9
Goodwill amortisation b 20.9 – 13.7 –
Goodwill amortisation on associates b 0.1–––
Net capitalised development c 15.5 11.2 2.0 2.2
Bid value adjustment for post-employment schemes’ assets e (2.0) (1.4) (2.0) (1.4)
Main UK pension plan (net of deferred tax) e – – 45.8 43.3
Additional accruals for other short term and long term
employee benefits e (3.5) (3.8) (2.0) (1.8)
Deferred tax adjustments g (10.7) (11.1) (19.1) (19.4)
Dividends h 40.9 39.5 40.9 39.5
Reduction in investments in subsidiaries m – – (5.3) (5.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets under IFRS 929.9 906.0 1,059.9 486.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Explanation of major differences between UK GAAP and IFRS – group and parent company
a) Under IFRS 5 – ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ the post tax profit of discontinued operations and
the post tax loss on disposal of those operations are disclosed as a single amount towards the bottom of the income statement.
Also, under IFRS 1 – ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ goodwill recognised under previous GAAP
as a deduction from equity is not transferred to the income statement on disposal of the subsidiary.
b) Under IFRS 3 – ‘Business Combinations’ amortisation of goodwill is no longer required but instead annual impairment reviews have
to be performed. Johnson Matthey has elected to take advantage of the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 not to recalculate
goodwill for all business combinations. Therefore the group and parent company have not adjusted their carrying amount of goodwill
at 1st April 2004 (the group’s and parent company’s date of transition) from that previously disclosed under UK GAAP. The main
adjustment to goodwill on the balance sheet is to reverse all amortisation charged since 1st April 2004.
c) Under IAS 38 – ‘Intangible Assets’ the group and parent company have to capitalise all development expenditure which meets the
recognition criteria laid down in the standard and then amortise the asset over its useful life once it is available for use. Under UK
GAAP Johnson Matthey did not capitalise any development expenditure. Under IFRS, assets have been recognised in Catalysts
Division for some development expenditure on heavy duty diesel catalysts and fuel cell components. The group and parent
company believe that all other development expenditure is for incremental improvements to existing processes or for projects in an
early stage of development and so no assets have been recognised.
In addition, under IAS 38 any capitalised software that is not an integral part of the related hardware is reclassified from property,
plant and equipment to intangible assets.
d) Under IFRS 2 – ‘Share-based Payment’ the group and parent company have to recognise a charge to income in respect of the fair
value of outstanding share options granted to employees and shares allocated under the long term incentive plan after 7th November
2002. The fair value has been calculated using an adjusted Black-Scholes options valuation model and is charged to income over
the relevant vesting periods, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting.
102
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
103
44 Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS (continued)
Explanation of major differences between UK GAAP and IFRS – group and parent company (continued)
e) As Johnson Matthey has already adopted FRS 17, the recent UK GAAP standard for post retirement benefits, the only adjustments
needed in the group for post-employment benefits under IAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’ are to put the net return on retirement
benefits assets and liabilities into operating profit, to change the market value of the pension schemes’ assets from mid-market
value to bid value on the balance sheet and to move the deferred tax balances on the net post-employment assets / obligations to
deferred tax.
Under FRS 17 the parent company did not include the main UK defined benefit pension plan in its balance sheet and just
accounted for contributions paid into the plan. Under IAS 19 the main UK pension plan is included in the parent company’s results
and balance sheets as it is the sponsoring employer of the plan.
The other adjustments under IAS 19 are to accrue for paid annual leave and other short and long term employee benefits.
f) Under IAS 28 – ‘Investments in Associates’ the group’s share of the profit of its associates is shown on a post tax basis, unlike UK
GAAP where the group’s share of the operating profit of its associates is shown and the group’s share of its associates’ interest and
tax are shown in finance costs and income tax expense respectively.
g) Under IAS 12 – ‘Income Taxes’ the group and parent company is providing for deferred tax on capital gains rolled over, capital gains
on intra group loans and capital losses which it did not provide for under UK GAAP. Other adjustments are to provide for deferred
tax on the other IFRS accounting changes. Also, IAS 12 does not allow the offset of tax assets and liabilities and so the group has
grossed up its current tax assets and liabilities and its deferred tax assets and liabilities.
h) Under IAS 10 – ‘Events After the Balance Sheet Date’ dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a
liability on the balance sheet and so the final dividend has not been provided for on the group’s and parent company’s balance sheets.
i) Under IAS 17 – ‘Leases’ the group’s and parent company’s precious metal leases are categorised as operating leases and so they,
and the related inventory, are removed from the balance sheet and are reported as a note on the accounts.
j) There are a number of other reclassifications on the balance sheet mainly to separate out current and non-current assets and
liabilities in accordance with IAS 1 – ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’.
k) As required under IAS 21 – ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ exchange differences arising on translation of
subsidiaries’ results and net assets are now shown as a separate component of equity. The group has taken advantage of the
exemption allowed in IFRS 1 to deem the cumulative translation difference for all overseas subsidiaries and associates to be zero at
1st April 2004.
l) As disclosed in the IFRS restatement notes last year, Johnson Matthey has changed its segments under IFRS from those shown
under UK GAAP. Colour Technologies, which formed part of Colours & Coatings Division, was transferred to Precious Metal
Products Division. Ceramics, which comprised the remaining part of Colours & Coatings Division, is shown as a separate segment.
Platinum Group Metal Refining, which was part of Catalysts Division, has been transferred to Precious Metal Products Division.
m) Under IAS 27 – ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ the cost of investments in subsidiaries is reduced by distributions
from pre-acquisition profits.
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 44 Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS (continued)
44a Group
Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet as at 1st April 2004
IFRS
UK GAAP adjustments IFRS
Explanation £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment c 608.1 (11.9) 596.2
Goodwill 377.1 – 377.1
Other intangible assets c – 23.1 23.1
Investments in associates 4.6 – 4.6
Deferred income tax assets g 5.4 6.9 12.3
Available-for-sale investments 0.9 – 0.9
Post-employment benefits net assets e 31.5 11.6 43.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current assets 1,027.6 29.7 1,057.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current assets
Inventories i, j 417.3 (134.5) 282.8
Current income tax assets g – 0.9 0.9
Trade and other receivables 382.0 – 382.0
Available-for-sale investments 1.6 – 1.6
Cash and deposits 106.5 – 106.5
Other current assets j – 7.1 7.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current assets 907.4 (126.5) 780.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 1,935.0 (96.8) 1,838.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables e, h (316.6) 36.7 (279.9)
Precious metal leases i (127.4) 127.4 –
Current income tax liabilities g (42.3) (0.9) (43.2)
Borrowings and finance leases (46.5) – (46.5)
Short term provisions j – (20.3) (20.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current liabilities (532.8) 142.9 (389.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and finance leases (454.5) – (454.5)
Deferred income tax liabilities e, g (20.4) (21.2) (41.6)
Employee benefits obligations e, j (28.0) (12.5) (40.5)
Long term provisions j (27.0) 22.0 (5.0)
Trade and other payables (0.7) – (0.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current liabilities (530.6) (11.7) (542.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities (1,063.4) 131.2 (932.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 871.6 34.4 906.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equity
Share capital 220.6 – 220.6
Share premium 137.1 – 137.1
Shares held in employee share ownership trusts (28.8) – (28.8)
Other reserves 4.4 0.5 4.9
Retained earnings 528.9 33.9 562.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
862.2 34.4 896.6
Minority interests 9.4 – 9.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity 871.6 34.4 906.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
104
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
105
44 Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS (continued)
44a Group (continued)
Reconciliation of consolidated income statement for the year ended 31st March 2005
–––––––––––––– IFRS adjustments ––––––––––––––
Discontinued
UK GAAP operations Associates Other IFRS
Explanation £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Revenue 4,638.5 (12.3) – – 4,626.2
Cost of materials sold (3,878.5) 4.7 – – (3,873.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net revenues 760.0 (7.6) – – 752.4
Other cost of sales c, e (389.0) 5.5 – 10.9 (372.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gross profit 371.0 (2.1) – 10.9 379.8
Distribution costs e (84.1) 1.0 – 1.6 (81.5)
Administrative expenses d, e (79.6) 0.7 – (2.8) (81.7)
Goodwill amortisation b (21.0) 0.1 – 20.9 –
Restructuring costs (36.7) – – – (36.7)
Loss on sale of discontinued operations a (15.2) 15.2 – – –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit 134.4 14.9 – 30.6 179.9
Finance costs f (13.3) – 0.3 – (13.0)
Net return on retirement benefits assets and liabilities e 9.2 – – (9.2) –
Share of profit of associates b, f 0.7 – (0.3) 0.1 0.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 131.0 14.9 – 21.5 167.4
Income tax expense g (44.0) (2.7) – 0.2 (46.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year from continuing operations 87.0 12.2 – 21.7 120.9
Loss for the year from discontinued operations a – (6.4) – – (6.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year 87.0 5.8 – 21.7 114.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 88.2 5.8 – 21.5 115.5
Minority interests c (1.2) – – 0.2 (1.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
87.0 5.8 – 21.7 114.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 44 Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS (continued)
44a Group (continued)
Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet as at 31st March 2005
IFRS
UK GAAP adjustments IFRS
Explanation £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment c 604.9 (11.9) 593.0
Goodwill b 354.2 20.9 375.1
Other intangible assets c – 27.4 27.4
Investments in associates b 4.7 0.1 4.8
Deferred income tax assets g 0.8 1.2 2.0
Available-for-sale investments 1.9 – 1.9
Post-employment benefits net assets e 33.5 11.7 45.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current assets 1,000.0 49.4 1,049.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current assets
Inventories i, j 416.5 (109.2) 307.3
Current income tax assets g – 2.2 2.2
Trade and other receivables 363.4 – 363.4
Available-for-sale investments 0.6 – 0.6
Cash and deposits 78.7 – 78.7
Other current assets j – 7.1 7.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current assets 859.2 (99.9) 759.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 1,859.2 (50.5) 1,808.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables e, h (332.8) 38.5 (294.3)
Precious metal leases i (102.1) 102.1 –
Current income tax liabilities g (10.1) (2.2) (12.3)
Borrowings and finance leases (36.8) – (36.8)
Short term provisions j – (26.5) (26.5)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current liabilities (481.8) 111.9 (369.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and finance leases (411.5) – (411.5)
Deferred income tax liabilities e, g (29.7) (14.9) (44.6)
Employee benefits obligations e, j (34.6) (13.6) (48.2)
Long term provisions j (32.2) 28.3 (3.9)
Trade and other payables (0.7) – (0.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current liabilities (508.7) (0.2) (508.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities (990.5) 111.7 (878.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 868.7 61.2 929.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equity
Share capital 219.5 – 219.5
Share premium 139.8 – 139.8
Shares held in employee share ownership trusts (37.7) – (37.7)
Other reserves 6.3 – 6.3
Retained earnings 533.5 61.0 594.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
861.4 61.0 922.4
Minority interests c 7.3 0.2 7.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity 868.7 61.2 929.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
106
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
107
44 Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS (continued)
44b Parent company
Reconciliation of balance sheet as at 1st April 2004
IFRS
UK GAAP adjustments IFRS
Explanation £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment c 200.2 (5.2) 195.0
Goodwill 106.6 – 106.6
Other intangible assets c – 7.4 7.4
Investments in subsidiaries m 462.0 (5.3) 456.7
Other receivables 320.9 – 320.9
Post-employment benefits net assets e – 41.9 41.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current assets 1,089.7 38.8 1,128.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current assets
Inventories i, j 268.8 (149.6) 119.2
Trade and other receivables 556.9 – 556.9
Cash and deposits 2.7 – 2.7
Other current assets j – 7.1 7.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current assets 828.4 (142.5) 685.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 1,918.1 (103.7) 1,814.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables e, h (750.2) 37.8 (712.4)
Precious metal leases i (142.5) 142.5 –
Current income tax liabilities (0.1) – (0.1)
Borrowings and finance leases (16.4) – (16.4)
Short term provisions j – (7.1) (7.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current liabilities (909.2) 173.2 (736.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and finance leases (448.4) – (448.4)
Deferred income tax liabilities e (5.4) (19.4) (24.8)
Employee benefits obligations e, j (9.3) (0.1) (9.4)
Long term provisions j (13.5) 7.1 (6.4)
Trade and other payables (103.4) – (103.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current liabilities (580.0) (12.4) (592.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities (1,489.2) 160.8 (1,328.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 428.9 57.1 486.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equity
Share capital 220.6 – 220.6
Share premium 137.1 – 137.1
Shares held in employee share ownership trusts (28.4) – (28.4)
Other reserves 4.9 – 4.9
Retained earnings 94.7 57.1 151.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity 428.9 57.1 486.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 44 Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS (continued)
44b Parent company (continued)
Reconciliation of balance sheet as at 31st March 2005
IFRS
UK GAAP adjustments IFRS
Explanation £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment c 232.8 (5.3) 227.5
Goodwill b 234.5 13.7 248.2
Other intangible assets c – 7.3 7.3
Investments in subsidiaries m 460.5 (5.3) 455.2
Other receivables 318.0 – 318.0
Post-employment benefits net assets e – 43.8 43.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current assets 1,245.8 54.2 1,300.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current assets
Inventories i, j 233.4 (108.3) 125.1
Current income tax assets 15.9 – 15.9
Trade and other receivables 920.6 – 920.6
Cash and deposits 15.2 – 15.2
Other current assets j – 7.1 7.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current assets 1,185.1 (101.2) 1,083.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 2,430.9 (47.0) 2,383.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables e, h (758.8) 39.1 (719.7)
Precious metal leases i (101.2) 101.2 –
Borrowings and finance leases (42.1) – (42.1)
Short term provisions j – (21.1) (21.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current liabilities (902.1) 119.2 (782.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and finance leases (297.6) – (297.6)
Deferred income tax liabilities e (11.0) (19.1) (30.1)
Employee benefits obligations e, j (10.0) (0.2) (10.2)
Long term provisions j (26.0) 21.1 (4.9)
Trade and other payables (198.3) – (198.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current liabilities (542.9) 1.8 (541.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities (1,445.0) 121.0 (1,324.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 985.9 74.0 1,059.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equity
Share capital 219.5 – 219.5
Share premium 139.8 – 139.8
Shares held in employee share ownership trusts (37.3) – (37.3)
Other reserves 6.5 – 6.5
Retained earnings 657.4 74.0 731.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity 985.9 74.0 1,059.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
108
- Johnson Matthey
Notes on the Accounts
for the year ended 31st March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
109
Country of Country of
incorporation incorporation
Europe Asia
S.A. Johnson Matthey N.V. Belgium Johnson Matthey Ceramics (Jiangsu) Co. Ltd. China
Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials Johnson Matthey (Shanghai) Chemicals Limited China
Ireland Limited Eire Johnson Matthey Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
+ Avocado Research Chemicals Limited England Johnson Matthey India Private Limited India
+ Davy Process Technology Limited England Johnson Matthey Chemicals India Private Limited India
+ Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited (82.5%) England Johnson Matthey Japan, Inc. USA
Johnson Matthey SAS France + Johnson Matthey Sdn. Bhd. (92%) Malaysia
Johnson Matthey GmbH Germany Johnson Matthey Ceramics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia
Johnson Matthey Ceramics S.p.A. Italy
Johnson Matthey BV Netherlands
Johnson Matthey Ceramica (Portugal) Lda Portugal
Johnson Matthey Ceramics S.A. Spain
Almiberia S.A. Spain Africa
Johnson Matthey AB Sweden Johnson Matthey (Pty) Limited South Africa
Johnson Matthey & Brandenberger AG Switzerland
Australasia
* AGR Matthey (20%) Australia
South America
North America + Johnson Matthey Argentina S.A. Argentina
The Argent Insurance Co. Limited Bermuda Johnson Matthey Ceramica Ltda Brazil
Johnson Matthey Limited Canada
Johnson Matthey de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson Matthey Inc. USA
Johnson Matthey Catalog Company Inc. USA
Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells, Inc. (82.5%) USA
Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials, Inc. USA
Except where otherwise stated, all companies are wholly owned.
* Associate (see note 18 on page 83).
+ Investments held directly by parent company.
All the subsidiaries and associates are involved in the principal activities of the group.
Principal Subsidiaries and Associates UK GAAP
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Revenue
Parent and subsidiaries 2,423.2 3,138.8 3,385.4 3,866.0 5,903.7 
Share of joint ventures 156.9 128.8 – – –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Total 2,580.1 3,267.6 3,385.4 3,866.0 5,903.7
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Operating profit before one-off items and goodwill amortisation 116.3 139.2 147.1 146.2 175.0 
Goodwill amortisation – – – (0.2) (0.3)
One-off items – (4.5) (1.9) (9.8) (0.6)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Operating profit 116.3 134.7 145.2 136.2 174.1 
Other one-off items – 4.4 8.8 23.4 1.1 
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit before interest 116.3 139.1 154.0 159.6 175.2 
Net interest (8.0) (9.0) (15.9) (2.4) 5.3
Net return on retirement benefits assets and liabilities – – – – –
Share of profit / (loss) of associates – – – – –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit before tax 108.3 130.1 138.1 157.2 180.5 
Income tax expense (33.0) (28.5) (35.1) (47.3) (54.2)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit after taxation 75.3 101.6 103.0 109.9 126.3 
Loss for the year from discontinued operations – – – – –
Minority interests (1.2) (0.3) 0.7 (0.2) (0.6)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company 74.1 101.3 103.7 109.7 125.7 
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share before one-off items and
goodwill amortisation (graph 1) 34.2p 42.8p 42.8p 46.6p 57.2p
Earnings per ordinary share (graph 2) 34.2p 46.7p 47.8p 50.5p 57.3p
Dividend per ordinary share (graph 3) 15.5p 17.8p 19.0p 20.3p 23.3p
Summary Balance Sheet
Assets employed:
Goodwill – – 4.2 5.1 8.6
Property, plant and equipment / other intangible assets 337.7 461.5 480.2 311.3 386.8 
Non-current investments / associates / joint ventures 84.2 4.2 1.8 1.0 1.0 
Inventories 184.7 244.8 243.7 253.2 278.8 
Receivables / current investments / tax assets / financial assets 252.5 379.8 434.0 434.7 522.9 
Payables / provisions / tax liabilities / financial liabilities (291.1) (409.8) (418.8) (452.5) (534.7)
Post-employment benefits net assets / employee benefits obligations – – – – –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
568.0 680.5 745.1 552.8 663.4 
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Financed by:
Net borrowings and finance leases / (cash) 143.7 225.1 221.6 (165.8) (139.9)
Retained earnings 107.8 130.9 200.9 389.2 465.9 
Share capital, share premium, shares held in ESOTs and other reserves 316.3 318.4 316.8 324.9 332.8 
Minority interests 0.2 6.1 5.8 4.5 4.6 
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Capital employed 568.0 680.5 745.1 552.8 663.4 
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Cumulative goodwill taken directly to reserves 156.3 171.4 171.4 46.0 46.0 
Return on assets 16.4% 17.7% 16.6% 19.3% 26.8%
(Operating profit before one-off items and goodwill amortisation /
average capital employed and cumulative goodwill taken directly to reserves)
Figures for 2006 have been prepared under IFRS. Figures for 2005 have been restated for IFRS as explained in the accounting policies. Figures
for 2004 and all prior years have been prepared under UK GAAP . Figures for 2003 have been restated for the adoption of FRS 17 – ‘Retirement
Benefits’ under UK GAAP , but prior year figures have not been restated for FRS 17 because comparatives are not available. Apart from this,
2003 and prior years have been restated to reflect all changes in accounting policies under UK GAAP .
110
- Johnson Matthey
Ten Year Record Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
111
UK GAAP IFRS
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
4,830.1 4,323.9 4,492.9 4,626.2 4,755.9
–––– –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
4,830.1 4,323.9 4,492.9 4,626.2 4,755.9
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
193.3 189.2 206.0 216.6 234.7
(6.8) (13.7) (19.8) – –
(18.1) (7.6) 2.1 (36.7) (6.0)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
168.4 167.9 188.3 179.9 228.7
(5.6) 4.9 – – –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
162.8 172.8 188.3 179.9 228.7
(6.1) (13.2) (16.3) (13.0) (14.7)
– 13.9 6.0 – –
– – – 0.5 (0.2)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
156.7 173.5 178.0 167.4 213.8 
(50.2) (53.7) (57.9) (46.5) (62.5)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
106.5 119.8 120.1 120.9 151.3 
– – – (6.4) –
0.3 0.4 1.7 1.0 0.8
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
106.8 120.2 121.8 115.5 152.1
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
60.4p 61.8p 64.0p 67.0p 72.7p
49.0p 55.4p 56.0p 53.2p 70.8p
24.6p 25.5p 26.4p 27.7p 30.1p
182.6 373.4 377.1 375.1 402.4 
495.1 601.1 608.1 620.4 702.4 
2.7 6.4 5.5 6.7 10.2 
414.3 438.4 417.3 307.3 345.8 
456.0 367.2 389.0 375.3 497.1 
(584.4) (560.5) (534.4) (382.3) (520.2)
– (25.4) 3.5 (3.0) 18.8
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
966.3 1,200.6 1,266.1 1,299.5 1,456.5 
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
159.0 402.5 394.5 369.6 412.0
466.4 445.9 528.4 594.5 708.0 
337.0 341.4 333.8 327.9 330.1 
3.9 10.8 9.4 7.5 6.4
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
966.3 1,200.6 1,266.1 1,299.5 1,456.5
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
46.0 40.6 40.6 – –
22.5% 16.8% 16.2% 16.7% 17.0%
Ten Year Record
1997
34.2p
42.8p 42.8p
46.6p
57.2p
60.4p
61.8p
64.0p
67.0p
72.7p
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
1 Earnings per Ordinary Share Before One-off Items and
Goodwill Amortisation
1997
34.2p
46.7p
47.8p
50.5p
57.3p
49.0p
55.4p
56.0p
53.2p
70.8p
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
2 Earnings per Ordinary Share
1997
15.5p
17.8p
19.0p
20.3p
23.3p
24.6p
25.5p
26.4p
27.7p
30.1p
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
3 Dividend per Ordinary Share 112
- Johnson Matthey
Shareholder Information
Asia
1.2%
Rest of World
0.5%
Unidentified
2.7%
USA and Canada
10.5%
Continental
Europe
8.1%
UK and Eire
77.0%
Individuals
4.6%
Other
15.2%
Investment
and
Unit Trusts
8.6%
Insurance
Companies
19.9%
Pension
Funds
51.7%
100,001-
1,000,000
25.5%
1,000,001-
5,000,000
43.4%
10,001-
100,000
8.2%
1,001-10,000
3.5%
1-1,000
1.7%
5,000,001
and over
17.7%
Johnson Matthey Share Price Five Year Performance versus FTSE 100 and FTSE 350
Johnson Matthey Share Price as at 31st March
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
955p 1,046p 737p 879.5p 989p 1,396p
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders as at 30th April 2006
By location Number of shares Percentage
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
UK and Eire 169,673,971 77.0
Continental Europe 17,839,681 8.1
USA and Canada 23,145,630 10.5
Asia 2,521,710 1.2
Rest of World 1,151,631 0.5
Unidentified 5,928,913 2.7
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
220,261,536 100.00
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
By category Number of shares Percentage
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Pension Funds 113,833,744 51.7
Insurance Companies 43,758,124 19.9
Investment and Unit Trusts 18,901,814 8.6
Individuals 10,316,219 4.6
Other 33,451,635 15.2
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
220,261,536 100.00
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
By size of holding Number of holdings Percentage Number of shares Percentage
–––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1-1,000 8,309 68.7 3,664,127 1.7
1,001 – 10,000 3,048 25.2 7,699,739 3.5
10,001 – 100,000 501 4.1 17,989,849 8.2
100,001 – 1,000,000 192 1.6 56,209,890 25.5
1,000,001 – 5,000,000 43 0.4 95,667,936 43.4
5,000,001 and over 5 – 39,029,995 17.7
–––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
12,098 100.00 220,261,536 100.00
–––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
March 2001 March 2002 March 2003 March 2004 March 2005 March 2006
Johnson Matthey
FTSE 100
FTSE 350
By Location
By Category
By Size of Holding Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
113
Shareholder Information
Low Cost Share Dealing Service
A low cost share dealing service is available through The Share
Centre. This service allows shareholders to buy and sell Johnson
Matthey shares in a simple and low cost manner. For further details,
including The Share Centre’s terms, contact The Share Centre,
P .O. Box 2000, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8ZB telephone: 01296 414141
(e-mail info@share.co.uk).
Dividend History – Pence per Share
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
Interim 7.5 7.8 8.2 8.7 9.1
Final 17.1 17.7 18.2 19.0 21.0
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
Total 24.6 25.5 26.4 27.7 30.1
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
Dividend Policy
It is Johnson Matthey’s policy to grow dividends in line with earnings
while maintaining dividend cover at about two and a half times to
ensure sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth. Over
the last ten years Johnson Matthey has increased its dividend at a
compound annual growth rate of 7.7% p.a. The board is proposing
a final dividend for 2005/06 of 21.0 pence to take the total for the
year to 30.1 pence which is 9% up in line with growth in underlying
earnings. The dividend will be covered 2.42 times by underlying
earnings (see pages 110 and 111). For further discussion of the
group’s financial objectives see the Strategy and Objectives section of
the Operating and Financial Review on page 7 of this Annual Report.
Dividend Payments and DRIP
Dividends can be paid directly into shareholders’ bank or building
society accounts. Shareholders wishing to take advantage of this
facility should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars or complete the dividend
mandate form attached to their dividend cheque. A Dividend
Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) is also available which allows shareholders
to purchase additional shares in the company. Further information
can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway,
Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. Telephone 0870 600 3970.
They can also be contacted via their website at www.shareview.co.uk.
American Depositary Receipts
Johnson Matthey has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary
Receipt (ADR) programme which The Bank of New York administers
and for which it acts as Depositary. Each ADR represents two
Johnson Matthey ordinary shares. The ADRs trade in the US
over-the-counter (OTC) market under the symbol JMPLY. When
dividends are paid to shareholders, the Depositary converts such
dividends into US dollars, net of fees and expenses, and distributes
the net amount to ADR holders. For enquiries, The Bank of New
York can be contacted on 001 610 382 7836 or 001 888 BNY ADRS
(toll free for calls made in the US only). They can also be contacted
by e-mail at shareowners@bankofny.com or via their website at
www.adrbny.com.
Share Price and Group Information
Information on the company’s current share price together with
copies of the group’s annual and interim reports and major
presentations to analysts and institutional shareholders are available
on the Johnson Matthey website: www.matthey.com.
The website’s Investor Centre contains extensive information and a
number of tools which will be of assistance to investors including
historic share price information downloads and a share price
charting facility.
For capital gains tax purposes the mid-market price of the
company’s ordinary shares on 31st March 1982 was 253 pence.
Enquiries
Shareholders who wish to contact Johnson Matthey Plc on any
matter relating to their shareholding are invited to contact the
company’s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway,
Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. Telephone 0870 600 3970.
Internet address www.shareview.co.uk.
Shareholders may also telephone the company on 020 7269 8400
or write to:
Assistant Company Secretary
Johnson Matthey Plc
40-42 Hatton Garden
London
EC1N 8EE
For other enquiries shareholders may contact the Director, Investor
Relations and Corporate Communications at the above address
and telephone number.
Financial Calendar 2006/07
2006
7th June
Ex dividend date
9th June
Final ordinary dividend record date
25th July
115th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
1st August
Payment of final dividend subject to declaration at the AGM
22nd November
Announcement of results for the six months ending
30th September 2006
29th November
Ex dividend date
1st December
Interim ordinary dividend record date
2007 (provisional)
6th February
Payment of interim dividend on ordinary shares
7th June
Announcement of results for the year ending 31st March 2007
13th June
Ex dividend date
15th June
Final ordinary dividend record date
24th July
116th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
7th August
Payment of final dividend subject to declaration at the AGM PERCIVAL NORTON JOHNSON FOUNDED HIS GOLD ASSAYING
BUSINESS ON 1
ST
JANUARY 1817.
He also married on the same day! In 1822 he moved his business to number
79 Hatton Garden, the centre of London’s jewellery district. Having been apprenticed
to Johnson in 1838, George Matthey became a partner in the business in 1851 which
was renamed Johnson & Matthey. Johnson & Matthey had established a reputation for the
accuracy of its assays and the honesty and integrity with which it conducted business and in
1852 the company was appointed as official assayers and refiners to the Bank of England.
114
- Johnson Matthey
A Brief History of Johnson Matthey
Following Percival Norton Johnson’s retirement in 1860 George
Matthey was joined in partnership by John Scudamore Sellon, the
nephew of Johnson’s wife Lydia, however the Johnson name was
maintained and the business became Johnson Matthey & Co.
George Matthey, John Scudamore Sellon and Edward Matthey,
George’s younger brother, ran the company throughout the
remaining four decades of the 19th century and indeed up to the
time of the First World War. Over this time the business grew as a
world leading refiner and manufacturer of precious metal products
and chemicals. Johnson Matthey carried out pioneering work in
the refining and manufacturing of platinum and the other platinum
group metals and played a key role in the development of their
industrial applications. George Matthey was created a Chevalier in
the Legion d’Honneur by the French government for his work in
the field of platinum fabrications.
Johnson Matthey became a limited company in 1891 and its
ordinary shares were first listed on the London Stock Exchange
in 1942.
While Johnson Matthey now has its headquarters in Royston,
Hertfordshire, its City Office and Registered Office is at 40-42
Hatton Garden opposite the site where Percival Norton Johnson
established the business in 1822 and where Johnson Matthey
continued to refine and manufacture precious metal products
until the late 1950s.
Johnson and Matthey’s legacy lives on in today’s company: a world
leader in platinum group metals which have exceptional catalytic
properties. Our catalysts play a central role in reducing harmful
emissions and are at the heart of new technologies to support
the transition to a low carbon world.
Percival Norton Johnson FRS George Matthey FRS Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
115
ADR American Depositary Receipt 
AGM Annual General Meeting 
AMOG Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas
API Active pharmaceutical ingredient 
ATR Autothermal reformer 
Buprenorphine A synthetic derivative of thebaine, used as an
analgesic. Also used in drug addiction therapy
Carboplatin A platinum anticancer drug
CCL Climate Change Levy 
CCS Carbon capture and storage 
CDM Clean Development Mechanisms 
CEC Chief Executive’s Committee 
CGU Cash generating unit
CHP Combined heat and power 
CO Carbon monoxide 
CO
2
Carbon dioxide 
CSF Catalysed soot filter
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DMFC Direct methanol fuel cell 
DOC Diesel oxidation catalyst 
DPT Davy Process Technology 
DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
ECT Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
EHS Environment, health and safety 
EIB European Investment Bank 
EPS Earnings per share 
ESOT Employee Share Ownership Trust 
EU European Union 
FRC Financial Reporting Council
FRS 17 UK GAAP pension financial reporting standard
previously adopted by the group
Fuel Cell Technology which converts hydrogen or 
other fuels (methanol, phosphoric acid) into 
clean electricity
FURBS Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme 
Gearing Net debt / equity 
GHR Gas heated reformer 
GTL Gas to liquids – multi stage catalytic process used
to convert stranded natural gas into sulphur free
hydrocarbons, including diesel fuel 
HC Hydrocarbon
HDD Heavy duty diesel
Hydromorphone A semi-synthetic opiate with a potent 
analgesic effect
IAS International Accounting Standard 
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IOSH Institute of Occupational Safety and Health 
ISO 14001 Internationally recognised standard which
specifies the requirements for an environmental
management system
JI Projects Joint Implementation Projects 
JMEPS Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme 
JMTC Johnson Matthey Technology Centre, based 
in Sonning Common, UK 
LPG Liquid petroleum gas
LTIP Long term incentive plan 
MDRC Management Development and Remuneration
Committee 
MEA Membrane electrode assembly 
N 2O Nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas with a potency
310 times that of CO
2
NOx Nitrogen oxides
OEM Original equipment manufacturer 
OFR Operating and Financial Review
OHSAS 18001 The assessment specification for Occupational
Health & Safety Management Systems 
Oxycodone An opiate used to relieve medium to severe pain 
PAFC Phosphoric acid fuel cell 
PBT Consolidated profit before tax, impairment and
restructuring costs
PCT Process Catalysts and Technologies 
Pgm Platinum group metal 
PM Particulate matter 
Prostaglandin Synthetic analogues of hormone-like substances
R&D Research and Development 
REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of
Chemicals
Return on sales Operating profit / revenue
ROA Return on assets
RPI Retail price index
Satraplatin
® A potential new drug to treat prostate cancer 
SIC Standing Interpretations Committee
SIP Share incentive plan
SO
2 Sulphur dioxide
SUV Sports utility vehicle 
Syngas A mixture of hydrogen and carbon oxides
TSR Total shareholder return 
UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
WACC Weighted average cost of capital
Glossary of Terms 116
- Johnson Matthey
Page
Accounting policies 58-61
Acquisitions (notes 39, 42) 99-100, 101
Associates (note 18) 83
Audit Committee report 44
Audit fees (note 5) 65
Auditors’ report 53
Balance sheets 55
Board of Directors 38-39
Borrowings (note 24) 85
Capital expenditure by segment (note 1) 62-64
Capital expenditure to depreciation 20
Cash and cash equivalents (note 36) 98
Cash flow statements 56
Catalysts Division 8-11
Ceramics Division 13-15
Chairman’s statement 2-3
Charitable programmes 33-34
Chief Executive’s statement 4-5
Combined Code Compliance 41
Commitments (note 38) 98
Company details 117
Construction contracts (note 21) 84
Contingent liabilities (note 28) 92
Corporate Governance 41-43
Corporate Social Responsibility 27-37
Deferred tax (notes 8, 29) 66, 93
Directors’ report 40
Discontinued operations (note 40) 101
Dividends (note 9) 67
Earnings per ordinary share (note 10) 67
Employee numbers and expense (note 11) 68
Employee share ownership trusts (ESOTs) (note 30) 94
Employment policies 31-32
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies 8-10
Environment, health and safety 28-30
Equity (note 32) 95-96
Finance leases (notes 24, 38) 85, 98
Financial assets (note 25) 86
Financial highlights 1
Financial liabilities (note 26) 86
Financial Review 18-22
Financial risk management (note 27) 21, 86-91
Foreign exchange gains and losses (note 4) 65
Fuel Cells 11
Glossary of terms 115
Goodwill (note 15) 79-80
Grants (note 4) 65
Guarantees (note 27) 88
History of Johnson Matthey 114
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments (note 34) 97
Page
Impairment and restructuring costs (note 3) 64
Income statement 54
Intangible assets (note 16) 81-82
Interest (notes 6, 7) 66
Inventories (note 20) 83
Investments in available-for-sale assets (note 19) 83
Key management personnel (note 11) 68
Key sources of estimation uncertainty (note 43) 101
Minority interests (note 33) 96
Net debt (note 24) 85
Nomination Committee report 45
Operating and Financial Review 6-37
Operating leases (notes 4, 38) 65, 98
Operating profit (note 4) 65
Operations 8-17
Outlook 8
Payables (note 23) 84
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (note 13) 23, 71-77
Pharmaceutical Materials Division 13
Post balance sheet events (note 42) 101
Precious metal operating leases 98
Precious Metal Products Division 11-13
Process Catalysts and Technologies 10-11
Property, plant and equipment (note 14) 78-79
Provisions (note 28) 92
Receivables (note 22) 84
Recognised income and expense statements 57
Reconciliations from UK GAAP to IFRS (note 44) 102-108
Related parties (note 41) 101
Remuneration report 46-51
Research and development (note 4) 15-17, 65
Reserves (notes 31, 32) 94-96
Resources 24-25
Responsibility of directors for accounts 52
Retained earnings (note 32) 95-96
Revenue analysis (note 2) 64
Review of results 7-8
Risks and uncertainties 22-24
Segmental information (note 1) 62-64
Senior management 39
Share capital (note 30) 94
Share-based payments (note 12) 69-70
Shareholder information 112-113
Social and ethical matters 33-34
Stakeholder engagement 27
Standards not yet applied 61
Strategy and objectives 7
Subsidiaries (note 17) 82, 109
Taxation (notes 8, 29) 66, 93
Ten year record 110-111
Index Annual Report and Accounts 2006 -
117
Johnson Matthey is grateful to the following for their help in providing illustrations:
Platinum rings, page 5 – Recarlo / Platinum Guild International (Italia) Srl
Particulate filter, page 16 – Faurecia
Hydrogen fuel cell bus, page 36 – AC Transit
The paper used in this report is manufactured using virgin fibre from sustainable forests, using ECF (elementally chlorine free) processes
which carries the PEFC (Pan European Forestry Commission) certification.
Natural components are used as binding agents and processes are energy efficient, controlled by local government agencies.
Designed and produced by MAGEE
Printed by CTD
Company Details
Registered Office
40-42 Hatton Garden
London EC1N 8EE
Telephone: 020 7269 8400
Fax: 020 7269 8433
Internet address: www.matthey.com
E-mail: jmpr@matthey.com
Registered in England – Number 33774
Professional Advisers
Auditors Brokers
KPMG Audit Plc Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited
8 Salisbury Square One Cabot Square
London EC4Y 8BB London E14 4QJ
Lawyers
Herbert Smith LLP Taylor Wessing
Exchange House Carmelite
Primrose Street 50 Victoria Embankment
London EC2A 2HS Blackfriars
London EC4Y 0DX
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0870 600 3970
Internet address: www.shareview.co.uk Annual Report & Accounts
2006
Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2006
40-42 Hatton Garden
London EC1N 8EE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7269 8400
Fax: +44 (0)20 7269 8433
www.matthey.com
Desulphurisation
Synthesis
Converter
Saturator
ATR
GHR
  
