 Annual Report & Accounts
Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2007
40-42 Hatton Garden
London EC1N 8EE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7269 8400
Fax: +44 (0)20 7269 8433
www.matthey.com
2007 Contents
1 Financial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
4 Chief Executive’s Statement
6 Operating and Financial Review
7 Strategy and Objectives
7 Review of Results 2006/07
8 New Divisional Structure
8 Outlook
8 Operations
16 Financial Review
21 Risks and Uncertainties
23 Resources
25 Corporate Social Responsibility
34 Board of Directors
35 Other Senior Management
36 Directors’ Report
38 Corporate Governance
40 Nomination Committee Report
41 Audit Committee Report
42 Remuneration Report
48 Responsibility of Directors
49 Independent Auditors’ Report
50 Consolidated Income Statement
51 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets
52 Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements
53 Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of
Recognised Income and Expense
54 Accounting Policies
58 Notes on the Accounts
97 Principal Subsidiaries and Associates
98 Ten Year Record
100 Shareholder Information
102 Glossary of Terms
103 Index
104 Company Details
Cautionary Statement
The Operating and Financial Review and certain other
sections of this Annual Report, including the Business Review,
contain forward looking statements that are subject to risk
factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic
and business circumstances occurring from time to time in
the countries and sectors in which the group operates. It is
believed that the expectations reflected in these statements
are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of
variables which could cause actual results to differ materially
from those currently anticipated.
Front cover:
A schematic drawing showing a diesel oxidation catalyst (DOC) and catalysed soot
filter (CSF) assembly used to control emissions of carbon monoxide (CO), unburnt
hydrocarbons (HC) and particulate matter (PM) from light duty diesel vehicles.
In 2006/07 Johnson Matthey completed a new CSF manufacturing facility in Royston,
UK and installed additional CSF capacity at its South African facility to meet the
growing demand for CSFs in Europe.
Image copyright Johnson Matthey Plc 2007 Summary Results
Year to 31st March %
2007 2006 change
Revenue £6,152m £4,574m +34
Sales excluding precious metals £1,454m £1,159m +25
Profit before tax £226.5m £191.5m +18
Total earnings per share 96.9p 70.8p +37
Before one-off items
(including discontinued operations’ results):
Profit before tax £242.6m £219.8m +10
Earnings per share 81.2p 72.7p +12
Dividend per share 33.6p 30.1p +12
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS – 2007
Divisional
Operating Profit
1
Earnings per Share Before One-off Items
(including discontinued operations’ results)
Dividend per Share
2006 2007
£134.2m
£62.2m
£33.8m
Pharmaceutical
Materials
Precious Metal
Products
Catalysts
£148.8m
£85.3m
£35.5m
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
26.4p
27.7p
30.1p
33.6p
25.5p
61.8p*
64.0p*
67.0p
72.7p
81.2p
2
1
Before one-off items * UK GAAP basis earnings per share before exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation I am pleased to report that 2006/07 has been another good
year for Johnson Matthey. Your company has continued to
benefit from its long term commitment to investment in R&D
and capital expenditure and its focus on products and
technologies that benefit the environment and help to make
the most efficient use of increasingly expensive energy
resources. Most importantly, the year has also seen us make
good progress towards the board’s main objective of delivering
superior value to you, our shareholders. During the year the
total return to Johnson Matthey shareholders was 16%. Over
the seven years to March 2007, whilst the FTSE 100 index fell
slightly, Johnson Matthey shares rose by 120%.
The importance of our long term strategy is well illustrated
by a key development that took place this year. The second half
of the year saw major growth in our sales of catalysts for heavy
duty diesel (HDD) vehicles, a market that has been brought
about by tough emissions standards for buses and trucks that
came into force in Europe in October 2006 and in the US in
January 2007. Our investment in developing HDD catalyst
technology, testing and manufacturing infrastructure began in
the early 1990s and this long term perspective has ensured that
we now have a strong share of this new market.
Your board is fully committed to reporting on Johnson
Matthey’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance. A
review of our CSR performance is presented on pages 25 to 33
of this Annual Report and includes a section entitled ‘Working
Towards a Sustainable Future’. Our full CSR report can be found
on the company’s website. This spring I attended the group’s
annual conference for its senior management team, a major
theme of which was sustainability, looking at how we can
operate in a more sustainable way and how we can help our
customers in a transition towards a more sustainable future.
I was struck by the tremendous enthusiasm for sustainability
among those attending the conference and was delighted to
be able to participate in this part of the company wide process
to develop Johnson Matthey’s sustainability strategy.
Every one of us can do our part to move towards a
sustainable future. One small change that we are proposing is
to amend our Articles of Association to enable us to make full
use of the fact that our Annual Report is available electronically
on our website. Although we will still continue to send a
printed copy to any shareholder who wants it, we expect that
there are many who have access to the internet and would
prefer to view it online. We estimate that production of our
Annual Report generates a remarkable 15 tonnes of carbon
dioxide (CO
2
) every year because of the quantity that we have
to print and the size of the report, which has grown as a result
of all the regulatory content we are obliged to include. It is also
expensive to print. Hopefully we can reduce its environmental
impact significantly.
Our non-executive directors play a vital role in the
governance of your company. Johnson Matthey has a strong
group of independent directors and we are extremely
fortunate to have the benefit of their knowledge and many
years of experience. Charles Mackay and Mike Dearden will
retire from the board at the end of this financial year on 
31st March 2008. Their considerable contributions will 
be reflected in next year’s Annual Report. Meanwhile on 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2 Johnson Matthey
Sir John Banham
Chairman 16th April 2007 we announced the appointment of Michael
Roney as a non-executive director of the company with effect
from 1st June 2007. Mr Roney is currently Chief Executive of
Bunzl plc and has many years’ experience of business in 
Latin America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
The appointment of Dorothy Thompson as a non-executive
director of the company with effect from 1st September 2007
was announced on 30th May 2007. Mrs Thompson is currently
the Chief Executive of Drax Group plc and has a wealth of
experience in the energy sector as well as in Asia and Africa.
I look forward to their contributions to the work of the board
in the years ahead.
During this, my first full year as Chairman of Johnson
Matthey I have continued to visit many of the company’s
operations around the world. During these visits I never fail to
be impressed by the professionalism, commitment and enthusiasm
of all the Johnson Matthey people that I meet. This reflects the
emphasis that the company places on growing our management
talent and developing the skills of staff at all levels of the
organisation. The investment that we make in this area is vital to
equip your company to meet the challenges of the future and
to ensure that we capitalise on the many exciting opportunities
before us. Over the last few years we have been making major
investments in manufacturing facilities and in developing our
global businesses, particularly in Asia. The continuous
development of our people will be vitally important to the
success of these investments.
On your behalf, I would like to thank all of our people
around the world for their hard work and dedication during
what has undoubtedly been a good year for your company.
In conclusion, your company is in excellent shape and
continues to make good progress towards the delivery of
superior shareholder value. We are very well placed to benefit
from a number of important growth opportunities over the
next few years. I am confident that the company will continue
to produce good growth in the years ahead and I look forward
to reporting on a successful 2007/08.
Sir John Banham
Chairman
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
Above: Johnson Matthey’s new catalyst 
manufacturing plant in South Korea will 
begin production during 2007/08.
Above: Research and development at Davy Process
Technology, Stockton-on-Tees, UK. 4 Johnson Matthey
Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2006/07. Sales
excluding the value of precious metals were 25% up at
£1.45 billion. Profit before tax and one-off items, including the
results of discontinued operations, was up 10% at £242.6 million
and earnings per share on the same basis were 12% ahead at
81.2 pence.
Catalysts Division performed well with strong growth in
both its Environmental Catalysts and Technologies and Process
Catalysts and Technologies businesses. Precious Metal Products
Division had an excellent year benefiting from buoyant market
conditions and a strong contribution from its manufacturing
businesses. Pharmaceutical Materials Division returned to growth
following its disappointing performance last year with a good
recovery in its US operations.
At the end of February we concluded the sale of our
Ceramics Division. The proceeds will be used to buy back
shares and fund bolt-on acquisitions. This sale completes the
process, which we announced in November 2003, of disposing
of parts of our former Colours & Coatings Division and
focusing the group on our core activities.
Our strategic intent is to deliver superior growth in earnings
by capitalising on our world class technology in catalysts, precious
metals, fine chemicals and process technology where our
expertise provides a competitive edge. In order to achieve this
we continue to invest heavily in the future of our businesses.
In 2006/07 capital expenditure was £119.8 million which
was 1.5 times depreciation. Most of this investment was in
Catalysts Division with Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
(ECT) spending £63.9 million on new manufacturing capacity.
During the year a new diesel catalyst production facility was
completed in the United States and construction of an
additional catalysed soot filter (CSF) plant in Royston, UK is
well underway. Additional capacity has been added at our
plants in South Africa and Japan and we are building new
factories in South Korea and Russia. In Process Catalysts and
Technologies (PCT) we have invested in additional
manufacturing capacity for the Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and
Gas (AMOG) business.
Despite this high level of investment in capex and in R&D
we continue to make progress towards our pre-tax target of a
20% return on assets (ROA). This year we improved our group
ROA to 17.4% and expect to maintain or improve the group’s
return over the next few years.
Global concern about the environment and the need to
make the most efficient use of finite resources such as
hydrocarbons, from which we currently derive most of our
energy, is providing our business with many exciting
opportunities for growth. Our long term commitment to
investment in R&D and capital expenditure has ensured that
we are well positioned to help address these concerns.
Emission control legislation continues to tighten around the
world. 2006/07 saw the start of legislation in Europe and North
America that is driving the new market for heavy duty diesel
(HDD) catalysts. In fact, in the second half of the year we made
sales excluding the value of precious metals of £46 million into
this brand new market. HDD emission limits will tighten further
in Europe, Japan and the United States in 2009 and 2010 and
these new standards will require more sophisticated catalyst
systems to meet them. China, India, Brazil and South Korea all
have plans to introduce HDD emissions legislation by 2010. This
will add significantly to the market for HDD catalysts. A further
new market will emerge from 2011 as the US and Europe
phase in similar tough emission standards for off road diesel
vehicles. We estimate that by 2014/15 the global market for
HDD catalysts will be worth approximately US$3 billion in
sales, excluding the value of precious metals.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Neil Carson
Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
We are also continuing to benefit from technology
leadership in light duty diesel catalysts where concerns about
particulate emissions are resulting in the early fitment of
catalysed soot filters ahead of the Euro 5 light duty diesel
legislation which comes into full force in 2010.
Growth in our catalysts business is by no means limited to
vehicle emission control. High oil prices coupled with concerns
about global warming have created further opportunities for
our PCT business. There is a growing consensus that the world
needs to reduce carbon emissions through the more efficient
use of energy and the introduction of alternative energy sources,
thus starting a transition towards a lower carbon and ultimately
a hydrogen economy. Catalysts will play a crucial role in this
transition. Johnson Matthey is a world leader in catalysts for
the generation of hydrogen and has a strong position in other
technologies that are helping our customers to make the most
efficient use of hydrocarbon resources and to begin this transition
towards a lower carbon future. The acquisition of Davy Process
Technology (DPT) in February 2006 has been a great success,
providing us not only with additional opportunities to grow our
catalyst sales but also with good visibility of future developments
in chemical processes and alternative fuels. Ultimately, when
hydrogen is more widely used as a fuel we will benefit from our
leadership in fuel cell technology.
From 1st April 2007 we have reorganised our divisional
structure to give greater focus on our technologies concerned
with protecting the environment. We have created a new
Environmental Technologies Division comprising the ECT
business, which has been renamed Emission Control
Technologies, the process technologies businesses within PCT
(AMOG, DPT and Tracerco), which form a new Process
Technologies business, and Fuel Cells. This new division brings
together our core skills in catalysts and process technology and
is well placed to serve current and emerging markets.
Increasingly CO
2
will be viewed as a ‘pollutant’ and we are
concentrating on how Johnson Matthey, and in particular our
new Environmental Technologies Division, will thrive in the
future as governments legislate for lower carbon emissions in
response to the threat from climate change.
The remaining businesses within PCT, which serve the
speciality chemicals and pharmaceutical markets, have been
merged with Pharmaceutical Materials to form a new Fine
Chemicals & Catalysts Division. This combines the group’s fine
chemicals and related catalysts businesses and will enable us to
take advantage of the marketing and technology synergies that
exist between these businesses. The structure of our Precious
Metal Products Division remains unchanged.
In recent years Johnson Matthey has made great progress
in the field of corporate social responsibility (CSR). We pride
ourselves on having a strong team ethos where every
employee has a key role to play in the growth and success of
our business. We therefore place a great deal of emphasis on
career development. The excellent performance achieved in
2006/07 is the result of outstanding efforts from our workforce
and management teams around the world. Going forward we
will increase our focus on developing people to ensure that
we make the most of the opportunities ahead of us. We also
continue to work hard on improving our health and safety
record. While our accident rate continues to fall and is below
industry averages we believe that any accident is unacceptable
and it is our objective to achieve a zero accident rate. The
group’s policies in this important area are set out in our CSR
report on the company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Over the last year we have been examining how to make
our business more sustainable as a first step towards developing
a sustainability strategy for the group. In doing this we have
been focusing on two key questions: Firstly, how can we be
more efficient in the way that we use resources in our
manufacturing operations and offices? Secondly, how can we
design products that are both better than those of our
competitors and help our customers become more sustainable?
There is a real groundswell of support for sustainability
initiatives amongst our staff and together we are working on
developing new strategies for the future.
We have a number of excellent growth opportunities
before us. Our long term commitment to investing in R&D and
capital expenditure, as well as in the skills of our excellent team
of people, means that we are well positioned to capitalise on
these opportunities. The outlook for the group and particularly
for our new Environmental Technologies Division over the next
few years is very encouraging. A more detailed outlook
statement is included in our Operating and Financial Review
(OFR) on page 8.
Neil Carson
Chief Executive
Above: Heavy duty diesel catalyst manufacturing 
at our facility near Philadelphia, USA. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
Below: Continuously Regenerating Trap
(CRT
®
) assembly for emissions control
in heavy duty diesel vehicles.
Left: Manufacturing active
pharmaceutical ingredients at
Macfarlan Smith, UK.
Right: Platinum grain. Strategy and Objectives
Johnson Matthey’s strategic intent is to achieve consistent
growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of
high added value products and services in areas where our
expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis,
precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
The group’s financial objectives are:
• To achieve consistent and above average growth in
earnings per share. Over the ten years from 1996/97 to
2006/07 Johnson Matthey has increased its earnings per
share before one-off items and goodwill amortisation at a
compound annual growth rate of 9% p.a.
• To grow dividends in line with earnings while maintaining
dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure
sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
Over the last ten years Johnson Matthey has increased its
dividend at a compound annual growth rate of 8% p.a.
Dividend cover for 2006/07 was 2.4 times.
• To deliver a return on investment above the group’s cost
of capital. We estimate Johnson Matthey’s post tax cost of
capital is currently about 8%. The group’s post tax return
on assets for 2006/07 was 4.4% above that at 12.4%.
• We set a pre-tax target of 20% for return on assets (ROA)
for all of our divisions with a minimum threshold of being
ahead of our cost of capital (11.2% on a pre-tax basis).
Precious Metal Products achieved a return in excess of
20% in 2006/07. Catalysts’ and Pharmaceutical Materials’
ROAs were between the cost of capital and the 20%
target. In 2006/07 the group’s overall pre-tax return was
17.4% (see page 18).
The board’s strategies to achieve these financial objectives are:
• Focus the business on the group’s core skills in catalysis,
precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
• Position the group in growth markets where our core skills
are applicable. Catalysis is a key technology in many
developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those
concerned with protecting the environment such as in
emission control, cleaner fuel, more efficient use of
hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy. Our new
Environmental Technologies Division, which combines our
skills in catalysts and process technology, is well positioned
to serve these emerging markets. Catalysis is also important
in the manufacture of fine chemicals where Johnson
Matthey has a number of strong niche market positions.
Johnson Matthey’s expertise and international strength in
precious metals, particularly platinum group metals, was the
starting point for many of our businesses. The market for
platinum has grown steadily for many decades and demand
is expected to grow significantly over the next ten years.
• Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
We will continue to invest significantly in research and
development to develop new products and manufacturing
processes. Technology is the key driver for most of our
businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base
with technical centres located in all our major markets.
• Maintain strong relationships with our major customers,
suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by
investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group
is well positioned for future market development.
• Continue to invest in Johnson Matthey’s employees to
ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged
to meet the challenges of the future.
Review of Results 2006/07
Johnson Matthey achieved very good results in 2006/07 with
sales, profit before tax and earnings per share all well ahead of
last year. Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products
Division both achieved double digit growth in sales and
operating profit despite adverse exchange translation. Sales
were boosted by the significant rise in the prices of platinum
group metals (pgms). Demand for catalysts was also very strong
with expanding sales of catalysed soot filters (CSFs) for light
duty diesel vehicles, the emergence of a new market for heavy
duty diesel (HDD) catalysts to original equipment
manufacturers and increased sales of process catalysts.
We sold our Ceramics Division on 28th February 2007 for
£143.9 million giving a profit on sale of £33.3 million after tax.
The sale of Ceramics Division completes the process, announced
in November 2003, of disposing of parts of the former
Colours & Coatings Division and focusing the group on its core
activities. Under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
the results of Ceramics Division are shown in discontinued
operations on a post tax basis. Profit before tax in the income
statement comprises the results for the continuing businesses
only. The results for 2005/06 shown in the income statement
have been restated accordingly.
Revenue increased by 34% to £6,152 million. Precious
metal prices grew strongly over the year which boosted sales in
both Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products Division.
Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 25%
reflecting good underlying volume growth and increased non
precious metal material costs, some of which are a pass through
for Johnson Matthey.
Operating profit before one-off items increased by 18%
to £252.4 million, despite adverse exchange translation of
£6.4 million. There were no one-off items in operating profit in
2006/07 whereas in 2005/06 a £6.0 million impairment charge
was included. After one-off items growth in operating profit
was 22%.
The group’s interest charge rose by £11.1 million as a
result of higher average borrowings and higher interest rates.
Profit before tax and one-off items for the continuing
businesses rose by 15% to £226.5 million. After one-off items
the rise was 18%. If the operating results for discontinued
operations are included in the total, profit before tax was
£242.6 million which was 10% up on last year’s reported profit
before tax and one-off items of £219.8 million.
Total earnings per share, including the profit on disposal of
Ceramics, rose by 37% to 96.9 pence. Earnings per share before
one-off items (profit on sale of Ceramics Division and last year’s
impairment charge) were 12% up at 81.2 pence.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 New Divisional Structure
From 1st April 2007 we have reorganised our divisional
structure, creating a new Environmental Technologies Division
which comprises ECT, the process technologies businesses
within Process Catalysts and Technologies (PCT) and Fuel Cells.
The remaining businesses within PCT, which serve the speciality
chemicals and pharmaceutical markets, have been merged with
Pharmaceutical Materials to form a new Fine Chemicals &
Catalysts Division. Precious Metal Products Division is unchanged.
This new structure is designed to give greater focus on
technologies concerned with protecting the environment such as
pollution control, cleaner fuel, more efficient use of hydrocarbons
and the hydrogen economy. Our new Environmental Technologies
Division, which combines our core skills in catalysts and process
technology, is well positioned to serve these emerging markets.
Johnson Matthey’s Pharmaceutical Materials business is
focused on the manufacture of fine chemicals, particularly active
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), sold to pharmaceutical
companies which fits well with the group’s other fine chemicals
and catalysts businesses which sell into the same or similar
markets. Our new Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division, which
combines the group’s fine chemicals and related catalysts
businesses, will enable us to take advantage of the marketing
and technology synergies that exist between these businesses.
The segmental results for 2006/07, restated for the new
divisions, are shown on page 19.
Outlook
The outlook for the group for the next few years continues to be
very encouraging. We expect to achieve further strong growth
in sales excluding precious metals, particularly in Environmental
Technologies Division. In 2007/08 growth in underlying earnings
per share will be approximately 4 to 5% less than the growth in
profit before tax for the continuing businesses, because of the
dilutive effect of the sale of Ceramics. However, looking forward
to 2008/09 and beyond, growth in profit before tax and
earnings will be stronger as a result of the divestment.
In 2007/08 we should benefit from a full year of sales of
HDD catalysts to meet new emission standards introduced in
Europe in October 2006 and in North America in January
2007. Although industry experts are predicting a 25% fall in
truck sales in North America in 2007, all new trucks sold will
need to meet the emissions legislation, which will provide the
opportunity for significant new business for Johnson Matthey.
In addition, ECT should achieve significant growth in sales of
CSFs for light duty diesel vehicles and grow its market share of
autocatalysts in Asia. Overall, we expect ECT to achieve double
digit growth in both sales and operating profit in 2007/08.
Our Process Technologies business is also experiencing
strong demand, particularly for catalysts for synthesis gas and
hydrogen production. Prospects for Process Technologies are
encouraging, driven by the high oil price and the need to make
more efficient use of hydrocarbon feedstocks.
Precious Metal Products Division enjoyed very strong
growth in 2006/07, benefiting from buoyant trading conditions
in platinum group metals and good growth in its manufacturing
businesses. In the second half of the year the division benefited
from some trading profits on the minor pgms which we do not
expect to be repeated at the same level in 2007/08, but overall,
if current market conditions continue, we would still expect the
division to achieve further growth in 2007/08, particularly in the
first half of the year.
Our new Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division is expected
to achieve steady growth in 2007/08, with a further recovery
in the US Pharmaceutical Materials & Services business and
continued growth in catalysts and research chemicals. Most of
the division’s growth in 2007/08 is likely to come in the second
half of the year.
Overall, the group should perform well in 2007/08. Prospects
for all our businesses are good, particularly for Environmental
Technologies where global concerns about pollution, climate
change and making the most efficient use of energy resources
will create significant opportunities for future growth.
Operations
Johnson Matthey has operations in over 30 countries and
employs around 7,800 people. In the 2006/07 financial year
Johnson Matthey’s operations were organised into four global
divisions: Catalysts, Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical
Materials and Ceramics. The sale of Ceramics Division was
completed on 28th February 2007.
Catalysts Division
Description of the Business
Catalysts Division consists of three global businesses:
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies (ECT)
ECT comprises Johnson Matthey’s global autocatalyst, heavy
duty diesel and stationary source emissions control businesses.
We are a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle
exhaust emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for
the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from
industrial processes. Manufacturing takes place in the USA, UK,
Belgium, Mexico, Argentina, South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, India
and China. R&D facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden, Japan
and Brazil.
Process Catalysts and Technologies (PCT)
PCT manufactures base and precious metal process catalysts,
fine chemicals and electrochemical products. Manufacturing
facilities are in the UK, USA, Germany, India and China. The
Davy Process Technology business develops chemical process
technologies and licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and
petrochemical industries. Our Research Chemicals business is
based in the USA and UK.
Fuel Cells
Johnson Matthey is the world leader in catalysts and catalysed
components for fuel cells.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
8 Johnson Matthey Performance in 2006/07
Catalysts Division’s sales rose by 48% to £2,193 million, partly
as a result of significantly higher prices for platinum, palladium
and rhodium. Excluding the value of precious metals, sales rose
by 32% to £1,036 million. This increase was driven by good
volume growth and the impact of higher material costs, such as
the costs of substrates for catalysed soot filters, which are a
pass through for Johnson Matthey.
The division’s operating profit increased by 11% to 
£148.8 million, with both Environmental Catalysts and T echnologies
and Process Catalysts and Technologies performing well. The
results were adversely affected by exchange translation. At last
year’s rates sales excluding precious metals would have
increased by 35% and operating profit would be 14% up.
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies was well ahead of
last year with good growth in Europe, particularly for diesel
oxidation catalysts and CSFs, increasing autocatalyst sales in Asia
and a welcome upturn in our North American business with
the introduction of products to meet new HDD legislation.
In Johnson Matthey’s financial year to 31st March 2007
global light duty vehicle sales increased by 2.8% to 66.3 million.
Car production rose by 3.1% with a small overall increase in
inventories. Most of the growth in production again came in
Asia, which was 9.5% up on last year. Within Asia, sales grew
21% in China and 23% in India. Total European sales were 3.4%
up, with all the growth coming in Eastern Europe (16%). Sales
in Russia, where Johnson Matthey is constructing a new plant,
increased 30% during the year. In North America light vehicle
sales were 2.0% down and domestic production fell by 6.3%
as imports gained market share.
Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production
Year to 31st March
2007 2006 change
millions millions %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
North America Sales 19.3 19.7 -2.0%
Production 14.9 15.9 -6.3%
Total Europe Sales 21.3 20.6 3.4%
Production 21.1 20.7 1.9%
Asia Sales 16.4 15.2 7.9%
Production 25.4 23.2 9.5%
Global Sales 66.3 64.5 2.8%
Production 66.9 64.9 3.1%
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Source: Global Insight
We continue to see increasing demand from many of the
leading car companies in Europe for CSFs to remove particulates
from diesel exhaust emissions. Although legislation requiring
such emission control devices does not come into full force in
Europe until 2010, most car manufacturers are starting to fit
these devices much earlier due to public awareness of the
environmental and health benefits that they provide. In 2006/07
we completed work on a new factory in Royston, UK to
manufacture CSFs and during 2007/08 we will complete an
additional facility which will double our capacity. In addition, we
have added CSF capacity at our South African facility, which also
supplies the European market.
During the year we commenced construction of a new
autocatalyst manufacturing facility in the Russian Federation.
This plant will produce catalysts to meet demand from both
local and global car manufacturers following the introduction 
of emissions legislation requiring autocatalyst fitment in Russia 
in the spring of 2006.
Our business in Asia continues to perform very well. Over
the next decade we expect that most of the growth in world
car production will take place in the Asian region. In 2006/07
we have achieved strong volume growth in China and Japan
and our operations in India and Malaysia also continued to
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
Japan 2003
US 2002
0.20
0.10
0.05
0.15
0
6.0
3.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
NOx (g/kW-hr)
PM (g/kW-hr)
Euro III
Euro IV
Euro V
US 2007
Japan 2009
Japan 2005
US 2010
Figure 1
HDD On Road Regulation Development
Figure 2
HDD On Road Regulation Development
New models All models
–––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––
Europe Euro IV 01 Oct 05 01 Oct 06
Euro V 01 Oct 08 01 Oct 09
United States US2007 01 Jan 07 01 Jan 07
US2010 01 Jan 10 01 Jan 10
Japan Short Term
2.5-12 tonnes 01 Oct 03 01 Oct 03
12 tonnes+ 01 Oct 04 01 Oct 04
New Long Term
2.5 tonnes+ 01 Oct 05 01 Oct 05
Diesel 09
2.5 tonnes+ 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 09
China Beijing – Euro IV 2008
Rest of country – Euro IV 2010
India Major cities 2010 (or earlier?)
South Korea Euro IV 01 Jan 06 01 Jan 08
Brazil Euro IV 2009 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
10 Johnson Matthey
perform well. During the year we again expanded our
autocatalyst manufacturing facility in Japan in order to serve
growing demand for our products from Japanese car companies.
Further expansion is planned for the coming year.
Our new plant in South Korea (our fifth in the Asian region)
is nearing completion and will begin production during 2007/08.
This new plant will manufacture catalysts for both diesel and
petrol powered vehicles and will carry out research and
development activities to support the rapidly growing Korean
motor industry.
The market for HDD catalysts for new vehicles grew
rapidly in the second half of the year. New emission control
standards for HDD vehicles came into force in October 2006
for all new vehicles sold in Europe. In the United States similar
legislation came into force at the beginning of January 2007.
Johnson Matthey has a leading market share of both these new
markets. A major expansion programme was completed in the
year at our facility near Philadelphia, USA to provide capacity to
meet demand for catalysts for both heavy duty diesel vehicles
and diesel powered pick ups, which are also affected by this
legislation.
Johnson Matthey’s sales, excluding precious metals, of HDD
catalysts to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) increased
to £46 million in the second half of 2006/07 from £7 million in
the first half. Sales in the US, as expected, started slowly as
truck sales were impacted by pre-buying of trucks ahead of the
legislation. In 2007/08 we expect to see further rapid growth in
our sales of HDD catalysts as the legislation in Europe and the
US will apply for the whole of the year and as US truck sales
return to more normal levels over the course of the year.
Our HDD business in Asia continues to make good
progress, gaining share of the OEM market in Japan and
achieving good sales into the large retrofit programme
underway in Seoul, South Korea. Both China and India are
major manufacturers of trucks and similar emission control
legislation to Europe and the US is expected to be introduced
in those two countries by 2010. HDD emissions legislation in
Europe, the US and Japan will tighten significantly in 2009 and
2010 which will require more sophisticated catalyst systems to
meet the standards.
On road HDD emissions legislation will undoubtedly
continue to tighten beyond 2010. In addition there is also
legislation in place in the European Union and the United States
that will take effect from 2011 requiring off road or ‘non road’
vehicles such as construction, mining and agricultural equipment
to meet the same tight emissions standards. Although average
engine sizes are smaller than those for on road HDD vehicles,
this is a significant additional new opportunity for Johnson
Matthey and will have similar technology requirements.
Process Catalysts and Technologies
Process Catalysts and Technologies also achieved good growth
in sales and profits in 2006/07. The Ammonia, Methanol, Oil
and Gas (AMOG) business was well ahead of last year with
continued strong demand for catalysts and purification materials
for industries where hydrogen or synthesis gas are key
intermediates. Demand from methanol producers was particularly
good in 2006/07. Sales of edible oil catalysts were also ahead of
last year but catalyst sales to the polymer market declined.
Davy Process Technology (DPT), which we acquired in
February 2006, had an excellent year concluding several major
contracts. The acquisition of DPT has provided Johnson Matthey
with additional opportunities to grow sales of catalysts into new
technology developments. DPT develops and licenses chemical
process technologies and is benefiting from growth in China as
well as high energy prices which have increased demand for
new chemical processes. A good example of this is the
announcement in February 2007 that the AMOG business and
DPT had entered into contracts for a methanol technology
licence, basic engineering design package and methanol synthesis catalyst supply for a new 1.8 million tonne per year
methanol project for Baotou Shenhua Coal Chemicals. This
project is a coal to olefin plant being constructed in Baotou
City in Inner Mongolia. Methanol will be produced from locally
mined coal using advanced methanol synthesis technology and
catalysts supplied by Johnson Matthey. The methanol will then
be further converted to olefins via methanol to olefins (MTO)
technology.
Tracerco, PCT’s oil services business, also achieved good
growth in the year benefiting from record demand for its
specialist diagnostics services and equipment from production
platforms and refineries. In April 2006,Tracerco acquired the
process diagnostics business of Quest TruTec which has
expanded Tracerco’s market coverage, particularly in the USA.
PCT’s fine chemicals and related catalysts businesses
performed well in the year. Demand for precious metal chemicals
was strong and sales of homogeneous and Sponge Nickel™
catalysts showed good growth. Research Chemicals benefited
from a good contribution from its new joint venture in China
and sales in Europe were strong stimulated by the launch of the
new catalogue. Projects are now underway to expand the
business’ warehousing and distribution facilities in India.
Fuel Cells
Our Fuel Cells business achieved strong growth in sales, from a
small base, with significantly increased orders for membrane
electrode assemblies (MEAs) for direct methanol fuel cells
(DMFCs). Most of these sales were for portable fuel cells which
are sold to European consumers as companies manufacturing
and marketing portable power supplies achieved sustained
commercial sales. There continues to be considerable potential
in consumer electronics applications where DMFCs have cost
and performance advantages over batteries. Johnson Matthey’s
longstanding R&D in this area has put us in a very good
position to serve the many companies in this sector that are
now actively developing prototypes and carrying out product
trials around the world.
Other sectors where fuel cells have applications, such as
automotive and local power generation, have benefited from
growing interest in low carbon and low emission technologies.
Car companies have reaffirmed their ambitions for fuel cell
vehicles and cities such as London have committed to further
purchases of fuel cell buses. Johnson Matthey introduced new
MEA products in 2006/07 that significantly improve the
durability and cost of fuel cells used in the very demanding
transport sector. While commercial sales to this sector remain
some way off, the substantial progress over the last year is an
encouraging step towards the realisation of this very large
potential market for our fuel cell products.
Our Swindon facility provides our Fuel Cells business with
a stable, high quality product development and manufacturing
capability that is very important for our customers’ long term
ambitions and differentiates us from other catalyst and MEA
suppliers. The annual cost of our Fuel Cells business fell by
£0.8 million to £7.3 million.
Precious Metal Products Division
Description of the Business
Precious Metal Products Division is organised into three groups;
Platinum, Colour Technologies and Gold and Silver and
incorporates Johnson Matthey’s precious metals marketing,
fabrication and refining activities as well as its business
manufacturing functional and decorative coatings for glass
and ceramics.
Platinum
Consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and fabrication
activities. Marketing is headquartered in Royston, UK with
support facilities in Philadelphia and Hong Kong. We are the
world’s leading distributor of platinum group metals (pgms) and
the sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the world’s largest
producer of platinum. Our platinum fabrication business makes
a wide range of platinum group metal products primarily in the
UK and USA. Our Pgm Refining business recovers pgms from
spent catalysts and other secondary materials and refines
primary pgms from global mining operations. It has refining
facilities in the UK and USA.
Colour Technologies
Headquartered in the Netherlands, our Colour Technologies
business manufactures black obscuration enamels and silver
conductive materials for automotive glass. It also makes colours,
enamels and decorative precious metal products for other glass
applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as for
tableware and other ceramic applications.
Gold and Silver
Comprises our gold and silver refining and bullion manufacturing
operations. Johnson Matthey is a market leader in the refining of
gold and silver. The business serves the world’s mining industries
and recycles secondary scrap material. We are also a leading
manufacturer of high purity small gold bars for investment and
jewellery manufacture. Gold and silver refining operations are
located in the USA and Canada.
Performance in 2006/07
Precious Metal Products Division’s sales increased by 29% to
£3,824 million, boosted by higher prices for pgms. In sterling
terms the average price of platinum rose by 18%. Prices of the
minor metals (rhodium, iridium and ruthenium) increased
dramatically. Operating profit (before last year’s impairment
costs) rose by 37% to £85.3 million. At last year’s exchange
rates operating profit would have been 40% higher. Both the
marketing and distribution business and the manufacturing
businesses achieved strong growth in the year.
Platinum
The price of platinum was extremely volatile in 2006/07. With
the physical market tightly balanced, speculative interest and
the volatility in other commodities such as oil had a significant
impact on the price. Platinum peaked at a new all time high of
$1,390/oz in November and was subject to a broadly upward
trend throughout the year. The average price for the year was
$1,185/oz, a 26% increase on 2005/06 (18% in sterling terms).
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
South Africa Russia Elsewhere
0
6
5
4
3
2
1
7
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Autocatalyst
(net)
Jewellery Industrial
0
2
1
3
4
6
7
5
Investment
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
South Africa Russia Elsewhere
0
6
8
7
5
4
3
2
1
9
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Autocatalyst
(net)
Dental Electronics
0
2
1
3
4
7
8
6
Other
 5
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
12 Johnson Matthey
Total consumption of platinum increased once more in
2006/07, a pattern unbroken since 1992. Demand for platinum
in autocatalysts increased by 11% with much of the growth
generated in Europe, where diesel vehicles accounted for more
than 50% of light duty vehicle registrations. The fitting of
catalysed soot filters to diesel vehicles and the emissions
control equipment fitted to heavy duty diesel vehicles made a
substantial contribution to platinum demand. However, demand
from jewellery manufacturers fell again as the rising price of
platinum encouraged de-stocking and recycling of old jewellery.
Supplies of platinum increased in 2006/07, with new mines
coming on stream and the largest producer Anglo Platinum
having a good year after unexpected problems in 2005.
Overall, the platinum market was close to balance in 2006/07,
which, following several years of deficits, ensured the price
remained firm.
The palladium price reached its peak for 2006/07 in May,
touching $398/oz. Supply and demand fundamentals continued
to be largely incidental as hedge funds and institutional investors
extended already substantial long positions in the market. With
their significant and consistent support, the average price for
the year was $336/oz, an increase of 47% on 2005/06.
Physical demand for palladium decreased in 2006/07.
Autocatalyst demand increased due to higher gasoline vehicle
production outside Europe, whereas demand from Chinese
jewellery manufacturers fell significantly after pipeline filling in
the previous year. Palladium supplies were lower than in
2005/06 due to a reduction in Russian sales but did little to
alter the substantial surplus of supply over demand.
The price of rhodium rose sharply in 2006/07, touching
a peak of $6,275/oz in May. The average price doubled for a
second successive year to reach $5,166/oz. Strong demand
from the automotive and glass fabrication industries coupled
with speculative interest left little metal to be offered in the
spot market, in spite of modestly increased supply. This
sustained pressure on a market which was already tight and
illiquid inevitably caused the price to rise sharply.
The past year has been notable for the dramatic increase
in the price of ruthenium, which rose from $160/oz to reach
$870/oz before easing to $700/oz by the end of our financial
year. The price increase was attributable to a surge in demand
from the electronics industry for the coating of a new
generation of hard disk memory storage. Limited physical
availability of metal to meet this demand and speculative buying
resulted in a classic market spike.
Profits from the division’s marketing and distribution
operations were substantially higher than in 2005/06, benefiting
from good growth in demand and higher pgm prices. The
results in the second half of the year also benefited from some
trading profits on the minor metals. Although we do not expect
these trading profits to be repeated at the same level in
2007/08, market conditions remain favourable and we would
expect the business to achieve further growth in profits in the
current year if market conditions remain the same.
The division’s metal fabrication businesses achieved good
growth in 2006/07. T o meet growth in our market share of core
pgm products we increased the capacity of our facility at West
Chester, USA. This expansion successfully came on stream during
the year. The market for catalysts used in the abatement of
nitrous oxide, a powerful greenhouse gas produced as a by
product in the manufacture of nitric acid, is starting to develop.
We have excellent products in this area and the contracts
currently being finalised will generate a new revenue stream in
the coming years. Our medical products business located at three
sites in California had another good year with strong growth in
nitinol products and components for the cardiovascular sector.
Pgm Refining maintained its good progress, benefiting from
higher pgm prices which stimulated the flow of secondary
materials for refining, especially autocatalyst scrap. The business
continues to focus on capacity management and process
improvement. As a result it was successful in making further
reductions in the quantity of precious metals held in the refining
circuits. At the same time new processes were introduced to
meet customer requirements, such as increased capacity for
ruthenium refining to meet growing demand from the
electronics sector.
Supply of Platinum 2002-2006
Million oz
Demand for Platinum 2002-2006
Million oz
Supply of Palladium 2002-2006
Million oz
Demand for Palladium 2002-2006
Million oz Colour Technologies
Colour Technologies achieved further good growth in operating
profit, with our products for automotive glass proving very
successful. In this sector we continue to invest heavily in
product development to meet the increasingly stringent
requirements of our customers for improved enamels and
conductive inks. In the tableware sector we continue our
successful strategy of focusing on a reduced range of higher
technology products. In line with this we announced the closure
of our decorative precious metal products plant in Royston, UK
and transfer of the activities to our larger plant in Maastricht,
the Netherlands. This transfer will be completed in 2007/08.
Gold and Silver
The division’s gold and silver business also enjoyed a good year,
boosted by very strong metal prices which stimulated good flows
of secondary materials. Our North American operations at Salt
Lake City and T oronto were successful in growing operating profit
whilst reducing the amount of metal tied up in processes. At the
end of March 2007 we agreed to sell our small Hong Kong gold
and silver refining business to Metalor Technologies (Hong Kong)
Limited, part of the Metalor Group. This sale was completed on
4th May 2007. Net proceeds are expected to be £0.4 million.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division
Description of the Business
Pharmaceutical Materials Division is a global, integrated supplier
of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), which provides
services to pharmaceutical companies through all the stages of
development and commercial manufacture of a pharmaceutical
product.
The division’s Macfarlan Smith (UK) and West Deptford
(USA) businesses provide a full range of commercial scale
manufacturing services for APIs to both generic and branded
pharmaceutical companies. Both businesses specialise in the
manufacture of low to medium volume, high value products,
especially controlled drugs.
Pharma Services (USA) provides contract research and
development and manufacturing services to pharmaceutical
companies from pre-clinical through to commercial launch. It also
manufactures other low volume APIs for the commercial market.
The Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland business specialises in
the manufacture of prostaglandin APIs, which are very low
volume, high value, chemically complex molecules.
Performance in 2006/07
Pharmaceutical Materials Division’s sales rose by 1% to
£135 million. Operating profit was up 5% at £35.5 million. The
division’s US businesses showed a good recovery in the year
although their reported results were adversely affected by
exchange translation as a result of the weaker US dollar. At last
year’s exchange rates the division’s sales would have been 3%
up and operating profit 7% higher than in 2005/06.
US Operations
The recovery in the division’s US operations reflected increased
demand for both APIs and contract research. The business
benefited from the purchase by Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
of ADDERALL
®
, an immediate release product used in the
treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, from
Shire plc. Johnson Matthey has an exclusive agreement to
supply the API to Barr for this product as well as the API used
in Barr’s existing generic version. Sales of APIs for generic
methylphenidate and several opiate products also showed good
growth in the year.
A New Drug Application (NDA) was filed for Satraplatin,
a potential new platinum anticancer drug which was discovered
by Johnson Matthey, licensed to Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
and sub-licensed for development and commercialisation to
GPC Biotech. If this drug is successful Johnson Matthey will
receive both royalty and manufacturing income from the product.
Pharma Services’ performance improved substantially in
2006/07, with good growth in sales and profits in both the
manufacturing and contract chemistry segments. The business
also made good progress in expanding its manufacturing base.
Several products manufactured by Pharma Services have
progressed well in clinical trials and required significant scale-up
during the year. Pharma Services continues to use its broad
capabilities to support product development for other parts of
the division. A number of generic products manufactured for
both West Deptford and Ireland were submitted for regulatory
approval by our customers during the year.
We expect to see further steady growth in sales of APIs
for generic controlled drugs, particularly those used in the
treatment of pain which is a growing market, and in platinum
based anticancer drugs. There is also the opportunity for
additional growth from the launch of new products, such as
Satraplatin if it should be approved, and the agreed launch in
April 2009 of Barr’s generic version of ADDERALL XR
®
.
Macfarlan Smith
Sales at Macfarlan Smith, based in Edinburgh, were down on last
year. However, operating profit was slightly ahead. The fall in
sales resulted from an overall reduction in selling prices for key
bulk opiate products which was offset by lower prices for the
raw materials used to manufacture these products. Sales of
higher margin specialist opiates, particularly oxycodone and
buprenorphine, showed good growth offsetting a decline in
some non opiate fine chemical products.
The world market for opiate drugs, which are primarily
used to treat pain, continues to grow. Use of these products
increases as the world’s population ages and people are
generally less tolerant of pain, as well as by the introduction
of new applications and new dosage forms, particularly for
specialist opiates, which enable broader, more controlled use
of these medications.
Ireland
The performance of Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland improved
in 2006/07 and the business continued to expand its customer
and product base. Prostaglandin APIs manufactured by the
business have been used by customers in developing new
generic products and several are in the process of review for
regulatory approval.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 Research & Development
Research and development underpins Johnson Matthey’s high
technology businesses. We maintain a high level of R&D
expenditure to ensure the continuous flow of new products
and technologies to provide our customers with cost effective
solutions to meet legislated and technical requirements. In
2006/07 the continuing operations spent £66.5 million gross
on research and development.
Johnson Matthey Technology Centre
The Johnson Matthey Technology Centre (JMTC) is the group’s
central resource for longer term research. JMTC’s major facility
is located at Sonning Common, UK and supports the research
and development of new products and technology across all
of Johnson Matthey’s businesses. JMTC also includes a smaller
group of scientists based in Billingham, UK which specialises in
catalyst manufacturing science. The centres bring together 180
world class scientists with expertise in catalysis, precious metals,
materials science and many other disciplines in which Johnson
Matthey operates. JMTC has state of the art facilities for the
development and testing of catalysts as well as one of the most
advanced analytical science groups in the world, equipped with
the latest tools for materials characterisation. JMTC’s integrated
approach to synthesis, testing and analysis fosters the cross
fertilisation of ideas to keep the group at the leading edge of
technological advancement.
Collaboration is important from the inception of new
projects. JMTC works closely with technology centres and
development groups within Johnson Matthey’s global businesses
and participates in external collaborative research and
development programmes worldwide.
Many projects at JMTC are sponsored by the operating
divisions to meet their longer term objectives alongside which
run a number of core science projects to address the
fundamental science that underpins every technology
development. As well as targeting step changes in technological
advancement, core science projects focus on sustainability issues
such as energy efficiency, metal thrifting and waste reduction.
Knowledge gained in the core science programmes is used to
accelerate and improve product development across the group,
reducing time to market and improving our ability to design
products to meet customers’ needs.
A core competence of Johnson Matthey is a fundamental
understanding of catalyst science and materials technology.
In the section below, three elements of JMTC’s approach to
catalyst and materials development are described, followed by
a review of R&D activities in our operating divisions.
Core Science Projects
Catalyst Design
With the ever increasing complexity of today’s catalysts, it is
imperative to be able to understand and control the interactions
between metals that are the basis of the activity, selectivity and
promotion of a catalyst. At JMTC we have moved beyond a purely
experimental approach to catalyst and materials preparation
and are exploiting rational design to optimise performance.
Combining sophisticated surface science characterisation
techniques with realistic testing and high power computational
chemistry our research is directed towards understanding active
sites and the other key features of catalyst structures.
Catalysts inevitably change with usage as the material
poisons and ages over time. We are therefore engaged in
studying the physical processes of catalyst change. With a more
fundamental understanding of the restrictions imposed by these
physical rules we can design within the limits of what is possible
and streamline our research efforts.
Catalyst Engineering
The rational design of catalysts requires an unprecedented degree
of synthetic control. In three parallel research programmes we are
investigating the latest techniques of catalyst preparation. Whether
it is thrifting metals, controlling metal alloy interactions or achieving
a homogeneous distribution of metal, we are developing the
capability to control the nanoscale structure of metal particles.
Complementing more conventional catalysts and materials, these
unique products offer us a diverse portfolio of entirely original
catalysts for our development and testing programmes.
The focus of this work is on the process as much as the
product and using more sophisticated synthetic techniques
allows us to simplify catalyst syntheses and economise on energy.
With careful precursor design we can phase out the use of
toxic and hazardous organic solvents in favour of exclusively
aqueous reactions and reduce the production of environmentally
harmful emissions such as nitrates and oxides of nitrogen (NOx).
Manufacturing Science
The efficient transition from making a catalyst on a laboratory
scale through pilot scale to full commercial manufacture is
critical to the development of new products. We need to be
able to support our customers’ requirements at every stage
and be able to produce representative material which will not
change as it is scaled up. It is equally important to understand
the sustainability of the manufacturing process to optimise the
use of expensive metals, reduce the environmental impact of
by products and to produce material which has the potential
to be recycled or reused. Our Manufacturing Science Centre
at JMTC in Billingham is a centre of excellence for catalyst
manufacturing across the group and is constantly involved in new
manufacturing projects from many different Johnson Matthey
businesses. As well as understanding and resolving issues of
scale-up, we invest in research into new process technology to
improve the efficiency and reduce the environmental impact of
our manufacturing processes and products.
Catalysts Division
New product development in the Environmental Catalysts and
Technologies business is driven by ever tightening emissions
legislation around the world and we continue to invest in
scientists and state of the art equipment for the development
and testing of catalysts to meet customers’ needs. Through this
investment, Johnson Matthey has become a leader in diesel
emission control technologies for both heavy and light duty
diesel applications including catalysed soot filter technology for
removal of particulate matter from diesel exhausts. We also
continue to invest in the development of improved products
for the treatment of exhaust from gasoline engines.
Johnson Matthey has invested in ECT’s R&D facilities
during the year to meet the demands of planned new emissions
regulations around the world. 2007/08 will see the completion
14 Johnson Matthey
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15
of expansions at our Royston, UK and Gothenburg, Sweden
facilities and of the R&D centre at our new facility in Korea.
Process Catalysts and Technologies’ key areas of focus for
research remain in the hydrocarbon to products and fuels areas
and we are engaged in a number of specific projects aimed at
process improvement and enhancing catalyst performance.
The process technology expertise of Davy Process Technology
complements our broad palette of catalyst manufacturing and
development tools to provide a very potent mix through which
we aim not only to develop improvements to existing chemical
processes but also achieve significant world scale step changes
in technology. R&D programmes include those focused on
improving the design and efficiency of our gas heated reforming
technology to offer higher efficiencies in syngas based processes
such as gas to liquids and methanol manufacture.
In the fine chemicals and pharmaceuticals areas we also
continue to invest in R&D projects directed towards both new
product development and process efficiency improvements.
During the year the Fuel Cells business completed a major
project on advanced MEAs for automotive applications funded in
part by the UK Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and has
collaborated with a number of other DTI funded potential UK
suppliers. This work has demonstrated significant improvements in
the durability of key components at the heart of the MEA, such
as the membrane. Using our own composite design, we have
achieved a five fold improvement in membrane durability under
automotive test cycles and other improvements have reduced
the cost of the substrates and catalysts used in MEAs by a factor
of five while maintaining or improving performance. Collaboration
with new suppliers able to assist our future product development
(including many from outside the fuel cell technology industry)
will have lasting benefits to the long term competitiveness of our
fuel cells business.
Methanol fuelled fuel cells have in the past required much
higher loadings of platinum catalyst than their hydrogen fuelled
counterparts and during the year we have made significant
progress in lowering these loadings without compromising
performance. Working with international suppliers has allowed
us to offer MEAs for methanol fuelled fuel cells with improved
membranes based on hydrocarbons, as well as traditional
fluorinated materials.
Precious Metal Products Division
Research and development in the Precious Metal Products
Division encompasses a number of different product areas. The
division’s pgm fabrication business (Noble Metals) continues to
support R&D to optimise catalyst systems for the abatement of
nitrous oxide, a powerful greenhouse gas listed under the Kyoto
Protocol. We have already established a leading share of this
new market and this work will further enhance our position.
Our Colour Technologies business continues to focus on the
development of more environmentally friendly products for use
in colours and stains, and on the invention of superior enamels
and conductive materials for the automotive industry. Research
in our pgm and gold refining businesses continues to target
improved refinery processes to yield shorter lead times and
reduced metal holdings.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division
Research and development in the Pharmaceutical Materials
Division is directed towards the development of manufacturing
processes for APIs to be manufactured and marketed by the
division’s business units. Across the division the development
of safe and cost effective manufacturing processes and the
instrumental and chemical methods for detailed analysis of
these products are fundamental technologies for the
manufacture of commercial scale products. These technologies
are essential to achieve competitive market positions and to
obtain regulatory approval for products.
Each of the division’s businesses has developed substantial
chemical know-how in their respective market niches and they
collaborate closely on new technical challenges. Combined with
Johnson Matthey’s core expertise in catalysis, chiral catalysis and
organometallic chemistry, the division offers the pharmaceutical
marketplace a unique range of R&D capabilities. Financial Review
Introduction
Johnson Matthey performed very well in 2006/07. Revenue
grew by 34% to £6.2 billion. Profit before tax for the continuing
businesses rose by 18% to £226.5 million and earnings per share
were 37% up at 96.9 pence. Excluding one-off items (profit on
sale of Ceramics Division and last year’s £6.0 million impairment
charge) earnings per share were 12% up at 81.2 pence.
We sold our Ceramics Division on 28th February 2007 for
£143.9 million giving a profit on sale of £33.3 million after tax.
The sale of Ceramics Division completes the process, announced
in November 2003, of disposing of parts of the former Colours
& Coatings Division and focusing the group on its core activities.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) the
results of Ceramics Division are shown in discontinued operations
on a post tax basis. Profit before tax in the income statement
comprises the results for the continuing businesses only. The
results for 2005/06 shown in the income statement have been
restated accordingly.
Sales and Margins
Revenue (total sales) increased by 34% to £6,152 million.
Precious metal prices grew strongly over the year which
boosted sales in both Catalysts Division and Precious Metal
Products Division.
Johnson Matthey’s turnover is heavily impacted by the high
value of precious metals included in the group’s products,
particularly in Precious Metal Products Division. The total value
of sales varies each year according to metal prices, the mix of
metals sold and the level of trading activity. The value of the
precious metals included in sales is generally separately invoiced
and payment made within a short period. Consequently,
although return on sales (operating profit / revenue) for the
precious metals businesses is low, return on investment is high.
To provide a more useful measure of return on sales, the
table below shows return on sales by division excluding the
value of precious metals. In the year to 31st March 2007 sales
excluding precious metals rose by 25%, driven by good growth
in Catalysts Division.
Return on Sales excluding Precious Metals
Return on
Sales excluding sales excluding
precious metals precious metals
1
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million % %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts 1,036 786 14.4 17.1
Precious Metal Products 290 245 29.4 25.3
Pharmaceutical Materials 129 127 27.6 26.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Continuing Businesses 1,454 1,159 17.4 18.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1
Operating profit before one-off items divided by sales excluding precious
metals
John Sheldrick
Group Finance Director
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
16 Johnson Matthey The return on sales excluding precious metals for the
continuing businesses fell by 1.0% to 17.4%. This fall largely
reflected a drop of 2.7% in Catalysts Division whose sales
excluding precious metals grew by 32% in the year. Some of
this growth was attributable to the increased costs of substrates
which are required for heavy duty diesel catalysts and catalysed
soot filters and which are pass through costs for Johnson
Matthey. The division still achieved 11% operating profit growth
which is more representative of the underlying volume growth.
Operating Profit / Exchange Translation
Operating profit before one-off items increased by 18% to
£252.4 million, despite adverse exchange translation. Translated
at last year’s rates the growth would have been 21% (see table
above).
The main impact of exchange rate movements on the
group’s results comes from the translation of foreign
subsidiaries’ profits into sterling. A quarter of the group’s profits
are made in North America, mainly in the USA. The average
rate for the US dollar was $1.896/£ compared with $1.785/£
for 2005/06. Each one cent change in the average rate for the
dollar has approximately a £0.4 million effect on operating
profit in a full year. The fall of over 11 cents in the dollar in
2006/07 reduced reported group operating profit by £4.6 million.
Most major south east Asian currencies were weaker,
adding a further £1.5 million to adverse exchange translation.
The South African rand also weakened substantially, from
R11.4/£ to R13.4/£. However, the catalysts manufactured by our
South African business are ultimately for export and the benefit
of a weaker rand on margins more than offsets the translational
effect. Overall, excluding the rand, exchange translation reduced
group profits by £6.4 million compared with 2005/06.
Catalysts Division’s operating profit was up 11%, benefiting
from strong top line growth. Environmental Catalysts and
Technologies’ sales were well ahead of last year with good
growth in autocatalyst sales in Asia, increased sales of catalysed
soot filters in Europe and the emergence of the new market
for heavy duty diesel catalysts in both Europe and North
America. Process Catalysts and Technologies also achieved good
growth with strong sales of methanol catalysts and a good
contribution from Davy Process Technology.
Precious Metal Products’ operating profit (before one-off
items) was up 37%, benefiting from buoyant trading conditions
for platinum group metals, particularly in the second half of the
year, and good growth in its manufacturing businesses. A one-off
impairment charge of £6.0 million was included in operating
profit for the prior year (2005/06) relating to the write-off of
redundant assets in Pgm Refining following the restructuring of
that business.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division achieved 5% growth in
operating profit in 2006/07 with a recovery in its US operations.
All three divisions’ results were held back by adverse
exchange translation. The table at the top of this page shows
the results translated at last year’s exchange rates. More
detailed reviews of the progress of each division are given on
pages 8 to 13.
$/£
March 2005 March 2007 March 2006
Average
$1.785/£
Average
$1.896/£
1.6
1.8
1.7
1.9
2.1
2.0
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17
Operating Profit for the Continuing Businesses
(before one-off items)
US Dollar Exchange Rate
2007 at 2006
Year to 31st March exchange
2007 2006 change rates change
£ million £ million % £ million %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– – – – – – – – – – – – –––––––––––– – – – – – – – – – – –
Catalysts 148.8 134.2 +11 152.7 +14
Precious Metal Products 85.3 62.2 +37 87.1 +40
Pharmaceutical Materials 35.5 33.8 +5 36.2 +7
Corporate (17.2) (16.8) (17.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating Profit 252.4 213.4 +18 258.8 +21
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– Interest
The group’s net finance costs rose by £11.1 million to
£26.8 million. Average borrowings were significantly higher than
last year as a result of the major investment in both capital
expenditure and working capital to support the rapid growth in
Catalysts Division, and the acquisition of Davy Process Technology
in February 2006. However, with the sale of Ceramics Division
at the end of February 2007, net debt fell significantly in March
to end the year at £364.8 million. Interest rates also rose,
particularly for floating rate US dollars, which on average were
1.3% up on 2005/06.
Profit before T ax
Profit before tax and one-off items for the continuing
businesses rose by 15% to £226.5 million. After one-off items
the rise was 18%. If the operating results for discontinued
operations are included in the total, profit before tax was
£242.6 million which was 10% up on last year’s reported profit
before tax and one-off items of £219.8 million.
Taxation
The group’s tax charge for the continuing businesses was
£64.7 million, an increase of £10.0 million on last year reflecting
the growth in profit before tax. The average tax rate for the
continuing businesses was 28.6%. The £33.3 million profit on
disposal of Ceramics Division was largely tax free as a result of
the substantial shareholdings exemption for tax on UK disposals.
Tax paid was £81.4 million which was much higher than
in 2005/06. Some of the difference related to timing with
payments falling into the first quarter of 2006/07 rather than
the final quarter of the previous year. In addition, in 2005/06
we reached agreement with HM Revenue & Customs in the
UK on several years’ tax assessments which resulted in a
repayment of tax and benefited that year’s first half cash flow.
Dividend
The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of
23.7 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 33.6 pence,
an increase of 12%, which is in line with the growth in earnings
per share before one-off items. The dividend for the year would
be covered 2.42 times by earnings per share before one-off items.
Return on Investment
We set a target of 20% for the pre-tax return on assets (ROA)
for all our businesses with a minimum threshold of being ahead
of our cost of capital (11.2% on a pre-tax basis). For the group
as a whole ROA was 17.4% which was 0.4% up on last year.
We are targeting to achieve a gradual improvement in the return
over the next few years as the benefit of the investments we
have been making in new product development comes through.
On a post tax basis the return on invested capital was
12.4% (applying the group’s underlying tax rate of 28.6% to
operating profit in the calculation below). The estimated
weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the group is 8%.
The margin above the cost of capital for the year was 4.4%
which was 0.4% up on last year.
Return on Assets
Average net operating Return
assets employed
1
on assets
2
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million % %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts 945 838 15.7 16.0
Precious Metal Products 198 173 43.2 36.0
Pharmaceutical Materials 306 306 11.6 11.1
Ceramics 63 125 n/a 17.0
Corporate / other (62) (64) n/a n/a
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total Group 1,450 1,378 17.4 17.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1
Average of opening and closing segment assets less segment liabilities as
shown in note 1 on the accounts on pages 58 and 59. For the group, the
average of opening and closing equity plus net debt.
2
Operating profit before one-off items divided by average operating assets
employed.
Precious Metal Products Division’s return improved in
2006/07 and remains well above the group target. Catalysts’
ROA fell by 0.3% in 2006/07 despite good growth in operating
profit reflecting the heavy investment made in the year, both in
terms of capital and R&D, which will benefit future years.
Pharmaceutical Materials’ return improved and was back above
the group’s cost of capital in 2006/07, having fallen slightly
below that level in 2005/06, and is expected to show steady
improvement over the next few years.
Cash Flow
Johnson Matthey generated a net cash inflow of £13.8 million
in 2006/07. Net debt disposed of with the sale of Ceramics
Division amounted to £19.1 million. After taking into account the
impact of exchange translation on foreign currency borrowings
the group’s net debt fell by £47.2 million to £364.8 million.
The proceeds of sale of Ceramics Division amounted to
£146.0 million (cash received plus net debt disposed of on
sale). The group spent £8.6 million on acquisitions in the year
and a net £50.4 million on share buy-backs. Excluding these
items the group had a free cash outflow of £54.3 million.
Change in Net Debt
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flow from operating activities 159.1 212.3
Net finance costs / dividends (91.9) (74.5)
Capex / asset sales (121.5) (114.6)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Free cash flow (54.3) 23.2
Acquisitions / disposals 118.5 (24.3)
Shares bought (50.4) (25.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash flow 13.8 (27.0)
Debt acquired / disposed with subsidiaries 19.1 (1.4)
Exchange on net debt 14.3 (13.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Change in net debt 47.2 (41.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
This outflow was the result of major investments in the
year on capital expenditure and working capital to support the
future growth of Catalysts Division, particularly ECT. In addition,
working capital grew as a result of the rise in precious metal
prices which affected both inventories and receivables. In total,
the cash outflow on working capital was £114.4 million, although
the ratio of working capital to revenue fell.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
18 Johnson Matthey Capital expenditure for the year was £119.8 million which
was 1.5 times depreciation. Most of the investment was focused
on Catalysts Division where capex was 2.0 times depreciation,
with the other divisions spending at levels close to or below
depreciation. The cash outflow on capital expenditure in the
year was £121.5 million (net of asset sales) with a reduction in
payments accrued.
Capital Expenditure to Depreciation
Year to 31st March 2007
Capital Capex /
expenditure Depreciation depreciation
£ million £ million (times)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts 91.5 46.0 2.0
Precious Metal Products 11.2 13.4 0.8
Pharmaceutical Materials 10.7 10.5 1.0
Discontinued / other 6.4 7.6 0.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total Group 119.8 77.5 1.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies spent
£63.9 million in 2006/07 with major investments in new
capacity. We have completed the new diesel products facility
in North America and are building a new CSF manufacturing
facility in Royston in the UK. Additional manufacturing capacity
has been installed in our production facilities in Japan and South
Africa and we are building new factories in Russia and South
Korea which should be completed and commissioned in
2007/08. In Process Catalysts and Technologies we have added
capacity in AMOG and in 2007/08 we will be investing in
additional capacity in Clitheroe, UK to manufacture the latest
generation of synthesis gas catalysts.
Pensions
The surplus on the group’s UK pension schemes fell by 
£23.2 million to £45.5 million on an IFRS basis at 31st March 2007.
During the year the trustees completed the triennial revaluation
of the fund incorporating the latest statistics on life expectancy
and demographic experience. The revaluation showed the fund
was still in surplus as of 31st March 2006 but at a lower level
than previously estimated. Market conditions improved
somewhat in 2006/07 with a rise in the discount rate and a
good return on equities although inflation assumptions have
also risen. The cost of providing future pensions has gone up
and both employee and employer contributions have been
increased to help maintain a satisfactory funding position.
Worldwide, including provisions for the group’s post-
retirement healthcare schemes, the group had a net surplus
of £0.9 million on employee benefit obligations at 31st March
2007 compared with £18.8 million at 31st March 2006.
Capital Structure
In 2006/07 we invested heavily in capital expenditure and
working capital to support organic growth, particularly in ECT.
We also purchased 3.6 million shares into treasury at a total
cost of £52.6 million. Proceeds of £2.2 million were received
from option exercises to give a net outflow on share transactions
of £50.4 million. However, these outflows were more than
offset by the proceeds from the sale of Ceramics Division of
£146.0 million. Gearing (debt / equity) fell by 5.6% to 33.8%.
In 2007/08 we will continue to invest in organic growth,
with capital expenditure budgeted to be 1.5 times depreciation
and further additional investment in working capital. Despite
this significant investment we expect to maintain or improve
the group’s return on assets. We plan to continue to buy back
shares in 2007/08 and we are looking at a number of possible
bolt-on acquisitions. Together these investments will increase
gearing and make more efficient use of the group’s balance sheet.
New Divisional Structure
From 1st April 2007 we have reorganised our divisional
structure, creating a new Environmental Technologies Division
which comprises ECT, the process technologies businesses
within PCT and Fuel Cells. The remaining businesses within PCT,
which serve the speciality chemicals and pharmaceutical markets,
have been merged with Pharmaceutical Materials to form a new
Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division. Precious Metal Products
Division is unchanged.
The segmental results for 2006/07, restated for the new
divisions, are shown in the table below.
Segmental Information for New Divisions
External
sales
Sales to excluding
external precious Operating
customers metals profit
Year to 31st March 2007 £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Environmental Technologies 1,864.3 896.2 120.1
Precious Metal Products 3,824.4 290.0 85.3
Fine Chemicals & Catalysts 463.0 268.0 64.2
Corporate – – (17.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Continuing Businesses 6,151.7 1,454.2 252.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Borrowings
Net debt at 31st March 2007 was £364.8 million, a reduction
of £47.2 million on 31st March 2006.
In April 2006 the US$100 million 6.36% fixed rate bonds
issued in 1996 matured and were repaid. In December 2006 we
issued a further US$300 million of long term debt to improve
the group’s maturity profile. The issue was in three tranches:
US$100 million of 5.55% seven year bonds; US$50 million of
seven year floating rate bonds with an interest rate of LIBOR
+ 0.28%; and US$150 million of 5.67% ten year bonds which
were subsequently swapped into floating rate debt.
At 31st March 2007 the maturity profile of the group’s
debt was as follows:
Borrowings and Finance Leases
31st March 2007 31st March 2006
£ million % £ million %
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Five to ten years 300.2 69 165.9 30
Two to five years 109.7 25 243.5 45
One to two years 0.6 – 45.3 8
Within one year 27.5 6 90.3 17
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gross borrowings 438.0 100 545.0 100
Less: cash and deposits 73.2 133.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net debt 364.8 412.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
20 Johnson Matthey
Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies
The group uses financial instruments, in particular forward
currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage the financial
risks associated with its underlying business activities and the
financing of those activities. The group does not undertake any
trading activity in financial instruments. Our treasury department
is run as a service centre rather than a profit centre.
Interest Rate Risk
At 31st March 2007 the group had net borrowings of
£364.8 million. Some 51% of this debt was at fixed rates with
an average interest rate of 5.20%. The remaining 49% of the
group’s net borrowings was funded on a floating rate basis.
A 1% change in all interest rates would have a 0.8% impact
on profit before tax and one-off items. This is within the range
the board regards as acceptable.
Liquidity
The group’s policy on funding capacity is to ensure that we
always have sufficient long term funding and committed bank
facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak borrowing
requirements. Within long term debt of £410.5 million at
31st March 2007, the group had borrowings under committed
bank facilities of £15.4 million. Total committed bank facilities
amounted to £310.0 million of which £294.6 million was
undrawn at 31st March 2007. The group also has a number of
uncommitted facilities, including metal leases, and overdraft lines
at its disposal.
Foreign Currency Risk
Johnson Matthey’s operations are located in over 30 countries,
providing global coverage. The majority of its profits are earned
outside the UK with the largest single investment being in the
USA. In order to protect the group’s sterling balance sheet and
reduce cash flow risk the group has financed most of its
investment in the USA, Europe, Japan and China by borrowing
US dollars, euros, yen and renminbi respectively. Although an
element of this funding is obtained by directly borrowing the
relevant currency, a large part is achieved through currency
swaps which can be more efficient and reduce costs and credit
exposure. The group uses forward exchange contracts to
hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts
and payments in foreign currencies. Currency options are
occasionally used to hedge foreign exchange exposures, usually
when the forecast receipt or payment amounts are uncertain.
Details of the contracts outstanding on 31st March 2007 are
shown on pages 82 and 83.
Precious Metal Prices
Fluctuations in precious metal prices can have a significant
impact on Johnson Matthey’s financial results. Our policy for all
manufacturing businesses is to limit this exposure by hedging
against future price changes where such hedging can be done
at acceptable cost. The group does not take material exposures
on metal trading.
All the group’s stocks of gold and silver are fully hedged by
leasing or forward sales. Currently the majority of the group’s
platinum stocks are unhedged because of the lack of liquidity in
the platinum market.
US$/oz
March 2005 March 2007 March 2006
0
200
400
600
800
1,200
1,000
1,400
Platinum Palladium
US$/oz
March 2005 March 2007 March 2006
0
1,000
3,000
2,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
Rhodium
Platinum and Palladium Prices Rhodium Price Risks and Uncertainties
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which
could have a material impact on the group’s long term
performance.
Technological Change and Patents
Much of the group’s business is focused on selling products
which are technologically advanced or employ technologically
advanced processes in their manufacture. In most cases these
products are subject to continuous improvement as new
technology is developed. The group is exposed to the risk that
if it does not keep up with changes in the market place its
products will no longer be competitive. This is both a threat and
an opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as well
as lose it. The group’s strategy to meet this risk is to invest
significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve
leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient
added value to justify the long term investment required.
The group’s results are also impacted by the status of
patents. These include patents which the group itself registers
and maintains, as well as the risks arising from new third party
patents and the benefits that arise from the expiry of third party
patents. All the group’s divisions have significant registered
intellectual property. Pharmaceutical Materials Division supplies
active pharmaceutical ingredients to generic manufacturers and
can benefit when third party patents expire. If actual patent lives
differ from the expectations of the relevant group business, such
as by being extended or successfully challenged, this can affect
the group’s results. The group has established policies both to
monitor its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties,
taking appropriate action as necessary in respect of infringement.
Legislation
Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of
Johnson Matthey’s products arises from new legislation
governing the environmental or health impact of its customers’
products in different jurisdictions worldwide. This is most
significant for Environmental Catalysts and Technologies where
historic and future growth depends on global tightening of
emissions limits for on road and off road vehicles. Legislation is
also relevant for some of the group’s other businesses. Process
Catalysts and Technologies manufactures products to remove
contaminants or to produce particularly pure chemicals. Colour
Technologies is supported by legislation phasing out lead,
cadmium and other heavy metals from glass and ceramic glazes.
The development of the fuel cells industry is also impacted by
clean air regulations and the drive towards zero emissions
within both local and national legislation.
Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the
development of such legislation its growth could be adversely
affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
Johnson Matthey monitors the development of legislation
globally and coordinates its development work to ensure it can
achieve greatest advantage from each new requirement. Regular
reviews are undertaken at the business and group level to
monitor growth and to investigate other areas of potential if
legislation slows.
Global, Political and Economic Conditions
Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the
world including several within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these
regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and
business risks associated with such international operations. The
group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements
including those for taxation, environmental, operational and
competitive matters. It is exposed to the effect of political risk
which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation
of assets, imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits
on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and
currencies. The group is exposed to possible natural
catastrophe risk, for example through major earthquake or
flood, and possible terrorist action. Management monitor such
risks, maintaining adequate insurance cover and amending
business procedures as appropriate to mitigate any exposure
while remaining in compliance with local and group
requirements.
Environmental Liabilities
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual
and potential obligations on the group to remediate
contaminated sites, both those currently owned and, also in
some cases, those which have been sold. Johnson Matthey’s
environmental policies are set out on the company’s website at
www.matthey.com/cr/ehs. The group incurs costs annually in
meeting these obligations and also maintains provisions for
potential liabilities. If existing provisions are inadequate to cover
any liabilities or the associated costs arising from environmental
obligations this could materially impact the group’s results.
Commercial Relationships
Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships
with a number of key customers and suppliers. The loss of any
of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening
in commercial terms could have a material impact on the
group’s results.
Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to
supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to
operate satisfactorily. From time to time the group undertakes
surveys of customer satisfaction which are reviewed by the
board. Some of the relationships are supported by long term
contracts, notably the group’s relationship with Anglo Platinum.
Foreign Exchange
Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the
group’s operating profit earned outside the UK. It has significant
investments outside the UK with the single largest investment
being in the USA. As such the group is exposed to movements
in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies,
particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively
impact results. The group’s policies for managing its foreign
currency exposures are set out in more detail on page 20.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Precious Metal Prices and Controls
A large proportion of the group’s activities involve managing
precious metals which have inherent risks associated with them
in addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
While the group could be vulnerable to a global disruption
in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access to world
markets for these metals and is not dependent on any one
source for obtaining supplies for operations.
Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate
significantly and this can have a material impact on Johnson
Matthey’s results. The group’s policies for managing this risk are
set out in more detail on page 20. The high value of precious
metals means that any process losses could be material and
there remains the possibility of theft or fraud. Johnson Matthey
has extensive experience in operating with precious metals and
employs strict security, assay and other process controls and
reviews to minimise any exposure. Policies are reviewed
regularly by the Chief Executive’s Committee and reported to
the Audit Committee.
Pensions
The group’s defined benefit pension funds are well funded with
a net surplus at 31st March 2007 of £30.4 million (see page 69).
However, this position is exposed to the risk of changes in
interest rates and the market values of investments as well
as inflation and increasing longevity of the members. The
assumptions used in calculating the funding position of the
pension funds are shown in detail on page 68. These risks are
mitigated by paying appropriate contributions into the funds
and through an investment asset allocation policy which has a
high level of probability of avoiding a material deficit based on
the results of an asset / liability matching study.
Customer Market Dynamics
The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use
these products to serve a diverse range of end markets. The
group’s performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of
its customers’ end markets and their performance within these
markets. A significant loss of market share at or by a major
automotive customer could negatively impact the group’s
results. The group also has exposure to the wider automotive
sector as a whole which is served by a number of the group’s
divisions. While global car production levels have some effect
on the sales of Johnson Matthey’s products, other factors such
as tightening emissions legislation and the increasing technical
demands from catalysts play a more significant role.
Another key end market is for pharmaceutical products,
with Pharmaceutical Materials providing materials used in the
manufacture of controlled drugs and anticancer pharmaceuticals.
Johnson Matthey’s performance is influenced both by growth in
these markets and by the market share of its key customers.
Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry
developments and market share at customers to prevent the
group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
Competitor Risk
The group operates in highly competitive markets. Significant
product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of
price competition could all adversely affect the group’s results.
Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and
development in order to ensure the introduction of both new
products and improved production processes to allow the
group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets. The group
also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it
remains competitive.
Litigation and Investigations
The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and
standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Failure to comply properly with these laws, regulations and
standards could significantly damage the reputation and
performance of Johnson Matthey.
Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess
compliance with local and group policies, and provisions are
made to rectify or compensate for any breaches. In the
ordinary course of business, Johnson Matthey is subject to
inspections and monitoring by certain regulatory or enforcement
bodies and by the quality departments of some of its major
customers. If existing provisions are inadequate to cover any
liabilities arising from such investigations this could materially
impact the group’s results.
Energy and Raw Materials
The group’s products contain a broad array of raw materials
and its operations require significant levels of energy, notably
electricity and natural gas. Any increases or volatility in prices
and any significant decrease in the availability of energy or raw
materials could affect the group’s results. Johnson Matthey
coordinates its global purchasing activities to obtain the best
possible prices and uses hedging and other contractual means
where appropriate to minimise this risk and to benefit where
possible.
Credit Risk
Within certain divisions, the group derives a significant
proportion of its revenue from sales to major customers. Sales
to individual customers are frequently high if the value of
precious metals is included in the price. The failure of any such
company to honour its debts could materially impact the
group’s results.
Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading
with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly
monitors its exposure. The Audit Committee receives a report
every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts
due and amounts overdue within the group and the relevant
actions being taken. As at 31st March 2007, no single outstanding
balance exceeded 2% of the group’s market capitalisation.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
22 Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
Resources
Johnson Matthey has significant resources to support its core
businesses. These have been built up over many years and
support the group’s competitive position in the key markets
which the group serves. Johnson Matthey continues to invest in
all the areas listed below to maintain its leading market positions.
Employees
Johnson Matthey’s most important resource is its people. We
have a highly qualified workforce with many of our employees
having trained in science and technology. We employ a high
proportion of PhDs not only in our research centres but also in
many different management positions throughout the company.
Johnson Matthey has a low staff turnover (see page 30), with
many employees staying with the company for their whole
careers. We place great emphasis on recruitment and training
and our policies in these areas are set out on pages 29 and 30.
Research & Development
One of the group’s strategies is to differentiate ourselves by
using our world class technology. We invest significantly in
research and development to develop new products and
manufacturing processes. We have a group technology centre
located at Sonning Common in the UK which is focused on
longer term research and has a worldwide reputation for
excellence in catalysis and precious metals technology. In
addition we have major research centres at Royston, Billingham
and Stockton-on-Tees in the UK located close to some of our
major businesses. Worldwide we have technical centres in many
countries including the US, Japan, Sweden and the Netherlands.
Johnson Matthey’s R&D activities are described in more
detail on pages 14 and 15.
Patents and Know-how
Many of the inventions and intellectual property developed as a
result of our investment in R&D are patented, and we maintain
a large number of families of patents to support our businesses.
Equally important is know-how where the group has an
extensive knowledge base, particularly in the areas of catalysis
and precious metals, which can be used to develop new
products and services to meet customer needs.
Commercial Relationships
Many of our businesses provide products and services to other
companies and we have developed close working relationships
with many of our customers and work in collaboration with
them to develop new products. We also have a long standing
relationship with Anglo Platinum, the world’s largest platinum
miner, which has lasted for many decades. Through this
relationship Johnson Matthey and Anglo Platinum have developed
new markets for platinum group metals which have supported
the expansion of the platinum industry over many years.
Manufacturing Technology
Over the last decade the group has invested heavily in new
manufacturing capacity and technology. Capital expenditure has
run at a high multiple of depreciation (see page 19). As a result
of this investment the group has developed an infrastructure of
modern facilities located close to our major markets around
the world.
Market Position and Reputation
Johnson Matthey is generally ranked number one or two in the
major markets in which it operates. The group is a world leader
in catalysis and precious metals which provides a strong basis
for future development. The company started in 1817 and has
a worldwide reputation in the precious metals industry for
technical expertise and integrity. Our semi-annual publication
‘Platinum’ is acknowledged to be the most comprehensive
source of information on the platinum industry. We also publish
the ‘Platinum Metals Review’, a leading journal of scientific
research on the platinum group metals. Below: Platinum gauze catalyst for nitric
acid manufacture and catalyst pellets
for the abatement of nitrous oxide
from nitric acid plants.
Left: Production facilities at the new catalyst
manufacturing plant in South Korea.
Right: Membrane electrode assemblies
(MEAs) for fuel cells.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Corporate Social Responsibility
Johnson Matthey embraces a culture of continuous
improvement in all aspects of corporate social responsibility
(CSR). Continuous improvement is driven through corporate
policies, a comprehensive management system and the
commitment of our staff. There are three key policy areas which
provide the framework for the management of corporate social
responsibility: Environment, Health and Safety (EHS); Employment;
and Business Integrity and Ethics.
Innovation and technical leadership are at the forefront
of our business and we apply our skills to the development of
products and technology which make a positive contribution to
preserving the environment, in particular those that mitigate the
effect of climate change. This includes the continual development
of products that will improve the resource efficiency of our
industrial customers and of products that make a positive
contribution to the health and wellbeing of society. In managing
our business we will endeavour to match these aspirations at all
levels of our organisation and seek similar standards from those
with whom we work.
Johnson Matthey operates according to well established
ethical, social and environmental policies and over the last year
further initiatives have been undertaken to improve our
operational performance in these areas. Details of these
initiatives can be found in Johnson Matthey’s Corporate Social
Responsibility Report and are presented here in summary.
The full report can be found on the company’s website at
www.matthey.com.
As reported last year, corporate social responsibility is
now monitored by the CSR Compliance Committee which
is a sub-committee of the Chief Executive’s Committee (CEC).
The CSR Compliance Committee has specific responsibility
for setting and overseeing compliance with the standards for
group CSR performance through the development, adoption,
dissemination and implementation of appropriate group policies
and other operational measures. It comprises the division
directors and senior representatives of Group Legal, Internal
Audit and Group EHS. CSR issues are reviewed by the CEC on
a monthly basis with the Audit Committee reviewing the business
risks associated with CSR at least once a year.
As outlined in the Corporate Governance section
(see page 40) the board has embedded corporate social
responsibility into its risk management process and formally
reviews the area once a year. CSR is championed at the highest
level at Johnson Matthey and the board has reviewed and
endorsed the full report.
Johnson Matthey’s Products and Technologies
Many of our products and technologies have a particularly
positive social and environmental benefit. They range from
anticancer compounds to our emission control and
management technologies for cars, trucks and buses, which
improve air quality around the world. Johnson Matthey’s
products and technologies have a significant role to play in the
mitigation of climate change through reducing dependence on
fossil fuels. These range from chemical process catalysts which
improve the resource and economic efficiency of many
industrial processes to fuel cell technologies which aim to make
an important contribution to the clean generation of electricity
and energy supply. The stabilisation of the world’s climate will
require massive changes right across the energy network and
part of the solution presents a challenge for business in
developing more sustainable solutions for its customers. This
offers a number of business opportunities where Johnson
Matthey’s products and technologies could be the key enabler
in delivering long term environmental benefits to society with
the generation of further value for our shareholders. Further
details of Johnson Matthey’s activities in these important areas
are described the CSR report.
Product safety is critical to Johnson Matthey and
sophisticated systems are in place to ensure that a high level of
protection is afforded to our customers. Increasing emphasis is
being placed on life cycle assessment and sustainable chemistry.
Whilst Johnson Matthey’s main contribution to sustainable
development will be through the excellence of our products
we also seek to achieve similar levels of excellence in the
management of the business and in the quality of our
manufacturing operations. Our expertise in processing valuable
precious metal materials provides us with a core competence
in the conservation, re-use and recycling of natural resources;
principles which are applied throughout our business.
Stakeholder Engagement
Johnson Matthey undertakes a wide range of engagement
activities focused on communication with individuals and
organisations who are impacted by its operations or who may
impact on the Johnson Matthey business, both at corporate and
divisional level. These include shareholders, fund managers,
employees, customers, communities and national and
international trade associations. The company plays an active
role within the Chemical Industries Association (CIA) with
representation on the CIA Council and other strategy boards.
Johnson Matthey has also continued to play a leading advisory
role through its participation in a number of sector trade
associations and national and local government organisations.
The company is also actively involved more broadly with other
international trade and government bodies to inform the
development of policy in areas where Johnson Matthey’s
technology and products can play a pivotal role, for example
in improving air quality and enabling the shift towards more
sustainable consumption and production. Neil Carson, Chief
Executive of Johnson Matthey, chairs the UK government’s
Business Taskforce on Sustainable Consumption and Production
and is a prominent member of the Corporate Leaders Group
which has provided valuable suggestions to UK government and
the European Commission on climate change issues. A number
of the company’s senior management are involved in the UK
government’s sustainability and climate change initiatives.
Further details of Johnson Matthey’s stakeholder engagement
activities can be found in the CSR report on the company’s
website at www.matthey.com.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
26 Johnson Matthey
Environment, Health and Safety
Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement
The Chief Executive’s Committee formulates and agrees a
written policy statement which forms the basis of the group
EHS management system. The board approves this policy
statement which is signed by the Chief Executive and is
available at each site throughout the Johnson Matthey group,
as well as being published externally. This policy is presented
in full in the CSR report and on the company’s website at
www.matthey.com/cr/ehs.
Environmental, Health and Safety Management
Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities
throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of
protection to the environment and to safeguard the health and
safety of its employees, customers and the community. Our EHS
policies provide the guiding principles that ensure high standards
are achieved at all sites around the world and afford a means
of promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk
assessment and a comprehensive EHS management system.
The group EHS management system is reviewed regularly
to ensure that it reflects international best practice and our
growing understanding of the practical application of sustainable
development.
The corporate objectives, policies and group EHS
management system define accountability and set the standards
against which conformance audits are assessed. A fundamental
revision of the group EHS management system was undertaken
during 2005 to reflect regulatory changes and advances in best
practice. These policies were communicated across the group
in early 2006 and now all facilities have developed local policies
to meet the requirements of the new corporate policies. The
group EHS management system is available to all employees via
the company intranet.
The second year of implementation of the revised health
management strategy was underpinned by an increased level of
investment in preventive health management programmes and
services across the group during 2006. This has already had a
beneficial impact on performance.
EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson
Matthey’s corporate EHS management system and are vital for
the achievement of continuous improvement in all aspects of
EHS. All Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing and research
and development facilities are included in the audit programme.
The audit frequency for each facility is determined by the scale,
inherent risk and past performance of the operation. Audits
review conformance with the group EHS management system
and compliance with national legislation, as well as providing an
opportunity to share best environmental, health and safety
practices.
The Group Occupational Physician undertakes business
health management reviews to provide consulting advice to
guide the prioritisation and planning of programmes to optimise
workplace health protection and promote workforce productivity.
The CSR Compliance Committee reviews all audit reports,
including health management reviews, and appropriate follow
up is taken on any outstanding issues. A total of 19 detailed
compliance audits were completed in 2006/07.
During the year we have formalised the management of
substance and product safety through the appointment of a
Group Product Stewardship Manager who also has
responsibility for management of our chemicals compliance
programme which includes meeting the requirements of the
forthcoming EU Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of
Chemicals (REACH) regulation.
ISO 14001
Over the past year continued progress has been made with the
implementation of ISO 14001, in line with our target of
achieving registration at all major manufacturing sites by 2010.
Three manufacturing sites achieved ISO 14001 registration Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
during the last year. This was less than our target of five as a
number of sites expected to achieve registration were sold as
part of the sale of Ceramics Division. Across the group, 62%
of our staff now work at sites with ISO 14001.
Regulation
The new EU REACH regulation comes into force from June
2007 and is widely acknowledged as the most comprehensive
chemical control legislation ever introduced in Europe. Johnson
Matthey strongly supports the objectives of the legislation in
protecting human health and the environment. During the year
a REACH conformance programme has been established to
manage the introduction of the legislation which will span the
next decade. The objectives of this initiative are to ensure timely
compliance while limiting and managing any potential detrimental
effects on our business. At a business unit level detailed
assessments of substance inventories have been completed and
plans are in place for REACH pre-registration and subsequent
phases of the programme. The company continues its strategy
to leverage industry cooperation through consortia to share
the costs of testing and implementation. Costs over the next
ten years are expected to remain within our earlier estimates
of £10 million.
2006 was the second year of phase one of the European
Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). As a result of the sale of
Ceramics Division in February 2007, Johnson Matthey now has
only one permitted site participating in the scheme. This site,
located in the UK, remains within the pre-existing Climate
Change Agreement Scheme and so benefits from the opt-out
applicable to UK sites until phase two of the EU ETS begins in
January 2008. At that time, the site will become an active
participant in the scheme. Allowances for the site have been
allocated and due to the peculiarities of the rules there will be
a shortfall of 10,000 tonnes of CO
2
resulting from the
coincidental commissioning of an energy saving combined heat
and power (CHP) unit during the baseline year. This will
provide further stimulus for energy saving initiatives at the site
to minimise the need to purchase carbon credits.
Climate Change
With continued increased public awareness of the issues of
climate change there is a clear consensus that we must be
more efficient in our use of existing energy sources as we
transition towards a low carbon world. With our core
competence in catalysis and precious metals technology,
Johnson Matthey is well placed to contribute to providing
solutions to this global issue and to benefit from the associated
business opportunities.
Johnson Matthey continues to focus on developing new
products and technologies which make a positive contribution
to society and the environment, and is actively working to
improve the performance of its own manufacturing operations
through improved energy and resource efficiency. Examples of
both commercial and developmental products and technologies
and manufacturing improvement initiatives from across the
Johnson Matthey group can be found in the CSR report.
Training
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvement in
environmental, health and safety performance. A number of
seminars on high priority health and safety topics were completed
during the year. Operations managers, process engineers and
EHS professionals from nine plants participated in one such
international seminar to learn about the application of new
containment technologies to reduce potential exposure to
hazardous chemicals in manufacturing processes. Training on
the use of the accident and incident reporting software system,
AirsWeb, has also continued throughout the year at a number
of facilities across the group. Environmental, Health and Safety Performance
Johnson Matthey undertakes a comprehensive annual review
of group environmental performance covering all manufacturing
and research and development facilities. Where necessary, past
environmental data has been restated to reflect changes in the
business, for example divestments and site closure.
During 2006 our European sites continued to make good
progress against the long term environmental improvement
targets established during 2005. This year has also seen the
development of targets at other facilities worldwide with over
75% of our sites now having established environmental
improvement targets. The remaining sites will set targets during
2007/08.
Significant reductions in key environmental impacts were
achieved during 2006, specifically energy use, emissions of acid
gases and waste production. In particular energy consumption
fell by 5% as a result of the focus on energy efficiencies by sites
and NOx emissions fell by 14% as a result of significant
investments at plants in Royston and Brimsdown in the UK and
Panki, India. An increase in water usage was observed as a result
of the inclusion of annual environmental data for the first time
from new sites.
On 24th November 2006 Johnson Matthey pleaded guilty
to four charges of failing to comply with the conditions of the
Pollution, Prevention and Control Permit related to our
autocatalyst facility at Royston, UK during 2002/03. The company
was fined £35,500 and ordered to pay costs of £30,000.
A comprehensive occupational illness identification and
reporting system was introduced in 2005 resulting in improved
prevention and recognition of such cases. The group occupational
illness incidence rate has significantly reduced in calendar year
2006 compared to the rates observed in 2004 and 2005.
Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics 
are compiled monthly at a group level. We believe that any
accident is unacceptable and in April 2006 the CEC set a new
group target of zero greater than three day accidents.
With the introduction of more robust health and safety
data collection mechanisms, including the implementation of
the global AirsWeb accident and incident reporting software
system, all of our published safety data has been restated to
reflect the higher level of accuracy inherent in the new systems.
Our safety performance has improved during the past year
with the incidence of greater than three day accidents at
Johnson Matthey calculated as 4.50 per 1,000 employees in
March 2007, a reduction of 17% from 5.41 per 1,000
employees in March 2006. The total number of accidents that
resulted in lost time was 38, a 55% reduction compared to the
previous year. During the same time period, the total accident
rate reduced by 25% from 11.74 to 8.88 per 1,000 employees
per year.
In 2006/07 the number of days lost per 1,000 employees
per year was 125, a similar number to the previous year. 45% of
the total time lost across the group resulted from four accidents
with a combined total of 488 lost days.
All accidents are thoroughly investigated to determine root
causes and assign appropriate preventative and corrective actions.
Following the fatality last year at the St Catharines’ facility
Johnson Matthey pleaded guilty to a charge under the Canadian
Occupational Health and Safety Act. The court imposed a fine
of $150,000 but commended the facility for its full cooperation
during the investigation and the remedial actions undertaken to
prevent recurrence of such an accident.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
28 Johnson Matthey
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
100
200
300
400
500
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
800
400
1,200
1,600
2,000
2,400
2,800
Total Acid Gas Emissions
Tonnes SO
2
equivalent
Total Global Warming Potential
Tonnes CO
2
equivalent (’000)
Energy Consumption
GJ (’000)
Water Consumption
Thousands m
3 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
Environmental, Health and Safety T argets
Johnson Matthey continually monitors environmental, health
and safety performance in order to identify those issues most
pertinent to the business and to drive improvement.
During 2006/07 the company established long term
environmental impact reduction targets at the majority of its
sites (over 75%) and aims to develop targets at all remaining
sites during the forthcoming year. Three manufacturing sites
across the group have already implemented plans to achieve
ISO 14001:2004 registration during 2007/08.
There will be continued focus on achieving a further
reduction in the incidence of occupational illness conditions
caused by exposure to chemicals. The ability of businesses to
evaluate chemical product hazards and minimise employee
exposure during manufacture will be enhanced through the use
of improved in house occupational toxicology skills, coaching
and written guidance on the application of containment
technologies and continued investment in plant improvement
projects.
All sites within the group will continue to work towards
the target of zero greater than three day accidents. Leading
and lagging indicators are now an integral component of site
improvement plans in order to better monitor performance
against these improvement conditions.
We will complete a review of the group EHS management
system to revise and develop policies to reflect new plant and
processes, regulatory changes and improvements in industry
best practice. Guidance for sites will be prepared for both new
and revised policies as appropriate. Additions and revisions to
the management system will be communicated to all sites
within the group for local implementation.
Human Capital Management
Johnson Matthey’s people are the group’s most valuable
resource. We are committed to recruiting high calibre
employees and providing them with the information, training
and working environment they need in order to perform at the
highest standards. We encourage all our employees to develop
to their maximum potential and we are committed to
supporting them with effective human resources policies and
practices that are strategically linked to the needs of our
business and our customers.
Implementation of Johnson Matthey Human Resources Policies
Johnson Matthey’s people policies are implemented through the
corporate human resources standards which set requirements
for operations throughout the group to follow. These standards,
which are generally in advance of legal requirements, provide
internal consistency and are supported either by detailed
regional procedures and / or business unit procedures. All of
these policies and procedures are subject to regular review to
ensure that they continue to reflect both regional best practice
and local legislation. During the year a comprehensive review of
UK policies and practices was undertaken in order to meet the
requirements of the Employment Equality (Age Discrimination)
Act 2006. Site specific human resources policies and procedures
are communicated to staff at inductions and through staff
handbooks. Human resources policies and risks are examined
by the Chief Executive’s Committee and the CSR Compliance
Committee.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
0
March 02 March 03 March 06 March 07 March 05 March 04
All accidents > 3 Day accidents
5
10
15
20
25
30
Total Waste
Tonnes waste
Annual Accident Rate per 1,000 Employees Rest of
World
693
Asia
772
North
America
2,322
Europe
4,199
Ceramics
680
Pharmaceutical
Materials
595
Precious
Metal
Products
1,843
Catalysts
4,586
Corporate
282
Europe North
America
Asia Rest of
World
Group
% Male % Female
0
20
40
60
80
100
Europe North
America
Asia Rest of
World
Group
Voluntary
employee
turnover
Employee turnover
due to restructuring,
divestment or retirement
0
8
4
12
16
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
30 Johnson Matthey
Key Employment Policies
Equal Opportunities
It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and develop
employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of
gender, ethnic origin, age, religion or sexual orientation. Disabled
people and employees who become disabled are offered
employment consistent with their capabilities. The business
values the diversity of its people and employment applications
are welcomed from all sections of the community including
minority groups.
Training and Development of People
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee
of the board takes a special interest in ensuring compliance with
the Training and Development of People Policy objectives to:
• Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
• Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
• Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
• Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
• Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
• Understand employees’ aspirations.
• Provide development opportunities to meet employees’
potential and aspirations.
Johnson Matthey recognises the need to maintain its ability
to recruit well qualified staff to support the development of the
business in new and emerging markets. This challenge will be
met through appropriate manpower planning, local recruitment
and the encouragement of international mobility.
An increasing level of training and development activity
within Asia has been established to reflect the growing
importance of this region to the business, including a major
cross divisional programme primarily for managers in Asia.
The first module of the programme was held in the UK in
March 2007 and will continue in South Africa later in the year.
In addition to an increase in local process operator training,
there has been a worldwide emphasis on team leader
development. Cross cultural awareness training continues to be
an important component of career foundation, middle manager
and senior manager development.
Johnson Matthey continues to have a steady requirement
for high calibre graduate recruits to meet immediate technical
and commercial job needs and for development to meet future
management requirements throughout the group. The
combination of direct scientific contact with key university
departments and a streamlined recruitment procedure ensures
a reliable supply of high calibre applicants worldwide.
Employee Relations and Communication
The quality of its employee relationships is a priority for
Johnson Matthey. The company has a low voluntary staff turnover
(7.5% in the calendar year 2006) with many employees staying
with the company for their whole careers.
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective
employee communications and particularly the value of face to
face dialogue. Information and comment is exchanged with
employees through the company’s in house magazine, regular
news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
Employees are also encouraged to access the company’s
intranet and website.
Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and
constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which
collectively represent 37% of all group employees worldwide.
During the year no working time was lost due to employee
action.
The company supports employee share ownership and
where practicable offers employees the opportunity to
participate in share ownership plans which provide the facility
Total Employees by Region
Average headcount for calendar year 2006
Total Employees by Division
Average headcount for calendar year 2006
Gender by Region
As at 31st December 2006
Employee Turnover by Region
For calendar year 2006 (%) Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31
to purchase company shares with a company funded matching
component. Employees in six countries worldwide are able to
contribute to a company share ownership plan or a 401k
approved savings investment plan. Through these ownership
plans Johnson Matthey current and former employees collectively
held 1.5% of the company’s shares at 31st March 2007.
Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for
employees of its operations throughout the world. These
pension plans are a mixture of defined benefit or defined
contribution pension arrangements, savings schemes and
provident funds designed to provide appropriate retirement
benefits based on local laws, custom and market practice.
Activities over the Last Year
There have been a number of key development initiatives at
Johnson Matthey sites during the past year. Improvements to
employee communications and engagement have continued to
focus on the use of site satisfaction and attitude surveys as a
means of strengthening and enhancing the two way dialogue
with employees. In order to build on and extend these local
benefits a small project team was established to investigate the
feasibility of running a global employee attitude survey for all
Johnson Matthey employees worldwide. Using a confidential
and independent survey administrator a pilot of a possible
groupwide employee survey was conducted in two businesses
on an international basis, using a combination of web hosted
and paper survey questionnaires. The response rate amongst
the 900 employees invited to participate was 65%. 89% of
those who took part said that they were satisfied with working
for Johnson Matthey and 93% said that they were proud to
work for the company. In addition to these very positive
outcomes there were also helpful indications of what the
management team should focus on to make the company an
even better place to work.
In December 2006, an updated and improved company
intranet site was launched to all employees worldwide. The site
features a new visual design, enhanced navigation and improved
and more detailed content. In addition to latest company news,
announcements and policies, employees can access important
up to date departmental information in the areas of corporate
communications, human resources, EHS, IT and risk assurance.
Our continued focus on improving attendance management
and rehabilitation case management programmes has contributed
to a further reduction in the rate of sickness absence and
human capital costs. There has also been an increased investment
in wellness and mental wellbeing programmes to improve
employee health and wellbeing and promote attendance and
work performance.
The major initiative launched last year to provide policy
awareness training for senior managers was expanded in
2006/07 to include US specific seminars, with a parallel
programme of e-learning available for all US employees.
Worldwide over 150 managers attended the seminars during
the year which cover their responsibilities for compliance with
Johnson Matthey policies for employees, commercial contracts
and the management of company assets. An on-line version is
currently in development which will be completed by a wider
range of junior managers and senior staff during 2007/08.
During the year a management skills database was created
as a means of strengthening the internal development and
mobility of the 800 management staff within the group. The
database provides a valuable resource to support and broaden
the succession planning process by creating greater cross
divisional visibility of the functional skills, background and key
competencies of the managers in the group. Social and Ethical Matters
Business Integrity and Ethics
A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson
Matthey’s business since Percival Norton Johnson founded it
in 1817. It gives customers the confidence that the company’s
products meet the standards claimed for them and that they
may safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson
Matthey for processing and safe keeping. Employees at all levels
are required to protect Johnson Matthey’s reputation for integrity.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards
of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide.
All employees have a duty to follow the principles set out in
Johnson Matthey’s Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement
which is available on our website at www.matthey.com/cr/biepolicy
and in the CSR report. It is the responsibility of directors and
senior management to ensure that all employees who directly
or indirectly report to them are fully aware of Johnson
Matthey’s policies and values in the conduct of the company’s
businesses. It is also the responsibility of directors and senior
management to lead by example and to demonstrate the
highest standards of integrity in carrying out their duties on
behalf of the company. These issues are further safeguarded
through corporate governance processes and monitoring by
the board and sub-committees of the board.
Johnson Matthey facilities have established policies and
procedures through which employees can raise employment
related issues for meaningful consideration and resolution. In the
US a confidential and secure website and telephone helpline
was established last year to give employees an additional means
to raise any issue of personal concern. These confidential
reporting arrangements will be extended to all Johnson Matthey
employees worldwide during 2007.
Supply Chains
Management of the supply chain and contractor activities
is a core component of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series
of standards. Supply chain and contractor management
questionnaires are a requirement of achieving and maintaining
registration and as such, ISO registered Johnson Matthey sites
require the completion of appropriate questionnaires. For those
sites without ISO registration, the group EHS management
system provides policy and guidance on both supply chain
management and contractor control.
Whilst we are confident of the human rights performance
of our own operations we recognise that business practices in
the supply chain are not always transparent and represent a
risk that must be managed. We support the principles defined
within the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the International Labour Organisation Core
Conventions.
Community Engagement Activities
Johnson Matthey is actively involved in programmes worldwide
that promote good community relations to foster a relationship
of understanding, trust and credibility. Guidance on site
requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system.
An annual review of community engagement activities
across the group has been carried out and shows that 100%
of Johnson Matthey operations with over 50 employees
participate in activities within their local communities, an
increase of 5% on last year. These activities are wide ranging and
include charitable giving, support for educational projects, the
advancement of science and economic regeneration projects.
Johnson Matthey employees also participate in activities or
hold community related roles outside of the work environment.
The company is supportive of this broader community
engagement, allowing employees time off during working hours
as appropriate. The review also demonstrates that more sites
are setting objectives for their community engagement activities
and that an increasing number of sites are planning specific
activities in their community programmes.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
32 Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33
During the year, an area on the group intranet dedicated
to community engagement was launched to offer further
support to sites in developing and implementing meaningful
community programmes. Over the next year, this intranet site
will be further developed and promoted across the group to
stimulate new ideas for community engagement and encourage
the sharing of best practice. A review of site community
engagement activities will be conducted once again and we will
continue to focus on how best to measure and improve the
impact of our community involvement.
Charitable Programmes
Johnson Matthey’s long history of support for charitable causes
is matched today through programmes at both a group and a
business unit level. The causes supported are aligned to issues
to which the Johnson Matthey business makes a contribution
and issues on which employees are passionate.
In 2006/07, Johnson Matthey supported 36 charitable
causes through its corporate annual donations programme.
These included support for organisations working in the areas
of arts and the environment, medical and health, science and
education and social welfare. 50% of these corporate donations
were in support of social welfare causes. A total of 62 additional
charitable causes received one-off donations through the
corporate programme during the year.
In the UK, Johnson Matthey continues to operate its annual
Charity of the Year programme and employee views are
considered when deciding on the charity. Help the Aged was
chosen as our charity of the year for 2006/07 and further
details on the partnership are available in the CSR report.
Johnson Matthey sites around the world also lend support to
many other charities locally and nationally through donations,
employee time or loans of company facilities.
In the financial year to 31st March 2007 Johnson Matthey
donated £330,000 to charitable organisations. This figure only
includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not
include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee
time. The company made no political donations in the year.
Working Towards a Sustainable Future
Johnson Matthey is making and will continue to make a
significant contribution to sustainable development through the
application of its leading technology, the ingenuity of its people
and by the generation of profits. As the global trend continues
towards improved energy efficiency and the adoption of
alternative energy resources, we remain focused on innovation
and development to deliver sustainable solutions for our
customers and on improving the performance of our own
manufacturing processes through improved energy and
resource efficiency. During the year, the Chief Executive
launched a groupwide initiative to engage employees in
developing a long term sustainability strategy for Johnson
Matthey. In the initial stage of this initiative we have been
working with Forum for the Future to deliver a series of five
workshops to gain the input of senior managers in the
company. The output of the first workshop, held in the UK in
March 2007, has been extremely positive and the programme
continues in the UK, US and Asia in the early part of 2007/08.
The further aspects of strategy development, communication
and implementation will continue during the forthcoming year.
Verification
The board, Audit Committee, Chief Executive’s Committee and
CSR Compliance Committee review CSR issues as part of the
company’s risk management processes. A review of site based
environment, health and safety reporting systems forms part of
the group environmental, health and safety audit programme.
The board believes that the measures taken to review the CSR
information provide a suitable level of confidence without
external audit. Johnson Matthey utilises external specialists
where specific CSR issues are identified. D W Morgan MA, ACA
Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 49;
joined Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed an executive director in August 1999. Responsible for
the group’s corporate development activities and legal and
secretarial affairs. In addition, assumed board level responsibility
for Colours & Coatings Division and the company’s central
research activities in August 2002. Following the restructuring of
Colours & Coatings Division was responsible for Ceramics
Division until its disposal. Currently a member of the International
Advisory Board of Conduit Ventures Limited.
M B Dearden MA
Age 64; appointed a non-executive director in April 1999.
Currently a non-executive director of The Weir Group Plc and
Travis Perkins plc. Previously Chief Executive of Castrol
International and a main board director of Burmah Castrol plc.
A, M, N
C D Mackay MBA, MA
Age 67; appointed a non-executive director in January 1999.
Currently Chairman of TDG plc, Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of Historic Royal Palaces, a member of the board of
INSEAD and Advisory Director to the House of Habib. Previously
Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and Group Chief Executive
and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc. Has also served on a
number of boards including those of HSBC Holdings plc, British
Airways plc, Gucci Group NV and Thistle Hotels plc. A, M, N
J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT
Group Finance Director, age 57; joined Johnson Matthey as
Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed
current job title in September 1995. Previously Group Treasurer
of The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of API
Group Plc. Currently a non-executive director of GKN plc.
Sir John Banham
Chairman, age 66; joined Johnson Matthey as Chairman Designate
in January 2006; appointed Chairman on 1st April 2006. Currently
Chairman of Spacelabs Healthcare Inc. and the Senior Independent
Director of Amvescap PLC and Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He was previously a director at McKinsey & Company, the first
Controller of the Audit Commission and is a former Director
General of the Confederation of British Industry. Previously a
director of National Power and National Westminster Bank, and
Chairman of Tarmac plc, Kingfisher plc, Geest plc,Whitbread PLC
and Cyclacel Plc.M,N
R J W Walvis
Age 60; appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc and
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Group
NV. He was previously Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell
International Limited and prior to that held a series of senior
management positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group. A, M, N
N A P Carson BSc
Chief Executive, age 50; joined Johnson Matthey in 1980; appointed
Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having held
senior management positions in the Precious Metals Division as
well as Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US. Appointed
to the board as Managing Director, Catalysts & Chemicals in
August 1999 and additionally assumed board level responsibility
for Precious Metals Division in August 2002. Appointed Chief
Executive in July 2004. Currently Chairman, Business Taskforce
on Sustainable Consumption and Production. Previously a
non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA
Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, age 52;
joined Johnson Matthey in 1984; appointed Division Director,
Process Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having held a
series of senior management positions within Catalysts Division
in the US. Appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and
Technologies in August 2003 and to his current position in July 2004.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
34 Johnson Matthey
From left to right: OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT
*
Catalysts
S M Christley Division Finance Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
P C Framp Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Europe
A M Myers President, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, North America
D W Prest Director, Heavy Duty Diesel, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
J F Walker Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Asia
N P H Garner Division Finance Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies
M T Durney President, Catalysts and Chemicals
A C Hurst Managing Director, Tracerco and Vertec
B C Singelais Vice President, Research Chemicals
D J Tomlinson President, Davy Process Technology
N Whitley Managing Director, Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas
J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells
Precious Metal Products
W F Sandford Division Director
B M O’Connell Division Finance Director
M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing
C C Howlett General Manager, Noble Metals, Europe
J D Malanga General Manager, Noble Metals, North America
A J McCullough General Manager, Gold, North America
J J W Murkens Managing Director, Colour Technologies
G P Otterman Managing Director, Pgm Refining
Pharmaceutical Materials
F K Sheffy Division Director
A J Caruso Division Finance Director
J B Fowler Vice President and General Manager, Pharmaceutical Materials
R M Kilburn Vice President, Pharma Services
D S Mercer Managing Director, Macfarlan Smith
Corporate
G J Coates Group Treasurer
S Farrant Company Secretary and Senior Legal Adviser
I D Godwin Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications
V E Gough Group Reporting Controller
T Hassan Group Business Development Director
I B C Huddart Group Taxation Manager
B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre
I F Stephenson Director, Group Systems, Environment, Health and Safety
and Human Resources
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35
I C Strachan
Age 64; appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc,
Transocean Inc., Xstrata plc and Rolls Royce Group plc. Previously
Chairman of Instinet Group Inc., Chief Executive of BTR plc and
Deputy Chief Executive of Rio Tinto plc. A, M, N
P N Hawker BSc, PhD, FRSC
Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies and
Pharmaceutical Materials, age 54; joined Johnson Matthey in 1985
as Research & Development Manager and was subsequently
Managing Director, Autocatalysts Europe and Division Director,
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies. Appointed Executive
Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003.
He was appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and
Technologies in July 2004 and assumed additional responsibility
for Pharmaceutical Materials Division in April 2006.
A M Thomson MA, CA
Age 60; appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Recently retired as Finance Director of Smiths Group plc. He was
previously Finance Director of the Rugby Group PLC. He is a
non-executive director of Alstom S.A. (France) and of Cross
Match Technologies Inc. (USA). Mr Thomson is also Chairman of
the Technical Policy Board and a Council member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. A, M, N
Committees of the Board
A Audit Committee
M Management Development and Remuneration Committee
N Nomination Committee
The composition of the board presented above reflects the
position at 31st March 2007. On 1st June 2007 Mr M J Roney
joined the board. His biographical details are as follows:
M J Roney
Age 52; appointed a non-executive director on 1st June 2007.
Currently Chief Executive of Bunzl plc. Joined Bunzl plc as a
non-executive director in 2003. Prior to joining Bunzl he was Chief
Executive Officer of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV and had
an extensive career with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co holding
a number of senior management positions with responsibilities in
Latin America, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
* Job titles and divisional structure reflects the group’s organisation at
31st March 2007 . The directors submit to shareholders their one hundred and
sixteenth Annual Report, together with the audited accounts of the
group for the year ended 31st March 2007.
Principal Activities
A review of the group’s principal activities and an indication of likely
future developments are set out in the Operating and Financial
Review on pages 6 to 33 and a description of the group’s activities
in research and development can be found on pages 14 and 15 in
the Operating and Financial Review, which are incorporated into this
directors’ report by reference.
Business Review
The company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the
business of the group during the financial year ended 31st March
2007 and of the position of the group at the end of that financial
year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing
the group (known as a ‘Business Review’). The information that
fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the
following sections of the Operating and Financial Review: Review of
Results 2006/07 on page 7, Operations on pages 8 to 15, Financial
Review on pages 16 to 20, Risks and Uncertainties on pages 21
and 22, Resources on page 23 and Corporate Social Responsibility
on pages 25 to 33, which are incorporated into this directors’ report
by reference.
Dividends
The interim dividend of 9.9 pence per share (2006 9.1 pence) was
paid in February 2007. The directors recommend a final dividend of
23.7 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31st March 2007
(2006 21.0 pence), making a total for the year of 33.6 pence per share
(2006 30.1 pence), payable on 7th August 2007 to shareholders on
the register at the close of business on 15th June 2007.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is in place which allows shareholders
to purchase additional shares in the company with their dividend
payment. Further information and a mandate can be obtained from
Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details are set out on page 104.
Share Capital
The issued share capital of the company at 31st March 2007 was
220,477,283 ordinary shares of £1.00 each including 3,600,000
shares held as treasury shares.
Details of shares allotted during year are set out in note 31 on page 88.
At the 2006 annual general meeting (AGM), shareholders renewed the
company’s authority to make market purchases of up to 22,031,543
ordinary shares (representing 10% of the issued share capital of the
company (excluding treasury shares) as at 31st May 2006).
During the year the company purchased 3,600,000 of its own
ordinary shares (representing 1.63% of the called-up share capital of
the company as at 31st March 2007) for an aggregate consideration
of £52.6 million. All of the purchased shares are held by the company
as treasury shares. Authority to purchase up to 18,431,543 shares
remained in place at 31st March 2007. At the forthcoming AGM the
board will again seek shareholders’ approval to renew the annual
authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares
through the market.
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the 2007 annual general meeting of the company to
be held on Tuesday 24th July 2007 at 12.00 noon at Merchant
Taylors’ Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB is
contained in the AGM circular enclosed with this Annual Report,
together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at
the meeting.
Employee Share Schemes
At 31st March 2007 5,193 current and former employees,
representing approximately 67% of employees worldwide, were
shareholders in Johnson Matthey through the group’s employee
share schemes, which held 3,265,780 shares (1.48% of issued
share capital). A total of 795 current and former executives held
options over 9,383,762 shares through the company’s executive
share option schemes.
Directors
Details of the directors of the company who served throughout the
year are shown on pages 34 and 35. In accordance with the
provisions for retirement by rotation in the company’s Articles of
Association, Mr J N Sheldrick, Mr C D Mackay, Mr M B Dearden
and Mr I C Strachan retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and,
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Mr M J Roney, who
was appointed to the board as a non-executive director on 1st June
2007, offers himself for election. As announced on 30th May 2007
Mrs D C Thompson has been appointed to the board as a
non-executive director with effect from 1st September 2007.
Details of the constitution of the board and its committees are set
out on page 38.
Directors’ Interests
Details of directors’ remuneration, service contracts and interests in
the shares of the company are set out in the Remuneration Report
on pages 42 to 48.
Other than service contracts, no director had any interest in any
material contract with any group company at any time during the year.
Substantial Shareholders
Until 19th January 2007 the company maintained a register of
substantial shareholdings in accordance with the provisions of
section 211 of the Companies Act 1985.
On 20th January 2007 the Companies Act 1985 provisions in respect
of substantial shareholdings were repealed and the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority came into force.
As at 31st May 2007, the following information has been disclosed
to the company under Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authority’s
Disclosure and Transparency Rules in respect of holdings exceeding
the 3% notification threshold:
Total % of total
voting rights voting rights
(1)
––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Lloyds TSB Group plc 16,986,538 7.79%
Prudential plc 16,992,508 7.75%
Ameriprise Financial, Inc 13,815,035 6.27%
BlackRock, Inc 12,637,906 5.76%
Legal & General Group Plc 7,533,784 3.43%
Aviva plc 7,110,210 3.24%
Vanguard Precious Metals and
Mining Fund 6,850,000 3.16%
––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
(1)
total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the
company (excluding treasury shares).
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
36 Johnson Matthey
  Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts
The group’s policy in relation to the payment of all suppliers (set out
in its Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group
operations) is that payment should be made within the credit terms
agreed with the supplier, subject to the supplier having performed its
obligations under the relevant contract. At 31st March 2007, the
company’s aggregate level of ‘creditor days’ amounted to 7 days.
Creditor days are calculated by dividing the aggregate of the
amounts which were outstanding as trade payables at the end of
the year by the aggregate of the amounts the company was
invoiced by suppliers during the year and multiplying by 365 to
express the ratio as a number of days.
Donations
During the year the group donated £330,000 (2006 £340,000) to
charitable organisations worldwide, of which £259,000 (2006
£282,000) was in the UK.
Further details of contributions made by the group worldwide are
given on page 33 and in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report
which can be found on the company’s website at www.matthey.com.
It is the policy of the group not to make political donations. During
the year to 31st March 2007, no donations were made to EU
political organisations (2006 £ nil), no EU political expenditure was
incurred (2006 £ nil) and no contributions to political parties outside
the EU were made within the meaning of Part XA of the Companies
Act 1985 (2006 £ nil).
Directors’ Indemnities
The company has granted indemnities in favour of directors under
Deed Polls. These provisions were in force during the year ended
31st March 2007 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
Copies of the Deed Polls and the company’s Articles of Association
are available for inspection during normal business hours at the
company’s registered office and will be available for inspection at
the AGM.
Going Concern
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has
sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future and have, therefore, adopted the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
Corporate Governance and Remuneration
The board’s statement on corporate governance matters is given on
pages 38 to 40 and its report on directors’ remuneration is set out
on pages 42 to 48.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors
In accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985,
a resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the
reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company and
to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
So far as each person serving as a director of the company at the
date this report is approved is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware and each
director hereby confirms that he has taken all the steps that he
ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
auditors are aware of that information.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 5th June
2007 and is signed on its behalf by:
Simon Farrant
Company Secretary
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 38 Johnson Matthey
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code
The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) relating
to the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of
the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for
financial reporting, internal control and audit. This statement
describes how the principles of the Code have been applied. The
group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout
the year except that the board has taken the view that it is not
necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for the
Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major
shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless such
discussions are requested by shareholders. The methods by which
major shareholders’ views are communicated to the board as a
whole are discussed under ‘Relations with Shareholders’ on page 39.
Directors and the Board
The board is responsible to the company’s shareholders for the
group’s system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives
and the stewardship of the company’s resources and is ultimately
responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters. The board
held seven meetings in the year and in addition met separately to
review the group’s long term strategy. The board delegates specific
responsibilities to board committees, as described below. The board
reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and
presentations to enable it to do so effectively. The Company Secretary
is responsible to the board, and is available to individual directors,
in respect of board procedures.
Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive. The board currently
comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive
directors and five independent non-executive directors. Sir John
Banham became Chairman on 1st April 2006 following the retirement
of Mr H M P Miles. Sir John Banham’s other commitments are
disclosed on page 34. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are
separate. The Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director,
particularly the non-executive directors, is able to make an effective
contribution. He monitors, with assistance from the Company
Secretary, the information distributed to the board to ensure that it is
sufficient, accurate, timely and clear. The Chief Executive maintains
day-to-day management responsibility for the company’s operations,
implementing group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
Mr C D Mackay is the Senior Independent Director. The role of
non-executive directors is to enhance independence and objectivity
of the board’s deliberations and decisions. All non-executive directors
are independent of management and free from any business or
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise
of their independent judgment. The executive directors have specific
responsibilities, which are detailed on pages 34 and 35, and have
direct responsibility for all operations and activities.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every
three years. The board composition allows for changes to be made
with minimum disruption.
During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation of its
performance and the performance of its committees and the
individual directors. A questionnaire, prepared by the Chairman with
the assistance of the Company Secretary, was completed by all
directors other than the Chairman. The questionnaire focused on the
operation of the board, its committees and individual directors’
contributions. A summary of the responses was prepared by the
Company Secretary and discussed at a board meeting. In addition,
led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors
met without the Chairman present to consider evaluation of the
Chairman’s performance.
Committees of the Board
The Chief Executive’s Committee is responsible for the
recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and
on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate. It is also
responsible for the executive management of the group’s business.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets
monthly. It comprises the executive directors and three senior
executives of the company.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose
purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its
responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control. The
Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the
group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director
and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation.
A report from the Committee on its activities is given on page 41.
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board
responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on
the appointment of new directors. The Committee is chaired by Sir
John Banham and also comprises all the independent non-executive
directors. A report from the Committee on its activities is given on
page 40.
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee
(MDRC) is a sub-committee of the board, which determines on
behalf of the board the remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Mr C D Mackay and comprises all the
independent non-executive directors of the company together with
the group Chairman who was appointed to the Committee during
the year. The Chief Executive and the Director of Human Resources
attend by invitation except when their own performance and
remuneration are discussed. Further details are set out in the
Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors’ Remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48 includes details of
remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The board considers effective communication with shareholders,
whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders,
to be extremely important.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its
half year and full year results are announced and an interim report
and a full report are issued to shareholders. These reports are
posted on Johnson Matthey’s website (www.matthey.com). At the
same time, executive directors give presentations on the results to
institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other
international centres. Copies of major presentations are also posted
on the company’s website.
The company’s annual general meeting (AGM) takes place in
London and formal notification is sent to shareholders with the
Annual Report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors are available for questions, formally during the AGM
and informally afterwards. Details of the 2007 AGM are set out in
the notice of the meeting enclosed with this Annual Report.
Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that
their views are communicated to the board as a whole. The
Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with
major shareholders. The board believes that appropriate steps have
been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the
board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders
about the company. The board is provided with brokers’ reports and
feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis. The
canvassing of major shareholders’ views for the board in a detailed
investor survey is usually conducted every two years by external
consultants. The board has taken the view that these methods,
taken together, are a practical and efficient way both for the Chairman
to keep in touch with major shareholder opinion on governance and
strategy and for the Senior Independent Director to learn the views
of major shareholders and to develop a balanced understanding of
their issues and concerns. The Senior Independent Director is
available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Accountability, Audit and Control
The statement of the Responsibility of Directors for the preparation
of the Annual Report and the accounts is set out on page 48.
In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a
balanced and understandable assessment of the group’s financial
position and prospects.
The group’s organisational structure is focused on its three divisions.
These are all separately managed but report to the board through a
board director. The executive management team receives monthly
summaries of financial results from each division through a
standardised reporting process.
The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process
including forecasts for the next two years. Variances from budget
are closely monitored.
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s systems of
internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. The internal
control systems are designed to meet the group’s needs and
address the risks to which it is exposed. Such systems can provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the company, which has
been in place during the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The board regularly
reviews this process.
The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the
board and updated on an annual basis. At the business level, the
processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part
of the control environment. Key risks and internal controls are the
subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executive’s Committee.
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group
operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and
authority limits of the various board and executive committees and
also specifies what may be decided without central approval. It is
supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals
issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or
departments. The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with
which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical
controls over precious metals held at the group’s sites.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Committees of the Board (continued)
Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2006/07 was as follows:
Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee
Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to
Director attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Sir John Banham 7 7 2 4
(1)
33 –4
(1)
N A P Carson 7 7 – 4
(1)
–3
(1)
–4
(1)
M BDearden 7 7443344
P NHawker 7 7––––––
C DMackay 77443344
D WMorgan 7 7––––––
L CPentz 7 7––––––
J N Sheldrick 7 7 – – – – – 4
(1)
I C Strachan 7 6 4 4 3 3 4 3
A MThomson 77443344
R J WWalvis 77443344
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
(1)
Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 40 Johnson Matthey
Accountability, Audit and Control (continued)
The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the group’s
systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity
of the financial information reported to the board. The Audit
Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and
receives the reports produced by the internal audit function on a
regular basis. Actions are agreed with management in response to
the internal audit reports produced.
In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the
maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance
with group policies. These assessments are summarised by the
internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit
Committee.
The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year
ended 31st March 2007 and the period up to 5th June 2007 has
been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance included
with the Code and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the
system of internal control.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the
identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical
and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other
business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board and
the Chief Executive’s Committee.
A review of the group’s policies and targets for corporate social
responsibility (CSR) is set out on pages 25 to 33. A full version of
the CSR report is available on the company’s website.
The identification, assessment and management of environment,
health and safety (EHS) risks are the responsibility of the CSR
Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Chief
Executive’s Committee, comprising the division directors, the
Director of EHS, the Company Secretary and other appropriate
professional staff. Performance is monitored using monthly statistics
and detailed site audit reports. EHS performance is reviewed on a
regular basis by the Chief Executive’s Committee and an annual
review is undertaken by the board.
Risks from employment and people issues are identified and assessed
by the Chief Executive’s Committee and reported to the board.
Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable
business practices and the group’s position on ethical issues. The
Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further operational
guidelines to reinforce these.
The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social
responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through
the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the
internal audit function.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose
purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary,
dismissal of executive and non-executive directors. The full terms
of reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the
company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Composition of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent
non-executive directors together with the group Chairman. The
quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of
whom must be an independent non-executive director. Biographical
details of the independent directors and the group Chairman are set
out on pages 34 and 35. Their remuneration is set out on page 44.
The group Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee,
although the group Chairman may not chair the Committee when it
is dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the
company. A non-executive director may not chair the Committee
when it is dealing with a matter relating to that non-executive director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee
meetings. However, other individuals, such as the Chief Executive,
the Director of Human Resources and external advisers, may be
invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when
appropriate.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that it
requires from any officer or employee of the company or its
subsidiaries. In connection with its duties, the Committee is
authorised by the board to take such independent advice (including
legal or other professional advice, at the company’s expense) as it
considers necessary, including requests for information from or
commissioning investigations by external advisers.
Main Activities of the Nomination Committee
During the financial year ended 31st March 2007, the Nomination
Committee conducted a process to identify additional non-executive
directors for the company with the assistance of external search
consultants. Open advertising was not used. The Nomination
Committee met three times during the year in connection with the
selection process. The Committee met on 20th November 2006
to review the selection process, on 23rd January 2007 at which
it recommended the appointment of Mr M J Roney to the board,
and on 27th March 2007 at which it recommended the appointment
of Mrs D C Thompson to the board. As announced on 16th April
2007, Mr Roney joined the board as a non-executive director with
effect from 1st June 2007. As announced on 30th May 2007,
Mrs Thompson will join the board as a non-executive director with
effect from 1st September 2007.
On behalf of the Committee:
Sir John Banham
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose
responsibilities include:
• Reviewing the interim and full year accounts and results
announcements of the company and any other formal
announcements relating to the company’s financial performance
and recommending them to the board for approval.
• Reviewing the group’s systems for internal financial control and
risk management.
• Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s
internal audit function and considering regular reports from
internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management.
• Considering the appointment of the external auditors; overseeing
the process for their selection; and making recommendations to
the board in relation to their appointment to be put to shareholders
for approval at a general meeting.
• Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of
the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their audit,
agreeing their remuneration, and considering their reports on the
company’s accounts, reports to shareholders and their evaluation
of the systems of internal financial control and risk management.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on
the company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive
directors. Biographical details of the independent directors are set
out on pages 34 and 35. Their remuneration is set out on page 44.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson. The
group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of
Internal Audit and external auditors (KPMG Audit Plc) attend Audit
Committee meetings by invitation. The Committee also meets
separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external
auditors without management being present. The Company
Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
Main Activities of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended
31st March 2007. At its meeting on 24th May 2006 the Committee
reviewed the company’s preliminary announcement of its results for
the financial year ended 31st March 2006, and the draft report and
accounts for that year. The Committee received reports from the
external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the
accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and
their comments on risk management and control matters. The
Committee reviewed the group’s Corporate Social Responsibility
Report which is available on the company’s website at
www.matthey.com. The Committee also reviewed shareholder
resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee met on 24th July 2006 to receive reports on
internal controls from both the internal and external auditors. The
external auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for
the forthcoming year. The Committee also reviewed the performance
of both the internal and external auditors.
At its meeting on 20th November 2006 the Audit Committee
reviewed the company’s interim results, the half year report and the
external auditors’ review.
At its meeting on 23rd January 2007 the Audit Committee reviewed
management’s and internal audit’s reports on the effectiveness of
the company’s systems for internal financial control and risk
management. The Committee reviewed the group’s credit control
procedures and risks, controls over precious metals, IT controls and
corporate social responsibility reporting arrangements. Changes to
the Group Control Manual were ratified.
Independence of External Auditors
Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had
safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors’
objectivity and independence could be compromised. Our policy in
respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows:
• Audit related services – the external auditors are invited to
provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must or
are best placed to undertake. This includes formalities relating to
borrowings, shareholders’ and other circulars, various other
regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and
disposals.
• Tax consulting – in cases where they are best suited, we use the
external auditors. All other significant tax consulting work is put
out to tender.
• General consulting – in recognition of public concern over the
effect of consulting services on auditors’ independence, our
policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for
general consulting work.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year ended
31st March 2007 and information on the nature of non-audit fees
appear in note 5 on the accounts.
Internal Audit
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of
the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during
the year and the department’s resource requirements and also
approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2008.
Internal audit independently reviews the risks and control processes
operated by management. It carries out independent audits in
accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the
Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
The plan provides a high degree of financial and geographical
coverage and devotes significant effort to the review of the risk
management framework surrounding the major business risks.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal
controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve
the issues raised. Internal audit follows up the implementation of
recommendations and reports progress to senior management and
the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal
Audit on the department’s work and findings.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and
discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
On behalf of the Committee:
Alan Thomson
Chairman of the Audit Committee
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 42 Johnson Matthey
Remuneration Report to Shareholders
Management Development and Remuneration Committee and
its Terms of Reference
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee of the
board comprises all the independent non-executive directors of the
company as set out on pages 34 and 35 and the group Chairman,
who was appointed to the Committee during the year. The Chairman
of the Committee is Mr C D Mackay.
The Committee’s terms of reference include determination on behalf
of the board of fair remuneration for the executive directors and of
the group Chairman (in which case the group Chairman does not
participate), which recognises their individual contributions to the
company’s overall performance. In addition, the Committee assists
the board in ensuring that the senior management of the group are
recruited, developed and remunerated in an appropriate fashion. The
Director of Human Resources, Mr I F Stephenson, acts as secretary
to the Committee. The full terms of reference of the Committee are
available on the company’s website at www.matthey.com.
Non-executive directors’ remuneration is determined by the board,
within the limits prescribed by the company’s Articles of Association.
The remuneration consists of fees, which are set following advice
taken from independent consultants and are reviewed at regular
intervals.
Executive Remuneration Policy
The Committee believes strongly that remuneration policy should be
closely aligned with shareholder interests. The Committee recognises
that, in order to maximise shareholder value, it is necessary to have
a competitive pay and benefits structure. The Committee also
recognises that there is a highly competitive market for successful
executives and that the provision of appropriate rewards for superior
performance is vital to the continued growth of the business. To
assist with this, the Committee appoints and receives advice from
independent remuneration consultants on the pay and incentive
arrangements prevailing in comparably sized industrial companies
in each country in which Johnson Matthey has operations. During
the year, such advice was received from the Hay Group, which also
provided advice on job evaluation, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP also provided expatriate tax advice,
tax audit work, completion of overseas tax returns, advice on set up
of new overseas operations and some overseas payroll services. The
Committee also receives recommendations from the Chief Executive
on the remuneration of those reporting to him as well as advice from
the Director of Human Resources. Total potential rewards are earned
through the achievement of demanding performance targets based
on measures that represent the best interests of shareholders.
The remuneration policy is reviewed by the Committee annually
and a formal review is undertaken every three years. Remuneration
consists of basic salary, annual bonus, a long term incentive plan,
share options and other benefits. Salaries are based on median
market rates with incentives providing the opportunity for upper
quartile total remuneration, but only for achieving outstanding
performance.
To ensure the interests of the executive directors remain aligned with
those of the shareholders, they are encouraged to build up over
time and hold a shareholding in the company equal to at least one
times their basic salary.
During 2006/07 the Committee undertook a comprehensive review
of the executive director and senior management remuneration
arrangements within the group, which included advice from
independent consultants PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and
consultation with the company’s major institutional shareholders and
representative organisations. As a result of this review, changes are
proposed to remuneration relating to annual bonus, long term
incentive plan and share options. These proposals in respect of the
long term incentive plan are submitted to shareholders for approval
at this year’s annual general meeting (AGM) and are explained in the
circular containing the notice of the AGM. A copy of the circular may
be viewed at www.matthey.com. The arrangements which have
been in place to date are described below.
Executive directors’ remuneration consists of the following:
• Basic Salary – which is in line with the median market salary for
each director’s responsibilities as determined by independent
surveys. Basic salary is normally reviewed on 1st August each
year and the Committee takes into account individual
performance and promotion during the year. Where an internal
promotion takes place, the median salary relative to the market
would usually be reached over a period of a few years, which
can give rise to higher than normal salary increases while this is
being achieved.
• Annual Bonus – which is paid as a percentage of basic salary
under the terms of the company’s Executive Compensation Plan
(which also applies to the group’s 160 or so most senior
executives). The executive directors’ bonus award is based on
consolidated profit before tax and one-off items (PBT) compared
with the annual budget. The board of directors rigorously reviews
the annual budget to ensure that the budgeted PBT is sufficiently
stretching. An annual bonus payment of 30% of basic salary
(prevailing at 31st March) is paid if the group meets the annual
budget. This bonus may rise to 65% of basic salary if the group
achieves PBT of 107.5% of budget. A maximum 100% of basic
salary may be paid to the Chief Executive and the other
executive directors if 115% of budgeted PBT is achieved. PBT
must reach 95% of budget for a minimum bonus of 15% to be
payable. The Committee has discretion to vary the awards made.
The bonus awarded to executive directors for 2006/07 was
51.47% of salary at 31st March 2007 based on an achieved PBT
of 104.6% of budget.
• Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) – which is designed to achieve
above average performance and growth. It allows share allocations
of up to a maximum of 125% of basic annual salary each year to
directors and executives. The allocation in 2006 was 100% of
basic annual salary for executive directors and 125% for the
Chief Executive. The release of the share allocation is subject to
the achievement of certain stretching performance targets
measured over the three year period from the date of allocation.
Share allocations made prior to 2004 – Share allocations made
prior to 2004 are subject to the achievement of performance
targets which contain two components – relative total
shareholder return (TSR) and absolute TSR.
The first component (50% of the allocation) compares the
company’s TSR over the three year performance period with that
of a comparator group. The comparator group comprises those
companies placed 51-150 in the FTSE Index. All of the shares
are released if the company ranks in the 76th percentile or
above. None of the shares are released if the company ranks in
the 50th percentile or below. If the company ranks between
these percentiles 35% to 100% of the shares are released on a
straight line basis. In addition, the company’s earnings per share
(EPS) must be at least equal to the increase in UK RPI plus 2%
per annum over the three year performance period before any
release is made.
The second component (50% of the allocation) measures
absolute TSR. All of the shares are released if the absolute TSR
growth over the three year performance period is 45% or more.
Pro rata allocations on a straight line basis of between 50% and
100% are released if absolute TSR growth is between 30% and
45%. Half of the allocated shares are released if TSR growth is
30%. No shares are released for TSR growth of less than 30%. 
REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
Share allocations made from 2004 onwards – Share allocations
made in 2004 onwards are subject to a relative TSR
performance target. This compares the company’s TSR over a
three year performance period commencing in the year of
allocation with that of a comparator group which comprises
those companies placed 51-150 in the FTSE Index. All of the
allocated shares are released if the company ranks in the 76th
percentile or above. None of the shares are released if the
company ranks in the 50th percentile or below. If the company
ranks between these percentiles 35% to 100% of the shares are
released on a straight line basis. In addition, the company’s EPS
must be at least equal to the increase in UK RPI plus 2% per
annum over the three year performance period before any
release is made.
• Share Options – Since 2001 options have been granted under
the Johnson Matthey 2001 Share Option Scheme (the 2001
Scheme). Options are granted at the market value of the
company’s shares at the time of grant and are subject to
performance targets over a three year period. Options may be
exercised upon satisfaction of the relevant performance targets.
Approximately 800 employees are granted options under the
2001 Scheme each year.
Options granted prior to 2004 – Prior to 2004, options granted
to the executive directors under the 2001 Scheme were up to a
maximum of 100% of basic annual salary each year. Such
options can only be exercised if the company’s EPS has grown
by at least UK RPI plus 4% per annum over any three
consecutive years during the life of the option. These options are
subject to annual retesting until they lapse on the tenth
anniversary of grant.
There are also options outstanding under the Johnson Matthey
1995 UK and Overseas Executive Share Option Scheme. The
last option grant under this scheme was made in 2000. All
options were granted in annual tranches up to the maximum
permitted of four times earnings and were subject to a
performance target of EPS growth of UK RPI plus 2% over the
three year performance period. Option grants were not made to
executive directors in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000.
Options granted from 2004 onwards – Grants made from 2004
onwards are not eligible for retesting and are subject to a three
year performance target of EPS growth of UK RPI plus 3% per
annum. If the performance target is not met at the end of the
three year performance period, the options will lapse. In addition,
to reduce the cost calculated under the International Financial
Reporting Standard IFRS 2 – ‘Share-based Payment’, gains are
capped at 100% of the grant price.
The Committee has the discretion to award grants greater than
100% of basic annual salary. Grants above this threshold are,
however, subject to increasingly stretching performance targets.
Grants between 100% and 125% of basic annual salary are subject
to EPS growth of UK RPI plus 4% per annum and grants between
125% and 150% of basic annual salary are subject to EPS growth
of UK RPI plus 5% per annum. In 2006 the executive directors
were granted options equal to 150% of basic annual salary.
• Pensions – All the executive directors are members of the
Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme in the UK. Messrs
Carson and Hawker ceased to accrue pensionable service in the
scheme on 31st March 2006. Mr L C Pentz, a US citizen, joined
the scheme in January 2006. Prior to this he was a member of
the Johnson Matthey Inc. Salaried Employees Pension Plan in
the US. Under the UK scheme, members are entitled to a
pension based on their pensionable service and final pensionable
salary. The scheme also provides life assurance cover of four
times annual salary. The normal scheme pension age for
directors is 60. None of the non-executive directors are members
of the scheme. Details of the individual arrangements for
executive directors are given on pages 46 and 47.
• Other Benefits – Available to the executive directors are private
medical insurance, a company car and membership of the
group’s employee share incentive plans which are open to all
employees in the countries in which the group operates such
schemes.
• Service Contracts – The executive directors are employed on
contracts subject to one year’s notice at any time. On early
termination of their contracts the directors would normally be
entitled to 12 months’ salary and benefits.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Directors’ Emoluments 2006/07
Total prior
Payment Total year
Date of Base in lieu of Annual excluding excluding
service Date of salary pension
(1)
bonus Benefits pension pension
agreement appointment £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Executive
N A P Carson 1.8.99 1.8.99 590 147 314 29 1,080 785
P N Hawker 1.8.03 1.8.03 287 72 152 21 532 387
D W Morgan 1.8.99 1.8.99 293 – 154 26 473 422
L C Pentz 
(2)
1.1.06 1.8.03 287 – 152 272 711 534
J N Sheldrick 
(3)
24.11.97 3.9.90 392 – 206 14 612 544
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Total 1,849 219 978 362 3,408 2,672
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– 44 Johnson Matthey
Directors’ Emoluments 2006/07 (continued)
Total prior
Total year
Date of excluding excluding
letter of Date of Fees pension pension
(7)
appointment appointment £’000 £’000 £’000
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Non-Executive 
(4)
Sir John Banham (Chairman) 10.12.05 1.1.06 250 250 31
M B Dearden 5.1.99 1.4.99 40 40 40
C D Mackay 5.1.99 27.1.99 45
(5)
45 45
I C Strachan 10.12.01 23.1.02 40 40 40
A M Thomson 1.8.02 24.9.02 45
(6)
45 45
R J W Walvis 1.8.02 24.9.02 40 40 40
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Total 460 460 241
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Notes
(1)
Mr Carson and Dr Hawker ceased to accrue pensionable service in the UK pension scheme with effect from 31st March 2006. They received a cash payment
in lieu of pension equal to 25% of basic salary. This is taxable under the PAYE system.
(2)
Mr Pentz’s emoluments from 1st January 2006 are based on UK salary and benefits. Prior to that Mr Pentz’s emoluments were based on US basic salary
adjusted for the cost of living differential in the UK including UK taxation. Associated with his localisation to UK salary and benefits and the purchase of a UK
residence, Mr Pentz was provided with a package of transitional assistance including a housing allowance and relocation expenses commensurate with the
company’s relocation policy.
(3)
Mr Sheldrick is a non-executive director of GKN plc. His fees for the year were £54,000. This amount is excluded from the table above and retained by him.
(4)
Non-executive fees (other than for the Chairman) were reviewed on 1st April 2004 for the period to 31st March 2007, and on 1st May 2007 for the period from
1st April 2007. The new fees are £45,000 per annum, with the fee for chairmanship of committees remaining at £5,000.
(5)
Includes £5,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee.
(6)
Includes £5,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
(7)
Excludes the emoluments of Mr Miles who retired as Chairman on 31st March 2006. His emoluments were £220,000, bringing the total to £461,000.
Former Directors
During the year a payment of £8,000 was made to Mr Miles who retired as Chairman on 31st March 2006.
Directors’ Interests
The interests of the directors as at 31st March 2007 in the shares of the company according to the register required to be kept by section
325(1) of the Companies Act 1985 were:
1. Ordinary Shares
31st March 31st March
2007 2006
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Sir John Banham 8,000 4,000
N A P Carson 61,310 50,919
M B Dearden 2,000 2,000
P N Hawker 15,327 7,966
C D Mackay 12,500 12,500
D W Morgan 40,582 36,257
L C Pentz 18,526 11,414
J N Sheldrick 74,517 63,321
I C Strachan 1,000 1,000
A M Thomson 2,213 2,165
R J W Walvis 1,000 1,000
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
All of the above interests were beneficial. The executive directors are also deemed to be interested in shares held by two employee share
ownership trusts (see note 31 on page 88).
Directors’ interests as at 31st May 2007 were unchanged from those listed above, other than that the Trustees of the Johnson Matthey
Share Incentive Plan have purchased on behalf of Messrs Carson, Hawker, Morgan and Sheldrick a further 45 ordinary shares each and
on behalf of Mr Pentz a further 48 ordinary shares.
REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45
Directors’ Interests (continued)
2. Share Options
As at 31st March 2007, individual holdings under the company’s executive share option schemes were as set out below. Options are not
granted to non-executive directors.
Ordinary Exercise Date from Total number of
Date of shares under price which Expiry ordinary shares
grant option (pence) exercisable
(1)
date under option
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––
N A P Carson 14.7.98 15,964 524.0 14.7.01 14.7.08
22.7.99 18,035 585.5 22.7.02 22.7.09
18.7.01 19,391 1,083.0 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 28,901 865.0 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 33,407 898.0 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 75,678 892.0 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 77,102 1,070.0 20.7.08 20.7.15
26.7.06 71,378 1,282.0 26.7.09 26.7.16 339,856
(2006 268,478)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––
P N Hawker 18.7.01 10,253 1,083.0 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 15,606 865.0 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 21,158 898.0 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 36,746 892.0 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 37,850 1,070.0 20.7.08 20.7.15
26.7.06 34,518 1,282.0 26.7.09 26.7.16 156,131
(2006 127,743)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––
D W Morgan 18.7.01 18,098 1,083.0 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 25,433 865.0 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 26,726 898.0 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 44,397 892.0 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 39,252 1,070.0 20.7.08 20.7.15
26.7.06 35,104 1,282.0 26.7.09 26.7.16 189,010
(2006 153,906)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––
L C Pentz 22.7.99 12,158 585.5 22.7.02 22.7.09
19.7.00 8,224 942.0 19.7.03 19.7.10
18.7.01 12,952 1,083.0 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 17,730 865.0 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 22,185 898.0 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 34,857 892.0 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 37,850 1,070.0 20.7.08 20.7.15
26.7.06 34,518 1,282.0 26.7.09 26.7.16 180,474
(2006 145,956)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––
J N Sheldrick 18.7.01 25,854 1,083.0 18.7.04 18.7.11
17.7.02 34,682 865.0 17.7.05 17.7.12
17.7.03 36,191 898.0 17.7.06 17.7.13
21.7.04 58,861 892.0 21.7.07 21.7.14
20.7.05 52,570 1,070.0 20.7.08 20.7.15
26.7.06 46,804 1,282.0 26.7.09 26.7.16 254,962
(2006 208,158)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––
(1)
subject to meeting the relevant performance targets.
Between 1st April 2006 and 31st March 2007 the following options were exercised:
Exercise Market price
Date of Date of Options price on exercise
grant exercise exercised (pence) (pence)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
P N Hawker 19.7.00 6.2.07 6,130 942.0 1,583.0
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Gains made on exercise of options by directors during the year totalled £39,293 (2006 £645,429).
The closing market price of the company’s shares at 30th March 2007 was 1,576 pence and the range during 2006/07 was 1,237 pence to
1,639 pence.
REMUNERATION REPORT 46 Johnson Matthey
Directors’ Interests (continued)
3. LTIP Allocations
Number of allocated shares:
Market price Shares Allocations
As at Allocations at date released lapsed As at
31st March during the of allocation during during 31st March
2006 year (pence) the year the year 2007
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
N A P Carson 165,787 56,148 1,358.0 16,968 16,968 187,999
P N Hawker 73,003 21,723 1,358.0 10,747 10,746 73,233
D W Morgan 84,775 22,091 1,358.0 13,575 13,574 79,717
L C Pentz 72,783 21,723 1,358.0 11,269 11,268 71,969
J N Sheldrick 113,540 29,455 1,358.0 18,382 18,382 106,231
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
On 1st August 2006 the 2003 LTIP allocation was released to participants. The release of this allocation was subject to the achievement
of performance targets which contained two components – relative TSR and absolute TSR. Further details of the performance targets
can be found on page 42. The company’s TSR performance relative to the comparator group was below the 50th percentile, which
qualified for a nil release of half the allocated shares. The company achieved absolute TSR growth of 66.9% during the performance
period. This qualified for a full release of the other half of the allocated shares and resulted in the following gains:
Number of Share price when Gain
shares released released (pence) £
–––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––
N A P Carson 16,968 1,291.5 219,142
P N Hawker 10,747 1,291.5 138,798
D W Morgan 13,575 1,291.5 175,321
L C Pentz 11,269 1,291.5 145,539
J N Sheldrick 18,382 1,291.5 237,404
–––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––
Pensions
Pensions and life assurance benefits for the executive directors are provided through the company’s final salary occupational pension scheme
for UK employees – the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme (JMEPS) – which is constituted under a separate Trust Deed. JMEPS
is an exempt approved scheme under Chapter I of Part XIV of the Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988. It is a registered scheme for the
purposes of the Finance Act 2004.
On 6th April 2006 the Finance Act 2004 introduced changes to the taxation of benefits payable from registered UK pension schemes. Unless
protected under transitional arrangements, retirement benefits that exceed a capital value – called the Life Time Allowance – will be subject to
an additional tax charge. Any such tax charge arising out of membership of JMEPS will be paid by the trustees at the point of retirement and
the member’s benefits will be reduced accordingly. Executive directors whose retirement benefits are valued in excess of the Life Time
Allowance may withdraw from service in JMEPS and receive instead a supplemental payment of 25% of basic salary each year, which is
taxable. Messrs Carson and Hawker withdrew from JMEPS and ceased paying member contributions on 31st March 2006. No pensionable
service in JMEPS has been accrued by either director since that date. The increase in accrued pension in the tables below is attributable to
the increase in basic salary.
The Finance Act 2004 also enables authorised schemes to remove the restriction imposed by the ‘earnings cap’ under the Finance Act No. 2,
1989. As a result, the accrued pensions for Messrs Morgan and Sheldrick for service from 6th April 2006 are calculated by reference to
normal JMEPS rules and actual basic salary. Accrued pensions in respect of service prior to that date remain restricted by reference to the
‘earnings cap’ (see note 6 below).
From 1st April 2007, member contributions paid by executive directors to JMEPS will increase from 4% to 5% of pensionable pay (i.e. basic
salary). There will be further increases to 6% and 7% on 1st April 2008 and 1st April 2009 respectively.
Disclosure of directors’ pension benefits has been made under the requirements of the United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing Rules and in
accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The information below sets out the disclosures under the two sets of
requirements.
a. United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing Rules
Increase in Transfer
accrued Total Total value of
Years of Directors’ pension accrued accrued increase
pensionable contributions during the pension at pension at (less
Age at service at to JMEPS year (net of 31st March 31st March directors’
31st March 31st March in the year
(1)
inflation)
(2)
2007
(3)
2006 contributions)
(4)
2007 2007 £’000 £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
N A P Carson
(5)
49 25 – 19 287 259 226
P N Hawker
(5)
53 20 – 7 138 127 101
D W Morgan
(6)
49 18 12 6 47 40 55
L C Pentz
(7)
51 22 11 3 46 42 90
J N Sheldrick
(6)
57 16 16 8 55 46 112
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
Pensions (continued)
b. Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002
Transfer Transfer Increase
Increase in Total value of value of in transfer
Directors’ accrued accrued accrued accrued value
contributions pension pension at pension at pension at (net of
to JMEPS during the 31st March 31st March 31st March directors’
in the year
(1)
year 2007
(3)
2007
(4)
2006
(4)
contributions)
£’000 £’000 pa £’000 pa £’000 £’000 £’000
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
N A P Carson
(5)
– 28 287 3,431 2,887 544
P N Hawker
(5)
– 11 138 1,954 1,707 247
D W Morgan
(6)
12 7 47 539 426 101
L C Pentz
(7)
11 4 46 411 311 89
J N Sheldrick
(6)
16 9 55 907 735 156
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Notes
(1)
Members’ contributions were paid at the general scheme rate of 4% of pensionable pay (i.e. basic salary). This general rate will increase to 5% on 1st April
2007, with further increases to 6% and 7% on 1st April 2008 and 1st April 2009 respectively.
(2)
The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase for inflation.
(3)
The entitlement shown under ‘Total accrued pension at 31st March 2007’ is the pension which would be paid annually on retirement, based on
pensionable service to 31st March 2007, although pensionable service for Messrs Carson and Hawker ceased on 31st March 2006. The pension would,
however, be subject to an actuarial reduction of 0.3% per month for each month that retirement precedes age 60.
(4)
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note 11. No allowance has been made
in the transfer values for any discretionary benefits that have been or may be awarded under JMEPS. The transfer values in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report Regulations 2002 have been calculated at the start and the end of the year and, therefore, also take account of market movements.
(5) 
Mr Carson and Dr Hawker ceased to accrue pensionable service in JMEPS with effect from 31st March 2006. A cash payment in lieu of pension equal
to 25% of basic salary has been made. This is taxable under the PAYE system and is included in the emoluments table on page 43.
(6)
The JMEPS’ benefits and contributions for Messrs Morgan and Sheldrick in respect of pensionable service up to 5th April 2006 are restricted by
reference to the ‘earnings cap’ imposed by the Finance Act No. 2, 1989. Between 1st April 2000 and 31st March 2006, contributions were paid to
Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Schemes (FURBS) to provide retirement and death benefits in relation to basic salary in excess of the ‘earnings
cap’. FURBS were not exempt approved under Chapter I of Part XIV of the Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and so payments were also made to
meet the tax liabilities in respect of these contributions. No FURBS payments have been made after 31st March 2006. Benefits and contributions in
respect of service from 6th April 2006 have been provided by JMEPS in accordance with the normal scheme rules.
(7)
Mr Pentz is a US citizen but became a member of JMEPS on 1st January 2006. Prior to that he was a member of the Johnson Matthey Inc. Salaried
Employees Pension Plan (a non-contributory defined benefit arrangement) and a US savings plan (401k). He also has benefits in a Senior Executive
Retirement Plan. The pension values reported above are the aggregate for his separate membership of the UK and US pension schemes and the Senior
Executive Retirement Plan. US entitlements have been converted to sterling by reference to exchange rates on 31st March 2006 and 31st March 2007.
Mr Pentz’s US pension was fixed on 31st December 2005. The sterling equivalent of it has fallen over the year as a result of exchange rate movements
and this reduction is reflected in the ‘Increase in accrued pension during the year’. The ‘Transfer value of increase’ is the full value of the increase in his
UK pension.
REMUNERATION REPORT 48 Johnson Matthey
Johnson Matthey Total Shareholder Return and FTSE 100 rebased to 100
The following graph charts total cumulative shareholder return of the company for the five year period from 31st March 2002 to 31st March
2007 against the FTSE 100 as the most appropriate comparator group, rebased to 100 at 1st April 2002. Johnson Matthey joined the FTSE
100 on 12th June 2002.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 5th June 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Charles Mackay
Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee
REMUNERATION REPORT
40
60
80
100
120
160
140
200
180
March 2002 March 2003 March 2004 March 2005 March 2006 March 2007
Johnson Matthey
FTSE 100
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the group and parent company accounts in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent
company accounts for each financial year. Under that law they are
required to prepare the group accounts in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union (EU) and applicable law and have elected to prepare
the parent company accounts on the same basis.
The group and parent company accounts are required by law and
IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of
the group and the parent company and the performance for that
period; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts
that references in the relevant part of that Act to accounts giving a
true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the group and parent company accounts, the
directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTORS
for the preparation of the Annual Report and the accounts
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS
as adopted by the EU; and
• prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company will
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its
accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have a
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open
to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that
comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information included on the company’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. We have audited the group and parent company accounts (the ‘accounts’) of Johnson Matthey Plc for the year ended 31st March 2007
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent
Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related
notes. These accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the tabulated information and
related footnotes set out in the directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48 disclosing the directors’ emoluments and compensation,
share options, long term incentive plan, pensions and other matters specified by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the directors’ Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance statement and
the accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU as set out in the
Responsibility of Directors statement on page 48.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group
accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is
consistent with the accounts. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and
Financial Review that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report. In addition we report to you, if in our
opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts. We consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the
preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the group’s affairs as at
31st March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31st March 2007;
• the accounts and the part of the directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the accounts.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
5th June 2007
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Johnson Matthey Public Limited Company
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49 2007 2006
restated
Notes £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Revenue 1,2 6,151.7 4,573.7
Cost of materials sold (5,300.0) (3,842.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net revenues 851.7 731.4
Other cost of sales (413.7) (358.7)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Gross profit 438.0 372.7
Distribution costs (81.8) (75.3)
Administrative expenses (103.8) (84.0)
Impairment costs 3 – (6.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit 1,4 252.4 207.4
Finance costs 6 (36.0) (31.5)
Finance income 7 9.2 15.8
Share of profit / (loss) of associates 0.9 (0.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 226.5 191.5
Income tax expense 8 (64.7) (54.7)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year from continuing operations 161.8 136.8
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 40 43.7 14.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year 205.5 151.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 206.5 152.1
Minority interests 33 (1.0) (0.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
205.5 151.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
pence pence
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share attributable to the equity holders of the parent company
Continuing operations
Basic 10 76.5 64.2
Diluted 10 75.3 63.9
Total
Basic 10 96.9 70.8
Diluted 10 95.4 70.5
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form an integral part of the accounts.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31st March 2007
50 Johnson Matthey Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
restated
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 600.7 661.1 249.2 235.6
Goodwill 15 399.2 403.1 249.5 248.2
Other intangible assets 16 40.1 41.3 5.5 6.1
Investments in subsidiaries 17 – – 342.5 492.5
Investments in associates 18 4.8 4.3 – –
Deferred income tax assets 30 8.9 4.4 – –
Available-for-sale investments 19 4.8 5.9 – –
Other receivables 22 0.4 0.2 297.4 195.5
Post-employment benefits net assets 13 49.2 75.0 45.5 70.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current assets 1,108.1 1,195.3 1,189.6 1,248.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current assets
Inventories 20 362.7 345.8 99.2 120.6
Current income tax assets 7.0 3.6 3.1 –
Trade and other receivables 22 527.3 478.5 1,016.8 1,110.4
Available-for-sale investments 19 0.2 0.1 – –
Cash and deposits 25 73.2 133.0 9.9 26.6
Other financial assets 26 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.4
Other current assets 7.1 7.1 7.1 7.1
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 24 0.4 – – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current assets 981.1 971.3 1,139.4 1,268.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 2,089.2 2,166.6 2,329.0 2,516.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (416.0) (385.9) (773.7) (604.6)
Current income tax liabilities (52.7) (66.0) – (12.7)
Borrowings and finance leases 25 (27.5) (90.3) (20.1) (85.5)
Other financial liabilities 27 (2.0) (4.2) (2.3) (4.3)
Provisions 29 (7.7) (9.1) (2.6) (2.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current liabilities (505.9) (555.5) (798.7) (709.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 25 (410.5) (454.7) (405.1) (327.1)
Deferred income tax liabilities 30 (36.5) (49.7) (14.1) (25.6)
Employee benefits obligations 13 (48.3) (56.2) (11.7) (12.1)
Provisions 29 (8.7) (5.2) (5.8) (4.6)
Trade and other payables 23 (1.2) (0.8) (83.7) (227.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total non-current liabilities (505.2) (566.6) (520.4) (596.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities (1,011.1) (1,122.1) (1,319.1) (1,305.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 1,078.1 1,044.5 1,009.9 1,211.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equity
Share capital 31 220.5 220.2 220.5 220.2
Share premium account 34 146.3 144.4 146.3 144.4
Shares held in employee share ownership trusts 34 (61.9) (63.0) (61.5) (62.6)
Other reserves 32 (12.9) 28.5 8.4 4.2
Retained earnings 34 783.7 708.0 696.2 904.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 34 1,075.7 1,038.1 1,009.9 1,211.1
Minority interests 33 2.4 6.4 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total equity 1,078.1 1,044.5 1,009.9 1,211.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 5th June 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
N A P Carson
Directors
J N Sheldrick
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form an integral part of the accounts.
CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEETS
as at 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51 Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
restated restated
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit / (loss) before tax 226.5 191.5 (56.9) 229.4
Adjustments for:
Share of (profit) / loss in associates (0.9) 0.2 – –
Discontinued operations 40 15.9 21.3 – 0.1
Depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale of non-current assets
and investments 77.7 76.7 175.9 34.3
Share-based payments 6.9 3.2 6.9 3.2
(Increase) / decrease in inventories (82.5) (25.6) 20.8 4.5
Increase in receivables (136.5) (78.7) (9.7) (67.3)
Increase / (decrease) in payables 104.6 63.7 28.6 (88.0)
Increase / (decrease) in provisions 5.9 (18.1) 2.5 (15.1)
Employee benefit obligations charge less contributions (9.1) (9.3) (6.6) (7.8)
Changes in fair value of financial instruments 5.2 (12.4) (0.1) 2.1
Dividend income – – – (159.0)
Net finance costs / (income) 26.8 15.7 (0.8) (14.7)
Income tax (paid) / received (81.4) (15.9) (32.2) 9.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities 159.1 212.3 128.4 (69.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from associates 0.5 0.1 – –
Dividends received from subsidiaries – – – 170.0
Purchases of non-current assets and investments 35 (125.0) (120.3) (43.9) (90.0)
Proceeds from sale of non-current assets and investments 3.5 5.7 0.1 0.5
Purchases of businesses and minority interests 35 (8.6) (24.3) (5.1) –
Net proceeds from sale of businesses and minority interests 35 127.1 – 4.1 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash (outflow) / inflow from investing activities (2.5) (138.8) (44.8) 80.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash flows from financing activities
Net purchase of own shares 35 (50.4) (25.9) (50.4) (25.9)
(Repayment of) / proceeds from borrowings and finance leases 35 (71.8) 82.3 14.2 83.6
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company 9 (66.0) (60.4) (66.0) (60.4)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders – (0.2) – –
Interest paid (31.3) (30.6) (66.9) (53.8)
Interest received 4.9 16.6 68.0 69.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash (outflow) / inflow from financing activities (214.6) (18.2) (101.1) 12.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (58.0) 55.3 (17.5) 24.1
Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents (7.1) 5.8 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 125.1 64.0 10.0 (14.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 36 60.0 125.1 (7.5) 10.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Reconciliation to net debt
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (58.0) 55.3 (17.5) 24.1
Repayment of / (proceeds from) borrowings and finance leases 71.8 (82.3) (14.2) (83.6)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 13.8 (27.0) (31.7) (59.5)
Borrowings acquired with subsidiaries – (1.4) – –
Borrowings disposed of with subsidiaries 19.1 – – –
Exchange differences on net debt 14.3 (13.4) 2.4 (1.4)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Movement in net debt in year 47.2 (41.8) (29.3) (60.9)
Net debt at beginning of year (412.0) (370.2) (386.0) (325.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net debt at end of year 25 (364.8) (412.0) (415.3) (386.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form an integral part of the accounts.
CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
52 Johnson Matthey Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
Notes £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments
and related loans (67.3) 42.3 1.4 (0.3)
Currency translation differences – transferred to profit on sale of
discontinued operations (3.8) – – –
Fair value gain on available-for-sale investments transferred to profit on sale – (0.8) – –
Cash flow hedges – gains / (losses) taken to equity 3.1 (3.6) 2.7 (3.4)
Cash flow hedges – transferred to income statement in the year 1.2 (2.6) 1.4 (2.2)
Fair value gains / (losses) on net investment hedges 23.3 (12.5) – –
Fair value gains on net investment hedges – transferred to profit on sale of
discontinued operations (2.0) – – –
Actuarial (loss) / gain on post-employment benefits assets and liabilities 13 (32.3) 19.6 (32.2) 17.2
Tax on above items taken directly to or transferred from equity 13.5 (7.8) 8.6 (4.0)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net (expense) / income recognised directly in equity (64.3) 34.6 (18.1) 7.3
Profit / (loss) for the year 205.5 151.3 (78.4) 215.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total recognised income and expense relating to the year 141.2 185.9 (96.5) 222.9
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – hedging reserve – 2.1 – 2.0
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – available-for-sale reserve – 0.7 – –
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – retained earnings – (0.1) – (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
141.2 188.6 (96.5) 224.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total recognised income and expense attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 142.2 186.7 (96.5) 222.9
Minority interests (1.0) (0.8) – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
141.2 185.9 (96.5) 222.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company – 2.7 – 1.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form an integral part of the accounts.
CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY STATEMENTS
OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 The group’s and parent company’s significant accounting policies, together with the judgments made by management in applying those
policies which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the accounts, are:
Basis of accounting and preparation
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations issued by the
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) or the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) as adopted by the
European Union. For Johnson Matthey, there are no differences between IFRS as adopted by the European Union and full IFRS as published
by the International Accounting Standards Board and so the accounts comply with IFRS.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as explained
below.
The parent company has not presented its own income statement and related notes as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent company and all its subsidiaries, including employee share ownership trusts,
and include the group’s interest in associates.
Entities over which the group has the ability to exercise control are accounted for as subsidiaries. Entities that are not subsidiaries or joint
ventures but where the group has significant influence (i.e. the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions) are
accounted for as associates.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are included in the consolidated accounts using the equity method of accounting.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are consolidated from or up to the effective date of acquisition or disposal
respectively. The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated. No profit is taken on transactions between subsidiaries and the group’s share
of profits on transactions with associates is also eliminated.
In the parent company balance sheet, businesses acquired by the parent company from other group companies are incorporated at book
value at the date of acquisition. Where the consideration given exceeds the book value of the assets acquired this difference is accounted for
as goodwill.
Revenue
Revenue comprises all sales of goods and rendering of services at the fair value of consideration received or receivable after the deduction of
any trade discounts and excluding sales taxes. Revenue is recognised when it can be measured reliably and the significant risks and rewards
of ownership are transferred to the customer. With the sale of goods this occurs when the goods are despatched or made available to the
customer, except for the sale of consignment products located at customers’ premises where revenue is recognised on notification that the
product has been used. With the rendering of services revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion as measured by the
proportion that costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total costs. With royalties revenue is recognised in accordance with the substance
of the relevant agreement.
Construction contracts
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of
completion. This is measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs
incurred that it is probable will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense
immediately.
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary, associate or branch at the exchange rate at
the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange
rate at the balance sheet date.
Income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches are translated into sterling at the average rates for the
year. Balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches, including any fair value adjustments and including related goodwill,
are translated into sterling at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches, less exchange
differences arising on related foreign currency financial instruments which hedge the group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to
a separate component of equity. The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 – ‘First-time Adoption of International
Reporting Standards’ to deem the cumulative translation difference for all overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches to be zero at
1st April 2004.
Other exchange differences are taken to operating profit.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31st March 2007
54 Johnson Matthey Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred unless it meets the IFRS recognition criteria for
capitalisation. When the recognition criteria have been met any further development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Finance costs and finance income
Finance costs and finance income are recognised in the income statement in the year incurred.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. Finance costs are not
capitalised.
Depreciation is provided using the straight line method to write off the cost less estimated residual value over the useful life of the asset. The
estimated useful lives vary according to the class of the asset, but are typically: leasehold property 30 years (or the life of the lease if shorter);
freehold buildings 30 years; and plant and equipment 4 to 10 years. Freehold land is not depreciated.
Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business when the fair value of the consideration given exceeds the fair value attributed to the net
assets acquired. It is subject to annual impairment reviews.
The group and parent company have taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 and so goodwill arising on acquisitions made
before 1st April 2004 is included at the carrying amount at that date less any subsequent impairments. Up to 31st March 1998 goodwill was
eliminated against reserves.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provisions for impairment. They are amortised in accordance with
the relevant income stream or by using the straight line method over their useful lives from the time they are first available for use. The
estimated useful lives vary according to the specific asset but are typically: 1 to 8 years for customer contracts and relationships; 3 to 8 years
for capitalised software; 3 to 10 years for patents, trademarks and licences; and 3 to 8 years for capitalised development currently being
amortised.
Intangible assets which are not yet being amortised are subject to annual impairment reviews.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the parent company’s balance sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment. Any distributions from
pre-acquisition profits are recognised as a reduction to the cost of the investment.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group. The assets
are included in property, plant and equipment and the capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
leases. The assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter. The interest element of the
lease rental is included in the income statement.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are expensed on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Grants
Grants related to assets are included in deferred income and released to the income statement in equal instalments over the expected useful
lives of the related assets.
Grants related to income are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Precious metal inventories
Inventories of gold, silver and platinum group metals are valued according to the source from which the metal is obtained. Metal which has
been purchased and committed to future sales to customers or hedged in metal markets is valued at the price at which it is contractually
committed or hedged, adjusted for unexpired contango and backwardation. Other precious metal inventories owned by the group, which are
unhedged, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the weighted average cost formula.
Other inventories
Non precious metal inventories are valued at the lower of cost, including attributable overheads, and net realisable value. Except where costs
are specifically identified, the first-in, first-out or weighted average cost formulae are used to value inventories.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand, including short term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less from the
date of acquisition. The group and parent company routinely use short term bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as an
integral part of their cash management policy. Therefore cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statements are cash and deposits less
bank overdrafts. Offset arrangements across group businesses have been applied to arrive at the net cash and overdraft figures.
Derivative financial instruments
The group and parent company use derivative financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage
the financial risks associated with their underlying business activities and the financing of those activities. The group and parent company do
not undertake any trading activity in derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value. Derivative financial instruments may be designated at inception as fair value
hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges if appropriate.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative financial instruments that are not designated as or are not determined to be effective hedges are
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement, together
with the related changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability. Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedging instrument
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the designation is revoked.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity, to the extent that the
hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in the income statement immediately. If the hedged item results in the recognition of a
non-financial asset or liability, the amount recognised in equity is transferred out of equity and included in the initial carrying amount of the
asset or liability. Otherwise, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item is
recognised in the income statement. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the
criteria for hedge accounting or the designation is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast
transaction occurs. If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the
income statement.
For hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in equity,
while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the
foreign operations are sold.
Other financial instruments
All other financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequent measurement is as follows:
• Unhedged borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
• Available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity. On disposal of the
investment the amount recognised in equity will be transferred to the income statement at the trade date.
• All other financial assets and liabilities, including short term receivables and payables, are measured at amortised cost less any impairment
provision.
Taxation
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when they relate to items recognised directly in equity when the
related tax is also recognised in equity.
Current tax is the amount of income tax expected to be paid in respect of the taxable profits using the tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amount in the balance sheet. It is provided using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset or liability
is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised. No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries, branches and associates where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions and contingencies
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made of a
probable adverse outcome, for example warranties, environmental claims and restructurings. Otherwise, material contingent liabilities are
disclosed unless the transfer of economic benefits is remote. Contingent assets are only disclosed if an inflow of economic benefits is
probable.
The group considers financial guarantees of its share of the borrowings and precious metal leases of its associates to be insurance contracts.
The parent company considers financial guarantees of its subsidiaries’ borrowings and precious metal leases to be insurance contracts.
These are treated as contingent liabilities unless it becomes probable that it will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31st March 2007
56 Johnson Matthey Share-based payments and employee share ownership trusts (ESOTs)
The fair value of outstanding share options granted to employees and shares allocated to employees under the long term incentive plan after
7th November 2002 is calculated using an adjusted Black-Scholes options valuation model and the resulting cost is charged to the income
statement over the relevant vesting periods, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting where appropriate.
The group and parent company provide finance to the ESOTs to purchase company shares in the open market. Costs of running the ESOTs
are charged to the income statement. The cost of shares held by the ESOTs are deducted in arriving at equity until they vest unconditionally in
employees.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The group operates a number of contributory and non-contributory plans, mainly of the defined benefit type, which require contributions to be
made to separately administered funds.
The costs of the defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit plans, the group and parent company recognise the net assets or liabilities of the schemes in their balance sheets.
Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality
corporate bonds. Assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date. The changes in scheme assets and liabilities, based on
actuarial advice, are recognised as follows:
• The current service cost is spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees’ services based on
the most recent actuarial valuation and is deducted in arriving at operating profit.
• The interest cost, based on the discount rate at the beginning of the year and the present value of the defined benefit obligation during the
year, is included in operating profit.
• The expected return on plan assets, based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the related
obligation and amended for changes in the fair value of plan assets as a result of contributions paid in and benefits paid out, is included in
operating profit.
• Actuarial gains and losses, representing differences between the expected return and actual return on plan assets and reimbursement
rights, differences between actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year, and changes in
actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense in the year they occur.
• Past service costs are spread evenly over the period in which the increases in benefit vest and are deducted in arriving at operating profit.
If an increase in benefits vests immediately, the cost is recognised immediately.
• Gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments are included in operating profit.
Standards and interpretations adopted in the year
The standards and interpretations which were adopted during the year were Amendment to International Accounting Standard (IAS) 21 –
‘Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’, IFRIC 4 – ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease’, IFRIC 5 – ‘Rights to Interests
arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds’, IFRIC 6 – ‘Liabilities arising from Participating in a
Specific Market – Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment’, IFRIC 7 – ‘Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’, IFRIC 8 – ‘Scope of IFRS 2’ and IFRIC 9 – ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives’. There were
no changes in accounting policy and no effect on current or prior year results or net assets of the group and parent company.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet applied
IFRS 7 – ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ was issued in August 2005 and is required to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after
1st January 2007. It revises and enhances the disclosure required by IAS 30 – ‘Disclosure in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar
Financial Institutions’ and IAS 32 – ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and will not affect the reported results or net assets of the group and
parent company.
IFRS 8 – ‘Operating Segments’ was issued in November 2006 and is required to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after
1st January 2009. It replaces IAS 14 – ‘Segment Reporting’ and requires the identification of operating segments based on internal reporting
to the chief operating decision maker and changes the disclosure requirements. Johnson Matthey has not yet completed its evaluation of the
impact on its disclosures but adoption of the standard will not affect the reported results or net assets of the group and parent company.
IFRIC 10 – ‘Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment’ was issued in July 2006 and is required to be applied for annual periods beginning on
or after 1st November 2006. This will not affect the reported results or net assets of the group and parent company.
IFRIC 11 – ‘IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions’ was issued in November 2006 and is required to be applied for annual periods
beginning on or after 1st March 2007. This will not affect the reported results or net assets of the group. The effect on the parent company is
still being evaluated.
IFRIC 12 – ‘Service Concession Arrangements’ was issued in November 2006 and is required to be applied for annual periods beginning on
or after 1st January 2008. This will not affect the reported results or net assets of the group and parent company.
Amendment to IAS 1 – ‘Capital Disclosures’ was issued in August 2005 and is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January
2007. The amendment requires new disclosures about how an entity manages its capital resources and will not affect the reported results or
net assets of the group and parent company.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57 1 Segmental information
By business segment
For management purposes, the group was organised into four operating divisions – Catalysts, Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical
Materials and Ceramics. Their principal activities are described on pages 8 to 13. The group sold its Ceramics Division during the year
(note 40) and so its results are reported as discontinued operations. Sales between segments are made at market prices, taking into
account the volumes involved.
Year ended 31st March 2007
Precious
Metal Pharmaceutical
Catalysts Products Materials Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sales to external customers 2,192.6 3,824.4 134.7 – 6,151.7
Inter-segment sales 21.9 1,162.6 0.3 (1,184.8) –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue 2,214.5 4,987.0 135.0 (1,184.8) 6,151.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales excluding the value of precious metals 1,035.6 290.0 128.6 – 1,454.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Segment result 148.8 85.3 35.5 – 269.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unallocated corporate expenses (17.2)
––––––––––––
Operating profit 252.4
Net finance costs (26.8)
Share of profit of associates 0.9 0.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 226.5
Income tax expense (64.7)
––––––––––––
Profit for the year from continuing operations 161.8
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 43.7
––––––––––––
Profit for the year 205.5
––––––––––––
Segment assets 1,308.1 298.4 324.2 (52.1) 1,878.6
Investments in associates – 4.8 – – 4.8
Cash and deposits 73.2
Current and deferred income tax assets 15.9
Post-employment benefits net assets 49.2
Unallocated corporate assets 67.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 2,089.2
––––––––––––
Segment liabilities 329.8 92.1 18.4 (52.1) 388.2
Borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 438.0
Current and deferred income tax liabilities 89.2
Employee benefits obligations 48.3
Unallocated corporate liabilities 47.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities 1,011.1
––––––––––––
Segment capital expenditure 91.5 11.2 10.7 – 113.4
Capital expenditure on discontinued operations 4.5
Corporate capital expenditure 1.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total capital expenditure 119.8
––––––––––––
Segment depreciation and amortisation 46.0 13.4 10.5 – 69.9
Depreciation on discontinued operations 5.5
Corporate depreciation 2.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total depreciation and amortisation 77.5
––––––––––––
Significant non-cash expenses other than depreciation 1.5 1.3 – – 2.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
58 Johnson Matthey 1 Segmental information (continued)
By business segment (continued)
Year ended 31st March 2006 (restated)
Precious
Metal Pharmaceutical
Catalysts Products Materials Ceramics Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sales to external customers 1,477.4 2,962.4 133.9 – 4,573.7
Inter-segment sales 17.4 676.9 1.2 (695.5) –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue 1,494.8 3,639.3 135.1 (695.5) 4,573.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales excluding the value of
precious metals 786.4 245.4 127.2 – 1,159.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Segment result before impairment costs 134.2 62.2 33.8 – 230.2
Impairment costs – (6.0) – – (6.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Segment result 134.2 56.2 33.8 – 224.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unallocated corporate expenses (16.8)
––––––––––––
Operating profit 207.4
Net finance costs (15.7)
Share of loss of associates (0.2) (0.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 191.5
Income tax expense (54.7)
––––––––––––
Profit for the year from continuing operations 136.8
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 14.5
––––––––––––
Profit for the year 151.3
––––––––––––
Segment assets 1,119.1 305.8 331.3 164.6 (26.7) 1,894.1
Investments in associates – 4.3 – – – 4.3
Cash and deposits 133.0
Current and deferred income tax assets 8.0
Post-employment benefits net assets 75.0
Unallocated corporate assets 52.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 2,166.6
––––––––––––
Segment liabilities 207.0 117.1 24.1 38.0 (26.7) 359.5
Borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 545.0
Current and deferred income tax liabilities 115.7
Employee benefits obligations 56.2
Unallocated corporate liabilities 45.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total liabilities 1,122.1
––––––––––––
Segment capital expenditure 89.2 13.7 9.9 6.5 – 119.3
Corporate capital expenditure 4.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total capital expenditure 124.0
––––––––––––
Segment depreciation and amortisation 39.8 13.0 10.0 6.3 – 69.1
Corporate depreciation 1.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total depreciation and amortisation 70.8
––––––––––––
Significant non-cash expenses other than
depreciation – 7.7 – – – 7.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 59 1 Segmental information (continued)
By geographical segment
Pharmaceutical Materials is located in Europe and North America. All of the other divisions of the group have a presence in each of the
geographical segments.
Year ended 31st March 2007
North Rest of
Europe America Asia the World Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales by geographical destination 2,654.5 1,496.3 1,339.8 661.1 – 6,151.7
Carrying value of segment assets by location 1,154.5 478.6 176.7 141.2 (72.4) 1,878.6
Capital expenditure by location of assets 61.7 29.8 17.5 10.8 – 119.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2006 (restated)
North Rest of
Europe America Asia the World Eliminations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
External sales by geographical destination 1,862.2 1,124.9 1,089.6 497.0 – 4,573.7
Carrying value of segment assets by location 1,322.7 294.1 170.4 162.9 (56.0) 1,894.1
Capital expenditure by location of assets 61.3 42.5 13.7 6.5 – 124.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2Revenue
2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sale of goods 6,021.5 4,482.7
Rendering of services 109.8 86.6
Royalties / licence income 20.4 4.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue – continuing operations 6,151.7 4,573.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
3 Impairment costs
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Impairment of UK Pgm Refining assets (Precious Metal Products) – 6.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total impairment costs – 6.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
During the year ended 31st March 2006 the group decided to stop using parts of the pgm refining process and so fully impaired the
associated plant and equipment.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
60 Johnson Matthey 4 Operating profit
2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit is arrived at after charging / (crediting):
Total research and development expenditure 66.5 60.6
less development expenditure capitalised (7.8) (6.7)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Research and development charged 58.7 53.9
less external funding received – from government grants (1.9) (1.2)
– from other organisations (2.6) (2.7)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net research and development – continuing operations 54.2 50.0
Net research and development – discontinued operations 1.5 2.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net research and development 55.7 52.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other government grants – (0.1)
Inventories recognised as an expense – continuing operations 5,300.0 3,842.3
Inventories recognised as an expense – discontinued operations 94.9 103.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Inventories recognised as an expense 5,394.9 3,946.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense – continuing operations 3.2 2.9
Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense – discontinued operations – 0.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense 3.2 3.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Reversal of write-down of inventories arising from increases in net realisable value (0.5) (0.3)
Net losses / (gains) on foreign exchange – continuing operations 1.7 (0.4)
Net losses / (gains) on foreign exchange – discontinued operations 0.5 (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net losses / (gains) on foreign exchange 2.2 (0.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net (gains) / losses on foreign currency forwards held for trading (0.2) 0.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – continuing operations 63.1 58.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – discontinued operations 5.5 6.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 68.6 64.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets included in other cost of sales 2.5 1.4
Amortisation of other intangible assets included in – other cost of sales 2.1 2.2
– distribution costs 0.1 0.2
– administrative expenses 4.2 2.3
Operating lease rentals payable – minimum lease payments – continuing operations 8.3 8.3
Operating lease rentals payable – minimum lease payments – discontinued operations 0.3 0.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating lease rentals payable – minimum lease payments 8.6 9.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Unless otherwise specified, the items above are for both continuing operations and total group.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61 5 Fees payable to auditors
2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the company’s
annual accounts 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6
– other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
– tax services 0.3 0.3
– due diligence 0.2 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services 1.3 1.0
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total fees payable to the company’s auditor 1.7 1.4
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Audit fees payable to other auditors were £ nil (2006 £0.1 million).
6 Finance costs
2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 24.4 18.6
Other interest payable 11.4 12.8
Remaining loss on remeasurement of net investment hedging instruments to fair value 0.2 –
Net loss on remeasurement of fair value hedges and related hedged items to fair value – 0.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total finance costs – continuing operations 36.0 31.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
7 Finance income
2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Interest receivable 3.8 7.1
Interest receivable on interest rate swaps 5.0 8.4
Remaining gain on remeasurement of net investment hedging instruments to fair value – 0.2
Net gain on remeasurement of fair value hedges and related hedged items to fair value 0.3 –
Net gain on remeasurement of foreign currency swaps held for trading 0.1 0.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total finance income – continuing operations 9.2 15.8
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
62 Johnson Matthey 8Taxation
2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current tax
Corporation tax on profits for the year 60.9 56.1
Adjustment for prior years (0.5) (0.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total current tax 60.4 55.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.9 1.4
Changes in tax rates and laws 0.4 (0.3)
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets – (1.7)
Adjustment to estimated recoverable amount of deferred tax assets arising in prior years – 0.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total deferred tax 4.3 (0.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Income tax expense – continuing operations 64.7 54.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 226.5 191.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Tax expense at UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2006 30%) 68.0 57.5
Effects of:
Overseas tax rates – 0.7
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.9 1.1
Net utilisation of tax losses and tax holidays (5.7) (1.8)
Adjustments for prior years – (0.8)
Research and development credits (2.9) (2.4)
Other 1.4 0.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Tax expense for the year 64.7 54.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
9 Dividends
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2004/05 final ordinary dividend paid – 19.0 pence per share – 40.9
2005/06 interim ordinary dividend paid – 9.1 pence per share – 19.5
2005/06 final ordinary dividend paid – 21.0 pence per share 44.9 –
2006/07 interim ordinary dividend paid – 9.9 pence per share 21.1 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total dividends 66.0 60.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
A final dividend of 23.7 pence per ordinary share has been proposed by the board which will be paid on 7th August 2007 to shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 15th June 2007. The estimated amount to be paid is £50.0 million. In accordance with IFRS
accounting requirements this dividend has not been recognised in these accounts.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63 10 Earnings per ordinary share
2007 2006
restated
pence pence
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total
Basic 96.9 70.8
Diluted 95.4 70.5
Continuing
Basic 76.5 64.2
Diluted 75.3 63.9
Discontinued
Basic 20.4 6.6
Diluted 20.1 6.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings
Profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent company 163.0 138.0
Profit for the year from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the parent company 43.5 14.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 206.5 152.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the parent company is after taking account of the minority
interests of discontinued operations of £0.2 million (2006 £0.4 million).
2007 2006
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Basic 213,219,273 214,895,523
Dilution for share options and long term incentive plan 3,312,043 967,320
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Diluted 216,531,316 215,862,843
––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share before one-off items are calculated as follows:
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 206.5 152.1
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations (34.4) –
Impairment costs – 6.0
Tax thereon 1.1 (1.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year before one-off items 173.2 156.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2007 2006
pence pence
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Earnings per share before one-off items
Basic 81.2 72.7
Diluted 80.0 72.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
64 Johnson Matthey 11 Employee and key management personnel costs
11a Employee numbers
Group Parent company
restated restated
2007 2006 2007 2006
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The average monthly number of employees during the year was:
Catalysts 4,801 4,129 1,426 1,311
Precious Metal Products 1,882 1,788 720 708
Pharmaceutical Materials 599 580 286 267
Corporate and Central Research 292 255 260 223
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Average number of employees – continuing operations 7,574 6,752 2,692 2,509
Discontinued operations 619 699 53 67
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Average number of employees – total 8,193 7,451 2,745 2,576
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Actual number of employees at 31st March 7,795 7,718 2,791 2,633
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The number of temporary employees included above at 31st March 2007 was 178 (2006 174) for the group and 49 (2006 39) for the
parent company.
11b Employee benefits expense
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
restated restated
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Wages and salaries – continuing operations 229.2 207.1 97.6 87.1
Social security costs – continuing operations 22.4 21.2 8.6 8.0
Pension and other post-employment costs – continuing operations 22.7 18.3 10.4 10.7
Share-based payments – continuing operations 10.9 7.4 9.9 6.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total employee benefits expense – continuing operations 285.2 254.0 126.5 112.1
Wages and salaries – discontinued operations 11.9 13.3 1.3 2.0
Social security costs – discontinued operations 3.1 2.9 0.1 0.1
Pension and other post-employment costs – discontinued operations (0.8) 0.2 (0.8) 0.2
Share-based payments – discontinued operations 0.9 0.2 0.9 0.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total employee benefits expense – discontinued operations 15.1 16.6 1.5 2.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total employee benefits expense 300.3 270.6 128.0 114.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Termination benefits of £1.2 million (2006 £5.1 million) for group continuing operations and £1.3 million (2006 £5.7 million) for the group
are not included above. Termination benefits of £0.2 million (2006 £4.9 million) for parent company continuing operations and £0.3 million
(2006 £5.3 million) for the parent company are not included above.
11c Key management personnel
The key management of the group and parent company consist of the board of directors and the members of the Chief Executive’s
Committee. Their compensation charged in the year was:
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Short term employee benefits 4.4 3.5
Pension and other post-employment costs 0.3 0.7
Share-based payments 1.7 0.9
Non-executive directors’ fees and benefits 0.5 0.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total compensation of key management personnel 6.9 5.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other than the compensation above there were no transactions with any key management personnel. There were no balances
outstanding at the year end.
Information on the directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 65 1 2 Share-based payments
Share options
Equity settled share options are granted to employees at the average of the market value of the company’s shares over the three days
prior to the date of grant and are subject to performance targets over a three year period and have a maximum life of ten years. The
number of shares over which options are granted is based on a percentage of the employee’s salary and since 2001 approximately 800
employees have been granted options each year.
Options granted in 2004 onwards are subject to a minimum three year performance target of earnings per share (EPS) growth of UK
RPI plus 3% per annum. Other performance targets are EPS growth of UK RPI plus 4% per annum and EPS growth of UK RPI plus
5% per annum. If the performance targets are not met at the end of the three year performance period, the options will lapse. Also,
gains are capped at 100% of the grant price.
Options granted in 2001 to 2003 can only be exercised if the normalised EPS has grown by at least UK RPI plus 4% per annum over
any three consecutive years during the life of the options. They are subject to annual retesting until they lapse on the tenth anniversary
of grant. The target had not been met in previous years and none of these option grants was exercisable. However the target has now
been met and these option grants are exercisable from June 2007.
Some options granted in 2000 and before are still outstanding. These were subject to a performance target of EPS growth of UK RPI
plus 2% over the three year performance period. Since that target has been met all these options are exercisable.
Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
Under the LTIP, shares are allocated to directors and certain key executives of the group based upon a percentage of salary and are
subject to performance conditions over a three year period. At 31st March 2007, shares allocated in 2004, 2005 and 2006 (at 31st March
2006, shares allocated in 2003, 2004 and 2005) were outstanding in respect of which the performance period has not expired.
For allocations made in 2004 onwards the release of shares is subject to a relative total shareholder return (TSR) compared to those
companies ranked 51 to 150 in the FTSE index over a three year period. All shares are released if the company ranks in the 76th
percentile or above. None of the shares are released if the company ranks in the 50th percentile or below. If the company ranks
between these percentiles 35% to 100% of the shares are released on a straight line basis. In addition EPS growth must be at least
equal to UK RPI plus 2% per annum over the three year performance period before any release is made.
For allocations made prior to 2004, 50% of the allocation is subject to the relative TSR target described above. For the remaining 50%,
release is subject to absolute TSR growth over the three year period. All shares are released if the absolute TSR growth is 45% or
more. Pro-rata allocations on a straight line basis of between 50% and 100% are released if absolute TSR growth is between 30% and
45%. Half of the allocated shares are released if TSR growth is 30%. No shares are released if growth is below 30%. In addition EPS
growth must be at least equal to UK RPI plus 2% per annum over the three year performance period before any release is made.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) – UK and Overseas
Under the SIP , all employees with at least one year of service with the group and who are employed by a participating group company
are entitled to contribute up to 2.5% of basic pay each month, subject to a £125 per month limit. The SIP trustees buy shares
(partnership shares) at market value each month with the contributions. For each partnership share purchased, the group purchases
two shares (matching shares) which are allocated to the employee. In the UK SIP, if the employee sells or transfers partnership shares
within three years from the date of allocation, the linked matching shares are forfeited. In the Overseas SIP, partnership shares and
matching shares are subject to a three year holding period and cannot be sold or transferred during that time.
401k approved savings investment plans (401k plans)
In the US there are two 401k plans, one for salaried employees and one for hourly employees. Salaried employees may contribute up
to 50% of their base pay and hourly up to 20% of their base pay, both subject to a statutory limit. Salaried employees choosing
Johnson Matthey Plc shares matching are matched 100% of the first 4% contributed and hourly employees are matched 50% of the
first 2% contributed. Employees may contribute after one month of service and are eligible for matching after one year of service.
Further details of the directors’ remuneration under share-based payment plans are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 48.
Activity relating to share options was:
2007 2007 2006 2006
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise exercise
Number of price Number of price
options pence options pence
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the start of the year 8,189,652 948.23 7,282,342 891.85
Granted during the year 1,991,140 1,277.92 2,207,614 1,070.00
Forfeited during the year (548,057) 999.14 (594,700) 944.68
Exercised during the year (248,973) 871.05 (705,604) 750.62
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the end of the year 9,383,762 1,017.26 8,189,652 948.23
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Exercisable at the end of the year 364,641 771.71 504,790 776.65
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
66 Johnson Matthey 1 2 Share-based payments (continued)
Options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. The average share price during the year was 1,411.78 pence (2006
1,193.92 pence).
Details of share options outstanding at the end of the year are:
2007 2007 2006 2006
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of remaining life Number of remaining life
options years options years
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Range of exercise price
300 pence to 400 pence 601 2.0 1,126 3.0
400 pence to 500 pence 307 2.3 307 3.3
500 pence to 600 pence 163,282 1.9 218,243 2.8
600 pence to 700 pence 262 3.3 952 1.5
800 pence to 900 pence 4,324,370 6.4 4,665,693 7.4
900 pence to 1,000 pence 200,189 3.3 284,162 4.3
1,000 pence to 1,100 pence 2,802,497 7.2 3,019,169 8.2
1,200 pence to 1,300 pence 1,892,254 9.3 – –
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
9,383,762 7.1 8,189,652 7.5
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
The fair value of share options granted during the year was 234.3 pence per option (2006 192.4 pence per option). An adjusted
Black-Scholes option pricing model was used to determine the fair value of the options granted. The inputs to the model were:
2007 2006
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Share price 1,282p 1,070p
Exercise price 1,299p 1,070p
Expected volatility 18.7% 27.1%
Expected option life 5 years 5 years
Expected dividend rate 2.32% 2.59%
Risk free interest rate 4.77% 4.26%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the company’s share price over the previous three years.
The expected option life takes into account the effects of expected early exercise, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations
based on the history of previous option grants. Given the low employee turnover and the consistency of the historical average option
life Black-Scholes is considered to be a suitable stochastic model to use for fair valuing Johnson Matthey’s share options. The Black-
Scholes option pricing model is adjusted to take account of the cap which reduces the benefit and cost appearing in the accounts.
During the year 336,483 (2006 423,030) shares were allocated under the LTIP with a fair value at allocation date of 504.7 pence per
share allocation (2006 389.5 pence per share allocation). The fair value was determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model
with a zero exercise price, a share price at date of allocation of 1,283.0 pence (2006 1,002.5 pence) and an expected dividend rate
of 2.35% (2006 2.76%). The fair value was adjusted to take account of the TSR performance condition.
Activity relating to the LTIP was:
2007 2006
Number of Number of
allocated allocated
shares shares
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the start of the year 1,221,994 1,205,842
Allocated during the year 336,483 423,030
Forfeited during the year (14,808) (29,626)
Released during the year (198,730) –
Expired during the year (235,681) (377,252)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,109,258 1,221,994
––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
289,696 (2006 281,921) matching shares under the SIP and 71,879 (2006 91,595) shares under the 401k plans were allocated to
employees during the year. They are nil cost awards on which performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is based on the market value of the shares at that date.
The total expense recognised during the year in respect of equity settled share-based payments, taking into account expected lapses
due to leavers and the probability that EPS performance conditions will not be met, was £11.8 million (2006 £7.6 million).
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 67 1 3 Post-employment benefits
13a Group
The group operates a number of post-employment benefits plans around the world, the forms and benefits of which vary with
conditions and practices in the countries concerned. The majority of the plans are defined benefit which require contributions to be
made into separately administered funds and retirement benefits are based on factors such as employees’ pensionable salary and
length of service. Some of the plans are defined contribution, where the retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising
from contributions paid in respect of each employee. The group also makes payments to employees’ personal pension plans. The
amount recognised as an expense for defined contribution plans was £2.8 million (2006 £2.9 million).
The major defined benefit plans are pension plans and post-retirement medical plans in the UK and the US. The pension plans are final
salary plans except for the new section of the UK plan which is a career average salary plan and the US hourly plan which is a fixed
benefit based upon years of service. Full actuarial valuations were carried out at 1st April 2006 for the main UK pension plan and
30th June 2006 for the US pension plans and the valuations of all of the UK and US plans were updated to 31st March 2007 by
qualified independent actuaries. The other UK defined benefit pension plan was merged into the main plan on 1st October 2006.
The main assumptions were:
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
UK plans US plans Other plans UK plans US plans Other plans
%%% %%%
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Rate of increase in salaries 4.60 4.25 3.52 4.40 4.25 3.57
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.10 – 2.13 2.90 – 2.31
Discount rate 5.40 6.00 4.87 4.90 5.75 4.66
Inflation 3.10 2.75 2.34 2.90 2.75 2.66
Current medical benefits cost trend rate 7.10 9.00 4.00 6.90 10.00 4.00
Ultimate medical benefits cost trend rate 7.10 5.00 4.00 6.90 5.00 4.00
The group uses certain mortality assumptions when calculating plan obligations. The current mortality assumptions for all major plans
retain prudent allowance for future improvements in longevity and take account of experience.
The mortality tables used for the group’s largest plan, which is in the UK, were PMA92C2006 with a one and a half years positive age
rating for male members retiring in normal health and PFA92C2006 with a one and a half years positive age rating for female members
retiring in normal health. Allowance for future mortality improvements was made in line with the medium cohort versions of these tables.
Shorter longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill-health. These tables lead to a further life expectancy
of an average member currently aged 63 (the plan’s normal retirement age for the majority of its members) and one who retires at age
63 in 23 years time of:
Male Female
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Retiring today at age 63 20.8 23.9
Retiring in 23 years time at 63 22.4 25.4
The mortality tables used for the other larger plans were:
US RP-2000 for males and females (projected to 2010) for healthy participants and 1985 Pension Disability Mortality
Table for disabled participants
Netherlands GBM/V 1995-2000 (-1, -2)
Canada UP 94 generational (including allowance for future mortality improvements)
South Africa PA(90), rates down 2 years
A one percentage point change in the assumed medical cost trend rates would have the following effects on:
One percentage point increase One percentage point decrease
UK plan US plan UK plan US plan
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007
Post-retirement medical plan expense 0.2 0.3 (0.1) (0.2)
Post-retirement medical plan defined benefit obligation 1.8 3.1 (1.5) (2.4)
At 31st March 2006
Post-retirement medical plan expense 0.2 0.3 (0.2) (0.3)
Post-retirement medical plan defined benefit obligation 2.0 4.0 (1.6) (3.2)
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
68 Johnson Matthey 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
A 0.1% change in the discount rate and rate of increase in salaries would have the following effects on the UK pension plan’s defined
benefit obligation at 31st March 2007:
0.1% 0.1%
increase decrease
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Effect of discount rate (14.0) 14.3
Effect of rate of increase in salaries 3.3 (3.3)
The fair values and expected rates of return for plan assets were:
UK pensions US pensions Other
Expected rate Expected rate Expected rate
of return Value of return Value of return Value
% £ million % £ million % £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007
Equities 7.75 440.6 8.00 57.3 7.51 8.4
Bonds 4.90 349.6 5.10 22.2 3.99 6.2
Property 6.25 56.3 – – 4.00 0.1
Insurance policies – – – – 4.25 11.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
6.47 846.5 7.19 79.5 5.23 26.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006
Equities 7.75 411.2 8.00 56.1 7.62 12.1
Bonds 4.50 345.5 5.20 22.9 3.38 3.9
Property 6.00 48.4 – – 4.00 0.1
Insurance policies – – – – 3.82 9.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
6.25 805.1 7.19 79.0 5.58 25.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The defined benefit pension plans do not invest directly in Johnson Matthey Plc shares and no property or other assets owned by the
pension plans is used by the group. The overall expected rate of return is determined on a country by country basis by reference to
market expectations for each class of asset. It is based upon the forecasts of actuaries and market professionals.
The net post-employment benefits assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are analysed as:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007
Present value of funded obligations (801.0) – (87.4) – (30.2) (918.6)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (11.6) – (16.5) (3.3) (31.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Defined benefit obligation (801.0) (11.6) (87.4) (16.5) (33.5) (950.0)
Fair value of plan assets 846.5 – 79.5 – 26.3 952.3
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.8 – 2.8
Unrecognised past service credit – non-vested – – – (2.8) – (2.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net post-employment benefits assets and liabilities 45.5 (11.6) (7.9) (16.5) (7.2) 2.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006
Present value of funded obligations (736.4) – (90.4) – (28.0) (854.8)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (11.9) – (20.2) (2.9) (35.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Defined benefit obligation (736.4) (11.9) (90.4) (20.2) (30.9) (889.8)
Fair value of plan assets 805.1 – 79.0 – 25.1 909.2
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.6 – 2.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net post-employment benefits assets and liabilities 68.7 (11.9) (11.4) (17.6) (5.8) 22.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 69 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
These are included in the balance sheet as:
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
Post- Post-
employment Employee employment Employee
benefits benefits benefits benefits
net assets obligations Total net assets obligations Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
UK pension plans 45.5 – 45.5 70.6 (1.9) 68.7
UK post-retirement medical benefits plan – (11.6) (11.6) – (11.9) (11.9)
US pension plans – (7.9) (7.9) – (11.4) (11.4)
US post-retirement medical benefits plan – (16.5) (16.5) – (17.6) (17.6)
Other plans 3.7 (10.9) (7.2) 4.4 (10.2) (5.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total post-employment plans 49.2 (46.9) 2.3 75.0 (53.0) 22.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other long term employee benefits (1.4) (3.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total long term employee benefits obligations (48.3) (56.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Movements in the defined benefit obligation during the year were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 (613.6) (10.0) (75.7) (17.9) (21.3) (738.5)
Current service cost – in operating profit (18.7) (0.3) (3.7) (0.6) (1.4) (24.7)
Current service cost – capitalised (0.2) – – – – (0.2)
Past service cost (1.3) – (0.1) 0.8 (0.1) (0.7)
Interest cost (32.7) (0.5) (4.6) (1.0) (1.0) (39.8)
Employee contributions (2.9) – – – (0.1) (3.0)
Actuarial loss (55.0) (1.5) (1.7) (0.3) (7.7) (66.2)
Curtailment losses (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Liabilities extinguished on settlements – – – – 0.9 0.9
Acquisitions (34.2) – – – – (34.2)
Benefits paid 22.3 0.4 2.4 0.4 1.1 26.6
Exchange adjustments – – (7.0) (1.6) (1.3) (9.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 (736.4) (11.9) (90.4) (20.2) (30.9) (889.8)
Current service cost – in operating profit (24.8) (0.2) (4.3) (0.5) (2.0) (31.8)
Current service cost – capitalised (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Past service cost – vested (0.3) – (0.7) 0.8 (1.0) (1.2)
Past service cost – non-vested – – – 2.9 – 2.9
Interest cost (35.5) (0.6) (4.6) (0.8) (1.4) (42.9)
Employee contributions (3.4) – – – (0.2) (3.6)
Actuarial (loss) / gain (25.9) 0.8 (1.0) (1.4) (1.6) (29.1)
Curtailment gains 0.9 – – – – 0.9
Benefits paid 24.5 0.3 2.9 0.4 1.1 29.2
Exchange adjustments – – 10.7 2.3 2.5 15.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 (801.0) (11.6) (87.4) (16.5) (33.5) (950.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
70 Johnson Matthey 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets during the year were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 657.4 – 64.1 – 14.9 736.4
Expected return on plan assets 44.2 – 4.6 – 0.9 49.7
Actuarial gain 76.4 – 1.0 – 8.1 85.5
Employee contributions 2.9 – – – 0.1 3.0
Company contributions 17.0 0.4 5.7 0.4 1.7 25.2
Acquisitions 29.5 – – – – 29.5
Benefits paid (22.3) (0.4) (2.4) (0.4) (1.1) (26.6)
Assets distributed on settlements – – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Exchange adjustments – – 6.0 – 1.5 7.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 805.1 – 79.0 – 25.1 909.2
Expected return on plan assets 50.4 – 5.2 – 1.3 56.9
Actuarial (loss) / gain (8.4) – 2.3 – 2.5 (3.6)
Employee contributions 3.4 – – – 0.2 3.6
Company contributions 20.5 0.3 5.4 0.4 2.1 28.7
Benefits paid (24.5) (0.3) (2.9) (0.4) (1.1) (29.2)
Assets distributed on settlements – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Exchange adjustments – – (9.5) – (2.9) (12.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 846.5 – 79.5 – 26.3 952.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The actual return on plan assets for UK plans was £42.1 million (2006 £120.6 million) and for US plans was £7.5 million (2006 £5.6 million).
Movements in the reimbursement rights during the year were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 – – – 2.0 – 2.0
Expected return – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Actuarial gain – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Exchange adjustments – – – 0.2 – 0.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 – – – 2.6 – 2.6
Expected return – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Actuarial gain – – – 0.4 – 0.4
Exchange adjustments – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 – – – 2.8 – 2.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 (7.0) (0.1) (4.6) 0.1 (4.5) (16.1)
Recognised in year 21.4 (1.5) (0.7) – 0.4 19.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 14.4 (1.6) (5.3) 0.1 (4.1) 3.5
Recognised in year (34.3) 0.8 1.3 (1.0) 0.9 (32.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 (19.9) (0.8) (4.0) (0.9) (3.2) (28.8)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
It is estimated that the group will contribute about £29 million to the post-employment defined benefit plans during the year ending
31st March 2008.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3a Group (continued)
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of these plans were:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2007
Current service cost (24.8) (0.2) (4.3) (0.5) (2.0) (31.8)
Interest on plan liabilities (35.5) (0.6) (4.6) (0.8) (1.4) (42.9)
Expected return on plan assets 50.4 – 5.2 – 1.3 56.9
Expected return on reimbursement rights – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Curtailment gains 0.9 – – – – 0.9
Settlement losses – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Past service cost (0.3) – (0.7) 0.8 (1.0) (1.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Charge to income (9.3) (0.8) (4.4) (0.4) (4.0) (18.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2006
Current service cost (18.7) (0.3) (3.7) (0.6) (1.4) (24.7)
Interest on plan liabilities (32.7) (0.5) (4.6) (1.0) (1.0) (39.8)
Expected return on plan assets 44.2 – 4.6 – 0.9 49.7
Expected return on reimbursement rights – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Curtailment losses (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Settlement losses – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Past service cost (1.3) – (0.1) 0.8 (0.1) (0.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Charge to income (8.6) (0.8) (3.8) (0.7) (1.7) (15.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Of the total charge for the year, £12.5 million (2006 restated £9.5 million) has been included within other cost of sales, £2.4 million
(2006 restated £1.6 million) in distribution costs, £4.8 million (2006 restated £4.3 million) in administrative expenses and £0.8 million
credit (2006 restated £0.2 million charge) in the profit for the year from discontinued operations.
History of the plans and experience adjustments are:
UK post- US post-
retirement retirement
UK medical US medical
pensions benefits pensions benefits Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Year ended 31st March 2007
Present value of defined benefit obligation (801.0) (11.6) (87.4) (16.5) (33.5) (950.0)
Fair value of plan assets 846.5 – 79.5 – 26.3 952.3
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.8 – 2.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in the plan 45.5 (11.6) (7.9) (13.7) (7.2) 5.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (44.4) 0.5 (1.0) (0.8) 2.8 (42.9)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets (8.3) – 2.3 – 0.3 (5.7)
Year ended 31st March 2006
Present value of defined benefit obligation (736.4) (11.9) (90.4) (20.2) (30.9) (889.8)
Fair value of plan assets 805.1 – 79.0 – 25.1 909.2
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.6 – 2.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in the plan 68.7 (11.9) (11.4) (17.6) (5.8) 22.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 0.7 1.7 (1.2) 0.3 (1.0) 0.5
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 79.7 – 1.0 – (0.2) 80.5
Year ended 31st March 2005
Present value of defined benefit obligation (613.6) (10.0) (75.7) (17.9) (21.3) (738.5)
Fair value of plan assets 657.4 – 64.1 – 14.9 736.4
Reimbursement rights – – – 2.0 – 2.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in the plan 43.8 (10.0) (11.6) (15.9) (6.4) (0.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 0.8 0.4 (0.6) (0.9) (1.1) (1.4)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 26.0 – (1.1) – 0.4 25.3
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
72 Johnson Matthey 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3b Parent company
The parent company is the sponsoring employer of the group’s UK defined benefit pension plan and the UK post-retirement medical
benefits plan. There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost for the plan to the individual
group entities. The main assumptions used for these plans are disclosed in note 13a.
The fair values and expected rates of return for defined benefit pension plan assets were:
2007 2007 2006 2006
Expected rate Expected rate
of return Value of return Value
% £ million % £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Equities 7.75 440.6 7.75 386.2
Bonds 4.90 349.6 4.50 339.3
Property 6.25 56.3 6.00 48.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
6.47 846.5 6.22 773.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The defined benefit pension plan does not invest directly in Johnson Matthey Plc shares and no property or other assets owned by the
pension plan is used by the company. The overall expected rate of return is determined by reference to market expectations for each
class of asset. It is based upon the forecasts of actuaries and market professionals.
The net post-employment benefits assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are analysed as:
2007 2007 2006 2006
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Present value of funded obligations (801.0) – (703.3) –
Present value of unfunded obligations – (11.6) – (11.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Defined benefit obligation (801.0) (11.6) (703.3) (11.9)
Fair value of plan assets 846.5 – 773.9 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net retirement benefits assets and liabilities 45.5 (11.6) 70.6 (11.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Other long term employee benefits (0.1) (0.2)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total long term employee benefits obligations (11.7) (12.1)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Movements in the defined benefit obligation during the year were:
2007 2007 2006 2006
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year (703.3) (11.9) (613.6) (10.0)
Current service cost – in operating profit (23.9) (0.2) (18.5) (0.3)
Current service cost – capitalised (0.1) – (0.2) –
Past service cost (0.3) – (1.3) –
Interest cost (34.7) (0.6) (32.5) (0.5)
Employee contributions (3.2) – (2.8) –
Actuarial (loss) / gain (26.5) 0.8 (56.5) (1.5)
Curtailment gains / (losses) 0.9 – (0.1) –
Benefits paid 24.4 0.3 22.2 0.4
Transfer of plan from subsidiary (34.3) – – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year (801.0) (11.6) (703.3) (11.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 73 1 3 Post-employment benefits (continued)
1 3b Parent company (continued)
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets during the year were:
2007 2007 2006 2006
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 773.9 – 657.4 –
Expected return on plan assets 49.2 – 43.9 –
Actuarial (loss) / gain (6.5) – 75.2 –
Employee contributions 3.2 – 2.8 –
Company contributions 19.9 0.3 16.8 0.4
Benefits paid (24.4) (0.3) (22.2) (0.4)
Transfer of plan from subsidiary 31.2 – ––
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 846.5 – 773.9 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The actual return on plan assets was £42.7 million (2006 £119.1 million).
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense were:
2007 2007 2006 2006
Post- Post-
retirement retirement
medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 11.7 (1.6) (7.0) (0.1)
Recognised in year (33.0) 0.8 18.7 (1.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year (21.3) (0.8) 11.7 (1.6)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
It is estimated that the company will contribute about £21 million to the post-employment defined benefit plans during the year ending
31st March 2008.
History of the plans and experience adjustments are:
2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005
Post- Post- Post-
retirement retirement retirement
medical medical medical
Pension benefits Pension benefits Pension benefits
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Present value of defined benefit obligation (801.0) (11.6) (703.3) (11.9) (613.6) (10.0)
Fair value of plan assets 846.5 – 773.9 – 657.4 –
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Surplus / (deficit) in the plan 45.5 (11.6) 70.6 (11.9) 43.8 (10.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities (41.0) 0.5 0.8 1.7 0.8 0.4
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets (6.5) – 75.2 – 26.0 –
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
74 Johnson Matthey 1 4 Property, plant and equipment
14a Group
Assets in
Freehold land Long & short Plant & the course of
& buildings leasehold machinery construction Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2005 231.9 16.4 693.4 38.2 979.9
Additions 19.4 0.5 68.9 25.2 114.0
Acquisitions 6.6 0.2 3.4 0.4 10.6
Reclassifications 1.9 – 5.4 (7.3) –
Disposals – (0.1) (18.5) (3.7) (22.3)
Exchange adjustments 9.3 0.5 29.5 2.4 41.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 269.1 17.5 782.1 55.2 1,123.9
Additions 10.0 0.9 63.4 35.8 110.1
Acquisitions 0.1 – 0.6 – 0.7
Reclassifications 3.1 0.2 40.6 (43.9) –
Transferred to non-current assets classified as held for sale – – (4.5) – (4.5)
Disposals (1.6) (0.1) (10.5) – (12.2)
Disposal of businesses (note 40) (27.4) (0.4) (64.9) (5.3) (98.0)
Exchange adjustments (16.3) (0.8) (50.1) (3.8) (71.0)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 237.0 17.3 756.7 38.0 1,049.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1st April 2005 55.5 6.4 325.0 – 386.9
Charge for the year 7.3 0.8 56.6 – 64.7
Impairment losses (note 3) 1.0 – 5.0 – 6.0
Disposals – (0.1) (12.7) – (12.8)
Exchange adjustments 2.5 0.2 15.3 – 18.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 66.3 7.3 389.2 – 462.8
Charge for the year 7.7 0.8 60.1 – 68.6
Reclassifications (0.7) – 0.7 – –
Impairment losses (note 24) – – 0.9 – 0.9
Transferred to non-current assets classified as held for sale – – (4.1) – (4.1)
Disposals (0.7) (0.1) (6.8) – (7.6)
Disposal of businesses (note 40) (5.2) (0.1) (36.1) – (41.4)
Exchange adjustments (4.5) (0.3) (26.1) – (30.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 62.9 7.6 377.8 – 448.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2007 174.1 9.7 378.9 38.0 600.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 202.8 10.2 392.9 55.2 661.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2005 176.4 10.0 368.4 38.2 593.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of plant and machinery includes £3.2 million (2006 £3.4 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Compensation received for impaired or lost property, plant and equipment was £ nil (2006 £ nil).
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 75 1 4 Property, plant and equipment
1 4b Parent company
Assets in
Freehold land Long & short Plant & the course of
& buildings leasehold machinery construction Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2005 67.5 1.9 272.3 17.3 359.0
Additions 11.4 – 32.8 – 44.2
Reclassifications – – 2.3 (2.3) –
Disposals – – (15.6) – (15.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 78.9 1.9 291.8 15.0 387.6
Additions 5.6 – 24.8 13.0 43.4
Acquisitions – – 0.3 – 0.3
Reclassifications 1.3 – 14.7 (16.0) –
Disposals (0.3) – (3.4) – (3.7)
Disposal of businesses (1.2) – (2.5) – (3.7)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 84.3 1.9 325.7 12.0 423.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1st April 2005 20.6 1.8 109.1 – 131.5
Charge for the year 2.4 – 22.3 – 24.7
Impairment losses 1.0 – 5.0 – 6.0
Disposals – – (10.2) – (10.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 24.0 1.8 126.2 – 152.0
Charge for the year 2.4 – 24.5 – 26.9
Reclassifications (0.7) – 0.7 – –
Disposals (0.2) – (2.9) – (3.1)
Disposal of businesses (0.2) – (0.9) – (1.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 25.3 1.8 147.6 – 174.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2007 59.0 0.1 178.1 12.0 249.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 54.9 0.1 165.6 15.0 235.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2005 46.9 0.1 163.2 17.3 227.5
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of plant and machinery includes £3.2 million (2006 £3.4 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
76 Johnson Matthey 15 Goodwill
Parent
Group company
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2005 375.1 248.2
Additions, fair value adjustments and adjustments to consideration (note 39) 22.1 –
Exchange adjustments 5.2 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 402.4 248.2
Additional fair value adjustments and adjustments to consideration (note 39) 0.7 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 (restated) 403.1 248.2
Additions, fair value adjustments and adjustments to consideration (note 39) 4.3 1.3
Disposals (note 40) (0.4) –
Exchange adjustments (7.8) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 399.2 249.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Impairment
At 1st April 2005, 31st March 2006 and 31st March 2007 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2007 399.2 249.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 (restated) 403.1 248.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2005 375.1 248.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to
benefit from that business combination. Goodwill is allocated as follows:
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Catalysts
Synetix (including the process diagnostics business of Quest TruTec) 194.3 193.9 132.4 132.2
Research Chemicals 21.3 21.3 – –
Johnson Matthey Tennessee 19.0 21.5 – –
Davy Process Technology Limited (DPT) 22.6 22.6 – –
Other Catalysts 3.4 5.9 – –
Precious Metal Products 3.9 2.1 – –
Pharmaceutical Materials
Macfarlan Smith (including the business of United Farmaceuticals Limited) 117.1 116.0 117.1 116.0
Pharma Services / Ireland 17.6 19.4 – –
Ceramics – 0.4 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
399.2 403.1 249.5 248.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group and parent company test goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be
impaired. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined using value in use calculations which use cash flow projections based
on financial budgets and plans approved by management, generally covering a three year period. The budgets and plans are based on
a number of key assumptions including market share, expected changes to selling prices, product profitability, the likelihood and timing
of new product launches, foreign exchange rates, precious metal prices and other direct input costs. Market share, changes in selling
prices, product profitability, precious metal prices and other direct input costs are based on past experience and management’s
expectations of future changes in the markets using external sources of information where appropriate. Foreign exchange rates are
based on actual rates at the time the budgets were prepared and are held constant over the three years. New product launches are
based on management’s best estimate of what may happen. Apart from as discussed below, it is not considered that a reasonably
possible change in any of these assumptions would generate a different impairment test outcome. These cash flows are then
extrapolated using the long term average growth rates for the relevant products, industries and countries in which the CGUs operate.
The cash flows are discounted at the group’s estimated pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 11.2% (2006 11.3%), as this is
considered to be a discount rate a typical third party purchaser would also use to value the significant CGUs.
For Synetix the long term average growth rate is 5% (2006 5%), for Research Chemicals 5% (2006 4%), for Johnson Matthey
Tennessee 4% (2006 3%), for DPT 5% (2006 3%) and Macfarlan Smith 5% (2006 6%).
For Pharma Services / Ireland, where its cash flows are expected to grow significantly due to new prostaglandin product launches over
the next few years, cash flow projections cover a five (2006 six) year period and then a long term average growth rate of 6% (2006 6%)
is used to extrapolate these cash flows. If some of these product launches do not happen as expected an impairment loss may arise.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 77 16 Other intangible assets
16a Group
Customer Patents,
contracts and Computer trademarks Development
relationships software and licences expenditure Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2005 0.2 27.6 – 18.8 46.6
Additions – 2.6 0.7 6.7 10.0
Acquisitions 6.7 – 1.9 – 8.6
Exchange adjustments – 0.9 – 1.2 2.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.9 31.1 2.6 26.7 67.3
Additions – 1.9 – 7.8 9.7
Acquisitions 0.4 – – – 0.4
Disposals – (0.7) – – (0.7)
Disposal of businesses – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.4) – (2.1) (3.6)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 7.2 30.8 2.6 32.4 73.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1st April 2005 0.1 15.7 – 3.4 19.2
Charge for the year 0.9 3.8 – 1.4 6.1
Exchange adjustments – 0.6 – 0.1 0.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 1.0 20.1 – 4.9 26.0
Charge for the year 3.0 3.1 0.3 2.5 8.9
Disposals – (0.6) – – (0.6)
Disposal of businesses – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.0) – (0.2) (1.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 3.9 21.5 0.3 7.2 32.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2007 3.3 9.3 2.3 25.2 40.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 5.9 11.0 2.6 21.8 41.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2005 0.1 11.9 – 15.4 27.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of development expenditure includes £11.1 million (2006 £18.1 million) which is not yet being amortised as the
assets are not yet available for use. These assets are tested for impairment annually and no impairment has been found.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
78 Johnson Matthey 16 Other intangible assets (continued)
16b Parent company
Computer Development
software expenditure Total
£ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cost
At 1st April 2005 11.8 3.4 15.2
Additions 0.9 0.3 1.2
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 12.7 3.7 16.4
Additions 0.9 0.3 1.2
Disposals (0.2) – (0.2)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 13.4 4.0 17.4
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1st April 2005 6.4 1.5 7.9
Charge for the year 1.8 0.6 2.4
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 8.2 2.1 10.3
Charge for the year 1.4 0.4 1.8
Disposals (0.2) – (0.2)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 9.4 2.5 11.9
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2007 4.0 1.5 5.5
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 31st March 2006 4.5 1.6 6.1
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Carrying amount at 1st April 2005 5.4 1.9 7.3
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The carrying amount of development expenditure includes £0.6 million (2006 £0.3 million) which is not yet being amortised as the
assets are not yet available for use. These assets are tested for impairment annually and no impairment has been found.
1 7 Investments in subsidiaries
Cost of
investments in Accumulated Carrying
subsidiaries impairment amount
£ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 456.7 (1.5) 455.2
Additions 40.6 – 40.6
Acquisition from subsidiaries 8.2 – 8.2
Impairment loss – (0.5) (0.5)
Dividends received out of pre-acquisition profits of subsidiary (11.0) – (11.0)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 494.5 (2.0) 492.5
Additions 0.2 – 0.2
Capital reduction of subsidiary (2.7) – (2.7)
Impairment loss – (147.5) (147.5)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 492.0 (149.5) 342.5
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The principal subsidiaries are shown on page 97.
As a result of group restructurings the parent company has written down its investments in subsidiaries.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 79 18 Investments in associates
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At beginning of year 4.3 4.8
Group’s share of profit / (loss) of associates for the year 0.9 (0.2)
Dividends paid (0.5) (0.1)
Purchase of remaining interests – (0.1)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At end of year 4.8 4.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group’s associate is AGR Matthey, which is a partnership operating in Australia in which the group has a 20% interest. Oximet SrL,
which is incorporated in Italy, was an associate, with the group holding a 33% interest, until the group bought out the remaining
interests on 6th September 2005 (see note 39).
Summarised financial information in respect of the group’s associates is:
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total assets 47.8 28.1
Total liabilities (30.8) (12.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net assets 17.0 15.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total revenue 23.7 19.6
Total profit / (loss) for the year 4.7 (1.2)
19 Available-for-sale investments
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current
Unquoted investments 4.8 5.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current available-for-sale investments 4.8 5.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current
Investments quoted on the London Stock Exchange 0.2 0.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
20 Inventories
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Raw materials and consumables 83.2 76.1 26.3 23.0
Work in progress – precious metals 85.2 90.2 8.4 48.3
– other 52.5 36.5 34.0 21.3
Finished goods and goods for resale 141.8 143.0 30.5 28.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
362.7 345.8 99.2 120.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group also holds customers’ materials in the process of refining and fabrication and for other reasons.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
80 Johnson Matthey 2 1 Construction contracts
Group
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Contract revenue recognised 48.1 6.8
Contracts in progress at the year end:
Costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 46.7 6.6
Amount of advances received 15.5 12.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
22 Trade and other receivables
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current
Trade receivables 473.5 422.5 185.9 159.8
Allowances for bad and doubtful debts (4.0) (6.4) (0.9) (1.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Trade receivables net of allowances 469.5 416.1 185.0 158.6
Amounts receivable from construction contract customers 10.3 9.1 – –
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries – – 814.0 938.8
Prepayments and accrued income 29.6 26.7 10.8 9.9
Other receivables 17.9 26.6 7.0 3.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current trade and other receivables 527.3 478.5 1,016.8 1,110.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries – – 297.4 195.5
Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 – – –
Other receivables 0.2 0.2 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current trade and other receivables 0.4 0.2 297.4 195.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
23 Trade and other payables
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
restated
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current
Trade payables 243.1 203.9 59.1 53.7
Amounts payable to construction contract customers 20.4 16.6 – –
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – – 656.7 480.0
Accruals and deferred income 120.4 115.0 44.7 43.0
Other payables 32.1 50.4 13.2 27.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current trade and other payables 416.0 385.9 773.7 604.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – – 83.7 227.0
Other payables 1.2 0.8 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current trade and other payables 1.2 0.8 83.7 227.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
24 Non-current assets classified as held for sale
At the end of March 2007 a contract was signed to sell the Hong Kong refinery business and this was completed on 4th May 2007.
The plant and machinery has been written down to fair value less costs to sell and transferred to non-current assets classified as held
for sale. The impairment of £0.9 million was charged to other cost of sales.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 81 25 Net debt
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current borrowings, finance leases and related swaps
Bank, other loans and related swaps
5.67% US Dollar Bonds 2016 75.4 – 75.4 –
4.95% US Dollar Bonds 2015 98.9 109.9 98.9 109.9
5.55% US Dollar Bonds 2013 51.0 – 51.0 –
5.17% Sterling Bonds 2013 40.0 40.0 40.0 40.0
4.935% US Dollar EIB Loan 2011 51.0 57.6 51.0 57.6
4.25% US Dollar Bonds 2010 15.3 17.3 15.3 17.3
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 3.3 5.0 3.3 5.0
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 7.7 5.6 7.7 5.6
Other repayable after five years 25.5 5.5 25.5 –
Other repayable from four to five years 4.6 18.8 – 18.5
Other repayable from three to four years 18.7 0.3 18.5 –
Other repayable from two to three years 15.7 146.3 15.4 31.4
Other repayable from one to two years 0.3 45.0 – 38.4
Finance leases repayable
After five years 2.0 2.3 2.0 2.3
From four to five years 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
From three to four years 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
From two to three years 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
From one to two years 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Non-current borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 410.5 454.7 405.1 327.1
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current borrowings and finance leases
Bank overdrafts 13.2 7.9 17.4 16.6
6.36% US Dollar Bonds 2006 – 57.6 – 57.6
Other bank and other loans 14.0 24.5 2.4 11.0
Finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current borrowings and finance leases 27.5 90.3 20.1 85.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total borrowings, finance leases and related swaps 438.0 545.0 425.2 412.6
Less cash and deposits 73.2 133.0 9.9 26.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net debt 364.8 412.0 415.3 386.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Of the 4.95% US Dollar Bonds 2015 US$35.0 million have been swapped into sterling at 5.15% and US$165.0 million have been
swapped into floating rate US dollars. All the 4.25% US Dollar Bonds 2010 have been swapped into sterling at 4.93%. All the 5.67%
US Dollar Bonds 2016 have been swapped into floating rate US dollars. The interest rate implicit in the finance leases is 5.9% and the
lease term ends in 2017. Apart from the bonds, EIB loan and finance leases shown separately above, all the loans, overdrafts and bank
deposits are denominated in various currencies and bear interest at commercial floating rates.
26 Other financial assets
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Forward foreign exchange contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges 1.2 0.1 1.3 0.3
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps held for trading 1.1 2.5 1.5 2.6
Foreign exchange swaps designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign
operations 0.4 0.1 – –
Embedded derivatives 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
3.2 3.2 3.3 3.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
82 Johnson Matthey 27 Other financial liabilities
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Forward foreign exchange contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges – 1.2 0.2 1.2
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps held for trading 1.9 2.3 2.1 3.1
Foreign exchange swaps designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign
operations 0.1 0.7 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2.0 4.2 2.3 4.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
28 Financial risk management
The group’s and parent company’s activities expose them to a variety of financial risks including market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk
and cash flow interest rate risk. Market risk includes currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk. The main financial risks
managed by the group and parent company, under policies approved by the board, are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity
risk and credit risk. The group and parent company use derivative financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and
currency swaps, to manage their financial risks associated with their underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
Some derivative financial instruments used to manage financial risk are not designated as hedges and so are classified as ‘held for
trading’. The group and parent company do not undertake any trading activity in financial instruments.
28a Interest rate risk
The group’s and parent company’s interest rate risk arises from their fixed rate borrowings (fair value risk) and floating rate borrowings
(cash flow risk). Their policy is to optimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings. They manage their risk by reviewing
the profile of their debt regularly on a currency by currency basis and by selectively using interest rate and cross currency swaps.
The group and parent company have designated the US dollar fixed rate to US dollar floating rate swaps as fair value hedges as they
hedge the changes in fair value of the bond attributable to changes in interest rates. The group and parent company have designated
the US dollar fixed interest rate to sterling fixed interest rate cross currency swaps as cash flow hedges as they hedge the movement
in the cash flows of the hedged bonds attributable to changes in the US dollar / sterling exchange rate. The cash flows are expected
to occur in 2010 and 2015 when the respective bonds which they hedge mature. The interest element of the cash flow hedges is
realised in the income statement each year and the exchange effect is expected to be realised in the income statement in 2010 and
2015. At 31st March 2007, 51% (2006 49%) of the group’s net debt and 45% (2006 52%) of the company’s net debt was at fixed
rates with an average interest rate of 5.20% (2006 5.43%). The remaining debt is funded on a floating rate basis. A 1% change in all
interest rates would have a 0.8% impact on the group’s profit before tax. This is within the range the board regards as acceptable.
28b Liquidity risk
The group’s and parent company’s policy on funding capacity is to ensure that they always have sufficient long term funding and
committed bank facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak borrowing requirements. Within long term debt of £410.5 million at
31st March 2007 (2006 £454.7 million), the group had borrowings under committed bank facilities of £15.4 million (2006 £191.0 million).
The parent company’s long term debt at 31st March 2007 was £405.1 million (2006 £327.1 million) including committed bank borrowings
of £15.4 million (2006 £69.8 million). The group and parent company also have a number of uncommitted facilities, including metal leases,
and overdraft lines at their disposal.
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 50.0 45.1 50.0 45.1
Expiring in more than two years 244.6 53.9 244.6 53.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
294.6 99.0 294.6 99.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 83 28 Financial risk management (continued)
28c Foreign currency risk
The group operates globally with the majority of its profits earned outside the UK. It has significant investments outside the UK with the
largest single investment being in the USA. In order to protect the group’s sterling balance sheet and reduce cash flow risk the group
has financed most of its investment in the USA, Europe, Japan and China by borrowing US dollars, euros, yen and renminbi
respectively. Although an element of this funding is obtained by directly borrowing the relevant currency, a large part is achieved through
currency swaps which can be more efficient and reduce costs and credit exposure. The group has designated the currency swaps and
one loan as hedges of net investments in foreign operations as they hedge the changes in values of the subsidiaries’ net assets against
movements in exchange rates.
The main currencies of the net debt after taking into account the effect of the currency swaps were:
Group Group Parent company Parent company
Borrowings Borrowings Cash Cash Borrowings Borrowings Cash Cash
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Sterling 105.3 118.4 192.7 105.5 102.1 117.2 186.4 84.2
US dollar 170.5 287.5 12.1 36.5 164.6 152.6 1.1 16.2
Euro 232.2 173.1 – 7.6 250.2 184.4 – –
Japanese yen 57.9 24.8 – 4.3 60.3 24.8 – –
South African rand 24.8 2.3 – 1.8 15.4 – – –
Hong Kong dollar – – 17.4 17.4 2.4 – – –
Chinese renminbi 7.2 11.6 4.1 6.2 5.5 6.0 – –
Swiss franc – – 5.9 0.4 – 1.8 2.2 –
South Korean won 2.7 – 4.3 2.4 – – – –
Malaysian ringgit 1.2 0.1 1.6 8.7 – – – –
Brazilian real – – 0.2 7.8 – – – –
Other currencies 3.7 1.8 2.4 9.0 4.9 0.4 0.4 0.8
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
605.5 619.6 240.7 207.6 605.4 487.2 190.1 101.2
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The group and parent company use forward exchange contracts, and occasionally currency options, to hedge foreign exchange
exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign currencies. These are designated and accounted for as cash flow
hedges. The majority of the cash flows are expected to occur and the hedge effect realised in the income statement in the year ending
31st March 2008.
The main impact of movements in exchange rates on the group’s results arises on translation of overseas subsidiaries’ profits into
sterling. The group’s largest exposure is to the US dollar and a 5 cent (2.6% (2006 2.8%)) movement in the average exchange rate for
the US dollar against sterling has a 0.8% (2006 0.8%) impact on operating profit. The group is also exposed to the euro and a 5 cent
(3.4% (2006 3.4%)) movement in the average exchange rate for the euro against sterling has a 0.4% (2006 0.6%) impact on operating
profit. This exposure is part of the group’s economic risk of operating globally which is essential to remain competitive in the markets in
which the group operates.
28d Credit risk
Within certain divisions, the group and parent company derive a significant proportion of their revenue from sales to major customers.
Sales to individual customers are frequently high if the value of precious metals is included in the price. The failure of any such company
to honour its debts could materially impact the group’s and parent company’s results. The group and parent company derive significant
benefit from trading with their large customers and manage the risk at many levels. Each business and division has a credit committee
that regularly monitors its exposure. The Audit Committee receives a report every six months that details all significant credit limits,
amounts due and amounts overdue within the group and the relevant actions being taken. As at 31st March 2007 (and at 31st March
2006), no single outstanding balance exceeded 2% of the company’s market capitalisation.
The credit risk on cash and deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high
credit ratings. As at 31st March 2007, the maximum exposure with a single bank for net deposits was £11.3 million (2006 £16.5 million)
for the group and £7.0 million (2006 £14.4 million) for the parent company, whilst the largest mark to market exposure for forward
foreign exchange contracts to a single bank was £0.8 million (2006 £0.5 million) for the group and parent company.
The group guarantees its share of the borrowings and precious metal leases of its associates and its exposure at 31st March 2007
was £0.8 million (2006 £1.5 million). At 31st March 2007 the group and parent company guaranteed £3.3 million of the borrowings
of subsidiaries of Endeka Ceramics, former subsidiaries of the group (note 40). The parent company also guarantees some of its
subsidiaries’ borrowings, partly through interest netting arrangements, and precious metal leases and its exposure at 31st March 2007
was £16.1 million (2006 £155.0 million).
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
84 Johnson Matthey 28 Financial risk management (continued)
28e Fair value of financial instruments – group
2007 2006
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
restated restated
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Quoted available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1
Unquoted available-for-sale investments 4.8 4.8 5.9 5.9
Trade receivables 469.5 469.5 416.1 416.1
Trade payables (243.1) (243.1) (203.9) (203.9)
Amounts receivable from construction contract customers 10.3 10.3 9.1 9.1
Amounts payable to construction contract customers (20.4) (20.4) (16.6) (16.6)
Other receivables 17.9 17.9 13.9 13.9
Other payables (32.1) (32.1) (50.4) (50.4)
Cash and deposits 73.2 73.2 133.0 133.0
US Dollar Bonds 2006, 2010, 2013, 2015 and 2016 (240.6) (242.8) (184.8) (182.9)
US Dollar EIB Loan 2011 (51.0) (50.9) (57.6) (56.3)
Sterling Bonds 2013 (40.0) (38.5) (40.0) (39.4)
Other non-current borrowings and finance leases (67.9) (67.9) (219.3) (219.3)
Other current borrowings and finance leases (27.5) (27.5) (32.7) (32.7)
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges (3.3) (3.3) (5.0) (5.0)
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges (7.7) (7.7) (5.6) (5.6)
Forward foreign exchange contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges 1.2 1.2 (1.1) (1.1)
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps held for trading (0.8) (0.8) 0.2 0.2
Foreign exchange swaps designated as hedges of a net investment in
foreign operations 0.3 0.3 (0.6) (0.6)
Embedded derivatives 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
Non-current other payables (1.2) (1.2) (0.8) (0.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(157.7) (158.3) (239.6) (235.8)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The fair value of quoted investments is based on market value. It is not possible to determine reliably the fair value of the unquoted
available-for-sale investments. The fair values of the bonds and interest rate swaps are calculated by discounting future cash flows to
net present values using appropriate market interest rates prevailing at the year end. The fair value of the cross currency interest rate
swaps is the market value of equivalent swaps which could be taken out at the balance sheet date with the same banks, the same
maturity dates and identical terms. The fair value of forward exchange contracts and currency swaps represents the unrealised gain or
loss on revaluation of the contracts to year end forward exchange rates obtained from the banks the contracts are with. The fair value
of the embedded derivatives are calculated by using a suitable valuation technique. The fair value of all other financial instruments is
approximately equal to book value due to their size, short term nature or the fact that they bear interest at floating rates.
28f Fair value of financial instruments – parent company
2007 2006
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Trade receivables 185.0 185.0 158.6 158.6
Trade payables (59.1) (59.1) (53.7) (53.7)
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 1,111.4 1,109.7 1,134.3 1,136.9
Amounts payable to subsidiaries (740.4) (740.4) (707.0) (707.0)
Other receivables 7.0 7.0 3.1 3.1
Other payables (13.2) (13.2) (27.9) (27.9)
Cash and deposits 9.9 9.9 26.6 26.6
US Dollar Bonds 2006, 2010, 2013, 2015 and 2016 (240.6) (242.8) (184.8) (182.9)
US Dollar EIB Loan 2011 (51.0) (50.9) (57.6) (56.3)
Sterling Bonds 2013 (40.0) (38.5) (40.0) (39.4)
Other non-current borrowings and finance leases (62.5) (62.5) (91.7) (91.7)
Other current borrowings and finance leases (20.1) (20.1) (27.9) (27.9)
Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges (3.3) (3.3) (5.0) (5.0)
Cross currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges (7.7) (7.7) (5.6) (5.6)
Forward foreign exchange contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges 1.1 1.1 (0.9) (0.9)
Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps held for trading (0.6) (0.6) (0.5) (0.5)
Embedded derivatives 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
76.4 74.1 120.5 126.9
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The bases for the fair values is as described in note 28e.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 85 29 Provisions and contingent liabilities
29a Group
Warranty &
Restructuring technology Other
provisions provisions provisions Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2006 0.8 7.6 5.9 14.3
Charge for year 4.2 2.9 3.5 10.6
Utilised (2.7) (2.0) (1.9) (6.6)
Released (0.1) (1.1) (0.2) (1.4)
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) (0.4) (0.5)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 2.2 7.3 6.9 16.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current 7.7 9.1
Non-current 8.7 5.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total provisions 16.4 14.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The restructuring provisions relate to Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products Division and are expected to be fully spent in 2008.
The warranty and technology provisions represent management’s best estimate of the group’s liability under warranties granted and
remedial work required under technology licences, based on past experience in Catalysts Division. Warranties generally cover a period
up to three years.
The other provisions include environmental, legal and relocation provisions. Amounts provided reflect management’s best estimate of
the expenditure required to settle the obligations at the balance sheet date. It is possible that these and further contingent
environmental and legal liabilities may give rise to expenditure above that provided. Further details of environmental and legal provisions
and contingent liabilities are not provided to avoid the potential of seriously prejudicing the group’s stance in law.
Details of the guarantees given by the group are disclosed in note 28d.
29b Parent company
Restructuring Warranty Other
provisions provisions provisions Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2006 0.3 0.8 5.5 6.6
Charge for year 2.6 – 0.9 3.5
Utilised (1.0) – (0.6) (1.6)
Released (0.1) – – (0.1)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 1.8 0.8 5.8 8.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Current 2.6 2.0
Non-current 5.8 4.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total provisions 8.4 6.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
The restructuring provisions relate to Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products Division and are expected to be fully spent in 2008.
The warranty provisions represent management’s best estimate of the parent company’s liability under warranties granted, based on
past experience in Catalysts Division.
The other provisions include relocation provisions and provisions to buy metal to cover positions created by the parent company selling
metal belonging to subsidiaries. Amounts provided reflect management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the
obligations at the balance sheet date.
Details of the guarantees given by the parent company are disclosed in note 28d.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
86 Johnson Matthey 30 Deferred taxation
30a Group
Translation
Property, Post- differences
plant & employment on foreign
equipment benefits currency loans Inventories Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 67.2 2.4 (14.5) (13.5) 1.0 42.6
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – – – 1.2 1.2
Charge / (credit) to income 3.1 (3.5) (0.2) (17.9) 18.6 0.1
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – 4.4 6.3 – (9.5) 1.2
Acquisitions (0.1) – – – – (0.1)
Exchange adjustments – – 0.4 – (0.1) 0.3
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 70.2 3.3 (8.0) (31.4) 11.2 45.3
(Credit) / charge to income (6.9) 8.8 (2.2) (3.3) 8.1 4.5
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – (9.5) (5.7) – (3.1) (18.3)
Disposals (note 40) (3.1) – – 0.4 – (2.7)
Exchange adjustments (0.3) – (0.1) (0.8) – (1.2)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 59.9 2.6 (16.0) (35.1) 16.2 27.6
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deferred tax assets 8.9 4.4
Deferred tax liabilities 36.5 49.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
27.6 45.3
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits not recognised on the balance sheet are £33.8 million
(2006 £42.9 million).
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised on temporary differences of £410.4 million (2006 £519.4 million) associated with
investments in subsidiaries and associates, other than in the case of the group’s captive insurance company where cumulative deferred
tax of £1.2 million (2006 £1.2 million) has been provided on an accrued dividend.
30b Parent company
Translation
Property, Post- differences
plant & employment on foreign
equipment benefits currency loans Inventories Other Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 33.9 13.2 – (14.7) (2.3) 30.1
IFRS transition adjustment for financial instruments – – – – 0.8 0.8
Charge / (credit) to income 2.7 2.4 – (12.1) 1.3 (5.7)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – 5.6 (1.6) – (3.6) 0.4
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 36.6 21.2 (1.6) (26.8) (3.8) 25.6
(Credit) / charge to income (5.9) 2.4 (2.0) (5.3) 9.4 (1.4)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – (9.9) 2.9 – (3.1) (10.1)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 30.7 13.7 (0.7) (32.1) 2.5 14.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits not recognised on the balance sheet are £3.6 million
(2006 £3.6 million).
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 87 31 Share capital
Authorised Issued and fully paid
Number £ million Number £ million
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
Ordinary shares of £1 each
At 1st April 2005 291,550,000 291.6 219,522,706 219.5
Share options exercised – – 705,604 0.7
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 291,550,000 291.6 220,228,310 220.2
Share options exercised – – 248,973 0.3
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 291,550,000 291.6 220,477,283 220.5
–––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––
Details of outstanding share options and allocations under the company’s long term incentive plan which have yet to mature are
disclosed in note 12.
At the last annual general meeting on 25th July 2006 shareholders approved a resolution for the company to make purchases of its
own shares up to a maximum number of 22,031,543 shares. The resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this year’s annual
general meeting. The company will purchase its own shares when the board believes it to be in the best interests of the shareholders
generally and will result in an increase in earnings per share.
The group’s employee share ownership trusts (ESOTs) also buy shares on the open market and hold them in trust for employees
participating in the group’s executive share option schemes and long term incentive plan. At 31st March 2007 the group’s ESOTs held
6,121,013 shares (2006 6,319,743 shares) which had not yet vested unconditionally in employees. Computershare Trustees (CI)
Limited, as trustee for the ESOTs, has waived its dividend entitlement. At 31st March 2007 the parent company’s ESOT held 6,056,432
shares (2006 6,255,162 shares) which had not yet vested unconditionally in employees.
32 Other reserves
32a Group
Capital Foreign Available- Total
redemption currency for-sale Hedging other
reserve translation reserve reserve reserves
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 6.5 (0.2) 0.7 2.1 9.1
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – – (3.6) (3.6)
Transferred to income statement – – – (2.6) (2.6)
Available-for-sale investments:
Transferred to income statement on sale – – (0.8) – (0.8)
Fair value losses on net investment hedges – (12.5) – – (12.5)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net
investments and related loans – 42.3 – – 42.3
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – (5.4) 0.2 1.8 (3.4)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.5 24.2 0.1 (2.3) 28.5
Cash flow hedges:
Gains taken to equity – – – 3.1 3.1
Transferred to income statement – – – 1.2 1.2
Fair value gains on net investment hedges – 23.3 – – 23.3
Fair value gains on net investment hedges transferred to profit
on sale of discontinued operations – (2.0) – – (2.0)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net
investments and related loans – (67.3) – – (67.3)
Currency translation differences transferred to profit on sale
of discontinued operations – (3.8) – – (3.8)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – 5.3 – (1.2) 4.1
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 6.5 (20.3) 0.1 0.8 (12.9)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
88 Johnson Matthey 32 Other reserves (continued)
32b Parent company
Capital Foreign Total
redemption currency Hedging other
reserve translation reserve reserves
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 6.5 – 2.0 8.5
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – (3.4) (3.4)
Transferred to income statement – – (2.2) (2.2)
Currency translation differences on foreign operations – (0.4) – (0.4)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – – 1.7 1.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.5 (0.4) (1.9) 4.2
Cash flow hedges:
Gains taken to equity – – 2.7 2.7
Transferred to income statement – – 1.4 1.4
Currency translation differences on foreign operations – 1.4 – 1.4
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – – (1.3) (1.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 6.5 1.0 0.9 8.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
33 Minority interests
£ million
––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 7.5
Share of loss for the year (0.8)
Dividends (0.3)
––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 6.4
Share of loss for the year (1.0)
Dividends (0.3)
Disposal (note 40) (2.7)
Arising on formation of subsidiary 0.3
Share capital reduction of subsidiary (0.3)
––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 2.4
––––––––––––
In July 2006 the group formed a new subsidiary and entered into a joint venture with Dialog Systems Sdn Bhd. Dialog contributed plant
and machinery of £0.1 million and cash of £0.2 million in return for a minority interest of £0.3 million.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 89 34 Changes in equity – attributable to equity holders of the parent company
34a Group
Equity
Share Shares attributable to
Share premium held in Other Retained equity holders of
capital account ESOTs reserves earnings parent company
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 219.5 139.8 (37.7) 9.1 594.4 925.1
Profit for the year – – – – 152.1 152.1
Actuarial gain on post-employment benefits assets
and liabilities – – – – 19.6 19.6
Dividends paid – – – – (60.4) (60.4)
New share capital subscribed 0.7 4.6 – – – 5.3
Purchase of shares for ESOTs – – (25.3) – – (25.3)
Share-based payments – – – – 7.6 7.6
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – – – (4.4) (4.4)
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – – (3.6) – (3.6)
Transferred to income statement – – – (2.6) – (2.6)
Available-for-sale investments:
Transferred to income statement on sale – – – (0.8) – (0.8)
Fair value losses on net investment hedges – – – (12.5) – (12.5)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency
net investments and related loans – – – 42.3 – 42.3
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – (3.4) (0.9) (4.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 220.2 144.4 (63.0) 28.5 708.0 1,038.1
Profit for the year – – – – 206.5 206.5
Actuarial loss on post-employment benefits assets
and liabilities – – – – (32.3) (32.3)
Dividends paid – – – – (66.0) (66.0)
New share capital subscribed 0.3 1.9 – – – 2.2
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – (52.6) (52.6)
Share-based payments – – – – 11.8 11.8
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – 1.1 – (5.6) (4.5)
Cash flow hedges:
Gains taken to equity – – – 3.1 – 3.1
Transferred to income statement – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Fair value gains on net investment hedges – – – 23.3 – 23.3
Fair value gains on net investment hedges transferred
to profit on sale of discontinued operations – – – (2.0) – (2.0)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency
net investments and related loans – – – (67.3) – (67.3)
Currency translation differences transferred to profit
on sale of discontinued operations – – – (3.8) – (3.8)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – 4.1 13.9 18.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 220.5 146.3 (61.9) (12.9) 783.7 1,075.7
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
During the year the company purchased 3,600,000 shares at a cost of £52.6 million. These shares are being held as treasury shares.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
90 Johnson Matthey 34 Changes in equity – attributable to equity holders of the parent company (continued)
34b Parent company
Equity
Share Shares attributable to
Share premium held in Other Retained equity holders of
capital account ESOTs reserves earnings parent company
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 1st April 2005 219.5 139.8 (37.3) 8.5 731.3 1,061.8
Profit for the year – – – – 215.6 215.6
Actuarial gain on post-employment benefits
assets and liabilities – – – – 17.2 17.2
Dividends paid – – – – (60.4) (60.4)
New share capital subscribed 0.7 4.6 – – – 5.3
Purchase of shares for ESOTs – – (25.3) – – (25.3)
Share-based payments – – – – 6.5 6.5
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – – – (3.3) (3.3)
Cash flow hedges:
Losses taken to equity – – – (3.4) – (3.4)
Transferred to income statement – – – (2.2) – (2.2)
Currency translation differences on foreign operations – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – 1.7 (2.0) (0.3)
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2006 220.2 144.4 (62.6) 4.2 904.9 1,211.1
Loss for the year – – – – (78.4) (78.4)
Actuarial loss on post-employment benefits assets
and liabilities – – – – (32.2) (32.2)
Dividends paid – – – – (66.0) (66.0)
New share capital subscribed 0.3 1.9 – – – 2.2
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – (52.6) (52.6)
Share-based payments – – – – 11.8 11.8
Cost of shares transferred to employees – – 1.1 – (5.6) (4.5)
Cash flow hedges:
Gains taken to equity – – – 2.7 – 2.7
Transferred to income statement – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Currency translation differences on foreign operations – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred
from equity – – – (1.3) 14.3 13.0
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
At 31st March 2007 220.5 146.3 (61.5) 8.4 696.2 1,009.9
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35 Gross cash flows
35a Purchases of non-current assets and investments
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 115.1 109.8 42.7 40.0
Purchases of intangible assets 9.7 10.0 1.2 1.2
Purchase of investments in subsidiaries – – – 48.8
Purchases of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.5 – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
125.0 120.3 43.9 90.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35b Purchases of businesses and minority interests
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Purchase of businesses 8.6 41.6 5.1 –
Cash acquired with businesses – (17.3) – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
8.6 24.3 5.1 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 91 35 Gross cash flows (continued)
35c Net proceeds from sale of businesses and minority interests
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Disposal of Ceramics (note 40) 141.3 – 1.4 –
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of with Ceramics (note 40) (14.4) – – –
Cash received on capital reduction of subsidiary – – 2.7 –
Cash received from minority interest on formation of subsidiary (note 33) 0.2 – – –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
127.1 – 4.1 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35d Net purchase of own shares
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Issue of ordinary share capital 2.2 5.3 2.2 5.3
Purchase of own shares (52.6) (31.2) (52.6) (31.2)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(50.4) (25.9) (50.4) (25.9)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
35e (Repayment of) / proceeds from borrowings and finance leases
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings falling due within one year (51.6) 45.2 (66.2) 56.1
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings falling due after more than one year (19.9) 37.4 80.6 27.8
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (0.3) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
(71.8) 82.3 14.2 83.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
36 Cash and cash equivalents
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and deposits 73.2 133.0 9.9 26.6
Bank overdrafts (13.2) (7.9) (17.4) (16.6)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash and cash equivalents 60.0 125.1 (7.5) 10.0
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
37 Precious metal operating leases
The group leases precious metals from banks for specified periods (typically a few months) and for which the group pays a fee. These
arrangements are classified as operating leases. The group holds sufficient precious metal inventories to meet all the obligations under
these lease arrangements as they fall due. At 31st March 2007 precious metal leases were £93.2 million (2006 £93.2 million).
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
92 Johnson Matthey 38 Commitments
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided 9.2 5.8 5.3 3.0
Future minimum amounts payable under non-cancellable operating leases
Within one year 8.7 9.6 1.9 2.0
From one to five years 14.2 12.8 4.2 3.9
After five years 11.5 14.4 6.7 6.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
34.4 36.8 12.8 12.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Future minimum amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
From one to five years 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8
After five years 2.2 2.7 2.2 2.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
4.5 5.0 4.5 5.0
Less future finance charges (1.1) (1.3) (1.1) (1.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Present value of finance lease obligations 3.4 3.7 3.4 3.7
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
39 Acquisitions
If all acquisitions had been completed on 1st April 2006 the revenue for the group would have been £6,151.7 million and its profit for
the year £205.5 million.
United Farmaceuticals Limited
On 13th April 2006 the group purchased most of the business of United Farmaceuticals Limited for £1.9 million plus costs of £0.1 million.
The fair value of the assets acquired were plant and machinery of £0.3 million and inventories of £0.6 million giving goodwill of £1.1 million.
The goodwill arising is attributable to future synergies arising from the combination. It has been fully integrated with Macfarlan Smith
and so its post acquisition results are not identifiable and are included in Pharmaceutical Materials.
Process diagnostics business
On 21st April 2006 the group purchased the process diagnostics business of Quest TruTec for £3.8 million plus costs of £0.1 million.
The fair value of the assets acquired were customer contracts and relationships of £0.4 million, property, plant and equipment of
£0.3 million giving goodwill of £3.2 million. The goodwill arising is attributable to future synergies arising from the combination. It has
been fully integrated with the group’s existing processing services business and so its post acquisition results are not identifiable and
are included in Catalysts.
Cascade Biochem Limited acquired in the year ended 31st March 2003
On 17th October 2002 the group acquired Cascade Biochem Limited. The outstanding deferred consideration of £2.5 million was paid
during the year ended 31st March 2007.
Oximet SrL acquired in the year ended 31st March 2006
On 6th September 2005 the group acquired the remaining 67% of the share capital of Oximet SrL, which it did not already own for
£0.4 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired were inventories of £0.2 million, trade and other receivables of £1.0 million, trade
and other payables of £0.8 million and bank overdrafts of £0.1 million. The fair value of the associate immediately prior to the acquisition
was £0.1 million resulting in goodwill of £0.2 million. The goodwill arising is attributable to future synergies arising from the combination.
The net cash outflow on acquisition was £0.5 million, consisting of £0.4 million of cash consideration and £0.1 million of bank overdrafts
classed as cash and cash equivalents. From 6th September 2005 it contributed no net profit to the group’s profit for the year and its
results are included in Ceramics.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 93 39 Acquisitions (continued)
Davy Process Technology Limited acquired in the year ended 31st March 2006
On 1st February 2006 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Davy Process Technology Limited (DPT). DPT develops
chemical process technologies and licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries. Its revenue is generated
through the licensing of its proprietary technologies and from the sale of associated basic engineering packages, catalysts, specialist
equipment and other services. The goodwill disclosed in last year’s accounts was provisional at £21.9 million. An additional liability of
£0.5 million was discovered and additional costs of £0.2 million were incurred during the first year of ownership and so the comparatives
have been restated. The goodwill arising is attributable to future research and sales synergies arising from the combination.
The net assets acquired were:
Carrying
amounts
under IFRS
immediately Fair value
prior to Fair value at time of
acquisition adjustments acquisition
£ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Property, plant and equipment 11.4 (0.8) 10.6
Intangible assets – customer contracts and relationships – 6.7 6.7
Intangible assets – patents – 1.9 1.9
Non-current available-for-sale investments 3.4 – 3.4
Deferred income tax assets 0.8 (0.7) 0.1
Trade and other receivables 14.9 (0.3) 14.6
Cash and deposits 17.4 – 17.4
Trade and other payables (20.6) (2.0) (22.6)
Current income tax liabilities (1.4) – (1.4)
Non-current borrowings (1.4) – (1.4)
Employee benefit obligations (3.7) (1.0) (4.7)
Provisions (3.8) (2.6) (6.4)
––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Total net assets acquired 17.0 1.2 18.2
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Goodwill on acquisition 22.6
––––––––––––
40.8
––––––––––––
Satisfied by: £ million
––––––––––––
Purchase consideration – cash 39.9
Costs incurred – cash 0.9
––––––––––––
40.8
––––––––––––
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition was:
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Cash consideration and costs 0.2 40.6
Less cash and cash equivalents acquired – 17.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash outflow 0.2 23.2
Borrowings acquired – 1.4
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Increase in net debt 0.2 24.6
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
From 1st February 2006 its results are included in Catalysts and were:
2006
£ million
––––––––––––
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition by Johnson Matthey 1.6
Amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition by Johnson Matthey (0.8)
––––––––––––
Operating profit 0.8
Net finance income 0.1
––––––––––––
Profit before tax 0.9
Income tax expense (0.6)
––––––––––––
Net profit 0.3
––––––––––––
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
94 Johnson Matthey 40 Discontinued operations
On 28th February 2007 the group sold its Ceramics Division to the Endeka Ceramics group established by Pamplona Capital Partners I, LP ,
a private equity investment fund.
Ceramics Division’s net assets disposed of were:
£ million
––––––––––––
Property, plant and equipment 56.6
Goodwill 0.4
Inventories 43.4
Trade and other receivables 61.2
Cash and deposits 20.1
Bank overdrafts (5.7)
Current other borrowings (6.5)
Group loans (12.6)
Current trade and other payables (37.0)
Current income tax liabilities (2.0)
Non-current trade and other payables (0.7)
Employee benefits obligations (1.5)
Deferred income tax liabilities (2.7)
––––––––––––
113.0
Minority interests (2.7)
––––––––––––
110.3
––––––––––––
The profit on disposal of Ceramics Division was:
£ million
––––––––––––
Consideration – cash 143.9
Consideration – refund outstanding (0.6)
Costs incurred – cash (2.6)
Costs incurred – non-cash (0.4)
Costs incurred – accrued (2.3)
––––––––––––
138.0
Less assets disposed of (110.3)
Pension curtailment gain 0.9
Cumulative exchange gains deferred in equity 5.8
––––––––––––
Profit on disposal before tax 34.4
Tax (1.1)
––––––––––––
Profit on disposal 33.3
––––––––––––
The results of the discontinued operations included in the consolidated income statement were:
2007 2006
£ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Ceramics Division
Sales of goods to external customers 160.1 182.2
Inter-segment sales 3.4 4.4
Expenses (147.6) (165.3)
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Operating profit 15.9 21.3
Finance costs (0.5) (0.2)
Finance income 0.9 1.2
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit before tax 16.3 22.3
Income tax expense (5.7) (7.8)
Profit on disposal 33.3 –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year from Ceramics Division 43.9 14.5
Additional environmental warranty obligations retained on sale of Pigments & Dispersions (0.2) –
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 43.7 14.5
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Net cash inflow from operating activities of discontinued operations 0.7 5.6
Net cash outflow from investing activities of discontinued operations (4.5) (6.4)
Net cash outflow from financing activities of discontinued operations (1.9) (2.4)
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 95 40 Discontinued operations (continued)
The Ceramics Division had a presence in each of the geographical segments. Its external sales by geographical destination were:
North Rest of
Europe America Asia the World Total
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Period ended 28th February 2007 86.8 5.1 40.9 27.3 160.1
Year ended 31st March 2006 97.3 7.9 34.6 42.4 182.2
41 Transactions with related parties
Transactions between the parent company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and so
are only disclosed for the parent company’s accounts. The group’s associates, as described in note 18, are related parties. Guarantees
of subsidiaries’ and associates’ borrowings are disclosed in note 28d.
Group Parent company
2007 2006 2007 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Trading transactions with associates
Purchases of raw materials – 0.2 – –
Trading transactions with subsidiaries
Sales of goods – – 940.7 832.6
Purchases of goods – – 196.8 150.7
Income from service charges – – 2.3 2.2
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries – – 43.7 31.9
Amounts payable to subsidiaries – – 17.1 9.6
The group’s post-employment plans are related parties and the group’s and parent company’s transactions with them are disclosed in
notes 13a and 13b respectively.
The transactions with key management personnel are described in note 11c.
42 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Determining the carrying amounts of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effects of uncertain future events on those
assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date. The group and parent company have made appropriate estimates when applying the
accounting policies, but the actual outcome may differ from those calculated.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are:
Post-employment benefits
The group’s and parent company’s defined benefit plans are assessed annually by qualified independent actuaries. The details of the
plans and assumptions used are described in note 13.
Goodwill
The group has capitalised goodwill of £399.2 million and the parent company has £249.5 million. Annual impairment reviews are
performed which require various assumptions. More details are given in note 15.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets which are not yet being amortised (note 16) are also subject to annual impairment reviews based on discounted
cash flow projections. No impairment has been found.
Provisions and contingent liabilities
As described in note 29 and the accounting policies, the group and parent company measure provisions and contingent liabilities at
management's best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations at the balance sheet date.
Taxation
The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which
the group operates. Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations is unclear then reasonable estimates may be used to
determine the tax charge included in the accounts. If the tax eventually payable or reclaimable differs from the amounts originally
estimated then the difference will be charged or credited in the accounts for the year in which it is determined.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31st March 2007
96 Johnson Matthey Country of Country of
incorporation incorporation
Europe Asia
S.A. Johnson Matthey N.V. Belgium Johnson Matthey (Shanghai) Chemicals Limited China
Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland Johnson Matthey Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
Limited Eire Johnson Matthey India Private Limited India
+ Avocado Research Chemicals Limited England Johnson Matthey Chemicals India Private Limited India
+ Davy Process Technology Limited England Johnson Matthey Japan, Inc. USA
+ Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited (82.5%) England + Johnson Matthey Sdn. Bhd. (92%) Malaysia
Johnson Matthey SAS France
Johnson Matthey GmbH Germany
Johnson Matthey BV Netherlands
Johnson Matthey AB Sweden Africa
Johnson Matthey & Brandenberger AG Switzerland Johnson Matthey (Pty) Limited South Africa
Australasia
* AGR Matthey (20%) Australia
North America
The Argent Insurance Co. Limited Bermuda South America
Johnson Matthey Limited Canada + Johnson Matthey Argentina S.A. Argentina
Johnson Matthey de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson Matthey Inc. USA
Johnson Matthey Catalog Company Inc. USA
Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells, Inc. (82.5%) USA
Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials, Inc. USA
Except where otherwise stated, all companies are wholly owned.
* Associate (see note 18 on page 80).
+ Investments held directly by parent company.
All the subsidiaries and associates are involved in the principal activities of the group.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 97 UK GAAP U
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Revenue
Parent and subsidiaries 3,138.8 3,385.4 3,866.0 5,903.7 4,830.1 4,323.9 4,492.9 4,626.2 4,755.9
Share of joint ventures 128.8 – – – – – – – –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Total 3,267.6 3,385.4 3,866.0 5,903.7 4,830.1 4,323.9 4,492.9 4,626.2 4,755.9
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Operating profit before one-off items and goodwill amortisation 139.2 147.1 146.2 175.0 193.3 189.2 206.0 216.6 234.7
Goodwill amortisation – – (0.2) (0.3) (6.8) (13.7) (19.8) – –
One-off items (4.5) (1.9) (9.8) (0.6) (18.1) (7.6) 2.1 (36.7) (6.0)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Operating profit 134.7 145.2 136.2 174.1 168.4 167.9 188.3 179.9 228.7
Other one-off items 4.4 8.8 23.4 1.1 (5.6) 4.9 – – –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit before interest 139.1 154.0 159.6 175.2 162.8 172.8 188.3 179.9 228.7
Net finance costs (9.0) (15.9) (2.4) 5.3 (6.1) (13.2) (16.3) (13.0) (14.7)
Net return on retirement benefits assets and liabilities – – – – – 13.9 6.0 – –
Share of profit / (loss) of associates – – – – – – – 0.5 (0.2)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit before tax 130.1 138.1 157.2 180.5 156.7 173.5 178.0 167.4 213.8
Income tax expense (28.5) (35.1) (47.3) (54.2) (50.2) (53.7) (57.9) (46.5) (62.5)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit after taxation 101.6 103.0 109.9 126.3 106.5 119.8 120.1 120.9 151.3
(Loss) / profit for the year from discontinued operations – – – – – – – (6.4) –
Minority interests (0.3) 0.7 (0.2) (0.6) 0.3 0.4 1.7 1.0 0.8
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company 101.3 103.7 109.7 125.7 106.8 120.2 121.8 115.5 152.1
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Earnings per ordinary share before one-off items and
goodwill amortisation (graph 1) 42.8p 42.8p 46.6p 57.2p 60.4p 61.8p 64.0p 67.0p 72.7p
Earnings per ordinary share (graph 2) 46.7p 47.8p 50.5p 57.3p 49.0p 55.4p 56.0p 53.2p 70.8p
Dividend per ordinary share (graph 3) 17.8p 19.0p 20.3p 23.3p 24.6p 25.5p 26.4p 27.7p 30.1p
Summary Balance Sheet
Assets employed:
Goodwill – 4.2 5.1 8.6 182.6 373.4 377.1 375.1 402.4
Property, plant and equipment / other intangible assets 461.5 480.2 311.3 386.8 495.1 601.1 608.1 620.4 702.4
Non-current investments / associates / joint ventures 4.2 1.8 1.0 1.0 2.7 6.4 5.5 6.7 10.2
Inventories 244.8 243.7 253.2 278.8 414.3 438.4 417.3 307.3 345.8
Receivables / current investments / tax assets / financial assets 379.8 434.0 434.7 522.9 456.0 367.2 389.0 375.3 497.1
Payables / provisions / tax liabilities / financial liabilities (409.8) (418.8) (452.5) (534.7) (584.4) (560.5) (534.4) (382.3) (520.2)
Post-employment benefits net assets / employee benefits obligations – – – – – (25.4) 3.5 (3.0) 18.8
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
680.5 745.1 552.8 663.4 966.3 1,200.6 1,266.1 1,299.5 1,456.5
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Financed by:
Net borrowings and finance leases / (cash) 225.1 221.6 (165.8) (139.9) 159.0 402.5 394.5 369.6 412.0
Retained earnings 130.9 200.9 389.2 465.9 466.4 445.9 528.4 594.5 708.0
Share capital, share premium, shares held in ESOTs and other reserves 318.4 316.8 324.9 332.8 337.0 341.4 333.8 327.9 330.1
Minority interests 6.1 5.8 4.5 4.6 3.9 10.8 9.4 7.5 6.4
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Capital employed 680.5 745.1 552.8 663.4 966.3 1,200.6 1,266.1 1,299.5 1,456.5
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
Cumulative goodwill taken directly to reserves 171.4 171.4 46.0 46.0 46.0 40.6 40.6 – –
Return on assets 17.7% 16.6% 19.3% 26.8% 22.5% 16.8% 16.2% 16.7% 17.0%
(Operating profit before one-off items and goodwill amortisation /
average capital employed and cumulative goodwill taken directly to reserves)
Figures for 2006 onwards have been prepared under IFRS. Figures for 2005 have been restated for IFRS. Figures for 2004 and all prior years
have been prepared under UK GAAP. Figures for 2003 have been restated for the adoption of FRS 17 – ‘Retirement Benefits’ under UK GAAP,
but prior year figures have not been restated for FRS 17 because comparatives are not available. Apart from this, 2003 and prior years have
been restated to reflect all changes in accounting policies under UK GAAP.
TEN YEAR RECORD
98 Johnson Matthey TEN YEAR RECORD
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 99
UK GAAP IFRS
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
4,323.9 4,492.9 4,626.2 4,755.9 6,151.7
–––– –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
4,323.9 4,492.9 4,626.2 4,755.9 6,151.7
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
189.2 206.0 216.6 234.7 252.4
(13.7) (19.8) – – –
(7.6) 2.1 (36.7) (6.0) –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
167.9 188.3 179.9 228.7 252.4
4.9––– –
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
172.8 188.3 179.9 228.7 252.4
(13.2) (16.3) (13.0) (14.7) (26.8)
13.9 6.0 – – –
– – 0.5 (0.2) 0.9
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
173.5 178.0 167.4 213.8 226.5
(53.7) (57.9) (46.5) (62.5) (64.7)
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
119.8 120.1 120.9 151.3 161.8
– – (6.4) – 43.7
0.4 1.7 1.0 0.8 1.0
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
120.2 121.8 115.5 152.1 206.5
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
61.8p 64.0p 67.0p 72.7p 81.2p
55.4p 56.0p 53.2p 70.8p 96.9p
25.5p 26.4p 27.7p 30.1p 33.6p
373.4 377.1 375.1 402.4 399.2
601.1 608.1 620.4 702.4 640.8
6.4 5.5 6.7 10.2 9.6
438.4 417.3 307.3 345.8 362.7
367.2 389.0 375.3 497.1 549.2
(560.5) (534.4) (382.3) (520.2) (519.5)
(25.4) 3.5 (3.0) 18.8 0.9
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
1,200.6 1,266.1 1,299.5 1,456.5 1,442.9
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
402.5 394.5 369.6 412.0 364.8
445.9 528.4 594.5 708.0 783.7
341.4 333.8 327.9 330.1 292.0
10.8 9.4 7.5 6.4 2.4
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
1,200.6 1,266.1 1,299.5 1,456.5 1,442.9
––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– ––––––––––––– –––––––––––––
40.6 40.6 – – –
16.8% 16.2% 16.7% 17.0% 17.4%
1998
42.8p 42.8p
46.6p
57.2p
60.4p
61.8p
64.0p
67.0p
72.7p
81.2p
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
1 Earnings per Ordinary Share Before One-off Items and
Goodwill Amortisation
1998
46.7p
47.8p
50.5p
57.3p
49.0p
55.4p
56.0p
53.2p
70.8p
96.9p
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
2 Earnings per Ordinary Share
1998
17.8p
19.0p
20.3p
23.3p
24.6p
25.5p
26.4p
27.7p
30.1p
33.6p
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
3 Dividend per Ordinary Share Johnson Matthey Share Price Five Year Performance versus FTSE 100 and FTSE 350
Johnson Matthey Share Price as at 31st March
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
1,046p 737p 879.5p 989p 1,396p 1,576p
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders as at 30th April 2007
By location Number of shares Percentage
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
UK and Eire 169,082,780 76.7
Continental Europe 15,842,696 7.2
USA and Canada 24,747,370 11.2
Asia 2,308,365 1.1
Rest of World 3,374,623 1.5
Unidentified 5,133,986 2.3
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
220,489,820 100.00
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
By category Number of shares Percentage
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
Pension Funds 120,200,203 54.5
Insurance Companies 39,093,657 17.7
Investment and Unit Trusts 17,147,957 7.8
Individuals 10,003,500 4.5
Other 34,044,503 15.5
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
220,489,820 100.00
––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
By size of holding Number of holdings Percentage Number of shares Percentage
–––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
1-1,000 9,300 71.9 4,013,340 1.8
1,001 – 10,000 2,942 22.8 7,362,834 3.4
10,001 – 100,000 459 3.5 15,924,146 7.2
100,001 – 1,000,000 184 1.4 56,499,141 25.6
1,000,001 – 5,000,000 40 0.3 87,697,268 39.8
5,000,001 and over 7 0.1 48,993,091 22.2
–––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
12,932 100.00 220,489,820 100.00
–––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
100 Johnson Matthey
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
March 2002 March 2003 March 2004 March 2005 March 2006 March 2007
Johnson Matthey
FTSE 100
FTSE 350
Asia
1.1%
Rest of World
1.5%
Unidentified
2.3%
USA and Canada
11.2%
Continental
Europe
7.2%
UK and Eire
76.7%
Individuals
4.5%
Other
15.5%
Investment
and
Unit Trusts
7.8%
Insurance
Companies
17.7%
Pension
Funds
54.5%
100,001-
1,000,000
25.6%
1,000,001-
5,000,000
39.8%
5,000,001
and over
22.2%
10,001-
100,000
7.2%
1,001-10,000
3.4%
1-1,000
1.8%
By Location
By Category
By Size of Holding Share Dealing Services
A telephone and internet dealing service for UK shareholders is
provided by Lloyds TSB Registrars. For further details, including
Lloyds TSB Registrars’ terms and conditions, log on to
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call 0870 850 0852.
A low cost share dealing service is available through The Share
Centre. For further details, including The Share Centre’s terms, contact
The Share Centre PO Box 2000, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8ZB.
Telephone 01296 414141 (e-mail info@share.co.uk).
Dividend History – Pence per Share
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
Interim 7.8 8.2 8.7 9.1 9.9
Final 17.7 18.2 19.0 21.0 23.7
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
Total 25.5 26.4 27.7 30.1 33.6
–––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– –––––––––– ––––––––––
Dividend Policy
It is Johnson Matthey’s policy to grow dividends in line with earnings
while maintaining dividend cover at about two and a half times to
ensure sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth. Over
the last ten years Johnson Matthey has increased its dividend at a
compound annual growth rate of 8% p.a. The board is proposing a
final dividend for 2006/07 of 23.7 pence to take the total for the year
to 33.6 pence, which is 12% up in line with growth in underlying
earnings. The dividend will be covered 2.4 times by underlying
earnings (see pages 98 and 99). For further discussion of the
group’s financial objectives see the Strategy and Objectives section of
the Operating and Financial Review on page 7 of this Annual Report.
Dividend Payments and DRIP
Dividends can be paid directly into shareholders’ bank or building
society accounts. Shareholders wishing to take advantage of this
facility should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars or complete the dividend
mandate form attached to their dividend cheque. A Dividend
Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) is also available which allows shareholders
to purchase additional shares in the company. Further information
can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway,
Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. Telephone 0870 600 3970.
They can also be contacted via their website at www.shareview.co.uk.
American Depositary Receipts
Johnson Matthey has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary
Receipt (ADR) programme which The Bank of New York administers
and for which it acts as Depositary. Each ADR represents two
Johnson Matthey ordinary shares. The ADRs trade in the US
over-the-counter (OTC) market under the symbol JMPLY. When
dividends are paid to shareholders, the Depositary converts such
dividends into US dollars, net of fees and expenses, and distributes
the net amount to ADR holders. For enquiries, The Bank of New York
can be contacted on 1-888-BNY-ADRS (1-888-269-2377) toll free if
you are calling from within the United States. Alternatively, they can
be contacted by e-mail at shareowners@bankofny.com or via their
website at www.adrbny.com.
Share Price and Group Information
Information on the company’s current share price together with
copies of the group’s annual and interim reports and major
presentations to analysts and institutional shareholders are available
on the Johnson Matthey website: www.matthey.com.
The website’s Investor Centre contains extensive information and a
number of tools which will be of assistance to investors including
historic share price information downloads and a share price
charting facility.
For capital gains tax purposes the mid-market price of the
company’s ordinary shares on 31st March 1982 was 253 pence.
Enquiries
Shareholders who wish to contact Johnson Matthey Plc on any
matter relating to their shareholding are invited to contact the
company’s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway,
Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. Telephone 0870 600 3970.
Internet address www.shareview.co.uk.
Shareholders may also telephone the company on 020 7269 8400
or write to:
The Company Secretary
Johnson Matthey Plc
40-42 Hatton Garden
London
EC1N 8EE
For other enquiries shareholders may contact the Director, Investor
Relations and Corporate Communications at the above address and
telephone number.
Financial Calendar 2007/08
2007
13th June
Ex dividend date
15th June
Final ordinary dividend record date
24th July
116th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
7th August
Payment of final dividend subject to declaration at the AGM
28th November
Announcement of results for the six months ending
30th September 2007
5th December
Ex dividend date
7th December
Interim ordinary dividend record date
2008 (provisional)
6th February
Payment of interim dividend on ordinary shares
5th June
Announcement of results for the year ending 31st March 2008
11th June
Ex dividend date
13th June
Final ordinary dividend record date
22nd July
117th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
5th August
Payment of final dividend subject to declaration at the AGM
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 101 ADDERALL
®
An immediate release product used in the
treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder
ADR American Depositary Receipt
AGM Annual general meeting
AMOG Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas
API Active pharmaceutical ingredient
Buprenorphine A synthetic derivative of thebaine, used as an
analgesic. Also used in drug addiction therapy
CEC Chief Executive’s Committee
CGU Cash generating unit
CHP Combined heat and power
CIA Chemical Industries Association
CO Carbon monoxide
CO
2
Carbon dioxide
CRT
®
Continuously regenerating trap
CSF Catalysed soot filter
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DMFC Direct methanol fuel cell
DOC Diesel oxidation catalyst
DPT Davy Process Technology
DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan
DTI Department of Trade and Industry
ECT Environmental Catalysts and Technologies
(prior to 1st April 2007)
ECT Emission Control Technologies
(from 1st April 2007)
EHS Environment, health and safety
EIB European Investment Bank
EPS Earnings per share
ESOT Employee Share Ownership Trust
EU European Union
EU ETS European Emissions Trading Scheme
FRS 17 UK GAAP pension financial reporting standard
previously adopted by the group
Fuel Cell Technology which converts hydrogen or other
fuels (methanol, phosphoric acid) into clean
electricity
FURBS Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme
Gearing Net debt / equity
GTL Gas to liquids – multi stage catalytic process
used to convert stranded natural gas into sulphur
free hydrocarbons, including diesel fuel
HC Hydrocarbon
HDD Heavy duty diesel
IAS International Accounting Standard
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
ISO 14000 Internationally recognised series of standards
which specify the requirements for an
environmental management system
ISO 9000 Internationally recognised series of standards
which specify the requirements for a quality
management system
JMEPS Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme
JMTC Johnson Matthey Technology Centre, based in
Sonning Common, UK
LTIP Long term incentive plan
MDRC Management Development and Remuneration
Committee
MEA Membrane electrode assembly
Methylphenidate Synthetic controlled drug used in the treatment
of narcolepsy and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity
Disorder
MTO Methanol to olefins 
N
2
O Nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas with a potency
310 times that of CO
2
NDA New drug application
NOx Nitrogen oxides
OEM Original equipment manufacturer
OFR Operating and Financial Review
Oxycodone An opiate used to relieve medium to severe pain
PBT Consolidated profit before tax and one-off items
PCT Process Catalysts and Technologies
Pgm Platinum group metal
PM Particulate matter
Prostaglandin Synthetic analogues of hormone-like substances
R&D Research and development
REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of
Chemicals. European chemical control legislation
which comes into force from June 2007
Return on sales Operating profit / revenue
ROA Return on assets
RPI Retail price index
Satraplatin A potential new drug to treat prostate cancer
SIC Standing Interpretations Committee
SIP Share incentive plan
SO
2
Sulphur dioxide
Syngas A mixture of hydrogen and carbon oxides
TSR Total shareholder return
UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
WACC Weighted average cost of capital
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
102 Johnson Matthey Page
Accounting Policies 54-57
Acquisitions (note 39) 93-94
Associates (note 18) 80
Audit Committee Report 41
Audit fees (note 5) 62
Auditors’ report 49
Balance sheets 51
Board of Directors 34-35
Borrowings (note 25) 82
Capital expenditure by segment (note 1) 58-60
Capital expenditure to depreciation 19
Cash and cash equivalents (note 36) 92
Cash flow statements 52
Catalysts Division 8-11
Chairman’s Statement 2-3
Charitable programmes 33
Chief Executive’s Statement 4-5
Combined Code Compliance 38
Commitments (note 38) 93
Company Details 104
Construction contracts (note 21) 81
Contingent liabilities (note 29) 86
Corporate Governance 38-40
Corporate Social Responsibility 25-33
Deferred tax (notes 8, 30) 63, 87
Depreciation and amortisation (note 4) 61
Directors’ Report 36-37
Discontinued operations (note 40) 95-96
Dividends (note 9) 63
Earnings per ordinary share (note 10) 64
Employee numbers and expense (note 11) 65
Employee share ownership trusts (ESOTs) (note 31) 88
Employment policies 30-31
Environmental Catalysts and Technologies 9-10
Environment, health and safety 26-29
Equity (note 34) 90-91
Finance costs / income (notes 6, 7) 62
Finance leases (notes 25, 38) 82, 93
Financial assets (note 26) 82
Financial Highlights 1
Financial liabilities (note 27) 83
Financial Review 16-20
Financial risk management (note 28) 20, 83-85
Foreign exchange gains and losses (note 4) 61
Fuel Cells 11
Glossary of Terms 102
Goodwill (note 15) 77
Grants (note 4) 61
Guarantees (note 28) 84
Page
Held for sale non-current assets (note 24) 81
Impairment costs (note 3) 60
Income statement 50
Intangible assets (note 16) 78-79
Inventories (note 20) 80
Investments in available-for-sale assets (note 19) 80
Key management personnel (note 11) 65
Key sources of estimation uncertainty (note 42) 96
Minority interests (note 33) 89
Net debt (note 25) 82
New Divisional Structure 8, 19
Nomination Committee Report 40
Operating and Financial Review 6-33
Operating leases (notes 4, 38) 61, 93
Operating profit (note 4) 61
Operations 8-13
Outlook 8
Payables (note 23) 81
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (note 13) 22, 68-74
Pharmaceutical Materials Division 13
Precious metal operating leases (note 37) 92
Precious Metal Products Division 11-13
Process Catalysts and Technologies 10-11
Property, plant and equipment (note 14) 75-76
Provisions (note 29) 86
Receivables (note 22) 81
Recognised income and expense statements 53
Related parties (note 41) 96
Remuneration Report 42-48
Research and development (note 4) 14-15, 61
Reserves (notes 32, 34) 88-91
Resources 23
Responsibility of directors for accounts 48
Retained earnings (note 34) 90-91
Revenue analysis (note 2) 60
Review of Results 7-8
Risks and Uncertainties 21-22
Segmental information (note 1) 58-60
Senior management 35
Share capital (note 31) 88
Share-based payments (note 12) 66-67
Shareholder Information 100-101
Social and ethical matters 32-33
Stakeholder engagement 25
Standards not yet applied 57
Strategy and Objectives 7
Subsidiaries (note 17) 79, 97
Taxation (notes 8, 30) 63, 87
Ten Year Record 98-99
INDEX
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 103 COMPANY DETAILS
104 Johnson Matthey
Registered Office
40-42 Hatton Garden
London EC1N 8EE
Telephone: 020 7269 8400
Fax: 020 7269 8433
Internet address: www.matthey.com
E-mail: jmpr@matthey.com
Registered in England – Number 33774
Professional Advisers
Auditors Brokers
KPMG Audit Plc Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited
8 Salisbury Square One Cabot Square
London EC4Y 8BB London E14 4QJ
Lawyers
Herbert Smith LLP Taylor Wessing LLP
Exchange House Carmelite
Primrose Street 50 Victoria Embankment
London EC2A 2HS Blackfriars
London EC4Y 0DX
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0870 600 3970
Internet address: www.shareview.co.uk Johnson Matthey is grateful to the following for their help in providing illustrations:
Platinum rings, inside front cover – Cendres & Métaux SA, Switzerland
Continuously Regenerating Trap (CRT ® ) assembly, page 6 – Eminox
Children participating in ‘Science Night’, page 32 – The Science Museum
Hydrogen fuel cell bus, page 33 – AC Transit
The papers used in this report are Consort Silk (pages 1-36) and think
4
bright (pages 37-104).
Consort Silk is produced from a combination of ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) and TCF (Totally Chlorine Free) pulp that is fully recyclable, biodegradable,
acid-free and sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests. The range is manufactured within a mill which is registered under the
BS EN ISO 9001 accreditation, which provides the highest standard of quality assurance.
think
4
bright is produced with 100% ECF pulp that is sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests. The range is fully recyclable and
manufactured within a mill which is registered under the British quality standard of BS EN ISO 9001-2000 and the environmental standard of ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Printed by CTD Annual Report & Accounts
Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2007
40-42 Hatton Garden
London EC1N 8EE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7269 8400
Fax: +44 (0)20 7269 8433
www.matthey.com
2007
