 Johnston Press plc
53 Manor Place
Edinburgh EH3 7EG
Tel: 0131 - 225 3361
Fax: 0131 - 225 4580
e-mail: enquiries@johnstonpress.co.uk
Web Site: http://www.johnstonpress.co.uk
Registration number 15382
Johnston Press:
Connecting local
communities.
Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Johnston Press plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Contents
Our aim is to serve our local communities 
by publishing quality newspapers, related print publications 
and websites that attract users, providing an effective platform 
for advertisers to reach their target audience.
02 Highlights
04 Digital publishing
06 Acquisitive growth
08 Investing to improve efficiency
10 Chairman’s Statement
12 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
20 Financial Review
24 Management Board
26 Board of Directors
28 Group’s Newspaper Titles
31 Websites by Division
33 Corporate Governance 
37 Corporate Social Responsibility 
43 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
50 Directors’ Report 
53 Independent Auditors’ Report 
54 Group Income Statement 
55 Group Statement of 
Recognised Income and 
Expense 
56 Group Reconciliation of 
Shareholders’ Equity 
57 Group Balance Sheet
58 Group Cash Flow Statement 
59 Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements
96 Company Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities
97 Company Balance Sheet
98 Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
106 Group Five Year Summary
107 Notice of Meeting
The cover of this report and pp1-32 have been printed on Revive Special Silk which contains 30% post
consumer waste, text pp33-108 are printed on Revive Uncoated which contains 100% post consumer waste,
both products are ISO 14004 accredited.
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk
Solicitors
MacRoberts 
152 Bath Street 
Glasgow 
G2 4TB
Ashurst 
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London 
EC2A 2HA
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
and Registered Auditors 
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh 
EH1 2DB
Investment Bankers 
Citigroup
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London 
E14 5LB
Stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank AG London
Winchester House
1 Great Winchester Street
London
EC2N 2DB
Principal Bankers 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
36 St Andrew Square 
Edinburgh 
EH2 2YB
Lloyds TSB Scotland plc
Henry Duncan House
120 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4LH
Barclays Bank plc
Luton Corporate Banking Centre
1 Capability Green
Luton
LU1 3US
National Australia Bank
88 Wood Street
London 
EC2V 7QQ
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgewater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
Advisors Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 01 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 01 Highlights
Underlying EPS p*
38.62p up 2%
01
02
03
04
23.65
26.75
37.77
32.36
05 38.62
Operating Profit before non-recurring items £m*
£180.3m up 1%
01
02
03
04
91.1
131.6
178.4
163.6
05 180.3
Dividends p
8.4p up 17%
01
02
03
04
4.9
5.4
7.2
6.0
05 8.4
Digital Revenues £m
£8.3m up 32%
01
02
03
04
2.6
4.4
6.3
5.4
05 8.3
2005 was another year 
of progress in a 
difficult market
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
* See page 54 for definitions
02
Turnover £m
£520 .2m
01
02
03
04
300.6
428.4
519.3
491.8
05 520.2
Operating Profit Margin before non-recurring items %*
up to34.7%
01
02
03
04
30.3
30.7
34.4
33.3
05 34.7 Operational Highlights
> Expanded into Northern Ireland
and the Republic of Ireland
> Record launch of new
publications and supplements
> Digital revenues up 32%
> Excellent cost control
> Continued investment for
efficiency
> Significant increases in unique
users and page impressions
Financial Highlights
> Operating Profit before non-recurring
items up 1% 
> Pre Tax Profit up 1%
> Underlying Earnings Per Share 
up 2%
> Dividend Per Share up 17%
> Acquisitions earnings enhancing
> New bank facilities negotiated with
reduced margins
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 03
Left to right.
- Award winning Hemel
Today website
- Campaigning journalism
- Wakefield Express,
Yorkshire Weekly 
Newspaper of the Year
Left to right.
- Computer to plate
technology
- Students Today one of the
Group’s national websites
- Dinnington print facility due
to be completed third
quarter 2006 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 04 The Group increasingly connects with its communities through
its internet presence.
With over 250 websites in the markets where we publish, supplemented by
group wide classified platforms, readers and advertisers are offered
additional ways to access news, information and target audiences.
On a like-for-like basis in 2005, the unique users of our websites increased
by 41% and page impressions increased by 49%. 
During the year CV match, online auctions and a local business directory
were launched as new services. Revenues from internet advertising and
services increased by 32% to £8.3 million.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05
Digital publishing
Currently 45 million
monthly page impressions
5million
unique users per month  Although part of the same overall strategy, there were three
distinctive elements behind the acquisitions made in the year.
a) Market Entry – The acquisition of Score Press took the Group into the
Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland for the first time. The strong
economy in the Republic of Ireland in particular makes this a faster
growing market than the UK and the relatively fragmented ownership
structure provides potential for further consolidation. 
b) Consolidation – The acquisition of Local Press and the Leinster Leader
Group consolidated our position in these new markets and has provided
the critical mass to enable the integration of these separate operations
into two new divisions which in turn will improve efficiency. 
The acquisition of The Scotsman Publications Ltd significantly increases
our presence in the Scottish market and has enabled the Scotland division
to be reorganised around a substantial daily centre.
c) Add ons – Although much smaller in scale, the acquisitions of the Thorne
Gazette, Ashwell Associates and Best Asian Media were all in areas or
contiguous to areas where we already have a publishing presence.
Significant margin improvement can be obtained in these businesses by
leveraging off the infrastructure we already have in place.
Acquisitive growth
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
58new titles
up from 243 in 2004
to a total of 301 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 07
Best Asian
Media Ltd
Thorne Gazette
Ashwell
Associates Ltd
The Scotsman 
Publications Ltd
Score Press Ltd
and Local Press Ltd
Leinster Leader Ltd
Existing JP areas
Regional 
Printing Centres
1 Falkirk
2 Sunderland
3 Hartlepool
4 Leeds 
5 Isle of Man
6 Preston (external)
7 Halifax
8 Scarborough
9 Wakefield
10 Sheffield
11 Northampton
12 Peterborough
13 Portsmouth
14 Derry
15 Belfast
16 Portadown
17 Limerick
18 Kilkenny
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
9
8
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17 18
Acquisitions in 2005 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 08 The ongoing process of investing to improve our business continued
throughout 2005. The significant investments in the print division
allowed us to close the old press at Halifax and the closure of the
presses at Wakefield and Sheffield have been announced and will
coincide with the start up of the new press at Dinnington. An
announcement has also been made to close the old press at
Scarborough.
The investment in standard operating systems and optimisation of process flows
has resulted in further consolidation of production and backroom operations which
will deliver improved product and an enhanced level of service to our readers and
advertisers.
Expanded and upgraded systems will allow all of the acquired businesses to be
absorbed into the Johnston Accounting Centre over 2006 with little additional
resource requirements.
We are also investing in bringing more graduates and potential managers of the
future into the Group. These individuals are working in functions across the breadth
of the business and helping to identify areas for potential improvement as our
business continues to develop and evolve.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 09
£64million
spent on new property,
plant and equipment in 2005
Investing 
to improve efficiency Roger Parry
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
In 2005 Johnston Press was able to
achieve a robust profit performance
despite the significant downturn in
recruitment advertising experienced
by the industry as a whole. 
The growth in profit before tax
reflects tight cost controls and
increased business efficiencies as
well as the development of new
revenue streams including those 
from web-based products aimed at
local markets. In the face of difficult
trading conditions the staff of
Johnston Press have shown
themselves to be flexible and highly
effective. On behalf of shareholders, 
I would like to congratulate them all
on the results they have achieved. 
Results
Overall revenues for the year were
£520.2 million. This was up only 
0.2% on 2004 reflecting the significant
downturn in recruitment advertising.
Operating profit for 2005 was 
£177.7 million, flat on a 53 week 2004.
Underlying earnings per share were
38.62p, up 2%.
Serving local communities
through the provision of news,
information and entertainment
has been at the heart of the
Johnston Press culture for
more than 150 years. 
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10
Dividend
The Board proposes a final dividend of
5.6p per share, making a total of 8.4p 
per share for the year. This compares
to 7.2p per share in 2004, an increase
of 17%.
Growth in local media
During the year we were successful in
making a number of acquisitions of
companies which specialise in local
publishing. The principal acquisitions
were Score Press Ltd, Leinster Leader
Ltd, Local Press Ltd and finally The
Scotsman Publications Ltd, which did
not complete until 4 January 2006 and
therefore has not been consolidated
into the 2005 results. The process of
integrating these businesses into the
existing Johnston Press management
structure is going well. This means we
have acquired more than 50 new print
titles in Scotland, Northern Ireland and
the Republic of Ireland. The majority of
these are weekly publications but they
include three notable daily titles, The
News Letter in Northern Ireland, The
Scotsman and The Edinburgh Evening News, in addition to our first paid-for
Sunday title, Scotland on Sunday.
These acquisitions bring the total of
local weekly and daily newspapers
published by Johnston Press to more
than 300. In addition we publish many
hundreds of other specialist local
publications and operate more than
250 websites. 
Classified advertising
About half the Group’s income comes
from the sale of classified advertising.
During 2005, property advertising grew
strongly, motors fell marginally but there
was a significant reduction in spending
by companies and the public sector
seeking to recruit staff. On the evidence
available to us, we believe that this
significant drop in recruitment
advertising is cyclical rather than
structural. It would appear to reflect
government policy in terms of cutting
back on local government recruitment
and a general slowdown in the
economy rather than migration of
spending to websites. Having said this,
however, the Board of Johnston Press
does recognise that web-based
recruitment advertising is attractive to
employers. Accordingly, we are
devoting significant management time
and resource to the continuing
development of our own web-based
products. In this context it is very
pleasing to note the significant success
of our web-based CV matching service.
This enables candidates for jobs and
providers of employment to match up
their respective objectives. Our new
revenues from CV matching in 2005
were £1.1 million.
Investment in the business
In addition to developing our web-
based publishing, we have continued
to demonstrate our commitment to
equipping our business with the best
available technology. Our new £60
million investment in a triple-width
press in Sheffield will be coming on-
stream in the third quarter of 2006.
The similar installation in Portsmouth
at a cost of £50 million will be coming
on-stream a year later. At the time of
writing, both projects are to schedule
and coming in below budget. These
new presses will significantly increase
our ability to print in colour. 
Strategy
Serving local communities through the
provision of news, information and
entertainment has been at the heart of
the Johnston Press culture for more
than 150 years. This mission remains
the driving principle of the company.
Johnston Press is often called a local
newspaper publisher but this is
increasingly an inaccurate description
of what the company really does. It is
true that we are primarily focused on
local communities rather than national
markets but we serve those
communities through a wide range of
publications, both printed and digital.
In many of our markets our portfolio
includes a wide range of print
publications such as lifestyle guides,
property magazines and motoring
supplements in addition to our
newspapers. All the communities we
serve now have our local websites
available to them.
Board
Other than the appointments of 
Mr Danny Cammiade and Mr Les
Hinton on 17 March 2005 which I
reported last year, there have been no
changes to the membership of your
Board. It consists of five independent
non-executives, two non-executives
representing the Johnston family
interest, three executives and myself.
Each year the Board is subject to an
analysis of its own performance. 
The 2005 performance review
suggests the Board continues to
function well and it remains compliant
with all aspects of the Combined Code. 
Prospects
In the early weeks of 2006 the
advertising market remains challenging
with no early signs of recovery. The
Group remains committed to
improving operating efficiencies and
maintaining a tight control of costs.
The Board is delighted with progress
made integrating our recent
acquisitions and, providing market
conditions do not significantly worsen,
we are confident that 2006 will again
be a year of progress in building our
local media franchises.
Roger PARRY
Chairman
8 March 2006
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 12
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
2005 was a 
notable year 
for acquisitions
with major advances 
in Scotland and Ireland.
The trading environment in 2005
proved to be more difficult for the
regional press than at any time since
the early 1990s. For Johnston Press,
this resulted in a reduction in like-
for-like advertising revenues of 3.7%.
When using the term like-for-like,
this excludes all businesses acquired
in 2005 and compares the 52 weeks
trading in 2005 with the same
52 weeks in 2004. Against this
challenging background,
compounded by an increase in
newsprint prices, it is pleasing to be
able to report another set of record
results. 2005 was also a notable year
for acquisitions with major advances
in both Scotland and Ireland. Our
digital publishing activities continued
to exhibit strong growth, our major
capital expenditure programmes
remain on track and our ongoing
organic growth plans delivered over
50 new publications in the year.
Tim Bowdler
Chief Executive Officer
Industry Development
After a period of relative calm since
2002 when we acquired Regional
Independent Media Holdings Ltd
(RIM), 2005 witnessed a resurgence of
industry restructuring with Johnston
Press at the forefront of events. 
These changes have enabled us to
build on our consistent strategy of
being a leading industry consolidator. 
This process has been given renewed
focus by the decision in late 2005 of
Daily Mail & General Trust plc (DMGT)
to explore the possible sale of
Northcliffe Newspapers, its regional
newspaper subsidiary and one of the
big 4 publishers in the sector.
Although DMGT ultimately decided to
retain Northcliffe, their willingness to
consider its disposal suggests that
further change may well occur in our
sector, providing yet more
opportunities for continued targeted
growth by Johnston Press in the
coming years. We are equally
confident that consolidation is the greatest possible safeguard for a
healthy regional press and that it will
prove to be in the best long-term
interests of readers, advertisers,
shareholders and the industry itself,
including those who work in it.
The changes introduced in the
Communications Act 2003 have also
helped to simplify the process of
consolidation and during 2005 this has
enabled Johnston Press to complete
transactions which might not have
been pursued under the previous
regime. Whilst it is too early to form
any definitive views, we continue to
believe that over time, the regulators
will take a broader view of market
definition in their assessment of
proposed newspaper mergers, thereby
easing the process of continued
industry consolidation.
Acquisitions
During 2005, the Group announced a
total of seven acquisitions, with a total
consideration, excluding related costs,
of £469m. Of these, the largest and
most recent was The Scotsman
Publications Limited (TSPL), for
£160m, announced on 19 December
and completed on 4 January 2006. In
addition to its flagship Scotsman title,
the company also publishes a paid-for
Sunday newspaper, Scotland on
Sunday, and covering the Edinburgh
and Lothian markets, the Evening
News as well as the weekly free Herald
& Post series. Its Scotsman.com
website is one of Scotland’s leading
sites registering over 20 million page
impressions and 3 million monthly
unique users in the most recent ABC
audit. In addition to its stable of market
leading brands, TSPL represents an
excellent geographic fit with our
existing weekly newspaper portfolio 
in Scotland and will provide good
opportunities for performance
improvement and growth. As with all 
of the acquisitions made during the
year, we expect the acquisition of
TSPL, before any non-recurring
restructuring costs, to be earnings
enhancing in 2006. 
On almost as large a scale, on 
9 August, we acquired Score Press
Limited (Score) from Emap plc for
£155m. Score represented the
newspaper interests of Scottish Radio
Holdings plc (SRH) and the deal was
made possible as a result of the
acquisition of SRH by Emap. 
The acquisition involved 35 weekly
newspaper titles with 13 in Scotland,
17 in Northern Ireland and 5 in the
Republic of Ireland. 28 of the titles are
paid-for and 7 are free. The integration
of Score’s Scottish titles into our
existing Scottish business is well
advanced and the deal also provided
the Group with its first presence on
the island of Ireland. The overall
performance of Score since
acquisition has exceeded our
expectations at the time of the deal.
Following the acquisition of Score we
were keen to expand our presence in
both Northern Ireland and the Republic.
This objective was entirely consistent
with our acquisitive growth strategy and
had the added incentive of becoming a
bigger player in the fast growing
Republic of Ireland marketplace which
has recently experienced double digit
advertising revenue growth rates. 
Two opportunities to meet this objective
occurred in rapid succession and the
Group was successful in securing these
to become a leading publisher of
regional and local newspapers both
north and south of the border.
The first deal, completed on 
4 November, was the acquisition of
Local Press Limited (LPL), in which 3i
plc was the principal shareholder. In
addition to the daily News Letter, LPL
also publishes 6 weekly newspapers in
Northern Ireland and 3 in the County of
Donegal in the Republic. 7 of the titles
are paid-for and 3 are free. Combined
with Score’s Northern Irish titles, the
acquisition of LPL gives the Group
excellent coverage across much of the
Province and integration opportunities
which will improve performance as well
as benefiting readers and advertisers. 
The acquisition of Leinster Leader (LL),
a private company owned by 27
separate shareholders, was completed
on 14 December. LL publishes 6 titles,
and with the exception of the Limerick
Leader which is published 4 times per
week, all are paid-for weekly
newspapers. Combined with the 5
Score titles, the acquisition of LL gives
the Group critical mass in the Republic
of Ireland and the opportunity to
consolidate the separate operations
into an integrated business. There are
considerable opportunities for the
combined business in this high growth
economy, not least from much needed
investment in IT systems to improve
efficiency and customer service. 
Although on a much smaller scale, 3
other acquisitions were also completed
during the year. The first was Thorne
Gazette on 16 May, a publisher
distributing 20,000 free newspapers in
an area of South Yorkshire as well as a
title for the region’s farming community
and a visitors’ guide for Lincolnshire.
The business has already been
integrated with our existing activities in
the region and its performance has
exceeded expectations.
On 3 August, the Group acquired the
entire share capital of Best Asian
Media Ltd, a company which distributes
a fortnightly free newspaper, Asian Life
Magazine and EID magazine for the
Asian community in the Northwest of
England. The previous owners and
management have remained with the
business and are working on plans to
expand its activities through a series
of related new launches. 
The third small acquisition, 
announced on 9 December, was
Ashwell Associates Ltd, publishers of
the paid-for weekly newspapers, The
Rutland Times and Bourne Local, as
well as Embrace, Your Perfect Day and
Your Country, specialist publications
focused on the county of Rutland. The
business has already been integrated
with our Welland Valley Newspapers
subsidiary based in Stamford.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 areas include leaflet distribution
through the Group’s dedicated
Letterbox Direct subsidiary,
promotional coupon offers through
Offer Pack which was acquired in
2004, reader holidays, where we
promote and provide tailored holidays
and events packages, premium line
offerings which primarily relate to
dating services, local exhibitions and
events such as fashion shows and the
syndication of our editorial content.
Trading Performance
As indicated above, 2005 was a
challenging period with trading
becoming more difficult as the year
progressed. All advertising revenue
percentages in this commentary are
shown on a like-for-like basis. After a
marginal advertising revenue decline 
of 1.5% in the first six months, the
second half witnessed a fall of 6.0%.
We are confident that this advertising
downturn, which affected the regional
press generally as well as many other
sectors of the media, was primarily
cyclical in nature reflecting weaker
consumer confidence, partly fuelled by
a flatter property market and a cutback
in recruitment by a number of
employers. Only the Northeast of
England and Scotland achieved growth
with all other markets suffering year-on-
year declines.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
We are pleased with the progress
made so far in integrating all these
acquired businesses. 
As a result of these acquisitions,
Johnston Press now publishes 301
titles of which 3 are paid-for morning
newspapers, 15 are paid-for evenings,
158 are paid-for weeklies, 118 are free
weeklies, 2 paid-for Sunday titles and
5 weekly magazines. The total number
of copies published per edition stands
at 7.1 million with 0.2 million of these
being in the Republic of Ireland.
Johnston Press is now the second
largest regional newspaper publisher in
the UK.
Connecting Communities
The Group also continues to pursue its
organic growth strategy which
recognises the opportunity and need to
reach local communities through an
increasing array of media channels,
especially digital. This strategy is built
on the underlying fact that “Life is
Local”. The publishing rationale of
Johnston Press is to be the leading
purveyor of news, information and
related services to the communities it
serves, thereby providing the primary
and most effective means for
advertisers to reach those communities.
Industry research continues to provide
strong evidence of consumer behaviour
which underpins this approach.
In print, the Group has an active policy
of encouraging its local publishing
companies to seek opportunities
capable of generating new revenue
streams. During 2005, this resulted in
the launch of well over 50 new
publications including 47 community
newspapers, 5 monthly lifestyle
magazines and, additionally, numerous
niche publications. In total, we now
publish 58 community newspapers.
These are typically monthly free pick-
up newspapers servicing small
communities in rural areas and
selected suburbs of larger cities. 
They contain local ‘parish pump’ news
and allow small local businesses to
advertise in a very targeted and cost
effective manner. 
The continuing growth and
development of our digital publishing
activities is a vital and central part of
our organic growth strategy. We have
a total of 288 community websites
including those operated by the newly
acquired companies. These are an
integral component in each of our
publishing centres’ portfolios, offering
users the opportunity to access a vast
range of information and to interact
with us via the internet and from
mobile devices. 
Without dismissing the possibility of
acquiring an internet business which
would complement our local offerings,
our approach is primarily dependent on
the organic development of digital
platforms which build on the strength 
of our local brands and market
position, providing a natural extension
to our existing publishing activities.
More details of our digital publishing
activities are provided in a later section
of this report on pages 16 and 17.
In addition to the initiatives outlined
above, the Group is also pursuing
organic growth opportunities in
services which are closely related to
our local publishing and newspaper
delivery activities. Examples of such
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 14 The greatest shortfall year-on-year was
in recruitment advertising which fell by
17.3%, comprising 12.1% in the first
half and 23.7% in the second, entirely
as a result of reduced volumes.
This represents our most volatile
advertising category and it followed a
similar pattern in the last significant
downturn in the early 1990s.
The impact was felt across the entire
spread of the Group’s publishing areas.
Property advertising performed
strongly, up 13.7% overall and
increasing by 15.9% and 11.3%
respectively in the first and second
halves. The healthy growth reflected
the need for vendors, house-builders
in particular, to advertise more heavily
in a flatter market. All areas of the
country grew, with Scotland the
strongest and the South of England
weakest.
Motors advertising continued its
lacklustre performance with an overall
decline of 5.2%, falling in each half by
3.9% and 6.7% respectively.
Continued dealer ownership changes
and consolidation, coupled with poor
car sales, combined to keep
performance depressed. Only the
Northeast division achieved growth in
this category.
The other classified category
performed well, growing by 5.5%,
4.1% in the first half and the strong
increase of 7.0% in the second fuelled
by the need for licensed premises to
re-apply for liquor licences following
the introduction of new licensing laws.
In the display category, there was an
overall decline of 2.4%, made up of
0.6% in the first half and 4.1% in the
second. This was despite strong
growth in special features as a result of
the proactive efforts of our sales teams
to stimulate additional revenues. The
overall performance reflected tougher
conditions on the High Street in all
markets, although marginal growth was
achieved in the South Midlands.
Given the difficult trading environment
and taking into account the increased
cost of newsprint, the Group did 
well to raise operating margins, from
34.0% to 34.8% as shown on page
20. This performance reflects the
benefits of our continuing programme
of investment in modern IT systems to
drive efficiency, good control of costs
and actions taken to mitigate the
increase in the cost of newsprint.
Operating Review
The Group maintains a strong focus
on revenue growth initiatives and, as
outlined above, this resulted in a
record number of new publications
during the year. Each is regularly
monitored to ensure that it makes a
positive contribution to the Group’s
profitability. Our intranet-based ADS4U
database of advertising ideas and
creative copy is now firmly embedded
as an invaluable tool for all advertising
sales staff, assisting the dissemination
of best practice around the Group,
providing a more professional service
to advertisers and helping to generate
additional revenues.
Our close working relationship with
Mediaforce, the independent national
sales-house which represents all
Johnston Press titles with national and a
number of regional advertising
agencies, continues to form an integral
part of our sales operations. The recently
established creative sales unit within
Mediaforce assisted in the capture of
new business for Johnston Press from
clients such as Baxters and RIAS, as
well as winning back clients such as
Powerhouse and ATS from other media.
National advertising also benefited from
General Election advertising from
various political parties. 
The importance of the Group’s
continuing programme of investment in
new IT systems cannot be overstated in
terms of its positive impact on business
efficiency and customer service levels.
During the year, progress was made in a
number of key areas. 
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15
Top to bottom.
- Limerick Leader acquired in 2005.
- Over £110 million invested in
upgrading our printing facilities.
- Upgraded distribution systems.
301
publications Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
Our drive towards common systems
made strong advances with the
implementation of new advertising
front-end systems in the Northwest
and new editorial systems in the South
and South Midlands. This programme
will continue in 2006 with investment
planned in Yorkshire, Ireland and
Scotland. We are well into the roll-out
of a Group-wide newspaper sales
system which will be completed during
the current year. We have transferred
to Thus plc as our infrastructure
provider for our wide area network and
continued progress has been made in
the installation of voice-over IP
telephony across the Group which will
deliver significant cost savings. 
Considerable progress has also been
made in automating our customer
interfaces, with many estate agents
now producing and uploading their
content electronically and more
advertisers using our internet-based
solution to place advertisements with
us. The growing extent of IT
standardisation across the Group has
also enabled us to improve the
technical support function with the
strengthening of our central help desk
in Leeds. All of this investment has
allowed the Group to consolidate
further a number of pre-press centres
including those in the South, East
Midlands, the North and Northeast.
Health and safety remains a key area of
focus for the Group. Improvements to
our monitoring, reporting systems and
training have been made during the
year. The rolling audit of our systems
and procedures by a third party has
indicated a further general improvement
in adherence to our health and safety
procedures. There were 30 reportable
accidents in 2005, a small number for a
company of our size, and the vast
majority were very minor in nature.
During the year, more of our titles
celebrated important milestones,
notably 150th anniversaries for the
Bury Free Press, the Sudbury based
Suffolk Free Press and The Southern
Reporter in the Borders. 
A number of our newspapers and staff
were also recognised for their
achievements with awards including
The Southern Reporter being voted as
the Newspaper Society’s Scottish
weekly “newspaper of the year” for the
fourth successive occasion.
Digital Publishing
The growth and development of our
digital publishing activities during 2005
has been considerable, reflecting the
strong focus which Johnston Press
continues to place on this aspect of our
business. The Group now has 288 local
or regional websites, including those
operated by the newly acquired
companies, with page impressions
having grown by 49%, exceeding 30
million per month and unique users now
around 2.5 million per month. Total
online revenues increased by 32% to
reach £8.3 million, producing a
contribution to profit of £5.8 million.
The Group announced in September
that it had agreed a £60,000 annual
sponsorship of a Chair in Digital
Journalism at the University of Central
Lancashire (UCLan) for a three year
period. Johnston Press’s partnership
with UCLan, which combines the
expertise of one of the top journalism
departments in the country with one of
the UK's major regional newspaper
groups, represents a unique opportunity
in the development of new digital
applications.
During the year, we increased the size
of our development team based in
Peterborough by 20% and resource
around the Group was also
strengthened. We have appointed
category managers for each of our
jobs, motors and property sites and, in
addition, an online editorial content
champion. Assisted by those
appointments, we are in the process
of a further programme of
enhancements and upgrades to each
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 16
Top to bottom.
- Jobs Today, recruitment website. 
- Lot 24-7, auction website, launched
in 2005.
- Leeds Today - local news, sport and
listings.
288
regional websites Our auction site Lot24-7.co.uk was
launched at the end of 2005 
and will utilise the combination of our
newspapers and local websites to
create a truly local and differentiated
auction service. Our digital offering is
also providing users with an increasing
range of services with developments in
2005 including a real time news service
to mobile phones, greater depth of
content within our classified search
engines and electronic versions of a
number of our printed daily newspapers
available by subscription online.
Our continuing investment in
advertising front-end systems has also
improved the structure and quality of
data obtained from our advertisers
and, together with a growing database
of information on our readers, good
progress is being made in the
introduction and use of our customer
relations management (CRM)
programme. This, as with our entire
of our classified sites with re-launches
planned during the course of 2006. 
In addition, we have launched a
project in Preston to act as a test-bed
in the development of the “newsroom
of the future”, in which content will be
gathered and disseminated through a
variety of print and digital channels in
a media-neutral manner.
A number of new services have been
developed and launched during 2005.
The most successful in revenue terms
has been the roll-out of our online CV
matching service which is now
generating around £30k per week from
a database of 6,000 active CVs and
over 60,000 registered users. The
redesign and re-launch of our local
directory service under the Local
Pages brand has proved very popular
with users and advertisers. The sales
of links to electronically formatted
versions of newspaper advertisements
have generated strong revenue growth. 
digital publishing development
programme, remains central to the
Group’s overall progress.
Printing
The key developments for our Printing
Division during 2005 have been
dominated by the major new press
projects at Dinnington, near Sheffield,
and at Portsmouth. With a total
expenditure in excess of £100m and
backed by 15-year supply contracts
with News International (NI), these
represent by far the largest and most
exciting press projects in the Group’s
history. It is pleasing to report that
both projects are proceeding to plan in
terms of cost and timescale. 
The Dinnington building is largely
complete and equipment is in the
course of installation for start-up in the
third quarter of 2006. At Portsmouth,
demolition work is complete, building
work has commenced, the publishing
offices refurbished and start-up is
planned for 12 months after Dinnington.
At Leeds, a digital inking system has
been installed and the refurbishment
of the mailroom has begun. 
At Peterborough, the press is being
extended to ensure that we meet the
increasing demand for colour. 
Once completed, this project will allow
the press to print 160 pages with
every one in colour.
Reflecting the need of all of our titles
for high quality colour printing and for
the Group to maximise the return on
its press investment programme, the
Halifax press was closed during 2005
with printing being transferred to
Leeds. Plans have also been
announced for the closure of our
pressrooms in Scarborough, Wakefield
and Sheffield, the latter two to take
place once the new Dinnington press
comes on stream. The acquisitions
made during 2005 have also brought
additional pressrooms to the Group, in
Edinburgh and Forfar in Scotland with
two in the Republic of Ireland and
three in Northern Ireland.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 In view of the increased price of
newsprint in 2005, the Group took
steps to mitigate the impact on costs
including the standardisation of web
width to the NI standard. This will also
be helpful when the new presses in
Dinnington and Portsmouth come on
stream in view of the NI contracts.
Prices of newsprint for the current year
have increased by a similar amount to
2005 and further measures to partially
mitigate the effect are already in place.
Circulations
For the year as a whole, circulation
revenues increased on a like-for-like
basis by 1.8%, the majority of the
increase coming in the second half of
the year. During 2005, we increased
the cover price of over 70% of our
paid-for newspapers. This takes no
account of The Scotsman and the
Leinster Leader Group, which only
became part of the Group at the turn
of the year. 
After seven consecutive years of
growth, the total sale of our weekly
titles fell in the second half of 2004, 
a trend which continued in 2005 with
reductions of 2.1% and 2.4% in the
first and second halves respectively
contributing to an overall fall of 2.3%.
The more difficult trading environment,
with its adverse impact on advertising
volumes, is undoubtedly a factor in
this decline but, that said, penetration
levels remain extremely high and, with
relatively static population numbers, it
is unrealistic to expect a perpetual
increase in the overall sale. The key
factor is the high market penetrations
being achieved and thereby the
unrivalled extent to which advertisers
are able to reach local communities
with their messages.
The circulation performance of our
daily titles remains broadly unchanged
with an overall decline over the year of
5.5% comprising 6.5% in the first half
and 4.5% in the second. The first half
figure was depressed by the final stage
in the process of removing bulk sales
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 18
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
continued
from our reported ABC figures. All of
the daily newspapers we published
throughout 2005 achieved 100%
actively purchased status. The figures
were also adversely affected by steps
taken to address the issue of bad debt
on our direct delivery sales. 
The Group’s Daily Newspaper Sales
Forum has made good progress in
ensuring the adoption of best practice
at all centres and in evolving new
approaches to address the underlying
circulation issues. This includes using
the Group’s strength to improve our
reader offers and promotional activity,
publishing our titles earlier in the day to
match the shopping habits of our
readers and collecting detailed
customer data to enable us to tailor
our service accordingly. In addition, we
have undertaken a number of research
projects that have given us a clearer
understanding of our readers’ opinions,
purchasing habits and expectations for
the future. However, behind the
disappointing figures, the market
penetration of our daily titles remains
strong and they continue to deliver
good advertiser response levels. 
When combined with our local
websites, we can offer a significantly
increased audience reach to
advertisers. We have installed an online
market measurement tool which
enables us to provide advertisers with
an estimate of total market reach after
removing those users who are also
newspaper readers.
Content
Community involvement remains the
cornerstone of the editorial approach
for all of our newspaper titles, within a
framework which guarantees editors the
freedom to edit without management
interference. The Corporate Social
Responsibility Statement on pages 37
to 42 provides details of the numerous
ways in which our newspapers serve
their local communities through
campaigns, championing good
causes, supporting charitable
Top to bottom.
- The Dewsbury Reporter. 
- The News in Portsmouth.
- The Sunderland Echo.
local
communities
serving Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
organisations, leading fundraising
efforts, exposing wrong-doing and
celebrating success. Quite simply, our
newspapers are the voice and
conscience of the communities they
serve, having a pivotal role in
community life. As a Company, we are
acutely conscious of the heavy
responsibility which our editors bear. 
In recognition of the important role of
our editors, we have strengthened the
Editorial Review Group which has
continued to perform a valuable role in
supporting editors and encouraging the
improvement of standards generally. 
In addition to their involvement in the
appointment of editors, we have
extended the use of a “buddying”
system for all those newly appointed
to the editor’s chair.
Our acquisitions during 2005 have
brought various new titles to the Group
and from an editorial standpoint, high
profile newspapers such as The
Scotsman, Scotland on Sunday and
the News Letter in Northern Ireland.
These titles, like the Yorkshire Post,
have a more discernable editorial
stance than is typical of many of our
newspapers and, whilst we are totally
committed to the maintenance of the
highest editorial standards and
investment in good content, we do not
intend to alter our editorial policy
which leaves content decisions firmly
and clearly with each individual editor.
In accordance with this, Johnston
Press editors are encouraged to
vigorously pursue investigative
journalism and worthwhile campaigns.
In that regard, it is particularly pleasing
to note the successful outcome of the
long running campaign by The News
in Portsmouth to seek a specific Arctic
Medal for those men who took part in
the Arctic Campaign of World War II.
Organisation and People
2005 has been a particularly
challenging year, not only as we have
had to manage through a more difficult
trading environment but also due to
the heavy programme of acquisitions
which inevitably places additional
burdens on those involved during the
negotiations and the subsequent
integration process. Our ability to deal
with these added pressures is a
testament to the strengths and quality
of our management and has
undoubtedly been assisted by the
continuing stability within our Head
Office and Senior Management teams.
Following the various acquisitions
made during the year and the resultant
increase in the size of the Group, we
have made several key management
appointments and organisational
changes. Running our businesses in
Northern Ireland and the Republic of
Ireland respectively, we welcome 
Jean Long and Barry Brennan to the
Divisional Management team. 
Jean was the previous Chief Executive
of LPL and Barry was Group Marketing
Director at Independent News & Media
plc. Michael Johnston has relocated
from Portsmouth, where he was
Managing Director of our South of
England division, to Edinburgh to run
The Scotsman Publications Limited
and the enlarged Scottish division.
Michael has been replaced in
Portsmouth by Gary Fearon who was
previously Managing Director of our
Northeast division. We have combined
the North division, headquartered in
Leeds, with the Sheffield based North
Midlands and South Yorkshire division
and the Northeast division based in
Sunderland, under the leadership of
Chris Green. A similar combination of
the East and South Midlands divisions,
led by Nick Mills, has been made
possible by the appointment of Chris
Pennock to the role of Group
Newspaper Sales and Marketing
Director.
We continue to place strong emphasis
on skills-based training and
management development which has
included the introduction of a new
Senior Management Development
Programme run by Kaizen Training. 
We have also strengthened our
succession planning processes and
continue to embrace our commitment
to being a caring and responsible
employer.
The fact that Johnston Press
produced such good results in 2005
against such a difficult trading
background speaks volumes for the
professionalism, hard work and
commitment of all of our staff. I would
like to express my personal thanks to
all our staff and I am pleased that the
Board has agreed to recognise and
reward those efforts by once again
permitting all qualifying employees,
representing the substantial majority
of those we employ, to receive free
Johnston Press shares to be granted
under the Group’s Share Incentive
Plan.
Tim BOWDLER
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2006 Financial Review
The Group has produced
another set of excellent
results in a challenging
trading year.
Stuart Paterson
Chief Financial Officer
projects and contributed towards the
funding of the acquisitions made in 
the year. The proposed dividend has
been increased by 17% recognising
the growth in dividend cover over
recent years.
Financial Review
In comparing performance between
2005 and 2004, it should be
remembered that 2004 was a 53 week
year and, where relevant, in order to
help the reader make like-for-like
comparisons, we have included
performance figures for 52 weeks.
Overview
As described in the Chief Executive
Officer’s Review, 2005 was a difficult
year from a trading point of view, but
despite this the Group has produced
another set of excellent financial
results. There were year-on-year
increases in operating margins before
non-recurring items and operating
profits, notwithstanding the fact that
2004 was a 53 week year. 
The business continues to generate
excellent operating cash flows which
more than covered the increased
capital expenditure on our new press
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 20
Total Acquisitions Existing 52 Weeks 53rd Week 53 Weeks
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Advertising revenues 387.7 10.6 377.1 391.5 3.0 394.5
Newspaper sales 73.6 3.9 69.7 68.5 1.1 69.6
Contract printing 21.1 2.3 18.8 19.1 0.2 19.3
Other revenues 37.8 0.5 37.3 35.8 0.1 35.9
Total revenues 520.2 17.3 502.9 514.9 4.4 519.3
Costs 340.0 12.0 328.0 339.7 1.4 341.1
Operating profit* 180.2 5.3 174.9 175.2 3.0 178.2
Operating margin* 34.6% 30.6% 34.8% 34.0% 34.3%
* pre non-recurring items and associates
2005 2004 A
B
C
A Scotland 5%
B Northeast 7%
C North 23%
D N Midlands/S Yorkshire 14%
G
E
Turnover by Region (excluding acquisitions)
Acquisitions
The Group completed a total of 6 acquisitions in the year.
In addition, the acquisition of The Scotsman Publications
Limited was completed just after the year end on 4 January
2006 and is therefore excluded from these financial results.
These acquisitions included three small transactions which
will add to the local operations where they are published
but, being relatively small from a Group perspective, they
are not analysed separately within this report. These were
the acquisitions of the Thorne Gazette, Ashwell Associates
(publishers of the Rutland Times and the Bourne Local) and
Best Asian Media (publishers of the Asian Leader in
Lancashire and the EID Magazine).
The significant acquisitions completed in the year were:
a) Score Press Limited, acquired from Emap for £155
million debt free on 9 August 2005;
b) Local Press Limited, acquired from individual
shareholders including 3i, Mecon and management for
£65 million debt free on 4 November 2005; and
c) The Leinster Leader Group, acquired again from
individual shareholders on 15 December 2005 for 
€138.6 million debt free.
All of the above acquisitions have been funded out of new
debt facilities established during the year.
The acquisitions contributed revenues of £17.3 million in
the period and operating profit before non-recurring items
of £5.3 million. As the integration of these businesses into
the Johnston Press divisional structure only commenced
late in the year there were limited non-recurring items
incurred in the period. The integration process is expected
to be largely completed in the first half of 2006.
Excluding the value of the publishing titles and goodwill,
fair value adjustments of £3.0 million have been made to
the assets of the acquired businesses and these are
detailed in note 28. The major adjustments were to write
down the value of the property, plant and equipment to
reflect consistent accounting treatment with Johnston
Press or, where relevant, current valuations. As well as
these write downs, the Group has provided for the acquired
businesses’ share of the deficits existing on the industry
pension schemes in the Republic of Ireland.
Revenues
Advertising revenues for the Group on a like-for-like basis
as defined on page 12 were as follows:
2005 2004 Increase
£’m £’m %
Employment 96.9 117.2 (17.3)
Property 63.4 55.7 13.7
Motors 44.8 47.3 (5.2)
Other classified 63.9 60.6 5.5
Total Classified 269.0 280.8 (4.2)
Display 108.1 110.7 (2.4)
377.1 391.5 (3.7)
The Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 12 to 19
provides a summary of advertising performance by division.
The table below shows the advertising revenues consolidated
into the Group financial statements for the acquired
businesses along with comparatives on a like-for-like basis.
Some of the acquired businesses did not record advertising
revenues by category but this will change for 2006.
Acquired Businesses
2005 2004 Increase
£’m £’m %
Advertising revenues
since acquisition 10.6 10.8 (1.9)
The existing businesses experienced advertising revenue
declines in the year. This decline was primarily due to
weakness in the recruitment category. The acquired
businesses performed better and saw advertising revenues
decline by a lower percentage mainly as a result of the strong
growth currently being experienced in the Republic of Ireland
economy being reflected in the advertising environment.
In the existing businesses, the advertising performance
deteriorated over the course of the year due to the weakening
in consumer confidence, increased unemployment and the
strong performance reflected in the comparative figures of 
the second half of 2004. Other than the Thorne Gazette, all
the acquisitions were completed in the second half of 2005
and therefore the acquisitions had no material impact on the
first half trading.
E Northwest 13%
F East Midlands 10%
G South Midlands 15%
H South 13%
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21
D
F
H Circulation revenues have increased by 5.7% with both
increased cover prices and the acquisitions contributing to
the growth. On a like-for-like basis newspaper sales revenues
were up by 1.8%, with cover price increases more than
offsetting modest declines in copy sales.
Contract print revenues grew by 9.3% with the contribution
from the acquired companies offsetting the revenues that
were lost from the closure of the Halifax Press and the
heatset press at Portsmouth. If the contract printing revenues
from the acquired businesses were excluded the decline for
52 weeks was 1.6%.
Other revenues grew primarily on the back of rapidly
growing internet based revenues where the new services of
CV Matching and Local Pages, along with good upselling of
recruitment adverts, were the key drivers.
Margins
With the lack of growth in revenues due to the challenging
advertising environment and increased newsprint prices,
the control of costs and increased business efficiencies
were key operational targets in the year. For the existing
businesses the operating margin on a like-for-like basis, 
as indicated on page 20, improved from 34.0% to 34.8%.
The acquired businesses had a collective margin of 30.6%
for the relevant periods of consolidation.
Non-Recurring Items
As has been the practice of the Group over many years,
costs or revenues that are material and out of the normal
course of operations are highlighted separately in the
columnar style Income Statement. These include costs of
redundancies following the restructuring of the Group’s
business or associated with the integration of an acquisition
and gains or losses on the disposal of fixed assets. In total
this year they amount to £4.3 million, which included the
write off of unamortized arrangement fees on the previous
bank facilities of £1.7 million, as these were replaced by
new facilities to finance the recent acquisitions, and are net
of the gain of £0.9 million on the disposal of surplus land in
Northampton.
Cash Flow/Net Borrowings
There were several significant cash outflows during the
year; these were a one-off payment of £15.0 million to the
defined benefit pension schemes as part of a new funding
package following the triennial valuation, an increase in
capital expenditure as a result of the press projects at
Sheffield and Portsmouth and £309 million being the
cumulative cost of the acquisitions made in the period.
Excluding the one-off payment to the pension scheme,
cash generated from operations increased by 1.5%. 
The Group’s net borrowings at 31 December 2005 were
£617 million compared to £328 million at the end of 2004,
as summarised in note 21.
This increase in net borrowings was made possible 
by new 5 year facilities put in place in August 2005 and
then subsequently extended to encompass the later
acquisitions. The new facilities are on a bilateral basis with
a smaller number of banks and replace the syndicated
facility negotiated in 2002 at the time of the acquisition 
of Regional Independent Media Holdings Limited. 
Financial Investments
With the acquisition of Score Press Limited, the Leinster
Leader Group and Local Press Limited, Johnston Press 
has for the first time an exposure to a currency other 
than Sterling. To provide a natural hedge and offset to the
majority of this exposure, the debt to finance the Leinster
Leader Group was drawn down in Euros. Other than this
the main financial risk that the Group faces is associated
with interest rates.
Financial Review
continued
Half year to 31 December Half year to 30 June
26 Weeks 26 Weeks
2005 2004 Increase 2005 2004 Increase
£m £m % £m £m %
Employment 40.7 53.3 (23.7) 56.2 63.9 (12.1)
Property 29.9 26.8 11.3 33.5 28.9 15.9
Motors 20.7 22.2 (6.7) 24.1 25.1 (3.9)
Other classified 31.8 29.8 7.0 32.1 30.8 4.1
Total classified 123.1 132.1 (6.8) 145.9 148.7 (1.9)
Display 52.9 55.2 (4.1) 55.2 55.5 (0.6)
Total advertising revenue 176.0 187.3 (6.0) 201.1 204.2 (1.5)
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 22
The advertising revenues on a like-for-like basis analysed into the 2 half years were: The Group’s policy, as it has been for a number of years, is
that borrowings should be arranged at the lowest possible
cost and with covenants within which it can comfortably
operate. The policy requires that a minimum of 50% of the
debt should be hedged against potential movements in
interest rates whilst the balance is kept under constant
review. At 31 December 2005, £250 million of the debt was
hedged or fixed for an average period of 3 years.
Additional hedge agreements were executed early in 2006
to ensure adherence with Group policy. These were a
combination of Sterling and Euro hedges.
At the end of each year the Directors review the carrying
value of the Group’s investments. The shares in Sunderland
AFC were disposed of during the year and the Group no
longer holds any significant listed investments. The
valuation of the unlisted investment in Mirago has, following
the Directors valuation, not changed.
Pension Funds/IAS 19
At 31 December 2005, following a change in the legislation
with regard to protected rights, the Group completed the
merger of the outstanding deferred and pensioner members
in the RIM pension scheme into the Johnston Press
Pension Plan.
The pension schemes’ triennial valuations were completed
during the year and the details are contained in note 23 of
this report. To address the deficit the Company, together
with the Pension Fund Trustees, have agreed a new funding
strategy which included a one-off contribution from the
Company of £15 million and increased employee and
employer contributions.
Over the year the IAS19 valuation has seen a decrease in
the deficit of around £16 million. This decrease has been as
a result of the one-off contribution noted above, strong
investment returns and increased monthly contributions
partially offset by the impact of a reduced discount rate
being applied to the scheme’s future liabilities.
The Group also carries provisions for unfunded ex-gratia
pension arrangements for certain former employees. 
This liability is subject to annual actuarial valuation and this
resulted in no change to the pension provision.
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS or IAS) 
The results for 2005 are the first we have prepared under
IFRS. Under the first time adoption procedures set out in
IFRS 1, the Group is required to establish its accounting
policies as at 1 January 2005 and apply these
retrospectively in the determination of prior period
comparatives from 1 January 2005. There are a number of
optional exemptions to that principle which are detailed in
note 1 to the financial statements on page 59.
The significant impacts of IFRS on the 2005 results are as
follows:
a) Under IAS 12 the recognition of a deferred tax liability
against the value of publishing titles acquired at 1
January 2005 and certain other assets. This liability
reflects the difference between the book value of these
assets and their tax written down value which is zero.
The Board cannot foresee any circumstance in which
this tax would become payable. Acquisitions made
since 1 January 2005 will also carry a goodwill valuation
equal and opposite to this notional deferred tax liability. 
The deferred tax liability recognised on 1 January 2005
was £284 million and this has increased by a further
£86 million as a consequence of the acquisitions in
2005.
b) Under IAS 19 the Group has recognised all actuarial
gains and losses in relation to employee benefit
schemes at the date of transition.
c) Under IFRS 2 the cost of the Group’s share based 
payment schemes in the year pre-tax was £1.3 million
(2004 - £1.1 million).
Share Incentive Plan
The share incentive plan introduced in January 2003
continued to operate in 2005 for all qualifying employees.
The plan provides for free shares for those employees
based on financial performance targets determined by the
Board. Based on the performance in 2005, shares to the
value of £0.8 million (2004 - £1.5 million) will be distributed
to participating employees based on their contracted hours
of employment.
Dividends and Earnings per Share
Earnings per share were 37.58p, marginally ahead of 2004,
despite the higher level of non-recurring items in 2005 and
the fact that 2004 included an additional week of trading.
As summarised on page 54, underlying earnings per share
increased from 37.77p to 38.62p, an increase of 2.3%.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 28
April 2006, the total dividend for the year will be 8.4p, an
increase of 16.7%. This level of increase will result in a
reduction in the level of dividend cover, which has grown
over recent years.
Stuart PATERSON
Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2006
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 24
Management Board
From left to right: Stuart Paterson Chief Financial Officer
Danny Cammiade Chief Operating Officer  Tim Bowdler Chief Executive Officer
Malcolm Vickers Director of Human Resources  Simon Kennedy Business
Development Manager  Richard Cooper Company Secretary.
Group Management
Board
From top left to right:
Stuart McPherson (retiring March 2006) - Scotland  Michael Johnston - Scotland 
Chris Green - North  Margaret Hilton - Northwest  Nick Mills - Midlands 
Gary Fearon - South  Jean Long - Northern Ireland  
Barry Brennan - Republic of Ireland  Henry Faure Walker - JP Ventures  
David Crow - Printing  Graham Gould - IT (retiring March 2006)
Roger Davies - IT (from April 2006)
Chris Pennock - Group Newspaper Sales and Marketing Director 
John Bradshaw - Digital Publishing
Divisional Managing
Directors Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25 Board of Directors
R G Parry
Non-Executive Chairman (52)
Joined the Board in 1997. 
Chairman of Nomination Committee. 
Non-Executive Chairman of Clear
International Limited, Future plc, Mobile
Streams plc. Chairman at
Shakespeare’s Globe Trust.
rparry@johnstonpress.co.uk
M A King
Non-Executive (45)
Joined the Board in 2003. 
Member of the Remuneration and Audit
Committees. Former Managing Director,
Country Operations Europe, at Yahoo!
UK Ltd, with extensive experience in the
media sector. Non-Executive Director of
Capita Group plc, IMD plc and Prince’s
Trust Trading Board.
mking@johnstonpress.co.uk
P E B Cawdron 
Non-Executive (62) 
Joined the Board in 1998.
Senior Independent Director. 
Chairman of Audit Committee. 
Member of Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. 
Former Group Strategy Development
Director of Grand Metropolitan PLC. 
Chairman of GCap Media plc and
Non-Executive Director of a number of
listed companies, including Compass
Group plc, Punch Taverns Plc and
Capita Group plc.
pcawdron@johnstonpress.co.uk
S J Waugh
Non-Executive (48) 
Joined the Board in 2003. 
Chairman of Remuneration Committee. 
Member of Audit Committee. 
Group Chief Executive of AWD plc.
Director of ISBA, Life Fellow of Marketing
Society and Institute of Direct Marketing.
swaugh@johnstonpress.co.uk
Lord Gordon of Strathblane, CBE 
Non-Executive (69)
Joined the Board in 1996. 
Member of Nomination Committee.
Former Chairman of Scottish Radio
Holdings plc. Non-Executive Director 
of Active Capital Trust plc. Former
Chairman of the Scottish Tourist Board
and a member of the Scottish
Development Agency.
jgordon@johnstonpress.co.uk
L F Hinton
Non-Executive (62) 
Joined the Board in 2005. 
Executive Chairman of News
International Ltd. Member of the News
Corporation Executive Committee.
Director of the Press Association in
Britain and Chairman of the Newspaper
and Magazine Publishing Industry’s
Code of Practice Committee.
lhinton@johnstonpress.co.uk
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 26 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27
T J Bowdler, BSc, MBA
Chief Executive Officer (58)
Joined the Board in 1994. 
Former Managing Director of Cape
Architectural & Building Products Ltd, 
a division of Cape plc. Non-Executive
Director of Associated British Ports
Holdings plc, The Miller Group Ltd and 
The Press Association Ltd. Chairman of
the Press Standards Board of Finance.
Former President of the Newspaper
Society.
tbowdler@johnstonpress.co.uk
F P M Johnston, CBE
Non-Executive (70) 
Joined the Board in 1959. 
Former Managing Director and
Chairman of the Group. Former 
Non-Executive Director of the Scottish
Mortgage Investment Trust plc and
Lloyds TSB Scotland plc. Former
President of the Newspaper Society.
fjohnston@johnstonpress.co.uk
S R Paterson, MA, CA 
Chief Financial Officer (48)
Joined the Board in 2001. 
Chartered Accountant.
Former Finance Director of Aggreko plc. 
Non-Executive Director of Mirago plc.
spaterson@johnstonpress.co.uk
H C M Johnston 
Non-Executive (59)
Joined the Board in 1971. 
Former Managing Director Johnston
(Falkirk) Ltd.
hjohnston@johnstonpress.co.uk
D Cammiade
Chief Operating Officer (45) 
Joined the Board in 2005. 
Joined the Group in 1992 through 
its acquisition of TR Beckett Ltd.
Appointed Managing Director of West
Sussex County Times Ltd in 1994 
and held various Divisional Managing
Director roles until appointed Director 
of Operations in 2001. 
dcammiade@johnstonpress.co.uk
P R Cooper, ACA
Company Secretary (49)
Appointed Company Secretary in 1996. 
Chartered Accountant. 
Former Finance Director of Yorkshire
Weekly Newspaper Group Limited. 
rcooper@johnstonpress.co.uk Group’s Newspaper Titles
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 28
Scotland Circulation
Johnston Falkirk
The Falkirk Herald Weekly 30,813
Falkirk, Linlithgow
& Grangemouth Advertiser Free 54,375
Cumbernauld News 
& Kilsyth Chronicle Weekly 12,679
Cumbernauld & Kilysth Advertiser Free 18,715
Kirkintilloch & Bishopbriggs Herald Weekly 11,898
Strathkelvin Advertiser Free 23,022
Linlithgowshire Journal & Gazette Weekly 8,753
Carluke & Lanark Gazette Weekly 12,260
Glasgow East News Free 7,749
Milngavie & Bearsden Herald Weekly 6,836
Motherwell Times & Bellshill Speaker Weekly 14,867
Strachan & Livingston
Fife Free Press Weekly 19,207
Fife Leader South Free 49,930
Fife Leader North Free 23,873
East Fife Mail Weekly 11,327
Glenrothes Gazette Weekly 6,177
Fife Herald & St Andrews Citizen Weekly 13,689
Kirkcaldy Herald Free 9,462
Tweeddale
Southern Reporter Weekly 18,881
Berwick Gazette Free 10,315
Berwick Advertiser Weekly 8,139
East Lothian Times, Peebles Times
Midlothian Times Free 50,363
Berwickshire News 
& East Lothian Herald Weekly 5,733
Hawick News 
& Scottish Border Chronicle Weekly 5,344
Selkirk Weekend Advertiser Weekly 1,853
Midlothian Advertiser Weekly 7,119
East Lothian News Series Weekly 3,916
Angus County Press
Brechin Advertiser Weekly 3,211
The Buteman Weekly 2,850
Deeside / Donside Piper 
& Inverurie Herald Weekly 9,784
Forfar Dispatch & Kirriemuir Herald Weekly 6,266
Kincardineshire Observer Weekly 1,145
Mearns Leader Weekly 4,750
Car Mart Free 14,500
Montrose Review Weekly 5,634
The Arbroath Herald Weekly 10,030
Galloway Gazette
Carrick Gazette Weekly 3,179
Galloway Gazette Weekly 6,589
Stornoway Gazette 
Stornoway Gazette 
& West Coast Advertiser Weekly 12,704
The Hebridean Weekly 2,836
The Scotsman Publications
Perth Herald & Post Free 22,439
Edinburgh Evening News Evening 59,937
Edinburgh Herald & Post Free 138,348
Fife Herald & Post Free 41,817
Scotland on Sunday Weekly 81,196
The Scotsman Morning 67,201
West Lothian Herald & Post Free 42,433
North Circulation
Northeast
Sunderland Echo Evening 45,783
Sunderland Star Free 32,484
Shields Gazette Evening 20,335
Washington Star Free 17,983
Seaham & Houghton Star Free 20,926
Peterlee Star Free 18,146
Hartlepool Mail Evening 20,199
Hartlepool Star Free 26,553
Northumberland Gazette Weekly 11,060
News Post Leader Free 72,237
North Shields 
& Whitley Bay News Guardian Free 59,710
South Tyne Star Free 26,814
Morpeth Herald Weekly 3,020
Yorkshire Post
Yorkshire Post Morning 54,730
Leeds Weekly News Free 128,490
Yorkshire Evening Post Evening 64,770
Wharfe Valley Times Free 42,283
The Yeller Weekly 5,321
Pudsey Times Free 22,195
Yorkshire Sport Weekly 7,189
Ackrill Newspapers
Harrogate Advertiser Weekly 17,417
Harrogate Herald Free 43,669
North Yorkshire News Free 31,546
Ripon Gazette Weekly 6,476
Wetherby News Weekly 5,894
Knaresborough Post Weekly 3,608
Pateley Bridge Times Weekly 1,976
Northallerton Times Weekly 705
The Halifax Courier
Halifax Evening Courier Evening 22,685
Calderdale News Free 28,560
Brighouse Echo Weekly 6,663
Todmorden News Weekly 4,360
Hebden Bridge Times Weekly 3,503
Yorkshire Weekly Newspaper Group
Wakefield Express Weekly 33,149
The Weekly Advertiser Free 40,926
Pontefract & Castleford Express Weekly 24,417
Wakefield Extra Series Free 49,322
(inc. Rothwell and Oulton Extra)
Hemsworth & South Elmsall Express Free 16,397
Selby Times Weekly 9,628
Pontefract  & Castleford Extra Free 33,035
Dewsbury Reporter Weekly 13,160
Selby Chronicle Free 13,237
Batley News Weekly 9,394
Morley Observer & Advertiser Weekly 5,068
Ossett & Horbury Observer Free 11,796
Spenborough Guardian Weekly 8,197
Yorkshire Regional Newpapers
Scarborough Evening News Evening 14,689
Malton & Pickering Mercury Weekly 3,251
Filey Mercury Weekly 2,910
Whitby Gazette Weekly 18,271
Beverley Guardian Free 19,342
Bridlington Gazette & Herald Free 15,088
Trader & Weekly News Free 34,051
Bridlington Free Press Weekly 15,384 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29
Driffield Times Weekly 5,278
Driffield Post Weekly 4,771
Pocklington Post Weekly 4,354
Sheffield Newspapers
Sheffield Weekly Gazette Free 108,231
Sheffield & Doncaster Star Evening 65,020
Angling Star Weekly 9,851
Sheffield Telegraph Weekly 24,166
Sheffield Journal Free 60,094
Wilfred Edmunds
Chesterfield Express Free 37,920
Derbyshire Times Weekly 42,290
Buxton Advertiser Weekly 13,544
Ripley & Heanor News Weekly 11,555
Eastwood & Kimberley Advertiser Weekly 4,395
Chesterfield Advertiser Free 55,941
Alfreton & Ripley Echo Free 13,493
Dronfield Advertiser Free 10,294
Bolsover Advertiser Free 11,468
High Peak Courier Free 22,521
Ilkeston Shopper Free 14,985
Eastwood Shopper Free 11,316
Belper News Weekly 4,380
Ilkeston Advertiser Weekly 8,931
Matlock Mercury Weekly 8,510
Peak Times Free 13,474
Eckington Leader Free 21,809
Buxton Times Free 5,551
North Notts Newspapers
Hucknall Dispatch Weekly 8,881
Worksop Guardian Weekly 15,563
Mansfield Chad Weekly 35,026
Mansfield & Ashfield Observer Free 61,076
Alfreton Chad Free 17,801
Ashfield Chad Weekly 13,441
Dinnington Guardian Free 2,561
Worksop Trader Free 29,491
Retford & Bantry Trader Guardian Free 22,695
Dinnington & Maltby Trader Free 21,190
South Yorkshire Newspapers
Doncaster Free Press Weekly 36,079
Doncaster Advertiser Series
(Including Deane Advertiser) Free 87,624
South Yorkshire Times Weekly 6,445
Goole, Thorne & Howden Courier Free 17,017
Epworth Bells Weekly 2,910
Gainsborough Standard Weekly 4,107
Gainsborough News Free 14,543
Thorne Gazette Free 15,945
Entertainer Free 9,765
Northwest Circulation
Lancashire Evening Post
Lancashire Evening Post Evening 35,768
Wigan Evening Post Evening 10,166
Chorley Guardian Weekly 13,997
Preston & Leyland Reporter Free 67,163
Garstang Courier Weekly 5,065
Longridge News Weekly 3,435
Lancashire Publications
St Helens, Prescot 
& Knowsley Reporter Free 79,007
Wigan Reporter & Property Scene Free 61,950
Leigh Reporter Free 61,354
Wigan Observer Weekly 18,248
Ashton News Free 15,876
Standish Village News Free 9,603
Blackpool Gazette & Herald
The Blackpool Gazette Evening 32,294
The Blackpool Reporter Free 64,245
Lytham St Annes Express Weekly 9,886
Fleetwood Weekly News Weekly 6,128
Lancaster & Morecambe Newspapers
Lakeland Echo Free 15,000
The Reporter Free 46,543
Lancaster Guardian Weekly 17,497
Morecambe Visitor Series Weekly 14,360
Trials and Motorcross News Weekly 22,453
Dirtbike Rider Magazine 15,829
East Lancashire Newspapers
Burnley Express Weekly 32,800
Clitheroe Advertiser & Times Weekly 9,756
Nelson Leader Series Weekly 16,234
The Reporter Free 65,051
The Valley Magazine 9,825
Isle of Man Newspapers
Isle of Man Courier Free 35,871
Isle of Man Examiner Weekly 14,387
Manx Independent Weekly 12,853
Best Asian Media
Asian Leader Fortnightly 23,750
Midlands Circulation
East Midlands Newspapers 
Peterborough Evening Telegraph Evening 21,642
Peterborough Citizen Free 57,581
Peterborough on Sunday Free 6,830
Town Crier West Cambridgeshire Free 47,578
Fenland Citizen Free 41,127
Lynn News Weekly 51,694
Norfolk Citizen Free 39,796
Welland Valley Newspapers
Stamford Mercury Weekly 21,639
Spalding Guardian Weekly 15,712
Lincs Free Press Weekly 19,339
Harborough Mail Weekly 13,120
Melton Times Weekly 13,842
Grantham Journal Weekly 21,461
Rutland Times Weekly 1,500
Bourne Local Weekly 1,500
Stamford Citizen Free 12,381
Melton Citizen Free 9,528
Grantham Citizen Free 14,913
Lincolnshire Newspapers
Lincoln Chronicle Free 43,954
Boston Standard Weekly 12,871
Louth Leader Weekly 10,845
Sleaford Standard Weekly 4,579
Skegness Standard Weekly 11,593
Market Rasen Mail Weekly 4,648
Horncastle News Weekly 5,855
Lincolnshire Citizen Free 52,154 Group’s Newspaper Titles
continued
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 30
Circulation
Anglia Newspapers
Bury Free Press Weekly 29,166
Suffolk Free Press Weekly 9,911
Diss Express Weekly 8,819
Bury Citizen Free 25,968
Newmarket Journal Weekly 11,181
Haverhill Echo Weekly 5,492
Northampton Newspapers
Chronicle & Echo Evening 23,235
Northants Evening Telegraph Evening 25,755
Northants Citizen Free 44,957
Northants Mercury Free 49,849
Northants on Sunday Free 68,152
Premier Newspapers
Milton Keynes Citizen Free 100,459
Milton Keynes Review Free 10,550
Leighton Buzzard Citizen Free 15,289
Leighton Buzzard Observer Weekly 7,638
Tuesday Citizen Free 89,543
Luton Herald & Post Free 96,518
Luton News & Dunstable Gazette Weekly 15,666
Bedfordshire Times & Citizen Free 82,832
Biggleswade Chronicle Weekly 10,712
Central Counties Newspapers
Bucks Herald Weekly 20,481
Buckingham & Winslow Advertiser Weekly 10,517
Hemel Gazette Weekly 15,545
Bucks Advertiser Free 40,227
Bicester Review Free 9,604
Hemel Herald Express Free 54,699
Heart of England Newspapers
Banbury Citizen Free 34,155
Leamington Review Free 42,003
Rugby Review Free 38,818
Banbury Guardian Weekly 18,775
Rugby Advertiser Weekly 12,519
Daventry Express Weekly 9,623
Leamington Courier Series Weekly 19,580
South Circulation
Portsmouth Publishing & Printing
The Portsmouth News Evening 57,740
Bognor Regis Guardian Series Free 36,592
Chichester, Bognor Regis and 
Midhurst & Petworth Observer Weekly 36,940
Ems Valley Gazette Free 4,342
Hayling Islander Free 12,400
Portsmouth Journal Series Free 137,759
Petersfield & Bordon Post Weekly 8,044
West Sussex Gazette Weekly 10,017
Worthing Advertiser Free 73,493
Shoreham Herald Weekly 4,175
Worthing Guardian Free 41,555
Littlehampton Gazette Weekly 9,765
Worthing Herald Weekly 18,138
T.R. Beckett
Hastings Observer Weekly 22,052
Bexhill Observer Weekly 9,760
Rye & Battle Observer Weekly 6,405
Eastbourne Herald Weekly 26,322
Circulation
Eastbourne Gazette Weekly 12,226
(Including Hailsham and Seaford Gazettes)
Hastings & Bexhill News Free 47,902
Eastbourne Advertiser Free 46,743
Sussex Newspapers
West Sussex County Times Weekly 23,542
Mid Sussex Times Weekly 13,263
Crawley Observer Weekly 9,258
Horsham Advertiser Free 20,844
Mid Sussex Citizen Free 26,057
Weekend Herald Free 38,521
Sussex Express Weekly 15,614
Northern Ireland Circulation
Mortons Newspapers
Portadown Times Weekly 10,717
Lurgan Mail Weekly 8,585
Dromore Leader Weekly 1,980
Banbridge Leader Weekly 1,841
Ulster Star Weekly 10,878
Mid-Ulster Mail Weekly 11,637
Tyrone Times Weekly 3,655
Ballymena Times Weekly 4,903
Larne Times Weekly 11,291
Londonderry Sentinel Weekly 5,270
Coleraine Times Series Weekly 7,694
Craigavon Echo Free 18,310
Lisburn Echo Free 23,544
Mid-Ulster Echo Free 11,416
East Antrim Advertiser Free 18,582
North West Echo Free 31,942
Farm Week Magazine 11,879
Century Newspapers
Belfast News Letter Morning 28,616
Belfast News Free 50,512
Derry Journal
Derry Journal Weekly 44,069
Foyle News Weekly 2,668
Coleraine Journal Weekly 773
Sunday Journal Weekly 6,311
City News Free 33,718
Republic of Ireland Circulation
Leinster Leader Group
Leinster Leader Weekly 14,600
Leinster Express Weekly 11,800
Offaly Express Weekly 3,000
Dundalk Democrat Weekly 7,000
Limerick Leader Weekly 45,000
Tallaght Echo Weekly 11,200
Longford Leader Weekly 9,635
Leitrim Observer Weekly 9,500
Kilkenny People Publishing
Kilkenny People Weekly 18,160
Nationalist & Munster Advertiser Weekly 14,838
Tipperary Star Weekly 9,463
Donegal Democrat
Donegal Democrat Weekly 27,106
Donegal on Sunday Weekly 6,529
Letterkenny People Free 5,000 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31
Websites by Division
Johnston Newspapers (Scotland)
www.arbroathtoday.co.uk
www.bellshilltoday.co.uk
www.berwicktoday.co.uk
www.berwickshiretoday.co.uk
www.bonesstoday.co.uk
www.borderstoday.co.uk
www.borderlifetoday.co.uk
www.brechintoday.co.uk
www.butemantoday.co.uk
www.carluketoday.co.uk
www.carnoustietoday.co.uk
www.carnoustietoday.co.uk
www.carricktoday.co.uk
www.cumbernauldtoday.co.uk
www.deesidetoday.co.uk
www.deesidetoday.co.uk
www.donsidetoday.co.uk
www.dundalktoday.com
www.eastlothiantoday.co.uk
www.falkirktoday.co.uk
www.fifetoday.co.uk
www.forfartoday.co.uk
www.gallowaytoday.co.uk
www.hawicktoday.co.uk
www.inverurietoday.co.uk
www.isleofbutetoday.co.uk
www.isleoflewistoday.co.uk
www.kilsythtoday.co.uk
www.kincardineshiretoday.co.uk
www.kirkintillochtoday.co.uk
www.kirriemuirtoday.co.uk
www.lanarktoday.co.uk
www.linlithgowtoday.co.uk
www.mearnstoday.co.uk
www.midlothiantoday.co.uk
www.milngavietoday.co.uk
www.montrosetoday.co.uk
www.motherwelltoday.co.uk
www.queensferrytoday.co.uk
www.selkirktoday.co.uk
www.stornowaytoday.co.uk
www.westernislestoday.co.uk
www.scotsman.com
www.edinburghnews.com
Johnston Newspapers (North)
www.ashfieldtoday.co.uk
www.bakewelltoday.co.uk
www.barnsleytoday.co.uk
www.batleytoday.co.uk
www.belpertoday.co.uk
www.beverleytoday.co.uk
www.birstalltoday.co.uk
www.blythandwansbecktoday.co.uk
www.brackleyandtowcestertoday.co.uk
www.bridlingtontoday.co.uk
www.brighousetoday.co.uk
www.burnistontoday.co.uk
www.buxtontoday.co.uk
www.chesterfieldtoday.co.uk
www.cloughtontoday.co.uk
www.dearnetoday.co.uk
www.dewsburytoday.co.uk
www.dinningtontoday.co.uk
www.doncastertoday.co.uk
www.driffieldtoday.co.uk
www.eastfieldtoday.co.uk
www.eastwoodtoday.co.uk
www.eskvalleytoday.co.uk
www.farminginyorkshire.co.uk
www.fileytoday.co.uk
www.flamboroughtoday.co.uk
www.gooletoday.co.uk
www.halifaxtoday.co.uk
www.harrogatetoday.co.uk
www.hartlepooltoday.co.uk
www.hebdenbridgetoday.co.uk
www.helmsleytoday.co.uk
www.hemsworthandsouthelmsalltoday.co.uk
www.hucknalltoday.co.uk
www.hunmanbytoday.co.uk
www.huttoncranswicktoday.co.uk
www.Ilkestontoday.co.uk
www.kirkbymoorsidetoday.co.uk
www.knaresboroughtoday.co.uk
www.lancastertoday.co.uk
www.leedstoday.net
www.levenandbrandesburtontoday.co.uk
www.roundhaytoday.co.uk
www.locallifetoday.co.uk
www.maltontoday.co.uk
www.mansfieldtoday.co.uk
www.marketweightontoday.net
www.matlocktoday.co.uk
www.mirfieldtoday.co.uk
www.morecambetoday.co.uk
www.morleytoday.co.uk
www.morpethtoday.co.uk
www.naffertontoday.co.uk
www.nidderdaletoday.co.uk
www.northallertontoday.co.uk
www.northtynesidetoday.co.uk
www.northumberlandtoday.co.uk
www.nortontoday.co.uk
www.ollertontoday.co.uk
www.peterleetoday.co.uk
www.pickeringtoday.co.uk
www.pocklingtontoday.co.uk
www.pontefractandcastlefordtoday.co.uk
www.retfordtoday.co.uk
www.ripleytoday.co.uk
www.ripontoday.co.uk
www.robinhoodsbaytoday.co.uk
www.roevalleytoday.co.uk
www.rotherhamtoday.co.uk
www.roundhaytoday.co.uk
www.scarboroughtoday.co.uk
www.selbytoday.co.uk
www.sheffieldtoday.co.uk
www.shoestyleuk.com
www.sleightstoday.co.uk
www.southtynesidetoday.co.uk
www.spenboroughtoday.co.uk
www.staithesandhinderwelltoday.co.uk
www.stamfordbridgetoday.co.uk
www.sunderlandtoday.co.uk
www.thornetoday.co.uk
www.thornton-le-daletoday.co.uk
www.todmordentoday.co.uk
www.todmordentoday.co.uk
www.wakefieldtoday.co.uk
www.wetherbytoday.co.uk
www.whitbytoday.co.uk
www.worksoptoday.co.uk
www.yellerfreeads.co.uk
www.yorkshireeducationtoday.co.uk
www.yorkshirerugbyleague.co.uk
www.yorkshirejobstoday.co.uk
www.yorkshireschoolsports.com
www.yorkshiretoday.co.uk
Johnston Newspapers (North West)
www.blackpooltoday.co.uk
www.burnleytoday.co.uk
www.chorleytoday.co.uk
www.clitheroetoday.co.uk
www.fleetwoodtoday.co.uk
www.garstangtoday.co.uk
www.gotoblackpooltoday.co.uk
www.iomtoday.co.uk
www.lakelandtoday.co.uk
www.leightoday.co.uk
www.leylandtoday.co.uk
www.longridgetoday.co.uk
www.lythamtoday.co.uk
www.pendletoday.co.uk
www.prestontoday.co.uk
www.sthelenstoday.co.uk
www.wigantoday.net
www.lancastertoday.co.uk
www.morecambetoday.co.uk Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 32
Johston Newspapers (Midlands)
www.aylesburytoday.co.uk
www.banburytoday.co.uk
www.buckinghamtoday.co.uk
www.bedfordtoday.co.uk
www.bicestertoday.co.uk
www.biggleswadetoday.co.uk
www.bostontoday.co.uk
www.bournetoday.co.uk
www.brackleyandtowcestertoday.co.uk
www.burytoday.co.uk
www.corbytoday.co.uk
www.daventrytoday.co.uk
www.disstoday.co.uk
www.dunstabletoday.co.uk
www.fenlandtoday.co.uk
www.gainsboroughtoday.co.uk
www.granthamtoday.co.uk
www.harboroughtoday.co.uk
www.haverhilltoday.co.uk
www.hemeltoday.co.uk
www.horncastletoday.co.uk
www.huntingdontoday.co.uk
www.kenilworthtoday.co.uk
www.ketteringtoday.co.uk
www.kingslynntoday.co.uk
www.leamingtontoday.co.uk
www.leightonbuzzardtoday.co.uk
www.lincolntoday.co.uk
www.louthtoday.co.uk
www.lutontoday.co.uk
www.marketrasentoday.co.uk
www.meltontoday.co.uk
www.miltonkeynestoday.co.uk
www.moretonhalltoday.co.uk
www.newmarkettoday.co.uk
www.northamptontoday.co.uk
www.northantsnews.com
www.peterboroughtoday.co.uk
www.pilgrimstoday.co.uk
www.rugbytoday.co.uk
www.rushdentoday.co.uk
www.rutlandtoday.co.uk
www.skegnesstoday.co.uk
www.sleafordtoday.co.uk
www.spaldingtoday.co.uk
www.stivestoday.co.uk
www.stneotstoday.co.uk
www.stamfordtoday.co.uk
www.stowmarkettoday.co.uk
www.sudburytoday.co.uk
www.thametoday.co.uk
www.towncriertoday.co.uk
www.unique-today.co.uk
www.warwicktoday.co.uk
www.wellingboroughtoday.co.uk
Johnston Newspapers (South)
www.bexhilltoday.co.uk
www.bognortoday.co.uk
www.chichestertoday.co.uk
www.crawleytoday.co.uk
www.eastbournetoday.co.uk
www.hailshamtoday.co.uk
www.hastingstoday.co.uk
www.haylingIslandtoday.co.uk
www.heathfieldtoday.co.uk
www.hornseatoday.co.uk
www.horshamtoday.co.uk
www.lewestoday.co.uk
www.littlehamptontoday.co.uk
www.midhusrtandpetwrothtoday.co.uk
www.midsussextoday.co.uk
www.newhaventoday.co.uk
www.petersfieldtoday.co.uk
www.portsmouthtoday.co.uk
www.ryeandbattletoday.co.uk
www.seafordtoday.co.uk
www.shorehamtoday.co.uk
www.thepompeypages.co.uk
www.uckfieldtoday.co.uk
www.westsussextoday.co.uk
www.worthingtoday.co.uk
Johnston Newspapers (Northern Ireland)
www.antrimtoday.co.uk
www.ballymenatoday.co.uk
www.ballymoneytoday.co.uk
www.banbridgetoday.co.uk
www.belfasttoday.net
www.carrickfergustoday.co.uk
www.colerainetoday.co.uk
www.derrytoday.co.uk
www.donegaltoday.com   
www.dromoretoday.co.uk
www.letterkennytoday.com   
www.lisburntoday.co.uk
www.londonderrytoday.co.uk
www.lurgantoday.co.uk
www.midulstertoday.co.uk
www.newtownabbeytoday.co.uk
www.portadowntoday.co.uk
Johnston Newspapers
(Republic of Ireland)
www.countyleitrimtoday.ie
www.dundalktoday.com
www.motorstoday.ie
www.jobstoday.ie
www.kildaretoday.ie
www.kilkennytoday.ie
www.laoistoday.ie
www.limericktoday.ie
www.longfordtoday.ie
www.offalytoday.ie
www.southdublintoday.ie
www.tipperarytoday.ie
JP Ventures
www.dirtbikerider.co.uk
www.tmxnews.co.uk
www.daysoutuk.com
www.outboundpublishing.com
www.trialsworld.co.uk
www.letterboxdirect.co.uk
Central Sites
www.autofinder.co.uk
www.bereavementtoday.co.uk
www.equestriantoday.co.uk
www.farmweektoday.co.uk
www.free-adstoday.co.uk
www.johnstonprinting.co.uk
www.johnstonpress.co.uk
www.local-community.co.uk
www.localpagestoday.co.uk
www.lot24-7.co.uk
www.motorstoday.co.uk
www.photostoday.co.uk
www.studentstoday.co.uk
www.propertytoday.co.uk
www.jobstoday.co.uk
www.cvmatch.net
Websites by Division
continued Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33
Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to the
principles of Corporate Governance
contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance which is appended
to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority and for which the
Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of Compliance with 
The Code of Best Practice 
The Company has complied throughout
the year with the Provisions of The Code
set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council in 
July 2003. The Board believes it is 
already compliant with the Revised
Turnbull Guidance which is due to be
effective from 1 January 2006.
Statement of Application of The
Principles of Good Governance
The Company has applied The Principles
of Good Governance set out in Section 1
of the Combined Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles
have been applied is set out below and, in
connection with directors’ remuneration, in
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Board Effectiveness
The Board considers that it has shown its
commitment to leading and controlling the
Company by meeting nine times in the
year, but can meet when necessary for any
matters which may arise. The
Remuneration Committee met on six
occasions, the Audit Committee three times
and the Nomination Committee twice.
The Board sets the strategic aims and
objectives of the Group, ensuring that the
Group has sufficient financial and human
resources to meet its objectives. The Board
also sets the Group’s values and standards
and ensures that its obligations to its
shareholders and others are understood
and met. Management are responsible for
the application of the aims and objectives
on a day-to-day basis, monitoring the
financial achievements of the business. The
Board reviews the performance of
management in meeting the agreed
objectives and goals, plans the succession
of key executives, and determines
appropriate remuneration levels. 
At least one Board meeting each year is
wholly devoted to strategy and to the
consideration of a plan for the long term
growth and development of the Group.
This is reviewed and discussed as
appropriate at the other Board meetings
held during the year.
In addition to the normal agenda at Board
meetings, which is described below, the
directors consider one operational or
special topic at each meeting. During the
last twelve months this has included
circulation of daily newspapers, future
printing press requirements, editorial
policy, national sales, digital publishing
and human resource trends and issues.
Board Meeting Agenda
The Board receives a formal schedule of
matters specifically reserved to it for
decision, such as future strategy,
acquisitions and disposals, dividend
policy, approval of the Annual Report 
and Accounts, capital expenditure, trading
and capital budgets and Group borrowing
facilities. The Board considers monthly
reports from the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating
Officer and Minutes of the Board are
circulated to all Board members. It has also
made the Company Secretary responsible
to the Board for the timeliness and quality
of information.
Board Responsibilities
The Board acknowledges the division of
responsibilities for running the Board and
managing the Company’s business with
Mr R G Parry as Non-Executive Chairman,
Mr P E B Cawdron as Senior Independent
Director and Mr T J Bowdler as the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer. 
Mr P E B Cawdron is available to address
any concerns that shareholders may have,
which have not been resolved through the
normal communication channels of the
Chairman or Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee is Mr S J Waugh. He
succeeded Lord Gordon of Strathblane
who stepped down as Chairman at the
Annual General Meeting in April 2005. With
regard to the Audit and Nomination
Committees, these are chaired by 
Mr P E B Cawdron, who is a chartered
accountant, and Mr R G Parry respectively.
Board Attendance
During 2005, every director attended all
meetings with the exception that Mr H C
M Johnston was unable to attend the
January and June meetings, Mr S J
Waugh the January meeting and Lord
Gordon of Strathblane the April meeting.
In advance of the formal Board meeting in
September, led by the Senior Independent
Director, the Non-Executive Directors met
and, as part of the agenda of that
meeting, appraised the performance of the
Chairman. The Board has also met during
the year without the Executive Directors
being present.
The meetings of the Remuneration, Audit
and Nomination Committees were
attended by all members either personally
or by telephone other than Mrs M A King
who was unable to attend one
Remuneration Committee meeting.
Board Balance
Of the Company’s current eleven
Directors, three are Executive and the
remainder Non-Executive, of whom five
are regarded as independent, excluding
the Chairman. 
Other than the Chairman, those who are
regarded as non-independent are Mr F P
M Johnston and Mr H C M Johnston, who
have significant shareholdings in the
Company and have previously served the
Group in an executive role. It is the view of
the Board that such circumstances do not
lessen the value of the contributions made
by these two Non-Executive Directors.
The Board determines that Lord Gordon
of Strathblane is independent despite
serving on the Board for more than nine
years. He is highly respected for his
wealth of media experience and his
totally impartial and professional
approach to his role. He plans to retire
from the Board at the 2007 Annual
General Meeting when he will be 70.
Mr R G Parry will have served nine years
on the Board in September 2006. The
board are unanimously of the view that he
should continue to serve as a Director and
Chairman. The recent Board evaluation
process concluded that Mr R G Parry has
all the appropriate skills and credentials to
continue to lead the Company as Chairman.
At least half the Board, excluding the
Chairman, comprises Non-Executive
Directors determined by the Board to be
independent. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 34
Corporate Governance
continued
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired 
by Mr R G Parry, and also comprises 
Mr P E B Cawdron, Lord Gordon of
Strathblane and Mr L F Hinton. Reporting
to the Board, its duty is to seek suitably
skilled and experienced candidates, with
sufficient time to devote to the role, as
Non-Executive Directors and to oversee all
Board appointments. Once the role of a
vacancy has been determined, the
Committee appoints external recruitment
consultants to assist with the search.
The terms of reference of the Committee
are displayed on the Company’s website
in the Investor Relations section.
During the early part of 2005, the
appointment of two new Directors was
overseen by the Committee. This followed
its own deliberations and feedback from
the Board Evaluation process in 2004. 
Mr L F Hinton was appointed as a Non-
Executive Director on 16 March 2005. 
He has an immense knowledge of the
publishing sector as Chairman of News
International Ltd. This appointment filled
the sector experience gap that was
highlighted in the Board Evaluation
process last year following the retirement
of Sir Harry Roche in June 2004. Also on
16 March 2005, Mr D Cammiade was
appointed as an Executive Director in the
role of Chief Operating Officer. He has
worked for the Group for many years and
has extensive operational experience from
a variety of senior roles in the Group.
The Committee is currently considering a
replacement for Lord Gordon of
Strathblane who retires from the Board in
April 2007. Again, the Board Evaluation
process in 2005 highlighted the
unanimous view of the Board that Lord
Gordon should be replaced on his
retirement. The Committee is currently
preparing a detailed brief and will start the
recruitment in the near future. It is planned
that there will be an overlap period to
ensure a smooth and efficient handover.
Other areas that the Committee is
reviewing is the position of Mr P E B
Cawdron, who will have completed 9
years service in 2007. The unanimous
view of the Board is that his experience
and professional knowledge is invaluable
to the Board, and that he continues to be
independent. In addition, the Committee is
beginning to consider the question of
succession for the Chief Executive Officer
who is due to retire in 2009.
Information and Professional
Development
The Chairman arranged a detailed
induction process for the two new
Directors, including meetings and
discussions with advisers and senior
management where appropriate, together
with the preparation of a full induction
pack and external courses. A similar
process will be undertaken when a new
Non-Executive Director is appointed.
All Board members have access to
independent advice on any matters
relating to their responsibilities as directors
and as members of the various
Committees of the Board. The Company
Secretary is available to all directors and
he is responsible for ensuring that all
Board procedures are complied with.
Board Performance Evaluation
During the last year, the Board has
conducted a rigorous evaluation of its own
performance. This involved the completion
of an assessment questionnaire by all
directors covering the performance of the
Board, individual directors, the Company
Secretary and Board Committees. Other
topics included all meetings, the provision
of information, training and the overall
effectiveness of the Board. There was a
particular emphasis this year on a scoring
system for assessing individual, Committee
and Board performance together with a
focus on the future strategy of the Group
especially in the area of digital publishing.
The questionnaires were submitted to the
Company Secretary who prepared a
summary of the conclusions which was
presented to the Board meeting in January
2006. Separately, the Secretary produced a
report summarising any individual
recommendations for the consideration of
the Chairman. This was followed up by
meetings as appropriate with individual
directors.
Training is undertaken as required during
the year. The feedback from the recent
questionnaires will assist in the training
plan for the forthcoming year. The Board
arranges for its Non-Executive Directors to
visit the Group’s principal locations at
certain intervals to discuss the operations
with local management. In addition, at
least one Board meeting is held at one of
the Group’s centres where the Board
receives a presentation from the local
Managing Director and a tour of the
business. Individual directors attend a
range of seminars presented by
professionals throughout the year.
Board Re-election
It is the policy of the Board that all
directors are subject to re-election at the
first Annual General Meeting after their
appointment and thereafter every three
years. All independent directors who have
served nine years or more retire annually.
The Chairman has, following the formal
evaluation process described above,
considered the performance of the
directors subject to re-election at the 2006
Annual General Meeting and is satisfied
that the individuals’ performance
continues to be effective and that they
have demonstrated a clear commitment to
the role.
Financial Reporting
The Board has shown its commitment to
presenting appropriate information about
the Company’s financial position by
complying with the 2006 reporting
standards issued by the International and
UK Accounting Standards Board relating
to the disclosures which are included in
this Annual Report. 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report and the financial
statements. The Directors are required to
prepare financial statements for the group
in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS). Company law
requires the Directors to prepare such
financial statements in accordance with
IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article
4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1
requires that financial statements present
fairly, for each financial year, the
Company’s financial position, financial
performance and cash flows. This requires
the faithful representation of the effects of
transactions, other events and conditions
in accordance with the definitions and
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities,
income and expenses set out in the
International Accounting Standards
Boards ‘Framework for the Preparation Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35
and Presentation of Financial Statements’.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair
presentation will be achieved by
compliance with all applicable
International Financial Reporting
Standards. Directors are also required to:
• Properly select and apply accounting
policies;
• Present information, including
accounting policies, in a manner that
provides relevant, reliable, comparable
and understandable information; and
• Provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the specific
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to
enable users to understand the impact
of particular transactions, other events
and conditions on the entity’s financial
position and financial performance. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the company, for
safeguarding the assets, for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other regularities
and for the preparation of a Directors’
Report and Directors’ Remuneration
Report which comply with the
requirements of the Companies Act 1985. 
The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the company
website. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have
formed a judgement, at the time of
approving the financial statements, that
there is a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis
in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control
The Directors are responsible for the
Group’s system of internal control and for
regularly reviewing its effectiveness. Such
a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. 
The system of internal control has been
designed to meet the Group’s particular
needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
There is an ongoing continuous process 
of identifying, evaluating and managing
the significant risks faced by the Group,
which has been in place throughout the
year under review and up to the date of
approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts. This process is well
documented and regularly reviewed by the
Board. The key elements of the process
during the period under review have been:
• Formal Board reporting on a monthly
basis by the Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Operating Officer on the Group’s
performance and on any emerging risks
and issues. The monthly management
accounts break down the results of 
the Group’s operations by individual
business performance and all significant
variations against budget and the
previous year are fully examined. The
day-to-day responsibility for managing
each of the Group’s operations rests
with local experienced Senior
Executives and the Group has a clear
organisational structure which includes
appropriate delegation of authority. The
Executive Directors ensure that regular
contact is maintained with all Senior
Executives. The Group Management
Board, comprising the Executive
Directors, the Company Secretary, the
Director of Human Resources and the
Business Development Manager, meets
every month to review financial and
operational issues as well as the risks
facing the Group.
• Formal Board approval for capital
expenditure over £250K and for other
investment decisions. Approval was
granted for all acquisitions and
disposals submitted.
• Formal Board approval of the annual
budget for the forthcoming financial
year. This includes detailed and
comprehensive budgets, covering each
operating business.
• Review by the Audit Committee on a
six-monthly basis of the work performed
by the Internal Financial Control
Committee (IFCC) based on a
programme of work agreed in advance.
The IFCC is chaired by the Company
Secretary who is responsible for the
conduct of control reviews in selected
locations by members of the Committee
who are independent of the location
visited. The IFCC is also responsible for
the review of detailed financial control
checklists submitted by each operation
to head office monthly. This work is
strongly supported by the Group’s
financial accounting centre which
ensures a consistent and compliant
approach to the processing of
transactions and ensures a uniform
control process across the Group’s
operations.
• Review by the Audit Committee of the
conclusions of the Group’s external
auditors in their annual audit and review
of the half-year results. These reviews
include discussion of any control
weaknesses or issues identified by 
the auditors.
• The conduct of risk assessment
involving all senior managers of the
Group’s businesses in addition to the
Executive Directors. A risk matrix is
reviewed on a regular basis both in the
local operations and by the Group
Management Board. One risk is
discussed at every monthly executive
meeting both locally and at Group level.
The results of these assessments are
summarised and reported to the entire
Board. These risk assessment sessions
will continue at each operation and will
evaluate and address the risks identified.
During 2005, the Group Management
Board has focused particularly on job
and property advertising trends; an
economic downturn; disaster recovery
plans; management succession; digital
strategy; health and safety audits; and
circulation trends.
Steps are being taken to embed internal
control and risk management further into
the operations of the business and to deal
with areas of improvement which come to
management’s and the Board’s attention.
In addition, the Group Management Board
has the ongoing responsibility to set
policies, procedures and standards as
detailed in the Group’s policy guidelines,
which have been updated as appropriate Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 36
Corporate Governance
continued
during the year. The guidelines include
policies on:
• Finance
• Cash/treasury controls
• Trading
• Customer service
• Commercial and competition
• Technology
• Property management
• Human resources including pension
administration, disability and health 
and safety 
• Environmental issues and energy
management
• Legal and regulatory compliance
• Business continuity.
Throughout the year, the Board considers
the means by which it monitors internal
controls. It is satisfied with its process for
monitoring internal controls and that this
process complies with the
recommendations of the Internal Control
Guidance for Directors in the Combined
Code and the Revised Turnbull Guidance
effective 1 January 2006.
During the course of its review of the
system of internal control, the Board has
not identified, nor been advised of, any
failings or weaknesses which it has
determined to be significant. Therefore, 
a confirmation in respect of necessary
actions, as envisaged by the Revised
Turnbull Guidance, has not been
considered appropriate. 
The Directors at the Board meeting on 
27 January 2006 reviewed the need for an
internal audit department and concluded
that they did not believe it necessary for
the Group to maintain such a department,
given the very effective role played by the
IFCC and the current independent review
and monitoring procedures in operation.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired 
by Mr P E B Cawdron, a chartered
accountant, and also includes 
Mrs M A King and Mr S J Waugh. All are
independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee has written terms of
reference that outline its authority and
duties. This is displayed on the
Company’s website in the Investor
Relations section. The terms include a
review of the arrangements by which staff
may, in confidence, raise concerns about
possible improprieties in matters of
financial reporting or other areas.
The Committee meets once during the
year with the Company’s external auditors
to discuss and agree the audit programme
for the forthcoming year, together with any
proposed non-audit work. The planning
meeting in 2005 considered in detail the
audit implications of the implementation of
International Financial Reporting
Standards and also the new international
auditing standards.
The two other meetings follow the interim
financial review and the year-end audit.
They cover a comprehensive report from
the external auditors on their work and
their conclusions. The Committee focuses
in particular on the areas of financial
judgement by the Group. It also reviews
the summary of the Group’s key business
risks and discusses any revisions. The
Committee is actively involved in the
ongoing review of internal controls by the
main Board. 
In addition, these two meetings consider a
report on the work of the Internal Financial
Control Committee. Its work is described
in the Internal Control section and, given
the detail and comfort included in the
report, the Committee regard this
approach as an effective way to review the
financial controls in the business rather
than establish an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee meetings to
consider the financial results of the Group
are attended by the Chief Financial Officer
and the Company Secretary, who acts as
Secretary to the Committee, with minutes
being circulated to all Board members.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Operating Officer are also invited to
attend if required to do so by the
Committee. Towards the close of both
meetings, all Executives leave in order 
for the Committee to have a private
discussion with the auditors. Where
appropriate the Chairman also has a
private meeting with the audit partner
during the course of the year to discuss
any relevant issues.
At the meeting to review the Annual
Report and Accounts, the Committee
formally considers the non-audit services
provided by the Group’s external auditors
and the effectiveness of the audit process.
These are fully explored and discussed
and the Committee is satisfied that the
objectivity and independence of the
external audit is safeguarded. Any material
fees are discussed with the Audit
Committee before being committed.
The Committee oversaw the appointment
of Deloitte & Touche LLP in 2002 and have
a primary responsibility for the
appointment, re-appointment and removal
of auditors.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders
The Board encourages and seeks to build
a mutual understanding of objectives
between the Company and its institutional
shareholders. As part of this process, the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer make twice yearly presentations to
institutional shareholders and meet with
shareholders to discuss any issues of
concern and to obtain feedback. In
addition, they communicate regularly
throughout the year with those
shareholders who request a meeting. 
The Chairman and the Senior Independent
Director personally contact the leading
shareholders in the Company on a yearly
basis to address any concerns and discuss
any issues. The full Board receives a report
on any discussion with shareholders and
the written feedback that follows the half
yearly presentations is circulated to the
Board. Brokers’ reports and analysts’
briefings are included in the Board papers
sent to the directors every month.
The Board receive a quarterly update on
the shareholder register with a summary of
the main movements in shareholdings
since the previous report.
Members of the Board have met with
institutional shareholders during the year
to consider Corporate Governance
matters. All the Non-Executive Directors
are prepared to meet with shareholders to
understand more fully their views.
Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to encourage
shareholders to attend its Annual General
Meeting. Directors are present to answer
any questions from shareholders. It uses
the Annual General Meeting to
communicate with private investors and
encourages their participation. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37
Corporate Social Responsibility
the responsibility of all managers within
the Group, responsibility for formulating,
updating and ensuring adherence to
Group policies and relevant legislation has
been delegated to the Director of Human
Resources who is responsible to the Chief
Operating Officer.
Each local Managing Director has
responsibility within their operation for
relationships with customers, suppliers and
the community. These relationships are
subject to review by the Chief Operating
Officer who is responsible to the Chief
Executive Officer. Certain materials and
services are sourced centrally such as
newsprint and legal services and these
arrangements are subject to review by
either the Chief Operating Officer, Chief
Executive Officer or the Chief Financial
Officer, depending on the nature of the
supply. 
The Board formally reviews the Corporate
Social Responsibility policy at each
January meeting and considers updates
throughout the year as appropriate.
Employee Involvement
It is the policy of the Group to encourage
and develop all members of staff to
realise their maximum potential. The
Group's policy is that, wherever possible,
job vacancies are advertised on the
Group intranet and internal notice boards
so that we maximise the number of
positions filled from within the Group and
create adequate opportunities for
internal promotion.
The Group supports the principle of
equal opportunities in employment and
opposes all forms of unlawful or unfair
discrimination on the grounds of race,
age, nationality, religion, ethnic or
national origin, sexual orientation, gender
or gender reassignment, marital status or
disability. The Ethical Code of Conduct
incorporated in all new employment
contracts reflects this principle. To assist
people from deprived or ethnic
backgrounds to undertake training in
journalism, the Group has a bursary
scheme.
It is also the policy of the Group to give
full and fair consideration to the
Business Ethics
The Board of Johnston Press has made
a clear commitment to operating all of
the Group's business activities to the
highest standards of business ethics and
integrity. These principles are not only
contained in the Group's Corporate
Social Responsibility Statement but it is
also policy to include them in
employment contracts. 
The code of ethics specifically requires
adherence to all legal requirements. It
has a clear policy and procedure for
addressing issues such as bribery,
corruption, conflicts of interest,
espionage and giving and receiving gifts.
The Group opposes all forms of
oppression and discrimination. It is a
supporter of all human rights.
An acceptable use policy has been
developed for all of the company's assets
including, but not restricted to, computer
equipment, email facilities and use of the
Internet. This policy is required to be
signed by every employee.
The Group has the absolute objective of
always acting as a fair and reasonable
employer. We also acknowledge and are
keenly aware of our responsibilities to
the many communities we serve, our
readers, customers, suppliers,
shareholders, and to the environment.
Because of our key role in the
community, a separate section is
incorporated within this report detailing
some of the many community orientated
activities in which the Group's
companies are involved.
Board Responsibility
The Board has delegated the day-to-day
responsibility for all matters related to
Corporate Social Responsibility and social
issues to the Executive Directors. They
are assisted by the Company Secretary
who is generally the first point of contact
for any issues of this nature.
Specific responsibility for environmental
issues has been delegated to the Chief
Financial Officer.
Whilst recognising that the practices of
recruitment, employment and training are
recruitment of disabled persons. Where
disabled persons are employed, their
training, including training for alternative
work of employees that become
disabled, and development for
promotion are encouraged and assisted.
Expert advice is taken on the needs of
disabled employees and special
equipment is provided where
appropriate.
Following the project undertaken in 2004
to determine what work was required to
ensure modification, removal, avoidance
or circumvention of potential barriers to
access for disabled customers, the
Group has implemented changes where
required and monitors this through
ongoing access audits. These changes
cover customers who wish to interact
with our businesses either in person or
online. Our training courses for front
counter staff have also been updated so
that all our customer facing employees
can deal with disabled readers or
advertisers in an appropriate manner.
The Group has also formulated a
Disability Access policy which has been
added to our policy and procedures
manual.
The Group is committed to a
comprehensive training and development
programme, creating the opportunity for
employees to maintain and improve their
performance and to develop their
potential to a maximum level of
attainment. This includes a senior
management development programme
to identify and coach individuals who
may have the potential to lead the future
direction of the Group. To ensure that the
business is not constrained in the future
by lack of talent we succession plan at
Group and Company level and recruit
Management Graduates from UK
universities annually via our Graduate
Recruitment Programme. Coupled with
the extensive range of skill base and
training provided by the company, these
initiatives are aimed at enabling staff to
make their best possible contribution to
the organisation's success.
In 2005 the number of training days
arranged for employees totalled 10,700.  Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 38
Corporate Social Responsibility
continued
In 2004, the Group introduced defined
people values which emphasised open,
straightforward communication, integrity,
continued success and the importance
of recognising every employee's
contribution. In addition, employee
forums operate at each centre.
The management of employee turnover,
in an industry which is seen as a training
ground for many others, is very
important and in 2005 there were
improvements in all areas; Editorial
10.7% (2004 13.0%), Advertising 29.9%
(2004 30.5%), Other 12.2% (2004
12.3%) and in total 17.1% (2004 18.2%).
Group personnel policies are designed to
ensure that all employees are made
aware on a regular basis of the Group's
policies, programmes and progress.
Extensive use is made of the Group
intranet and notice boards with an
Employee Report being published to
coincide with the publication of the
Annual Report and Accounts. The
Company operates a number of share
schemes as outlined in the Directors'
Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 49.
Community Involvement
Readers rely on local newspapers being
at the heart of their communities -
breaking major stories, campaigning on
a wide variety of issues and
spearheading fund-raising initiatives.
Johnston Press titles - together with their
websites - are at the heart of local
affairs, representing the interests of their
local communities and acting as a
catalyst for hundreds of charity
campaigns.
Major stories uncovered by group titles
included a number related to the London
bombings. The Bucks Herald kept local
people up-to-date with details of the
London bomber who lived in Aylesbury.
In Leeds, Evening Post journalists were
first on the scene as anti-terrorist police
swooped in the hunt for the London
bombers. The Dewsbury Reporter had a
world exclusive picture of the wife and
mother-in-law of one of the bombers
after a diligent search through the
paper’s archives to find the photograph.
The Hemel Express used its website –
named by the Newspaper Society as
weekly newspaper website of the year
for the second consecutive year - to
break the first news early on a Sunday of
the massive Buncefield oil storage depot
explosion and then carried graphic
pictures and reports in the paper as well
as providing real time updates on its
website, “Hemel Today”.
There was a Royal scoop for the St
Andrews Citizen when Prince Charles
spoke to the paper during a walkabout
after Prince William’s graduation from
university. He thanked people for giving
his son ‘space’ during his time in the
town. News of Chancellor Gordon
Brown’s financial support to help save
Raith Rovers was broken by the Fife Free
Press which has been backing the
soccer club’s campaign. Details of the
first gay marriage – a civil service in
Scotland – was broken by the
Glenrothes Gazette.
Coverage of troubled soccer star Paul
Gascoigne’s brief return to football –
managing non-league Kettering Town –
was led by the Northants Evening
Telegraph. Not only did the paper break
the story of his arrival, it had an
exclusive interview with him on his
sacking 39 days later.
The Sunderland Echo’s tireless efforts to
find the man who sent the Yorkshire
Ripper hoax tapes ended in international
acclaim when someone was finally
arrested. The hunt for ‘Wearside Jack’
campaign had begun in 2000.
TV, radio and national newspapers also
followed up the Mansfield Chad story
about the police officer who smashed
the national record for arrests during a
year – 309 in just ten months. 
The story of a couple offering their home
as a raffle prize first appeared in the
Fenland Citizen as did the one in the
Northampton Chronicle and Echo about
a vicar jailed for refusing to pay his
community tax.
The Belfast News Letter has been at the
forefront of setting the agenda in the
unionist community in a year which has
seen IRA decommissioning and the
dismantling of the security structure – a
factor that resulted in it being one of only
four newspapers of its type to grow
circulation in the January-June period.
One of the major stories it covered was
the funeral of football legend George
Best. 
It has also been a busy year for the
headline writers. ‘Snatch of the Day’ was
the headline over an exclusive carried by
the Crawley Observer – about a man
detained by police on the pitch playing
football and having just scored two
goals. ‘Fiddler on the Roof’ was the line
over an exclusive Lancaster Guardian
story about a builder caught on CCTV
mending a roof despite having claimed
£26,000 in disability benefits.
The Freedom of Information Act has been
used widely by our journalists to unearth a
number of stories. One about CJD was
reported in the Armthorpe Community
Newsletter, proving that even small
newsletter publications can beat the big
boys to stories. On a lighter note, the
Sheffield Star used the Act to find out how
many police officers caught by speed
cameras had been prosecuted. The
answer came back … none!
The diverse nature of our communities is
recognised by editors. The Lancashire
Evening Post ran a series entitled the
True Colours of Islam – featuring a series
of articles by community leaders. In
Peterborough, the Evening Telegraph
launched a Pakistan Quake Appeal
backed by the city’s large Muslim
community. Similarly in Northampton, the
Chronicle and Echo raised £28,000 to
help the relatives of families in the town
caught up in Kashmir by the earthquake.
Putting a true figure on the amount of
money charities gain as a result of
stories in group papers highlighting good
deeds is an impossible task, although it
is undoubtedly considerable. Some of
the campaigns are for charities close to
home – others for good causes
overseas. Yorkshire Post readers raised
nearly £140,000 for UNICEF following
the tsunami and another £16,000 to help Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39
victims of the Pakistan earthquake. The
paper is also backing a £30m restoration
plan for York Minster. The Buckingham
Advertiser raised £25,000 and Wakefield
Express readers donated £20,000 to
help rebuild homes in remote areas of Sri
Lanka devastated by the tsunami. Similar
support has been given by the Sheffield
Star and the Grantham Journal used a
12-page sponsored supplement to help
raise £25,000. The Northants Evening
Telegraph raised £25,000 and the
Crawley Observer £20,000. A ten-year-
old Chernobyl victim can see for the first
time after an eye operation paid for by
readers of the Portsmouth News.
Many of our titles ‘adopt’ charities and
support them for a year – the Mansfield
Chad backing a community fundraising
group and the Worksop Guardian a
hospice - being two of them. The Clitheroe
Advertiser and Times is campaigning to
raise £700,000 towards the restoration of
the town’s Norman castle.
Many of our titles have run campaigns
supporting and enhancing health
facilities. The Hemel Express is heading
a £2.5m appeal for a hospice, the
Yorkshire Evening Post presented more
than £170,000 to two hospices and the
Lancashire Evening Post, chasing a total
of £200,000, has raised £171,500 in ten
months. The nearby Burnley Express
raised more than £60,000 for a hospice.
The Chorley and Leyland Guardian
readers – inspired by the story of the
death of a 24-year-old from cancer –
raised £27,000. And the Sussex Express
set out to raise £35,000 for a cancer and
leukaemia childrens’ charity – but ended
up with £41,000. The Coleraine Times is
at the centre of a £32,000 bid to send a
boy with a rare brain tumour to America
for pioneering surgery. A mini bus for
handicapped children was provided
thanks to a Cumbernauld News
campaign and 25 community groups
shared £10,000 thanks to a Hartlepool
Mail campaign. More than 60 groups
shared in £10,000 raised by the Melton
Times and a sponsored walk backed by
the Spalding Guardian raised £13,500
shared between 40 charities. Our
newspapers in Lincolnshire got together
to act as collection points for the Rotary
Shoebox Christmas appeal to send
presents to children in Romania. The
Falkirk Herald searched for bone marrow
donors to help a two-year-old with a rare
genetic disorder and a Shields Gazette
story about a five year old with a serious
skin allergy resulted in more than
£10,000 being raised in ten days. There
was a successful conclusion to a
Morecambe Visitor appeal to raise
£250,000 for a new seafront building for
the town’s RNLI rescue hovercraft. The
paper was honoured as RNLI ‘Supporter
of the Year’ at a national ceremony. The
Lynn News is also helping the rescue
services with a £60,000 appeal to light a
hospital helipad. The Suffolk Free Press
campaigned for funds for a new
hydrotherapy pool at a special school
and Bury Free Press readers are buying
defibrillators to place around the town to
provide early aid to anyone suffering
cardiac arrest. A joint venture between
the Worthing Herald and a local branch
of a bank resulted in one school landing
a £5,000 reward.
Campaigns are the lifeblood of local
newspapers. 
The Stamford Mercury, Berwickshire
News, Grantham Journal, Kirkintilloch
Herald, Nelson Leader, Skegness
Standard, Newmarket Journal, Diss
Express, Sussex County Times and
Burnley Express all campaigned to keep
local hospital facilities open. Plans to cut
an ‘out of hours’ doctors’ surgery were
defeated after a Ripon Gazette campaign
and a petition organised by the
Harrogate Advertiser stopped plans to
reduce night-time fire cover in the town.
Home Secretary Charles Clarke bowed
to pressure from the Yorkshire Evening
Post to confirm that Yorkshire Ripper
Peter Sutcliffe would never be released
from detention. Sister title, The Yorkshire
Post, highlighted the scandal of websites
which encourage vulnerable young
people to kill themselves after a case
involving a local girl – forcing the
Government to look at what action can
be taken over similar sites. A similar
campaign run by the Lancashire Evening
Post drew support from Prime Minister
Tony Blair. 
The Northants Evening Telegraph also
got the backing of the Prime Minister for
a campaign to change the driving laws
after the death of a teenager.
The Halifax Courier launched Pride in
Calderdale – encouraging citizenship and
celebrating the good things about the
area. A similar scheme is being run in
Northamptonshire by our two evening
titles. In Portsmouth, the News
celebrated the fifth anniversary of its ‘We
Can Do It’ awards with a ceremony
hosted by TV personality Esther Rantzen.
Since its launch there have been 1,600
nominations for unsung heroes.
More than 1,500 have backed a
Scarborough Evening News petition to
save a historic seafront theatre and the
Wigan and Leigh Reporters launched a
community drugs initiative.
In Blackpool – the UK’s stag and hen
night capital – the Gazette has
campaigned over licensing laws to
ensure the resort stays as trouble free as
possible. The paper has also urged a
stand against troublemakers who abuse
emergency and community workers after
highlighting how 999 crews had been
spat at, sworn at or assaulted.
Gridlock Sheffield has seen the Star
campaigning to alleviate road congestion
and the Worksop Guardian has taken the
local council to task for running down
leisure facilities. The Peterborough
Evening Telegraph is campaigning to
reduce crime.
The Luton Herald and Post backed a
charity wristband campaign and the
Derry Journal has been at the forefront
of a number of campaigns including a
Children of Courage awards scheme. 
Many of our titles run similar community
awards highlighting good deeds as well
as sports awards - honouring
achievements in the sporting arena.
Among the people honoured in the
Yorkshire Evening Post sports awards
was Betty Chadderton, the county
cricket club scorer for the past 55 years. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 40
Corporate Social Responsibility
continued
An important aspect of editing a
newspaper is to receive feedback from
readers. Customer care schemes
seeking feedback from readers about
specific stories are in operation at a
number of centres including Sunderland,
Falkirk and Banbury and reader forums
like the one in Harrogate provide
feedback on content, design and style.
The Sheffield Star got praise of a
different kind after a councillor stood up
at a meeting and told colleagues that if
they wanted to find out what was going
on in the town hall they should read the
paper.
Our titles and staff received a number of
awards during the year for a range of
advertising and editorial achievements.
The highlights included the Blackpool
Gazette winning the UK Publishing
Centre of the Year award in the
Newspaper Society awards, the
Lancashire Evening Post being named
Community Newspaper of the Year and
the Worksop Guardian becoming the
fastest growing weekly of its size. The
Southern Reporter was named paid-for
weekly newspaper of the year in
Scotland for the fourth year running. On
an individual level, Simon Hulme of the
Yorkshire Post was Photographer of the
Year and Gemma Marriner of the Whitley
Bay News Guardian and News Post
Leader best weekly free newspaper
photographer. 
The Yorkshire Evening Post was named
Commission for Racial Equality Local
Newspaper of the Year. Trainee Luton
journalist Catherine Lofthouse won two
of the four national prizes for outstanding
papers in the twice yearly NCE, the
journalism qualifications exams, and
Nick Owens of the Lancashire Evening
Post was named Press Gazette UK
Young Journalist of the Year. Peter
Horner, News Editor of the Chichester
Observer has been nominated for a civic
award from the local council in
recognition of his high quality coverage
of local affairs for more than 30 years.
And finally … it was cheers to the
Biggleswade Chronicle which marked its
6,000th edition by having a special
commemorative beer brewed.
Besides the cash donations reported on
page 50 and the support given noted
above, the Group has run fundraising
campaigns which have raised over
£3.2m in 2005. In addition, free space to
promote these and other campaigns has
been provided and this has averaged 18
pages per week across our titles.
Customer Services
It is Group policy to provide the highest
standard of service to all of our
customers. Each operating company has
staff appointed to respond to all
customer enquiries. There are strict
procedures for resolving customer
complaints or queries regarding service
and these are carefully monitored by
management.
Local management in each operation are
responsible for ensuring that their
companies and all their employees comply
with the requirements of all customer and
competition related legislation. It is Group
policy that the interests of Johnston Press
only ever require strict compliance and no
one in the Group has authority to give any
order or direction that would result in a
violation of this policy. To monitor this and
for training purposes, the Group
undertakes mystery shopping exercises.
The Group Sales Charter introduced in
2004 has become enshrined in our
operations to ensure that our customers
and advertisers are always dealt with in a
fair and equitable manner and the terms of
trade are published in the Group's
newspapers.
Environmental Policy
The Group acknowledges that the
protection of the environment is one of
its key corporate responsibilities. We aim
to comply with all relevant regulations
and see the identification, management
and control of environmental risks as
being an implicit requirement for
adherence to the Corporate Governance
Combined Code.
Back in 2002 a scoring methodology and
audit programme was developed by
independent environmental risk
consultants to facilitate the ongoing
monitoring and control of our policies
and procedures. Extensive training was
carried out and a rolling programme of
internal audits of environmental impacts
and risks was introduced. Additionally
audits by external independent
consultants have continued in order to
verify the findings of these internal
reviews. Detailed reports are produced
after each visit and the implementation
of all recommendations is monitored by
management.
The Group continues to benefit from its
investment in more energy efficient
equipment as well as the time and effort
put into the monitoring and control of
energy consumption. The equipment
introduced for this control has enabled
the Group to continue to benefit from
rebates against the Climate Change Levy
Tax. External consultants are used to
monitor and further facilitate a more
efficient use of energy.
On a full year basis the Group's power
costs decreased by 0.6% despite price
increases from energy suppliers. In terms
of energy consumption, both electricity
and gas showed significant decreases
over 2004. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41
Table 1 - Consumption of energy on a like-for-like basis in 2005:
2005 2004 % 2003 %
Electricity
- kWh 46,141,152 46,662,532 -1.1 47,558,773 -1.9
- print centres kWh/tonne 254.5 258.0 -1.4 274.6 -6.0
Gas
- kWh 29,423,242 31,564,320 -6.8 33,974,515 -7.1
- print centres kWh/tonne 147.4 164.5 -10.4 201.9 -18.5
Water
- m
3
121,587 123,923 -1.9 118,751 +4.4
- print centres m
3
/tonne 0.59 0.61 -3.3 0.66 -7.6
Table 2 - Motor vehicle data:
Total Acquisitions Existing
2005 2005 2005 2004 % 2003 %
Total Fleet (No of vehicles) 1,865 43 1,822 1,852 -1.6 1,817 +1.9
Total Fleet CO2 rating 321,386 7,099 314,287 325,237 -3.4 325,223 —
Average CO2 rating 172 165 172 176 -2.3 179 -1.7
As can be seen from the table 1 below,
the Group made continued reductions in
the consumption per tonne of throughput
at our print centres which further
demonstrates the improved efficiency of
the new printing equipment.
Good decreases in water consumption
were made both on an absolute and on a
m
3
/tonne basis.
The Group continues to make excellent
progress in achieving the target set out
in its Energy Management Policy, which
was adopted in 2003, for a 7% reduction
in consumption over the period to 2010.
In fact, electricity consumption since
2002 is down by 4.3% and adjusted for
volume throughput the print centres have
seen a 11.9% reduction. Gas
consumption in the same period is down
by 13.4% and adjusted for volume
throughput the print centres have
achieved a 30.0% reduction. Budgets for
2006 have been set to encompass a
further 1% reduction in consumption.
Following on from 2004 when we
undertook the first review of our motors
fleet, progress has continued to be made in
2005. The details of which are set out in
table 2 below.
The decrease in the fleet on a like-for-like
basis was mainly due to reduced
headcount. Despite the total fleet
increasing by 13 vehicles the CO2 rating 
of the fleet decreased slightly and the
average vehicle rating showed a decrease
of 2.2%. The total reduction in the average
rating since 2003 is now 3.9%.
The Group also has a rolling programme
of independent audit visits covering
property and health and safety risks.
These visits are targeted on the locations
which have the highest risk profile along
with a sample of other sites. Detailed
reports and recommendations are
produced after each visit which require
follow up and implementation by local
management. This process is monitored
by the Group Management Board. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 42
Corporate Social Responsibility
continued
Newsprint
As part of its ongoing commitment, as
agreed with the Government, the industry,
through the Newspaper Society, has
continued to raise the target for the
recycled content of newsprint used in the
production of UK newspapers. Against a
target of 65%, the actual figure achieved
was 75.5%, already well ahead of the
target of 70% set for 2006. This will be
helped by the new de-inking and
recycling facility at UPM's Shotton Mill 
in North Wales.
Newspapers cannot be recycled
indefinitely due to the process requiring
some virgin fibre to maintain paper
strength. All virgin fibre comes from
renewable managed softwood coniferous
forests, which themselves are carefully
monitored and certified.
Waste
The Group adheres to the requirements
of the Producer Responsibility
Obligations (Packaging Waste)
Regulations 1997. The Group employs
an industry recognised recycler to handle
process waste and all non-paper waste
is handled through them. This has been
a very successful operation
encompassing safe removal of waste
with a transparent audit trail and an ISO
14001 accreditation. In 2005 the
partnership has allowed the Group to
ensure compliance with the recent
changes to Hazardous waste regulations. 
In addition, the paper-based waste is
now removed and recycled through a
Group-wide arrangement with one of our
major newsprint suppliers. Companies
with no printing facilities are only
required to account for any packaging
done prior to delivery to the customer.
The Group is committed to ensuring 
that its recycled newsprint goes into 
the production of new newsprint and
random audits confirm this position.
All categories of waste are measured
and monitored and systems are in
operation, including an independent
audit, to ensure that all waste is correctly
disposed of. Initiatives to reduce waste
production gained pace this year. On-site
chemistry re-cycling has been installed
at the new press facility in Dinnington in
order to dramatically reduce waste
solvent removal. New mailroom
investment across the group allowed the
move away from plastic packaging
materials which were sent to landfill to
recyclable fibre packaging.
Shareholders
Members of the Board (Executive and
Non-Executive) have met a number of
shareholders during the past year to
discuss Corporate Social Responsibility
matters and to address any questions
raised by them. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report has been prepared in
accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. 
It also meets the relevant requirements 
of the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority and describes how the
Board has applied the Principles of Good
Governance relating to directors’
remuneration. As required by the
Regulations, a resolution to approve the
report will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting of the Company at which
the financial statements will be approved.
The Remuneration Committee
The Committee is chaired by Mr S J
Waugh, an independent Non-Executive
Director, and in 2005 comprised two other
independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr
P E B Cawdron and Mrs M A King. It is
required to meet at least annually and as
necessary. During the period it met on six
occasions, three meetings being held by
telephone. All its members were present
for each meeting apart from one meeting
which Mrs M A King was unable to attend.
In advance of that meeting the Chairman
sought her views on the agenda items to
be discussed. 
The Committee is charged with
recommending the remuneration of the
Chairman and Executive Directors as
well as changes to employment
conditions, the Executive Share Option
Schemes, Share Incentive Plan, Share
Matching Plan and to the Save as you
Earn Scheme, as well as the introduction
of any new incentive or remuneration
schemes. The performance
measurement of the Executive Directors
and the determination of their annual
remuneration packages are undertaken
and approved by the Committee. The
Committee is consulted on, and notified
of, all senior management appointments
and related remuneration. It is also
consulted on major organisational
changes. 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive
Directors, other than the Chairman, is
determined by the Executive Directors
and ratified by the Board. None of the
Committee has any personal financial
interest (other than as shareholders),
conflicts of interest arising from cross-
directorships or day-to-day involvement
in running the business. The Committee
makes recommendations to the Board.
Other directors attend meetings when
invited by the Committee and the
Company Secretary acts as secretary to
the Committee. No director plays a part
in any discussion about his or her own
remuneration. 
The Committee has appointed New
Bridge Street Consultants LLP (NBSC) 
to provide advice on structuring directors’
remuneration packages. NBSC did not
provide any other services to the
Company in 2005. The terms of
engagement between the Company and
NBSC are displayed on the Company’s
website in the Investor Relations section.
Mr S J Waugh succeeded Lord Gordon as
Chairman of the Committee on 29 April
2005. He attended meetings as an
observer in advance of his appointment.
Mr S J Waugh has undertaken a detailed
training programme involving a uniquely
designed course run by NBSC, detailed
discussions with the Company Secretary
and a range of externally run seminars. 
The specification for this programme was
arranged by the Board.
As explained on page 34, the Board
undertook an evaluation of its
performance during the year. This included
a review of the effectiveness of this
Committee considering its composition,
chairmanship, whether it fulfilled its role as
outlined in the terms of reference, its
reporting and overall performance. This
evaluation process was undertaken by the
Committee itself as well as by all
members of the Board. The results of this
process were positive and confirmed the
effectiveness of the Committee.
The terms of reference of the Committee
are displayed on the Company’s website
in the Investor Relations Section.
Remuneration Policy
Executive remuneration packages are
prudently designed to attract, motivate
and retain directors of the high calibre
needed to maintain the Group’s strong
market position and to reward them for
enhancing value to shareholders. 
There are five main elements of the
remuneration package for Executive
Directors and senior management:
• Basic annual salary and benefits;
• Performance related bonuses;
• Pension arrangements; 
• Share options which it is proposed 
shall be replaced by a Performance
Share Plan;
• Share Matching Plan.
The Executive Directors have a one-year
rolling contract. The most recently
executed contracts for Mr T J Bowdler, 
Mr S R Paterson and Mr D Cammiade are
dated 27 June 2003, 24 May 2001 and 
27 February 2006 respectively. In the
event of termination, the Executive
Directors would be entitled to salary,
benefits and pensionable service for the
notice period, subject to mitigation. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts,
which include details of remuneration, will
be available for inspection at the Annual
General Meeting. 
The appointments of Non-Executive
Directors of the Company are terminable
at will, subject to a three month notice
period. It is the Committee’s policy that
any future Board appointments will be
made on the same terms. The Non-
Executive Directors have letters of
appointment dated:
Mr R G Parry 27 June 2003
Mr P E B Cawdron 25 January 2002
Mr F P M Johnston 25 January 2002
Mr H C M Johnston 25 January 2002
Lord Gordon 
of Strathblane 25 January 2002
Mrs M A King 25 April 2003
Mr S J Waugh 25 April 2003
Mr L Hinton 16 March 2005
A copy of the standard letter of
appointment for the Chairman and Non-
Executive Directors is displayed on the
Company’s website in the Investor
Relations section. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 44
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
The Company’s policy is that a substantial
proportion of the remuneration of the
Executive Directors should be
performance related. As described below,
Executive Directors may earn annual
incentive payments together with the
benefits of participation in share schemes.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept
up to two Non-Executive appointments
outside the Company providing the
Chairman’s permission is obtained. The
Remuneration Committee decides
whether any fees are retained by the
director. In addition, the Executive
Directors are entitled to accept any
positions connected with the newspaper
industry or any businesses in which the
Company holds an investment.
In 2005, Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R
Paterson held external non-executive
posts and received £69,000 and £nil in
fees respectively. 
With the assistance of NBSC, the
Committee recently conducted a 
full review of the remuneration of the
Executive Directors and of the incentive
arrangements for all executives, 
taking into account the Company’s
circumstances and objectives, market
practice, investor guidelines and changes
in accounting standards. 
As part of the review, the Committee
benchmarked the Executive Directors’
remuneration against its peers in the
media sector and against groups of
companies of broadly comparable size
across a variety of sectors. This showed
that the total remuneration of the
Executive Directors was significantly
below the median of its sector peers and
those of the FTSE 101-150. It also
revealed that fixed pay (salary, benefits
and pension) constituted a higher
proportion of the remuneration package
than in most of the comparator
companies, particularly media companies.
The Committee was also mindful that the
Company has a successful and highly
regarded management team, whose
retention is vital to the Company’s future. 
The Committee decided, therefore, that it
is appropriate to improve the remuneration
packages of the Executive Directors and,
in particular, to make them more
competitive with their sector peers. In
addition, the Committee wished to make
the packages more performance-related. 
The Committee also decided to redesign
the incentive pay mix, to make it more
relevant to different executive tiers and to
produce a better “line of sight” between
executive performance and reward. This
led the Committee to decide that, for less
senior executives, annual bonus should
play a greater role than long-term
incentives. Further details of the review
and proposals are set out in the circular
attached to this Report. 
Before finalising these recommendations,
the Committee has consulted with the
Company’s major shareholders who have
indicated their general support for the
proposals. This report covers the
remuneration policy operated during 2005
and the revised policy for 2006, assuming
this is approved at the Annual General
Meeting.
Basic Salary
An Executive Director’s basic salary is
determined by the Committee prior to 
the beginning of each calendar year and
when an individual changes position or
responsibility. In deciding appropriate
levels, the Committee considers the Group
as a whole and relies on objective
research carried out by its external
consultants which gives up-to-date
information on comparator groups of
companies. As a benchmark, it aims to
pay broadly at the median level.
In addition to basic salary, the Executive
Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind,
principally a car or a cash buyout and
private medical insurance.
Following the benchmarking exercise
referred to above, with effect from 1
January 2006 the salaries of Mr T J
Bowdler, Mr S R Paterson and Mr D
Cammiade are £540,000, £340,000 and
£305,000 respectively.
Performance Related Bonus
The Committee establishes the objectives
that must be met for each financial year if
a cash bonus is to be paid. In setting the
appropriate bonus parameters the
Committee, having taken advice, takes
into account the Company’s internal
budgets and analysts’ expectations for
the forthcoming year. The Committee
believes that this ties any incentive
payments to the interests of shareholders.
The structure of the bonus scheme has
been revised from 1 January 2006 to
make the bonus potential more
comparable with companies of a similar
size, but with tougher targets than
hitherto. Effective from the same date, all
Executive Directors are required to invest
at least 40% of their bonus in the Share
Matching Plan. 
For the 2005 calendar year, the maximum
bonus for the Executive Directors was
80% of salary, but the scheme was split
into two parts. Four fifths, or 64% of the
80%, related to a profit based target.
The target was set by the Board on the
recommendation of the Remuneration
Committee and on achievement of this
target half the maximum potential bonus
was payable. Additional sums were
payable above the target on a sliding
scale up to the maximum of 64%. The
target for payment of the maximum bonus
was dependent on market conditions at
the beginning of the year and was
considered by the Committee to be
challenging. If the profit target was not
achieved, bonus would be lost at twice
the rate of the sliding scale on the upside. 
The remaining element, 16% out of the
80%, was based on an increase in like-
for-like total revenues comparing 2005
with 2004. For achievement of the revenue
growth target, which was based on the
Company’s internal budgets, half the
maximum bonus was payable with a
sliding scale for achievement above and
below that target. Once again, the sliding
scale of the downside was twice that of
the upside. 
The Board retains the discretion to
recognise performance outside this
arrangement where exceptional
circumstances apply, but any such
discretion is restricted to a total bonus,
including the performance related element,
of 25% of salary.  Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45
In 2005, the revenue target set by the
Board was not achieved and no bonus
was paid on that element. However, a
proportion of the profit-based element was
paid, which amounted to 23% of salary.
With effect from 1 January 2006, it is
proposed that the maximum bonus level
be increased to 100%. Of this amount,
75% will be based on a profit target,
which will be set by the Board on the
recommendation of the Remuneration
Committee. The structure of the profit
related part will follow that of the 2005
scheme as described above. The
remaining 25% of the bonus will be based
on individual key performance targets.
These will be specific and clearly
measurable.
Share Schemes
The Company operates a number of Share
Schemes and these are described below.
a) An Executive Share Option Scheme
with grants being shown below and in
note 31 to the financial statements.
Certain former and current Executive
Directors have already participated in
the Scheme. The Remuneration
Committee reviews each grant of
options to Senior Executives on the
recommendation of the Chief Executive
Officer. All options are granted for nil
consideration. These options are only
capable of being exercised if the
compound real growth in the Group’s
underlying earnings per share is
between 3% to 5% depending on the
level of the grant. The Committee has
decided that there will be no retesting of
performance on any options granted
after 1 January 2004 and performance
will be measured over a single three
year period. For options granted prior to
31 December 2003, performance is
always tested from a fixed base over a
period of at least three years and may
not be retested after the fifth
anniversary of the option grant. 
In order to exercise a grant above 0.5
times or above 1 times salary, the
growth in the Group’s underlying
earnings per share must exceed the
growth in the retail price index by more
than 4% or 5% points per annum
respectively.
The Company’s policy is to grant options
at the discretion of the Committee
taking into account the Group and
individual performance. The policy is
reviewed by the Committee from time to
time. Currently, the grant of options to
the Executive Directors and all
participants in the Scheme in any year
is based on a percentage of salary for
achieving the Group profit target and an
individual profit target, with the
allocation increasing for performance
above target up to a maximum level.
The maximum annual grant under this
policy is 1.5 times salary for Mr T J
Bowdler and 1.2 times salary for Mr S R
Paterson and Mr D Cammiade.
The exercise price of the options
granted under the Executive Share
Option Scheme is equal to the market
value of the Company’s shares at the
time when the options are granted.
In the event of a change in control of
the Company, any options granted are
exercisable within one month of the
option holders being notified of the
change in control. In such
circumstances the performance 
conditions will apply. However, in
exceptional circumstances the
Committee may, at its discretion, treat
the performance condition as satisfied
taking into account the underlying
performance of the Company up until
the relevant event.
The Board is proposing that no further
grants will be made under the Executive
Share Option Scheme. It will be replaced
by a Performance Share Plan which will
be considered by shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting. If this scheme
is approved, Performance Shares will be
granted to Senior Executives on an
annual basis. Initially, the maximum
value of Performance Shares awarded
will be 100% of salary but the scheme
rules will permit 125% as a normal
maximum. 50% of the Performance
Shares will vest based on EPS growth,
with the remaining 50% vesting on TSR
performance relative to the FTSE 350
Media Companies. It is also proposed
that the Executive Directors will be
expected to retain at least 50% of the
vested shares (after tax) under this Plan
and the Share Matching Plan until the
value of their holding of shares in the
Group reaches 100% of salary. Full
details of the new Performance Share
Plan are to be found in the circular
which is enclosed with this Report.
b) A SAYE Share Option Scheme for eligible
employees under which options may be
granted at a discount of up to 20% of
market value. Consistent with the
legislation and normal practice, the SAYE
Option Scheme does not require the
imposition of performance conditions.
c) A Share Matching Plan which applies 
to the Executive Directors and certain
Senior Executives. Under current
arrangements the participants 
are invited to invest all or part of their
annual bonus in buying shares in the
Company and they have the prospect of
receiving extra matching shares after
three years, paid for by the Company.
The matching ratio ranges from 
0.5 times to 1.5 times the number of
shares that could have been acquired
with the pre-tax equivalent of the annual
bonus invested, subject to achieving
compound real growth in the Group’s
underlying earnings per share of
between 3% to 8% per annum over a
fixed three year period. The Executive
Directors are currently required by the
Committee to invest at least one third of
their annual bonus into the Plan.
The Plan currently does not permit any
dividends to vest on the element of
matching shares.
From 2006, it is proposed to increase
the maximum matching ratio for awards
granted under the Share Matching Plan
from 1.5 times to 2 times. In addition,
the proportion of bonus paid that must
be invested by Executive Directors into
the Share Matching Plan is proposed 
to increase to 40% and no more than
60% of bonus may be invested at any
one time.
When any grant of matching shares is
approved, the Company purchases
sufficient shares to cover the maximum
match by all Executives. These shares
are held in the Johnston Press plc
Employee Share Trust, which is Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 46
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
administered by Hill Samuel in Jersey.
The only other shares held by the Trust
relate to the award of Restricted Shares
to Mr T J Bowdler referred to in the
pension arrangements section below.
The number of shares held by the Trust
on 31 December 2005 was 395,117, of
which 310,166 related to the Share
Matching Plan. The balance related to
the Restricted Share Award made to 
Mr T J Bowdler as shown on page 49.
d) A Share Incentive Plan (SIP) for all
eligible employees. The SIP is in two
parts; a Partnership Scheme, which
allows employees to purchase shares in
the Company on a monthly basis 
in a tax efficient manner. The second
element is a Free Shares Scheme,
which provides employees who have
joined the Scheme with free shares. The
shares are held in a Trust, administered
by Halifax plc, and after a period of five
years the shares will be available to be
held beneficially by employees free of
any tax and national insurance. For Free
Shares, the Committee sets a minimum
Group profit target and a base fund to
be utilised to purchase shares in the
Company. Performance above the
target generates additional amounts
payable into the fund on a sliding scale
up to a maximum payout. The Free
Shares are allocated to employees
based on hours worked and are not 
pro rata to salary. In 2005, the profit
achievement did not meet the maximum
target set by the Committee and
therefore a restricted award was made.
The Company Secretary is responsible for
ensuring the exercise criteria are met for
all the Share Schemes and this is verified
by the Committee. The performance
criterion, which applies to all Executive
Directors to whom options have been
granted under the Schemes (except the
SAYE Share Option Scheme), was chosen
as it requires significant improvement in
financial performance before options can
be exercised.The Committee will ensure
that EPS is calculated on as consistent a
basis as feasible.
Options under a) and b) above are
satisfied by the issue of new shares. As
indicated above, the Company’s
Employee Share Trust holds the shares to
meet options under c) and shares are
purchased in the open market to satisfy
the Free Shares award within d).
It is currently intended that awards
granted under the proposed Performance
Share Plan will also be satisfied using
shares acquired by the Company’s
Employee Share Trust in the open market.
At 31 December 2005 the total amount of
options granted, less lapsed, over new
issued shares under all option schemes
over the previous 10 years was 3.8% of
the issued share capital with a maximum
limit of 10%.
Pension Arrangements
Throughout 2005, the Group operated
one pension scheme for employees, the
Johnston Press Pension Plan (JPPP),
with defined benefit and defined
contribution sections. The defined
benefit section is closed to new
members. There was another live
scheme throughout 2005, the Regional
Independent Media Pension Plan, which
only had deferred members and
pensioners who had protected rights and
who could not be transferred under the
legislation in force at the time of the
original merger. The legislation was
updated in 2005 and this scheme was
merged into the JPPP on 3 January
2006. The assets of the JPPP are totally
separate from the assets of the
Company and of the Group, and are
invested by independent fund managers.
A professional independent trustee and
member nominated trustees are appointed
to the pension scheme. A firm of external
actuaries and consultants act as advisers.
Pension scheme members receive a
report from the trustees and a statement
of their actuarial benefits each year.
The Group inherited a number of small
pension schemes with the various
acquisitions in 2005. These are currently
being reviewed and UK employees will
have the option of joining the JPPP .
Contributions to the JPPP are at a rate of
17% for all members. The executive
section of the Plan provides for a
retirement age of 62, a pension of two
thirds of salary based on a 45th accrual
rate or a full 2/3rds at retirement date, a
member’s contribution of 10.5% of salary
with a spouse’s pension of a third of
pensionable salary in the event of death in
service. There are no provisions for
beneficial rights on early retirement. 
The employee and employer contributions
have increased during 2005 to increase
the funding level of the scheme which is
currently in deficit.
Mr T J Bowdler participates in the JPPP
for a pension of two-thirds of the earnings
cap. He also receives a contribution to an
unapproved scheme which is a total cost
to the Company of 50% of salary per
annum including the tax cost, equivalent
to a contribution of 27% of salary per
annum. These pension provisions were
revised during 2002 and in order to
compensate Mr Bowdler for the changes
to his detriment, the Annual General
Meeting in that year approved an award of
169,896 Restricted Shares to Mr Bowdler.
He is entitled to acquire a proportion of
these shares every six months for a cost
of £1 until 2009. No performance
conditions apply to the Restricted Shares
as they were granted to replace reduced
pension rights. Mr Cammiade is a member
of the JPPP and was prior to the
introduction of the earnings cap
restriction. Mr S R Paterson does not
participate in the JPPP and the Company
has agreed instead to make a contribution
equivalent to 20% of his basic salary into
his private pension scheme. This
contribution increases to 25% from his
50th birthday. With effect from 1 January
2005, the Company has also agreed to
match any additional annual contribution
made by Mr S R Paterson, up to a
maximum of 5% of salary.
The Committee is reviewing the impact of
the impending changes to the pension
regime which are due to come into effect
in April 2006 and will ensure that any
changes which are required do not result
in an increase in the overall cost of
pension provision for the Group.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have specific
terms of engagement and their
remuneration is determined by the Board Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47
within the limits set by the Articles of
Association and based on independent
surveys of fees paid to non-executive
directors of similar companies. 
The basic annual fee paid to each Non-
Executive Director is £35,000. The Non-
Executives receive further fees for
additional work performed for the
Company in respect of the chairing of 
the Remuneration Committee and Audit
Committee, together with the
responsibilities as Chairman and Senior
Independent Director. Non-Executive
Directors cannot participate in the bonus
plans or in any of the Company’s Share
Schemes and are not eligible to join the
Company’s pension schemes.
Senior Executives Below Board Level
The five elements of the remuneration
package are described on page 43. The
salaries are determined by the Executive
Directors after consultation with the
Remuneration Committee based on
individual roles and responsibilities. The
targets for the performance related
bonuses are primarily profit related but
also include personal performance based
targets. The maximum bonus for 2005
was 60% of salary. Most of the Executives
are members of the final salary section of
the JPPP , but the Company contributes a
maximum of 12% of salary to those who
are members of the defined contribution
scheme. The Executive Share Option
Scheme and Share Matching Plan benefits
are as described for the Executive
Directors except the maximum level of
share option grant has been 85% of salary.
It is proposed to amend the remuneration
policy for the Senior Executives below
Board level. Again this follows the
benchmarking exercise carried out by
NBSC. The various elements of
remuneration vary for the three tiers of
management below Board level. In the
case of the tier immediately below the
Executive Directors, they will receive a
salary determined by the Executive
Directors after consultation with the
Remuneration Committee based on
individual roles and responsibilities; a
maximum bonus of 75% of salary, of
which 20% must be invested in the Share
Matching Plan; Performance Shares
awarded up to a maximum of 50% of
salary, with identical vesting conditions to
the Executive Directors; and grants under
the Share Matching Plan, with the
increased match of up to 2:1. The policy
for the other two tiers of Executives
follows a similar pattern, although the
maximum levels of the different elements
of remuneration are lower. In the case of
these Executives, the vesting conditions
for the performance shares will be based
entirely on EPS growth.
Total Shareholder Return 
Johnston Press
Total Shareholder Return
FTSE 350 
Total Shareholder Return
FTSE Media Sector
Relative TSR
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Performance Graph
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the
FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector also measured by total shareholder return. The FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector have been
selected for this comparison because the former measures the performance of stocks in general and the latter measures the
performance of companies operating in the same sector as the Group.
5 Year Return Index for Johnston Press as at 31 December 2005
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 48
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Directors’ Remuneration - Audited Section
a) The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration and other benefits were as follows:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Emoluments 1,614 1,539
Gains on exercise of share options* 658 1,053
Money purchase contributions 190 174
2,462 2,766
*All of the gains on the exercise of share options were “cashless” with the gain, after taxation, being converted into increased
shareholdings for the executive directors.
b) Directors’ Emoluments
Performance Total
Salary/Fees Taxable Benefits Related Bonus Emoluments
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
R G Parry 100 97 — — — — 100 97
Executive Directors
T J Bowdler 490 450 19 22 113 300 622 772
S R Paterson 300 270 1 1 69 162 370 433
D Cammiade - appointed 16 March 2005 211 — 1 — 49 — 261 —
Non-Executive Directors
P E B Cawdron 50 45 — — — — 50 45
Lord Gordon of Strathblane 38 41 — — — — 38 41
L F Hinton - appointed 16 March 2005 28 — — — — — 28 —
H C M Johnston 35 34 — — — — 35 34
F P M Johnston 35 34 — — — — 35 34
M A King 35 34 — — — — 35 34
S J Waugh 40 34 — — — — 40 34
Sir Harry Roche - retired 30 April 2004 — 15 — — — — — 15
1,362 1,054 21 23 231 462 1,614 1,539
Taxable benefits include car, telephone, life insurance and health insurance.
c) Pension Benefits
The following Directors had accrued pension benefits under the Group’s defined benefit scheme:
Total Increase in Total Transfer value of Increase in 
Years of accrued accrued Transfer accrued total accrued value of
pensionable pension at pension value of pension at pension at pension 
service 31.12.04 during year increase 31.12.05 31.12.04 31.12.05 during year
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
T J Bowdler 12 54 5 42 59 793 991 198
H C M Johnston 12 16 1 3 17 241 285 44
Mr H C M Johnston was a member of the Group Pension Schemes before the introduction of the pensionable salary cap in May 1989.
The pension arrangements for Mr T J Bowdler were varied in 2002 and the above figures now only represent his total final salary
benefit. Further details of his pension provision are explained on page 46. In addition to the above, the Group funded £130,000 and
£60,000 into defined contribution schemes for Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R Paterson respectively. All Executive Directors have life
cover of four times basic salary. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 49
d) Share Schemes
Number of On exercise
options during the year Market Gains
At At price 2005 2004
01.01.05 Granted Exercised 31.12.05 p £’000 £’000
Executive Share Option Scheme
T J Bowdler 553,396 143,617 266,736 430,277 490.00 487 516
S R Paterson 168,928 64,530 46,028 187,430 490.20 62 396
D Cammiade 110,111 100,368 8,415 202,064 490.00 11
Savings Related Scheme
T J Bowdler 3,387 2,355 3,387 2,355 468.50 6
S R Paterson 2,285 — — 2,285 10
D Cammiade 6,362 — — 6,362
Restricted Share Scheme
T J Bowdler 109,221 — 24,270 84,951 479.59 92 131
Share Matching Plan
T J Bowdler 54,715 18,181 — 72,896
S R Paterson 26,209 9,871 — 36,080
D Cammiade 13,007 9,244 — 22,251
The above options are exercisable as follows:
T J Bowdler
169,777 at a price of 347.00p between 21.03.2006 and 20.03.2013
116,883 at a price of 539.00p between 26.04.2007 and 25.04.2014
143,617 at a price of 470.00p between 30.06.2008 and 29.06.2015
2,355 at a price of 397.00p between 01.11.2008 and 30.04.2009
S R Paterson
67,242 at a price of 347.00p between 21.03.2006 and 20.03.2013
55,658 at a price of 539.00p between 26.04.2007 and 25.04.2014
64,530 at a price of 470.00p between 30.06.2008 and 29.06.2015
2,285 at a price of 414.50p between 01.11.2007 and 30.04.2008
D Cammiade
18,601 at a price of 268.80p between 05.11.2004 and 04.11.2011
14,813 at a price of 356.50p between 24.04.2005 and 23.04.2012
36,743 at a price of 347.00p between 21.03.2006 and 20.03.2013
31,539 at a price of 539.00p between 26.04.2007 and 25.04.2013
48,983 at a price of 541.00p between 17.03.2008 and 16.03.2015
51,385 at a price of 470.00p between 30.06.2008 and 29.06.2015
6,362 at a price of 279.00p between 01.11.2009 and 30.04.2010
The share options within the Restricted Share Scheme are exercisable six monthly between 16 May 2003 and 16 May 2009 in equal
tranches at a price of £1 on each exercise.
The matching awards granted within the Share Matching Plan are exercisable for a nominal total payment of £1 as shown below. 
The matching factor ranges from 0.5 times to a maximum of 1.5 times the number of shares granted in line with the performance
criteria outlined in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
39,673 between 30.05.2006 and 29.05.2013 - market price on grant 399.50p
54,258 between 22.03.2007 and 21.03.2014 - market price on grant 498.25p
37,296 between 21.03.2008 and 20.03.2015 - market price on grant 540.00p
The options or matching awards granted as listed above, other than those in the Restricted Share Scheme, are only exercisable
subject to the level of achievement of the performance criteria denoted in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The middle market price of the Ordinary Shares was as follows:
On 1 January 2005 542.00p Highest price during year 576.00p
On 31 December 2005 465.50p Lowest price during year 449.00p
This Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by: 
Simon Waugh Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 50
Directors’ Report
Year ended 31 December 2005
Principal Activities
The Group’s main activities are the publication and printing of local and regional weekly, evening and morning newspapers, both paid-
for and free, specialist print publications, together with associated websites.
Review of Business
The results for the year 2005 are set out in the Group Income Statement on page 54. The Group profit for the year before taxation was
£151,363,000 (2004 - £149,799,000) which results in a profit for the year of £107,791,000 (2004 - £106,612,000). Details of the
business activities during the year are set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and in the Financial Review.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.6p per share making a total dividend of 8.4p per share for the year. Subject to approval
by members the final dividend will be paid on 12 May 2006 to those Ordinary Shareholders on the register at 28 April 2006.
Share Capital
Details of Share Capital are shown in note 27.
Environmental Policy
The Board acknowledges that environmental protection is one of the Company’s business responsibilities. It aims for a continuous
improvement in the Company’s environmental performance and to comply with all relevant regulations. Following an internal audit and
an assessment by external advisors, the Group has now put in place a documented environmental policy to monitor performance and
to take action where appropriate. Further details of this policy are provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement.
Donations
Charitable donations amounted to £119,000 (2004 - £199,000). There were no payments for political purposes.
Supplier Payment Policy
The Company’s policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensuring that
suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment, and to abide by the terms of payment. Trade creditors of the Group at 
31 December 2005 were equivalent to 16 days purchases (2004 - 16 days), based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers
during the year.
Directors and their Interests
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, each director is subject to retirement every three years. Mr P E B Cawdron, Lord Gordon
of Strathblane and Mr F P M Johnston are due to retire at this year’s Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election. 
Financing policy and derivatives
The Group’s policies are set out in notes 20 to 22, together with details of financial instruments and derivatives. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 51
The Directors during the year and their interests in the share capital of the Company were as follows:
Ordinary Shares of 10p each
31 December 2005 31 December 2004
R G Parry 113,992 107,807
T J Bowdler 433,704 347,421
S R Paterson 83,656 70,298
D Cammiade - appointed 16 March 2005 65,516 N/A
P E B Cawdron 9,800 9,800
L Hinton - appointed 16 March 2005 1,800 N/A
F P M Johnston 12,717,696 12,717,696
H C M Johnston 12,000,000 12,000,000
M A King 1,800 —
Lord Gordon of Strathblane 47,310 47,310
In addition to the shareholdings shown above, which are all held beneficially, Mr T J Bowdler, Mr S R Paterson and Mr D Cammiade
hold an interest in 395,117 (2004 - 316,718) shares by virtue of their status as potential beneficiaries of the Johnston Press Employee
Share Trust.
Since 31 December 2005, Mr T J Bowdler, Mr S R Paterson and Mr D Cammiade have each purchased 55 shares through the Share
Incentive Plan.
No Director had any material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any subsidiary at any time
during the year.
Substantial Shareholdings
So far as the Directors are aware the only holders of 3% or more of the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company and any other major
shareholders, other than Directors, as at the date of this report are as follows:
No of Ordinary Shares of 10p each
J C M Johnston 6,380,635
The trustees of H C M Johnston’s children’s trusts 11,198,085
M F Johnston 6,904,415
R T Johnston 6,959,491
FMR Corp 14,054,108
Lloyds TSB Group of Companies 11,454,971
Barclays PLC 10,588,840
Legal & General Group of Companies 8,686,099
The Capital Group Companies 15,745,493
Harris Associates LP 21,075,766
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 14,323,352
Aviva plc group 8,606,057
Employee Involvement
It is the policy of the Group to encourage and develop all members of staff to realise their maximum potential. Wherever possible,
vacancies are filled from within the Group and adequate opportunities for internal promotion are created. The Board is committed to a
systematic training policy.
The Group supports the principle of equal opportunities in employment and opposes all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination on
the grounds of race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender or gender reassignment, marital status or disability.
It is also the policy of the Group, where possible, to give sympathetic consideration to disabled persons in their application for
employment within the Group, and to protect the interests of existing members of the staff who are disabled.
The Group is committed to a comprehensive training and development programme creating the opportunity for employees to maintain
and improve their performance and to develop their potential to a maximum level of attainment. In this way, staff will make their best
possible contribution to the organisation's success.  Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 52
Directors’ Report
Year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
Close Company Status
So far as the Directors are aware the Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Directors’ Liability 
As permitted by the Companies Act 1985, the Company has insurance cover for the Directors against liabilities in relation to the
Group.
Electronic voting 
The Company has made provision for shareholders to vote electronically on the Resolutions to be considered at the Annual General
Meeting and full instructions are included on the Form of Proxy enclosed with this Annual Report.
Special Business
Six resolutions are set out under special business in the notice of this year’s Annual General Meeting. The first four of these resolutions
will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and the fifth and sixth as special resolutions.
The purpose of the first resolution is to approve the implementation of a Performance Share Plan. The second is to propose an
extension to the term of the Company’s Share Matching Plan until 28 April 2016 in line with the Performance Share Plan. The third is
to seek authority to amend the rules of the Group’s Savings Related Share Option Scheme. Further information relating to these first
three resolutions is to be found in the circular dated 8 March 2006 sent to shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts.
The purpose of the fourth of these resolutions is to renew the Directors’ authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount of
£9,555,623 representing 33.33% of the existing issued share capital. The Directors have, however, no current intention of exercising
that authority.
The fifth resolution relates to the limited power given to the Directors to allot equity securities for cash representing up to 5% of the
existing issued ordinary share capital, without the statutory pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 1985 applying. This power,
which accords with normal practice, expires on the date of this year’s Annual General Meeting. The purpose of the resolution is to
renew this power for a further year.
The sixth item of special business is the renewal of the authority of the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted
under its Articles of Association. This resolution will, if passed, give authority to make such purchases in the market. The Directors
have no immediate intention of using such authority and would do so only when they consider it to be in the best interests of
shareholders generally and an improvement in earnings per share would result. This Resolution specifies the maximum number of
ordinary shares which may be purchased (representing approximately 10% of the Company’s existing issued ordinary share capital)
and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought, reflecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and the
Financial Services Authority.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company’s auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting.
By Order of the Board
P R Cooper, ACA
Secretary
53 Manor Place
Edinburgh 
EH3 7EG
8 March 2006 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 53
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Johnston Press plc 
We have audited the group and individual
company financial statements (the
“financial statements”) of Johnston Press
plc for the year ended 31 December 2005
which comprise the group income
statement, the group statement of
recognised income and expense, the
group cash flow statement, the group and
individual company balance sheets, and
the related notes 1 to 45, together with the
group reconciliation of shareholders’
equity. These financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. We have also
audited the information in the directors’
remuneration report that is described as
having been audited.
This report is made solely to the
company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has
been undertaken so that we might state to
the company’s members those matters we
are required to state to them in an
auditors’ report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we
do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the annual report and the group financial
statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted for use in the European Union
and for preparing the parent individual
company financial statements and the
directors’ remuneration report in
accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
are set out in the relevant statements of
directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial
statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report described as having
been audited in accordance with relevant
United Kingdom legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to
whether the financial statements give a
true and fair view in accordance with the
relevant financial reporting framework and
whether the financial statements and the
part of the directors’ remuneration report
described as having been audited have
been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and
whether, in addition, the group financial
statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. We report to you if, in our
opinion, the directors' report is not
consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if the company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we
have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and transactions
with the company and other members of
the group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion,
the company has not complied with any of
the four directors’ remuneration disclosure
requirements specified for our review by
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority. These comprise the amount of
each element in the remuneration package
and information on share options, details
of long term incentive schemes, and
money purchase and defined benefit
schemes. We give a statement, to the
extent possible, of details of any non-
compliance.
We review whether the corporate
governance statement reflects the
company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined
Code specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We
are not required to consider whether the
board’s statements on internal control
cover all risks and controls, or form an
opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s
corporate governance procedures or its
risk and control procedures.
We read the directors’ report and the other
information contained in the annual report
for the above year as described in the
contents section including the unaudited
part of the directors’ remuneration report
and consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial
statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements and the part of
the directors’ remuneration report
described as having been audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial
statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so
as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements
and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements and
the part of the directors’ remuneration
report described as having been audited.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
• the group financial statements give a
true and fair view, in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted for use in the
European Union, of the state of the
group’s affairs as at 31 December 2005
and of its profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation;
• the individual company financial
statements give a true and fair view, 
in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the individual
company’s affairs as at 31 December
2005; and
• the individual company financial
statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report described as
having been audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants 
and Registered Auditors
Edinburgh 
8 March 2006 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 54
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
2005 2004
Before non- Non- Before non- Non-
recurring recurring recurring recurring
items items Total items items Total
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 5 520,154 — 520,154 519,299 — 519,299
Cost of sales (244,781) — (244,781) (239,722) — (239,722)
Gross profit 275,373 — 275,373 279,577 — 279,577
Operating expenses 6 (95,163) (2,614) (97,777) (101,366) (769) (102,135)
Share of results of associates 81 — 81 174 — 174
Operating profit 7 180,291 (2,614) 177,677 178,385 (769) 177,616
Investment income 9 371 — 371 830 (708) 122
Finance costs 10 (25,017) (1,668) (26,685) (27,939) — (27,939)
Profit before tax 155,645 (4,282) 151,363 151,276 (1,477) 149,799
Tax 11 (44,857) 1,285 (43,572) (43,630) 443 (43,187)
Profit for the year 110,788 (2,997) 107,791 107,646 (1,034) 106,612
Earnings per share (p)
Earnings per share - Basic 13 38.62 1.04 37.58 37.77 0.36 37.41
Earnings per share - Diluted 13 38.38 1.04 37.34 37.43 0.36 37.07
All of the above revenue and profit is derived from continuing operations.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 55
Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Hedging and
Revaluation Translation Retained
Reserve Reserve Earnings Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the year — — 107,791 107,791
Actuarial loss on defined
benefit pension schemes (net of tax) — — (803) (803)
Revaluation adjustment (249) — 249 —
Exchange differences on
translation of foreign operations — (43) — (43)
Change in fair value of financial instruments — 7,035 — 7,035
Total recognised income and expense (249) 6,992 107,237 113,980
For the year ended 31 December 2004
Profit for the year — — 106,612 106,612
Actuarial loss on defined
benefit pension schemes (net of tax) — — (13,091) (13,091)
Revaluation adjustment (69) — 69 —
Total recognised income and expense (69) — 93,590 93,521
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 56
Group Reconciliation of Shareholders’ Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Share-based Hedging and
Share Share Payments Revaluation Translation Retained Own
Capital Premium Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Shares Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Opening balances 
pre IAS 39 adjustment 29,638 323,670 1,474 2,836 — 38,564 (795) 395,387
IAS 39 adjustment — — — — (16,269) — — (16,269)
Revised opening balances 29,638 323,670 1,474 2,836 (16,269) 38,564 (795) 379,118
Total recognised 
income and expense — — — (249) 6,992 107,237 — 113,980
Recognised directly in equity
Dividends (note 12) — ———— (21,826) — (21,826)
New share capital subscribed 134 3,767————— 3,901
Own shares purchased — ————— (567) (567)
Amounts written off — ————— 613 613
Provision for share-based
payments — — 1,296———— 1,296
Net changes directly in equity 134 3,767 1,296 — — (21,826) 46 (16,583)
Total movements 134 3,767 1,296 (249) 6,992 85,411 46 97,397
Equity at the end 
of the year 29,772 327,437 2,770 2,587 (9,277) 123,975 (749) 476,515
For the year ended 31 December 2004
Opening balances 29,505 320,558 419 2,905 — (36,678) (470) 316,239
Total recognised 
income and expense — — — (69) — 93,590 — 93,521
Recognised directly in equity
Dividends — ———— (18,348) — (18,348)
New share capital subscribed 133 3,112————— 3,245
Own shares purchased — ————— (791) (791)
Amounts written off — ————— 466 466
Provision for share-based
payments — — 1,055———— 1,055
Net changes directly in equity 133 3,112 1,055 — — (18,348) (325) (14,373)
Total movements 133 3,112 1,055 (69) — 75,242 (325) 79,148
Equity at the end 
of the year 29,638 323,670 1,474 2,836 — 38,564 (795) 395,387
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 57
Group Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2005
2005 2004
Notes £’000 £’000
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 14 101,635 —
Other intangible assets 14 1,213,186 927,557
Property, plant and equipment 15 222,178 156,742
Available for sale investments 16 2,712 2,738
Interests in associates 17 48 60
Trade and other receivables 20 893 46
1,540,652 1,087,143
Current assets
Inventories 19 4,861 4,417
Trade and other receivables 20 70,204 60,114
Cash and cash equivalents 25,114 10,119
100,179 74,650
Total assets 1,640,831 1,161,793
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 73,351 57,492
Tax liabilities 16,854 24,814
Obligations under finance leases 25 60 16
Retirement benefit obligation 23 4,350 —
Borrowings 21 47,604 77,210
142,219 159,532
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 594,776 260,992
Obligations under finance leases 25 12 23
Derivative instruments 22 9,234 —
Retirement benefit obligation 23 50,839 70,586
Deferred tax liabilities 24 361,908 270,572
Trade and other payables 20 2,821 2,987
Long term provisions 26 2,507 1,714
1,022,097 606,874
Total liabilities 1,164,316 766,406
Net assets 476,515 395,387
Equity
Share capital 27 29,772 29,638
Share premium account 327,437 323,670
Share-based payments reserve 2,770 1,474
Revaluation reserve 2,587 2,836
Own shares (749) (795)
Hedging and translation reserve (9,277) —
Retained earnings 123,975 38,564
Total equity 476,515 395,387
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 8 March 2006.
They were signed on its behalf by:
T J Bowdler, Chief Executive Officer S R Paterson, Chief Financial Officer
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 58
Group Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Year Year
ended ended
2005 2004
Notes £’000 £’000
Cash generated from operations 29 182,055 193,712
Income tax paid (44,564) (34,321)
Net cash from operating activities 137,491 159,391
Investing activities
Interest received 371 848
Dividends received from associated undertakings 91 498
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,221 1,975
Proceeds on disposal of available for sale investments 28 1,198
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (63,642) (24,498)
Acquisition of businesses 28 (308,356) —
Net cash in businesses acquired 28 9,931 —
Net cash used in investing activities (359,356) (19,979)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (21,826) (18,348)
Interest paid (23,955) (26,455)
Interest paid on finance leases (15) (27)
Repayments of borrowings (157,679) (93,475)
New borrowings 443,604 —
Arrangement fees on new borrowings (1,505) —
Principal payments under finance leases (16) (27)
Issue of shares 3,901 3,245
Purchase of own shares (567) (791)
Decrease in bank overdrafts (5,082) (3,359)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 236,860 (139,237)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 14,995 175
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 10,119 9,944
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 25,114 10,119
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 59
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005
1.General information
Johnston Press is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered
office is given on the back page. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Chief
Executive Officer’s Review and the Financial Review on pages 12 to 23.
Application of IFRS 1
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 are the first financial statements to be prepared in accordance
with IFRS. These financial statements have been prepared as described in notes 1 and 2 including the principles set out in IFRS 1.
Under the first time adoption procedures set out in IFRS 1, the Group is required to establish its IFRS accounting policies as at 1
January 2005 and to apply these retrospectively in the determination of prior period comparatives from 1 January 2004, the date of
transition. There are a number of optional exemptions to this general principle, the most significant of which are set out below.
• IFRS 3, Business Combinations
The Group has elected not to restate business combinations prior to the date of transition.
• IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment
The Group has elected, where appropriate, to use book values at the date of transition as the “deemed” cost of plant, 
property and equipment. Consequently any historic asset revaluations will not be updated.
• IAS 19, Employee Benefits
The Group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in relation to employee benefit schemes at the 
date of transition. In subsequent periods all actuarial gains and losses will be recognised in full in the period in which they 
occur in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
• IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement
The Group has elected to adopt IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005 and not to restate prior period comparatives. 
Consequently the comparative financial information in respect of financial instruments is presented in accordance with UK 
GAAP . Preference shares qualify as equity with effect from 1 January 2005.
• IFRS 2, Share-Based Payments
The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all share-based awards and options granted post 7 November 2002 but not vested at 31
December 2004. 
Tables setting out the reconciliation of opening UK GAAP balances to IFRS, together with the effect on the Group’s equity, net income
and cash flows, are provided in note 34. 
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in
which the group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in
these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures; and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease
IFRIC 5 Right to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the
financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards
come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 60
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
2. Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the first time.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 34. The financial statements
have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the
EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial
instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its
subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective date
of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with
those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group
in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identifiable
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, including publishing titles, are
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for
resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discounted Operations, which are recognised and measured
at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. If,
after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Investments
Listed investments are shown as available for sale, initially recorded at cost in the period of acquisition and subsequently measured at
fair value. Gains and losses on the fair value of available for sale investments are recognised in equity. On disposal or impairment of
the investment, all relevant gains and losses are included in the income statement. 
Other investments are shown at cost less provisions for impairment, except for investments in associates. In the Group financial
statements, investments in associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method and therefore the Group financial
statements include the Group’s share of the profit and net assets of associates.
Publishing titles
The Group’s principal intangible assets are publishing titles. The Group does not capitalise internally generated goodwill or publishing
titles. Titles separately acquired after 1 January 1989 are stated at cost and titles owned by subsidiaries acquired after 1 January 1996
are recorded at directors’ valuation at the date of acquisition. These publishing titles have no finite life and consequently are not
amortised. Every six months impairment tests are undertaken, as outlined with goodwill, to determine any diminution in the recoverable
amount below carrying value. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use based on
the net present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital. Any
impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 61
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at
cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is
reviewed for impairment at least every six months. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently
reversed. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the
synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment every six months,
or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is
less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated
to the unit, second to the value of publishing titles and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount
of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. 
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on
disposal. 
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any
subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and
services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. 
Advertising revenue is recognised on publication and circulation revenue is recognised at the point of sale. Printing revenue is
recognised when the service is provided. 
The Group prepares financial statements to complete publishing weeks and once every five or six years the trading in a year
comprises 53 weeks. 2005 was a 52 week trading year compared to 53 weeks in 2004.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in
which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of
each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation
currency for the consolidated financial statements. 
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency
(foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date,
monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet
date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the
date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are
not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss
for the period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for
the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised
directly in equity. For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange
rates for the period. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s hedging and translation
reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity
and translated at the closing rate.  Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 62
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment balances are shown at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. In certain cases the
amounts of previous revaluations of properties conducted in 1996 or 1997 or the fair value of the property at the date of the
acquisition by the Group have been treated as the deemed cost on transition to IFRSs. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant
and equipment, excluding land, at varying rates calculated to write-off cost over the useful lives. The principal rates employed are:
Heritable and freehold property (excluding land) 2.5% on written down value
Leasehold land and buildings equal annual instalments over lease term
Web offset presses (excluding press components) 5% straight line basis
Pre-press systems 20% straight line basis
Other plant and machinery 15% on written down value
6.67%, 10%, 20%, 25% and 33% straight line basis
Motor vehicles 25% straight line basis
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value as follows:
Cost incurred in bringing materials to their present location and condition comprises; (a) raw materials and goods for resale at
purchase cost on a first-in first-out basis; and (b) work in progress at cost of direct materials, labour and certain overheads. Net
realisable value comprises selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. 
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to
the lessee. Assets held under the finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the
shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives. The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the
interest elements are charged to the Income Statement over the period of the leases on the effective interest method. All other leases
are classified as operating leases and rentals are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Development grants
Development grants for revenue expenditure are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related
costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense. Grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred
income and released to the Income Statement over the expected useful lives of the related assets. 
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring or other non-recurring costs and after the share of the results of associates but
before investment income and finance costs. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of that instrument.
The Group’s activities and funding structure give rise to some exposure to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. The Group uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge these exposures. The
Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Changes in the fair value
of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised
gains or losses reported in the Income Statement. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 63
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowance for estimated
irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including
premia payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the Income Statement using the effective interest
method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in
which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
On transition to IFRS, a deferred tax liability has been recorded in respect of publishing titles and properties that do not qualify for any
tax allowances that were acquired through business combinations. Given that the Group has elected, under IFRS 1, not to restate pre-
transition business combinations under IFRS 3, this pre-transition deferred tax element has been charged against retained earnings.
Any such fair value on future business combinations will form part of the goodwill on acquisition and both the goodwill and related
deferred tax liability will be included in any impairment test in relation to the relevant cash generating unit. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the relevant requirements of IAS12 are satisfied.  Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 64
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
2. Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
Retirement benefit costs
The Group provides pensions to employees through various schemes.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged to the Income Statement as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the
Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. 
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method,
with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in
which they occur. They are recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and
Expense. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on
a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the
scheme. 
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity settled share-based benefits to certain employees. Subject to the transition arrangements set out above,
these share-based payments are measured at their fair value at the date of grant and the fair value of expected shares is expensed to
the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model, as
amended to take account of the Directors’ best estimate of probable share vesting and exercise.
Dividends
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recorded as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved. 
In the Company’s financial statements, dividends receivable from subsidiaries are recognised as assets in the period in which the
dividends are approved.
3. Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
Critical judgements in applying the group’s accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management has made the following
judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements (apart from those involving
estimations, which are dealt with below).
Deferred tax balances on publishing titles and properties not eligible for tax allowances
Deferred tax amounting to £369,730,000 at 31 December 2005 (2004 - £283,595,000), has been provided pursuant to IAS 12 (Income
Taxes) on the values of the publishing titles in the Group’s balance sheet and the value of properties that are not eligible for tax
allowances. Management has considered it appropriate to provide this balance in order to comply with the technical requirements of
IAS 12 despite the fact that management cannot foresee any circumstances in which such a tax liability would arise. 
Management has no intention at the present time to dispose of any of the assets concerned but even if such a decision was to be
taken at some future date, it is unlikely that the titles or properties would be sold separately from the legal entities that own the assets.
As such, management is confident that this tax provision will never be required to be paid. Representations have been made to the
IASB on this matter, but in the meantime the deferred tax balance has been provided in order to comply with the standard. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 65
3. Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty (continued)
Valuation of publishing titles on acquisition
During the year the Group completed the acquisitions described in note 28. The Group’s policies require that a fair value at the date of
acquisition be attributed to the publishing titles owned by each acquired entity. The Group’s management uses its judgement to
determine the fair value attributable to each acquired publishing title taking into account the consideration paid, the earnings history
and potential of the title, any recent similar transactions, industry statistics such as average earnings multiples and any other relevant
factors. The fair values attributed to the titles acquired in 2005 are set out in note 28 and these values will be reviewed for impairment
at a minimum twice annually in the future.
Valuation of share-based payments
The Group estimates the expected value of share-based payments and this is charged through the Income Statement over the vesting
periods of the relevant payments. The cost is estimated using a Black Scholes valuation model. The Black Scholes calculations are
based on a number of assumptions that are set out in note 31 and are amended to take account of estimated levels of share vesting
and exercise. This method of estimating the value of the share-based payments is intended to ensure that the actual value transferred
to employees is provided in the share-based payments reserve by the time the payments are made. 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are
discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and publishing titles
Determining whether goodwill or publishing titles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to
which these assets are allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to identify appropriate cash generating units, to
estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate
present value. The carrying amount of goodwill was £101,635,000 at 31 December 2005 and the carrying amount of publishing titles
was £1,213,186,000 at the same date. No impairment losses have been identified or provided. Details of the impairment reviews that
the Group performs are provided in note 14.
Valuation of pension liabilities
The Group records in its balance sheet a liability equivalent to the deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes. This liability
is determined with advice from the Group’s actuarial advisers each year and can fluctuate based on a number factors some of which
are out-with the control of management. The main factors that can impact the valuation include:
• the discount rate used to discount future liabilities back to the present date. This is determined each year based on the
yield on corporate bonds
• the actual returns on investments experienced as compared to the expected rates used in the previous pension scheme valuation
• the actual rates of salary and pension increase as compared to the expected rates used in the previous valuation
• mortality assumptions.
Details of the assumptions used to determine the liability at 31 December 2005 are set out in note 23.
Bad debts provisions
The trade debtors balances recorded in the Group’s balance sheet comprise large numbers of comparatively small balances. The
Group’s policy is that all debts over 90 days are provided in a doubtful debts provision unless local conditions determine otherwise. At
the end of each half year local management undertake a full line by line review of all trade debtors. The judgements made locally are
also reviewed by the Group’s senior financial management. Whilst every attempt is made to ensure that the bad debts provisions are
as accurate as possible, there remains a risk that the provisions may not match the level of debts which ultimately prove to be
uncollectible.
4. Business and Geographical Segments
For management purposes the Group has two business segments, newspaper publishing (in print and online) and contract printing.
The business operates in two geographical segments which are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Revenue and the
carrying value of assets in the Republic of Ireland are less than 10 per cent in the current year and so have not been disclosed
seperately. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 66
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
5. Segmental Analysis
a) Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows: Total Total
Existing Acquisitions 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Newspaper publishing 484,070 14,971 499,041 499,999
Contract printing 18,794 2,319 21,113 19,300
Revenue sub total 502,864 17,290 520,154 519,299
Investment Income 324 47 371 122
Total revenue 503,188 17,337 520,525 519,421
The printing revenues excludes inter group revenue of £60 million (2004 - £60.8 million). 2005 comprised a 52 week trading year
compared to 53 weeks in 2004.
b) Operating profit
An analysis of the Group’s operating profit is as follows: Total Total
Existing Acquisitions 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Newspaper publishing 168,761 4,434 173,195 173,603
Contract printing 4,156 245 4,401 3,839
172,917 4,679 177,596 177,442
Share of results of associates 81 — 81 174
172,998 4,679 177,677 177,616
c) Cost of sales and operating expenses
Total Total
Existing Acquisitions 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost of sales 235,481 9,300 244,781 239,722
Operating expenses
Distribution costs 40,480 529 41,009 39,661
Administrative expenses 51,963 2,191 54,154 61,705
92,443 2,720 95,163 101,366
Non-recurring - administrative expenses 2,023 591 2,614 769
94,466 3,311 97,777 102,135 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 67
5. Segmental Analysis (continued)
d) Other information
An analysis of the Balance Sheet and property, plant and equipment information by segments is as follows:
Newspaper Contract Consolidated
publishing printing Total
2005 2005 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000
Additions to property, plant and equipment 14,096 59,323 73,419
Depreciation expense 11,279 8,644 19,923
Balance sheet
Assets
Intangibles 1,314,821 — 1,314,821
Property, plant and equipment 87,687 134,491 222,178
Interests in associates 48 — 48
Inventories 1,630 3,231 4,861
Trade and other receivables 68,417 2,680 71,097
Cash and cash equivalents 25,112 2 25,114
1,497,715 140,404 1,638,119
Unallocated corporate assets 
Available for sale investments 2,712
Total consolidated assets 1,640,831
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 64,469 11,703 76,172
Obligations under finance leases 72 — 72
64,541 11,703 76,244
Unallocated corporate liabilities
Tax liabilities 16,854
Bank overdrafts and loans 47,604
Borrowings 594,776
Derivative instruments 9,234
Retirement benefit obligations 55,189
Provisions 2,507
Deferred tax liability 361,908
Total consolidated liabilities 1,164,316
6. Non-Recurring Items
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Restructuring costs of acquired businesses 591 —
Restructuring costs of existing business 2,925 1,835
Profit on sale of investment — (1,066)
Profit on sale of property in existing business (902) —
2,614 769 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 68
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
7. Operating Profit
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Operating profit is shown after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 19,923 19,506
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (891) 285
Redundancy costs 4,280 2,495
Staff costs (note 8) 169,137 161,821
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services 509 237
Operating lease charges:
Plant and machinery 845 1,269
Other 2,609 2,900
Net foreign exchange losses 119 —
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 50,621 48,058
Staff costs shown above included £2,091,000 (2004 - £2,332,000) relating to remuneration of directors and key management
personnel.
In addition to the auditors’ remuneration shown above, the auditors received the following fees for non audit services.
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Corporate activity 56 60
Audit of circulation and distribution figures of the Group’s newspaper titles 220 244
Taxation compliance 85 82
Taxation advisory 23 69
384 455
In addition, an amount of £24,000 (2004 - £24,000) was paid to the external auditors for the audit of the Group’s pension schemes.
8. Employees
The average monthly number of employees, including executive directors, key management personnel and the acquired
businesses on a pro rata basis, was:
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
No. No.
Editorial and photographic 2,122 1,991
Sales and distribution 3,412 3,264
Production 1,621 1,664
Administration 779 732
7,934 7,651
£’000 £’000
Staff costs:
Wages and salaries 145,049 139,877
Social security costs 13,763 12,765
Other pension costs (note 23) 9,028 8,124
Cost of share-based awards 1,297 1,055
169,137 161,821
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are included in the audited part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 49. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 69
9. Investment Income
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Income from fixed asset investments 265 495
Interest receivable 106 335
371 830
Non-recurring
Impairment of available-for-sale investments — (708)
371 122
10. Finance Costs
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Interest on pension liabilities 16,505 14,969
Expected return on pension assets (17,026) (13,997)
(521) 972
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 24,553 24,954
Interest on obligations under finance leases 17 27
Amortisation of term debt issue costs 968 1,986
25,017 27,939
Non-recurring
Write off of term debt issue costs on old bank facility repaid 1,668 —
26,685 27,939
11. Tax
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Current tax 36,806 45,061
Deferred tax (note 24) 6,766 (1,874)
43,572 43,187
UK corporation tax is calculated at 30% (2004 - 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other
jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdiction.
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 % £’000 %
Profit before tax 151,363 100 149,799 100
Tax at 30% 45,409 30 44,940 30
Tax effect of share of results of associate (24) — (52) —
Tax effect of expenses that are
non deductible in determining taxable profit 102 0.1 114 0.1
Tax effect of investment income (32) — (149) (0.1)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries (1,004) (0.7) ——
Over provision in prior years (879) (0.6) (1,666) (1.2)
Tax expense for the year and effective rate 43,572 28.8 43,187 28.8 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 70
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
12. Dividends
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
Amounts recognised as distributions to £’000 £’000
equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2004 of 4.8p (2003 - 4p) 13,695 11,360
Interim dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2005 of 2.8p (2004 - 2.4p) 7,979 6,836
Preference Dividends 
13.75% Cumulative Preference Shares 104 104
13.75% “A” Preference Shares 48 48
21,826 18,348
The proposed dividend to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is 5.6p per share making a total for the
year of 8.4p.
13. Earnings per Share
The calculation of earnings per share is based on the following profits and weighted average number of shares:
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Earnings
Profit for the year 107,791 106,612
Preference dividend — (152)
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted
earnings per share 107,791 106,460
Non-recurring items (after tax) 2,997 1,034
Earnings for the purposes of underlying
earnings per share 110,788 107,494
2005 2004
No. of shares No. of shares
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
for the purposes of basic earnings per share 285,762,958 284,567,734
Weighted average number of preference shares
for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,105,600 —
Number of shares for the purposes of 
basic earnings per share 286,868,558 284,567,734
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
- share options 1,826,349 2,593,694
Number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 288,694,907 287,161,428
Earnings per share (p)
Basic 37.58 37.41
Underlying 38.62 37.77
Diluted 37.34 37.07
Underlying figures are presented to show the effect of excluding non-recurring items from earnings per share. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 71
14. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Publishing
Goodwill Titles
£’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2005 — 927,557
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 28) 101,635 285,629
At 31 December 2005 101,635 1,213,186
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005 ——
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 101,635 1,213,186
At 31 December 2004 — 927,557
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to
benefit from that business combination. The carrying value of goodwill and publishing titles by CGU is as follows:
Goodwill Publishing Titles
2005 2004 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Newspaper and contract printing segment CGUs:
Scotland Newspaper Division 10,554 — 44,922 9,743
Northeast Newspaper Division — — 63,812 63,812
North of England Newspaper Division 114 — 385,326 384,946
Northwest Newspaper Division 534 — 163,114 163,000
Midlands Newspaper Division 926 — 176,592 173,507
South of England Newspaper Division — — 132,549 132,549
Northern Ireland Newspaper Division 35,273 — 117,576 —
Republic of Ireland Newspaper Division 54,234 — 129,295 —
101,635 — 1,213,186 927,557
The Group tests goodwill and publishing titles every six months for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that they might be
impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations
are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management
estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
CGUs. The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and
expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next year and
extrapolates cash flows for the following 20 years based on estimated growth rates that do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for
the relevant markets. No residual value or perpetuity factor is currently assumed in the value of these calculations. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 72
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
15. Property, Plant and Equipment
Freehold land Leasehold Plant and Motor
and buildings buildings machinery vehicles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2004 50,751 4,647 167,530 17,211 240,139
Additions 1,922 9 15,183 4,422 21,536
Disposals (674) — (1,113) (672) (2,459)
At 31 December 2004 51,999 4,656 181,600 20,961 259,216
Additions 20,327 1 49,247 3,844 73,419
Acquisition of subsidiaries 6,210 168 6,670 241 13,289
Disposals (997) — (222) (464) (1,683)
Exchange differences (2) (2) (29) — (33)
At 31 December 2005 77,537 4,823 237,266 24,582 344,208
Depreciation
At 1 January 2004 4,343 874 69,005 8,945 83,167
Disposals (93) — — (106) (199)
Charge for the year 1,064 147 15,321 2,974 19,506
At 31 December 2004 5,314 1,021 84,326 11,813 102,474
Disposals (134)—(191)(28)(353)
Charge for the year 935 146 15,502 3,340 19,923
Exchange differences (1) (1) (12) — (14)
At 31 December 2005 6,114 1,166 99,625 15,125 122,030
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 71,423 3,657 137,641 9,457 222,178
At 31 December 2004 46,685 3,635 97,274 9,148 156,742
Freehold land amounting to £13,047,000 (2004 - £13,047,000) has not been depreciated. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 73
15. Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
a) Freehold land and buildings comprise:
At valuation 36,024 36,954
At cost 41,513 15,045
77,537 51,999
Professional valuations were carried out by members of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors on certain of the Group’s
buildings at 31 December 1997. Valuations were also carried out at 31 December 1996 by professional valuers on those
properties acquired from Emap plc and Newsquest Media Group Ltd. The valuations were prepared on an existing use basis. 
The freehold properties acquired from Regional Independent Media Holdings Ltd and from the various acquisitions in 2005 were
valued by the directors following advice from a firm of Chartered Surveyors as part of the fair value accounting.
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
b) Historical cost figures for freehold buildings are:
Cost 74,382 49,010
Depreciation (6,412) (5,361)
67,970 43,649
£’000
c) Assets in the course of construction
Plant and machinery
At 1 January 2004 3,831
Movement in the year 3,178
At 31 December 2004 7,009
Movement in year 30,291
At 31 December 2005 37,300
d) The Group plant additions include £37,300,000 (2004 - £7,009,000) relating to progress payments in respect of the new press
plant in South Yorkshire. This will not be depreciated until the press is available for commercial operation. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 74
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
16. Available for sale investments
As a result of adoption of IAS 32 and 39, the assets previously categorised as investments have been re-classified as available-
for-sale investments and interests in associates. There has been no impact on the total value of these assets.
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Listed investments at fair value 2 28
Unlisted investments
Cost 4,494 4,494
Provision for impairment (1,784) (1,784)
Unlisted investments carrying amount 2,710 2,710
Total investments 2,712 2,738
17. Interests in associates
The Group’s associated undertakings at 31 December 2005 are:
Place of Proportion of Proportion Method of
incorporation ownership of voting accounting
Name and operation interest power held for investment
Classified Periodicals Ltd England 50% 50% Equity method
Free Admart Ltd England 25% 25% Equity method
The aggregate amounts relating to associates are:
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Total assets 149 145
Total liabilities (21) (24)
Revenues 222 229
Profit 105 105
18. Investments in subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion owned, is given in
note 37 to the Company’s separate financial statements. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 75
19. Inventories
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Raw materials 4,572 4,236
Work-in-progress 2 3
Goods for resale 287 178
4,861 4,417
20. Other financial assets and liabilities
Trade and other receivables
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Current:
Trade debtors 61,014 53,528
Prepayments 4,611 3,435
Other debtors 4,579 3,151
70,204 60,114
Non current:
Trade debtors 30 46
Prepayments 863 —
893 46
The average credit period taken on sales is 49 days (2004 - 52 days). No interest is charged on the debtors. An allowance has
been made for the estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services of £7,517,000 (2004 - £6,360,000). This
allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying
amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Credit Risk
The Group’s principal assets subject to credit risk are bank balances and cash, trade and other debtors and investments.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade debtors. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of
allowances for doubtful debtors. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on
previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit
ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 76
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
20. Other Financial Assets and Liabilities (continued)
Trade and other payables
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Current:
Trade creditors and accruals 68,437 53,212
Other creditors 4,914 4,280
73,351 57,492
Non current:
Trade and other creditors 2,821 2,987
2,821 2,987
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average
credit period taken for trade purchases is 16 days (2004 - 16 days).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
21. Borrowings
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts 6,591 11,673
Bank loans 443,604 156,796
Guaranteed loan stock 60,761 39,440
Private placement of 10 year senior notes 132,785 132,785
643,741 340,694
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year 47,892 78,566
In the second year — 113,119
In the third to fifth years inclusive 463,064 16,224
After five years 132,785 132,785
643,741 340,694
Less amount due for settlement within one year (47,892) (78,566)
Amount due for settlement after one year 595,849 262,128
The borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of term debt issue costs of £1,361,000 of which £288,000 is deducted from
current liabilities (2004 - £2,492,000 of which £1,356,000 is deducted from current liabilities).
The Group’s net borrowings are:
Gross borrowings as above 643,741 340,694
Finance leases 72 39
Term debt issue costs (1,361) (2,492)
Cash and cash equivalents (25,114) (10,119)
Net borrowings 617,338 328,122 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 77
21. Borrowings (continued)
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
At 31 December 2005
Total Sterling Euros US Dollars
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts 6,591 6,403 188 —
Bank loans 443,604 348,215 95,389 —
Guaranteed loan stock 1996/2006 38,557 38,557 — —
Other guaranteed loan stock 22,204 2,745 19,459 —
Private placement of 10 year senior notes 132,785 60,000 — 72,785
643,741 455,920 115,036 72,785
At 31 December 2004
Bank overdrafts 11,673 11,673 — —
Bank loans 156,796 156,796 — —
Guaranteed loan stock 1999/2006 39,440 39,440 — —
Private placement of 10 year senior notes 132,785 60,000 — 72,785
340,694 267,909 — 72,785
Interest rates:
The weighted average interest rates were paid as follows:
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
% %
Bank overdrafts 5.5 5.5
Bank loans 5.9 6.2
Guaranteed loan stock 1999/2006 5.8 5.5
Private placement of 10 year senior notes 6.3 6.1
6.0 6.1
Borrowings of £250,000,000 (2004 - £250,000,000) were arranged at fixed interest rates and expose the Group to fair value interest
rate risk. In the early part of 2006 additional hedge arrangements were entered into totalling £150 million. Other borrowings are
arranged at floating rates, thus exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of the Group’s borrowings is not significantly different from the balance sheet values for all
borrowings except the US dollar denominated 10 year senior notes. The directors estimate that the fair value of this debt was
£66,829,000 which is £5,956,000 less than the value shown in the balance sheet (2004 - £58,255,000 which was £14,530,000 less
than the value shown in the balance sheet).
The floating rate overdrafts and loans bear interest at Libor plus or minus an agreed margin fixed at maturity intervals which can be
monthly, quarterly or half yearly. The margin is based on the following:
a) Overdraft 1% above Libor
b) Loan Stock 1999/2006 0.5%
c) Loan stock 2000/2010 Libor      
d) Revolving Credit Facilities. 1% above Libor with adjustments dependent on financial ratios.
The hedging arrangements described in note 22 all relate to the Revolving Credit Facility and the Private Placement of 10 Year
Senior Notes. They were a requirement of the Revolving Credit Facility. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 78
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
21. Borrowings (continued)
At 31 December 2005, the Group had Revolving Credit Facilities of £550 million with a number of banks maturing in 2010, together
with a £30 million overdraft facility and a Private Placement of 10 year Senior Notes amounting to £133 million. The undrawn element
of the Facilities at 31 December 2005 amounted to £45 million. The Loan Stock 1999/2006 is part of the £550 million Revolving
Credit Facilities and any redemptions over £1 million are funded from additional drawdowns from the Term Loan Facility.
The Private Placement of Senior Notes is made up of £60 million at a fixed rate of 6.3% and $115 million at a fixed rate of 5.75%
maturing in 2013. Using hedging agreements, the latter tranche was swapped back into floating sterling to ensure the Group has
no exposure to interest rates outside the UK. 
In addition, the Group had negotiated temporary facilities of £160 million to purchase The Scotsman Publications Ltd, which
completed on 4 January 2006. The term of this facility is six months and it will be replaced by permanent facilities in the first half
of 2006.
22. Derivative Financial Instruments
Adoption of IAS 32 & 39
IAS 32 & 39 were adopted by the Group on 1 January 2005. The foreign exchange element of the cross-currency interest rate swaps
is now presented and measured separately from the private placement loans to which they relate. The Group has elected not to
restate comparative periods and so comparative periods are disclosed and measured based on UK GAAP .
The Group has applied hedge accounting in accordance with the provisions of IAS 39.
Year ended
2005
Liabilities
Cross-currency and other interest rate swaps - fair value
Closing balance at 31 December 2004 —
Impact of IAS 32 & 39 16,269
Opening balance at 1 January 2005 after the impact of IAS 32 & 39 16,269
Movement in fair value during the period including exchange movements (7,035)
Closing balance at 31 December 2005 9,234
Current —
Non-current 9,234
Currency derivatives
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. The Group is a party to a number of
foreign currency forward contracts and options in the management of its exchange rate exposures. The instruments purchased are
primarily denominated in the currencies of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries and in US dollars in order to hedge the risks associated
with the US dollar denominated senior loan notes. At the balance sheet date, the total notional amount of outstanding forward
foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed are as below:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts 72,785 72,785 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 79
22. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)
In addition, the Group had options to purchase Euros and Swiss francs equivalent to amounts of approximately £10,211,000 and
£4,132,000 as hedges against exchange losses on future purchases of plant. 
The hedging arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures related to the senior loan notes and other
commitments that exist at 31 December 2005. The arrangements are regularly reviewed and updated as required.
At 31 December 2005 the fair value of the Group’s currency derivatives is estimated to be a liability of approximately £7,566,000
(2004 - liability of £14,530,000). These amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. 
The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to £7,566,000 (2004 - liability
of £14,530,000) has been recognised directly in equity. 
No amounts have been transferred to the income statement in respect of contracts matured during the period or in respect of
changes in the fair value of non-hedging currency derivatives (2004 - nil).
The Group does not currently designate its foreign currency denominated debt as a hedging instrument for the purpose of hedging
the translation of its foreign operations. 
Interest rate swaps
The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its bank borrowings. Contracts with
nominal values of £190 million have fixed interest payments at an average rate of 5.15 per cent for periods up until 2007. In addition,
at the balance sheet date, the Group had entered into further interest rate swaps with a nominal value of £100 million with fixed
interest payments at an average of 4.49 per cent for the period from 2007 to 2010.
The fair value of swaps entered into at 31 December 2005 is estimated at a liability of £1,668,000 (2004 - liability of £1,739,000).
These amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. All of these interest rate swaps are
designated and effective as cash flow hedges and the fair value thereof has been recognised directly in equity. An amount of
£678,000 (2004 - £1,579,000) has been offset against hedged interest payments made in the period.  Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 80
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
23. Retirement Benefit Obligation
In 2005, the Group operated the Johnston Press Pension Plan (JPPP), together with the schemes it inherited in the businesses
acquired. The JPPP is in two parts, a defined contribution scheme and a defined benefit scheme. The latter is closed to new
members. The Group has offered the UK based employees in the acquired businesses the option of transferring to the JPPP and
is in the process of establishing a Group wide defined contribution scheme in the Republic of Ireland.
The assets of the schemes are held seperately from those of the Group. The contributions are determined by a qualified actuary
on the basis of a triennial valuation using the projected unit method. The financial information provided below relates to the
defined element of the JPPP .
The defined contribution scheme provides for employee contributions between 2-4% dependent on age, with higher
contributions from the Group. In addition, the Group bears the majority of the administration costs and also life cover. There are
also executive sections of the scheme with increased contribution rates from both the employee and employer.
The pension cost charged to the Income Statement was as follows: 
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Defined benefit schemes 4,161 4,942
Defined contribution schemes 4,867 3,182
9,028 8,124
Major assumptions:
Valuation at Valuation at
2005 2004
Discount rate 4.7% 5.3%
Expected return on scheme assets 6.5% 7.0%
Expected rate of salary increases 3.5% 3.5%
Future pension increases 2.5% 2.5%
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
Year ended Year ended
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Current service cost 4,161 4,942
Interest cost 16,505 14,969
Expected return on scheme assets (17,026) (13,997)
3,640 5,914
Of the current service cost for the year, £3,287,000 (2004 - £3,904,000) has been included in cost of sales and £874,000 (2004 -
£1,038,000) has been included in operating expenses. Interest cost and expected return on scheme assets are included in
finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the group statement of recognised income and expense. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 81
23. Retirement Benefit Obligation (continued)
Amounts included in the balance sheet:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations 364,727 312,194
Fair value of scheme assets 309,538 241,608
Deficit in scheme 55,189 70,586
Past service cost not yet recognised in balance sheet — —
Total liability recognised in balance sheet 55,189 70,586
Amount included in current liabilities (4,350) —
Amount included in non-current liabilities 50,839 70,586
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
At 1 January 312,194 277,836
Service costs 4,161 4,942
Interest costs 16,505 14,969
Contribution from scheme members 3,830 3,123
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligations 37,623 15,202
Benefits paid (9,586) (9,499)
Change in method of recognising protected rights — 5,621
At 31 December 364,727 312,194
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
At 1 January 241,608 212,427
Expected return on scheme assets 17,026 13,997
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 36,454 5,073
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 20,206 10,866
Contributions from scheme members 3,830 3,123
Benefits paid (9,586) (9,499)
Change in method of recognising protected rights — 5,621
At 31 December 309,538 241,608
Analysis of the scheme assets and the expected rate of return:
Expected Fair value
return of assets
2005 2004 2005 2004
% % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments 7.1% 7.5% 226,341 173,754
Debt instruments 4.5% 5.1% 45,890 39,296
Property 5.6% 6.0% 28,286 21,872
Other assets 6.1% 6.6% 9,021 6,686
6.5% 7.0% 309,538 241,608 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 82
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
23. Retirement Benefit Obligation (continued)
History of experience adjustments:
2005 2004 2003 2002
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations 364,727 312,194 277,800 247,900
Fair value of scheme assets 309,538 241,608 212,400 173,000
Deficit in the scheme 55,189 70,586 65,400 74,900
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities
Amount (£’000) (37,623) (15,202) (13,954) (3,496)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (10.3%) (4.9%) (5.0%) (1.4%)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets
Amounts (£’000) 36,454 5,073 17,831 (40,886)
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 11.8% 2.1% 8.4% (23.6%)
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the current financial year is £5,500,000.
Certain of the companies acquired during 2005 participate in industry sponsored pension schemes. A provision of £835,000
(2004 - £nil) is included in long term provisions in respect of the group’s obligations to these industry sponsored pension
schemes.
24. Deferred Tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current
and prior reporting period.
Accelerated tax Intangible Pension Share based Other timing
depreciation assets balances payments differences Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2004 12,803 283,595 (19,126) (126) 910 278,056
Charge/(credit) to income 389 — (15) (316) (1,932) (1,874)
Credit to equity — — (5,610) — — (5,610)
At 31 December 2004 13,192 283,595 (24,751) (442) (1,022) 270,572
Charge/(credit) to income 4,378 — 3,069 (389) (292) 6,766
Credit to equity — — (325) — — (325)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (306) 86,135 (92) — (842) 84,895
At 31 December 2005 17,264 369,730 (22,099) (831) (2,156) 361,908 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 83
24. Deferred Tax (continued)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset)
for financial reporting purposes:
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax liabilities 386,994 296,697
Deferred tax assets (25,086) (26,125)
361,908 270,572
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries
for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £11,940,000 (2004 - £7,880,000). No liability has been recognised
in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences
and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
25. Obligations Under Finance Leases
Present value of
minimum lease
payments
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year 60 16
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12 23
72 39
Less amounts due for settlement within one year
(shown under current liabilities) (60) (16)
Amount due for settlement after one year 12 23
The amount of future finance charges are not significant. All lease obligations are denominated in sterling and the above
obligations are secured by the lessor’s rights over the leased assets.
26. Long Term Provisions
Obligations
to industry
Post sponsored
Unfunded retirement pension
pensions health costs schemes Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2005 1,220 494 — 1,714
Acquisition of subsidiaries — — 835 835
Paid during the year — (42) — (42)
At 31 December 2005 1,220 452 835 2,507
The unfunded pension provision is assessed by a qualified actuary at each year end. The post retirement health costs represent
management’s estimate of the liability concerned. The obligations to industry sponsored pension schemes were assessed by
actuarial advisors. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 84
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
27. Share Capital
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Authorised
390,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each (2004 - 390,000,000) 39,000 39,000
756,000 13.75% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each (2004 - 756,000) 756 756
415,000 13.75% “A” Preference Shares of £1 each (2004 - 415,000) 415 415
40,171 40,171
Issued
286,668,718 Ordinary Shares of 10p each (2004 - 285,320,970) 28,666 28,532
756,000 13.75% Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each (2004 - 756,000) 756 756
349,600 13.75% “A” Preference Shares of £1 each (2004 - 349,600) 350 350
29,772 29,638
During the year ended 31 December 2005, Ordinary Shares of 10p each were issued and allotted as follows:
£’000
524,315 shares under the terms of the executive share option schemes for a consideration of £1,665,382 52
823,433 shares under the terms of the save as you earn scheme for a consideration of £2,236,300 82
Total at 31 December 2004 28,532
Total at 31 December 2005 28,666
Details of options outstanding are shown in note 31.
The Company has only one class of ordinary shares which has no right to fixed income. All the preference shares are entitled
to a fixed dividend of 13.75% and rank in priority to the ordinary shares. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 85
28. Acquisition of Subsidiaries
Score Press Limited
On 9 August 2005, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of Score Press Limited for cash consideration of
£99,075,000. Score Press Limited is the parent company of a group of companies involved in newspaper publishing. This
transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
£’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired
Publishing titles 110,882 33,812 144,694
Property plant and equipment 8,427 (946) 7,481
Inventories 543 (95) 448
Trade and other receivables 7,077 (577) 6,500
Cash and cash equivalents 5,939 (1) 5,938
Trade and other payables (44,935) (656) (45,591)
Current tax liabilities (485) 488 3
Loan notes (19,459) — (19,459)
Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets (680) 850 170
Deferred tax liability on publishing titles — (43,854) (43,854)
Retirement benefit obligation — (688) (688)
67,309 (11,667) 55,642
Goodwill 43,854
Total consideration excluding debt 99,496
Satisfied by:
Cash 99,075
Directly attributable costs 421
99,496
Net cash flows arising on acquisition
Cash consideration including costs settled on acquisition 99,396
Net debt settled at acquisition 42,405
141,801
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (5,938)
Net cash flow arising on acquisition 135,863
Score Press Limited contributed £13,859,000 to revenue and £4,150,000 to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between
the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 86
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
28. Acquisition of Subsidiaries (continued)
Local Press Limited
On 4 November 2005, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of Local Press Limited for cash consideration
of £16,742,000 and an issue of loan notes of £2,381,000. Local Press Limited is the parent company of a group of companies
involved in newspaper publishing. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
£’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired
Publishing titles 41,602 19,974 61,576
Property plant and equipment 2,420 (609) 1,811
Investments 4(4) —
Inventories 198 (89) 109
Trade and other receivables 2,674 (18) 2,656
Current tax recoverable 255 56 311
Cash and cash equivalents 2,689 — 2,689
Trade and other payables (50,236) (137) (50,373)
Deferred tax assets 721 334 1,055
Deferred tax liability on publishing titles — (18,473) (18,473)
Retirement benefit obligations — (18) (18)
327 1,016 1,343
Goodwill 18,473
Total consideration excluding debt 19,816
Satisfied by:
Cash 16,742
Issue of loan notes 2,381
Directly attributable costs 693
19,816
Net cash flows arising on acquisition
Cash consideration including costs settled at acquisition 17,435
Net debt settled at acquisition 48,567
66,002
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (2,689)
Net cash flow arising on acquisition 63,313
Local Press Limited contributed £2,992,000 to revenue and £523,000 to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the
date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 87
28. Acquisition of Subsidiaries (continued)
Leinster Leader Limited
On 14 December 2005, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of Leinster Leader Limited for cash
consideration of £76,001,000. The Leinster Leader is the parent company of a group of companies involved in newspaper
publishing. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
£’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired
Publishing titles 175 75,605 75,780
Property plant and equipment 4,459 (528) 3,931
Investments 17 (17) —
Inventories 265 (7) 258
Trade and other receivables 5,737 (234) 5,503
Cash and cash equivalents 1,284 — 1,284
Trade and other payables (23,147) — (23,147)
Current tax liabilities (96) — (96)
Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets (62) 76 14
Deferred tax liability on publishing titles — (22,734) (22,734)
(11,368) 52,161 40,793
Goodwill 37,734
Total consideration excluding debt 78,527
Satisfied by:
Cash 76,001
Directly attributable costs 2,526
78,527
Net cash flow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration including costs settled at acquisition 77,027
Net debt settled at acquisition 19,666
96,693
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (1,284)
Net cash flow arising on acquisition 95,409
The business did not contribute any significant amounts of revenue or profit before tax for the period between the date of
acquisition and the balance sheet date. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 88
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
28. Acquisition of Subsidiaries (continued)
Other acquisitions
During the year the Group, through its wholly owned subsidiary Johnston Publishing Ltd, acquired 100 per cent of the issued
share capital of Ashwell Associates Ltd and Best Asian Media Ltd together with the trade and assets of the Thorne Gazette for
cash consideration of £2,949,000, £235,000 and £380,000 respectively and, in the case of Best Asian Media Ltd, an issue of loan
notes of £364,000. These transactions have been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
£’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired for the three acquisitions in aggregate
Publishing titles 330 3,249 3,579
Property plant and equipment 127 (56) 71
Investments 5(5) —
Inventories 4(4) —
Trade and other receivables 364 (94) 270
Cash and cash equivalents 20 — 20
Trade and other payables (509) 13 (496)
Current tax liabilities (16) — (16)
Deferred tax liabilities 5(5) —
Deffered tax liability on publishing titles — (1,074) (1,074)
330 2,024 2,354
Goodwill 1,574
Total consideration excluding debt 3,928
Satisfied by:
Cash 3,564
Issue of loan notes 364
3,928
Net cash flows arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 3,564
Net debt settled at acquisition 296
3,860
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (20)
3,840
The businesses contributed £439,000 to revenue and £45,000 to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the dates of
acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If all the acquisitions described above had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the period
would have been £575,000,000 and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been £109,400,000. This
takes no account of any synergies or restructuring post acquisition. These figures exclude the impact of the acquisition of The
Scotsman Publications Ltd which is shown in note 33.
As described in note 33, on 4 January 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of The Scotsman Publications
Limited for a consideration of approximately £160 million debt free. The Group has not yet completed its evaluation of the fair
values of the assets and liabilities acquired and accordingly it is not practical to include these details. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 89
29. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement 
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Operating profit 177,677 177,616
Adjustments for:
Non-recurring items — (337)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19,923 19,506
Share of result of associate (81) (174)
Currency differences 41 —
Cost of long term incentive plan benefits 613 466
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (891) 285
Profit on sale of investments — (1,066)
Movement on pension provision (16,566) (300)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 180,716 195,996
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 371 (1,456)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 3,890 (4,805)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (2,922) 3,977
Cash generated by operations 182,055 193,712
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at
bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
30. Guarantees and Other Financial Commitments
a) Lease commitments
The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating leases in respect of plant and machinery, the payments for which extend over a
period of years. The total annual rental for 2005 was £845,000 (2004 - £1,269,000). In addition, the Group leases certain land and
buildings on short-term and long-term operating leases. The annual rental on these leases was £2,609,000 (2004 - £2,900,000). The
rents payable under property leases are subject to renegotiation at various intervals specified in the leases. The Group pays insurance,
maintenance and repairs of these properties.
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
The total amounts payable under the foregoing leases are as follows:
Plant 
Within one year 378 309
Between two and five years 414 506
792 815
Land and buildings 
Within one year 3,365 2,665
Between two and five years 11,258 9,162
After five years 16,475 11,042
31,098 22,869
b) Capital commitments
Contracted for but not provided 32,552 21,250
c) Bank guarantees
A guarantee is is in place with the Group’s bankers and Private Placement Senior Note holders which requires a specific
proportion of the Group’s assets and profits to be held within the guarantor group of companies. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 90
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
30. Guarantees and Other Financial Commitments (continued)
d) Contingent liability
In March 2004, HMRC issued a tax assessment for £86 million against one of the RIM Group companies Johnston Press acquired in
2002. The assessment relates to the sale of the RIM companies by United Business Media Plc (UBM) in 1998. From correspondence
received in 2005 it is expected that the issue will be heard by the Special Commissioners later in 2006. In the event of proven liability
the Group holds a full tax indemnity from UBM and accordingly no provision for any liability is reflected in these financial statements.
31. Share-based Payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
Options over ordinary shares are granted under the Executive’s Share Option Scheme. Options are exercisable at a price equal to
the closing quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the day prior to the date of grant. The vesting period is 3 years. If
the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the
employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year:
2005 2004
Number Weighted Number Weighted
of share average of share average
options exercise options exercise
price (in p) price (in p)
Outstanding at beginning of period 2,394,702 382 2,296,905 311
Granted during the period 817,336 497 671,041 539
Forfeited during the period (27,502) 392 (16,133) 345
Exercised during the period (524,315) 318 (557,111) 279
Outstanding at the end of the period 2,660,221 430 2,394,702 382
Exercisable at the end of the period 335,379 311 418,640 271
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 497p. The options
outstanding at 31 December 2005 had a weighted average exercise price of 430p, and a weighted average remaining
contractual life of 7.8 years. In 2005, options were granted on 17 March, 27 April and 30 June. The aggregate of the estimated
fair values of the options granted on those dates is £1.1 million. In 2004, options were granted on 26 April 2004 and the
aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on that date is £1.0 million.
Inputs into the Black-Scholes model:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price 497p 539p
Weighted average exercise price 497p 539p
Expected volatility 35% 35%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 5% 5%
Expected annual dividend yield 1% 1%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous 1 year.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of £1,296,000 and £1,055,000 related to equity-settled share-based payment
transactions in 2005 and 2004 respectively. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 91
31. Share-based Payments (continued)
Group Savings - Related Share Option Scheme
The Company operates a Group savings-related share option scheme. This has been approved by the Inland Revenue and is
based on eligible employees being granted options and their agreeing to save weekly or monthly in a sharesave account with
Halifax plc for a period of either 3, 5 or 7 years. The right to exercise is at the discretion of the employee within six months
following the end of the period of saving.
Options outstanding under savings-related scheme at 31 December 2005:
Option Grant Date Number of Shares Issue price per Share
02.10.98 23,280 167.49p
29.09.99 73,141 278.25p
29.09.00 54,492 310.67p
27.09.01 140,337 274.65p
27.09.02 1,138,694 279.00p
26.09.03 590,726 345.50p
29.09.04 556,652 414.50p
29.09.05 789,851 397.00p
The above options were issued to employees at a price equivalent to the average mid-market price for the 30 days prior to 
7 July 1997, 10 September 1998, 6 September 1999, 4 September 2000, 3 September 2001, 30 August 2002, 29 August 2003, 
27 August 2004 and 2 September 2005 respectively. A discount of 20% to the average mid-market price was applied to the
issues in 2002 and thereafter.
32. Related Party Transactions
The Group undertook transactions, all of which were on an arms’ length basis, and had balances outstanding at 31 December
2005 and 2004 with related parties as shown below. 
Purchases Creditors Sales Debtors
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Related party £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Classified 
Periodicals Ltd 73 81 — 11 54 75 2 18
Free Admart Ltd 101 99 24 14 — — — —
Classified Periodicals Ltd is an associated undertaking of Johnston Press plc, which re-publishes in a separate publication
classified advertisements which appear in the Group’s titles and those of certain other publishers. Free Admart Ltd publishes a
separate title in conjunction with other newspaper publishers. The Group provided certain administrative, distribution and
production services to Classified Periodicals Ltd.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions
have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
33. Events After the Balance Sheet Date
On 4 January 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of The Scotsman Publications Limited (TSPL) for a
consideration of approximately £160 million debt free excluding acquisition fees. In the twelve months to 31 December 2005 the
turnover and operating profit of TSPL was £65,514,000 and £8,244,000 respectively. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 92
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS
This is the first year that the Group has presented its financial statements under IFRS. The following disclosures are required in
the year of transition. The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the date of
transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
Differences between IFRS and UK GAAP
Dividends - IAS 10, Events After the Balance Sheet Date
Dividends proposed are disclosed but are not recognised as liabilities until they are appropriately approved by the shareholders. 
Employee Option and Performance Share Schemes - IFRS 2, Share-based Payments
All transactions within the scope of IFRS 2 are measured based on the fair value of the option or award at grant date and
expensed to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the scheme. 
Pension Costs - IAS 19, Employee Benefits
Under IAS 19, the pension scheme liability is shown gross of the related deferred tax asset.
Holiday Pay - IAS 19, Employee Benefits
IAS 19 requires the recording of a holiday pay accrual. The holiday year of the Group is the calendar year and no holidays can be
carried forward. Consequently, no accrual is required at the year end but an accrual was made at 30 June 2004 and 30 June
2005.
Goodwill - IAS 38, Intangible Assets
Under IAS 38 goodwill is not amortised. Instead it is subject to an annual impairment review.
Associates - IAS 28, Investment in Associates
IFRS requires the share of profit of Associates to be shown post tax (IAS 1). Under UK GAAP this amount is shown before tax
with the tax charge included as part of the Group tax charge.
Deferred Tax - IAS 12, Income Taxes
IAS 12 requires a deferred tax liability to be recognised on all temporary timing differences. Under this methodology, a potential
liability arises from the value attributed to publishing rights and titles from previous acquisitions, together with any properties that
do not qualify for tax allowances. As the Group has elected, under IFRS 1, not to restate prior acquisitions at transition date to an
IFRS 3 basis then recognition is against equity reserves rather than against goodwill.
Cash Flow
The cash flow differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are all either movements within a classification (adjustments netting to
zero) or presentational. There is no impact on the final cash position nor the movement in the period. The IFRS cash flow with
comparative information is presented on page 58.
The reconciliations of equity and profit below, together with the explanations of the changes, are provided to facilitate the
understanding of changes arising from the adoption of IFRS. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 93
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2004
UK GAAP Effect of
in IFRS transition
format to IFRS IFRS
£’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 518,830 469 519,299
Cost of sales (239,722) — (239,722)
Gross Profit 279,108 469 279,577
Operating expenses:
Non-recurring (769) — (769)
Other (101,115) (251) (101,366)
Share of results of associates 221 (47) 174
Operating profit 177,445 171 177,616
Investment income — 122 122
Finance costs (26,845) (1,094) (27,939)
Profit before tax 150,600 (801) 149,799
Tax (43,460) 273 (43,187)
Profit for the period 107,140 (528) 106,612 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 94
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRS)
UK GAAP Effect of
in IFRS transition
format to IFRS IFRS
£’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Other intangible assets 927,557 — 927,557
Property, plant and equipment 156,972 — 156,972
Available for sale investments 3,464 — 3,464
Investment in associates 516 — 516
Trade and other receivables 35 — 35
Pension prepayment 13,949 (13,949) —
1,102,493 (13,949) 1,088,544
Current assets 72,639 — 72,639
Current liabilities
Borrowings 67,832 — 67,832
Trade and other payables 57,841 — 57,841
Current tax liabilities 14,074 — 14,074
Obligations under finance leases 16 — 16
Dividends payable 11,360 (11,360) —
151,123 (11,360) 139,763
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 365,218 — 365,218
Obligations under finance leases 50 — 50
Retirement benefit obligation — 56,600 56,600
Deferred tax liabilities 14,552 263,504 278,056
Long term provisions 1,775 — 1,775
Trade and other payables 7,482 (4,000) 3,482
389,077 316,104 705,181
Net assets 634,932 (318,693) 316,239
Equity
Share capital 29,505 — 29,505
Share premium account 320,558 — 320,558
Share-based payments reserve — 419 419
Revaluation reserves 2,905 — 2,905
Own shares (470) — (470)
Retained earnings 282,434 (319,112) (36,678)
Total equity 634,932 (318,693) 316,239 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 95
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
UK GAAP Effect of
in IFRS transition
format to IFRS IFRS
£’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Other intangible assets 927,557 — 927,557
Property, plant and equipment 156,742 — 156,742
Trade and other receivables 46 — 46
Pension prepayment 18,363 (18,363) –
Available for sale investments 2,740 — 2,740
Investment in associates 58 — 58
1,105,506 (18,363) 1,087,143
Current assets 74,650 — 74,650
Current liabilities
Borrowings 77,210 — 77,210
Trade and other payables 57,492 — 57,492
Current tax liabilities 24,814 — 24,814
Obligations under finance leases 16 — 16
Dividends payable 13,695 (13,695) —
173,227 (13,695) 159,532
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 260,992 — 260,992
Obligations under finance leases 23 — 23
Retirement benefit obligation — 70,586 70,586
Deferred tax liabilities 12,904 257,668 270,572
Long term provisions 1,714 — 1,714
Trade and other payables 6,987 (4,000) 2,987
282,620 324,254 606,874
Net assets 724,309 (328,922) 395,387
Equity
Share capital 29,638 — 29,638
Share premium account 323,670 — 323,670
Share-based payments reserve — 1,474 1,474 
Revaluation reserves 2,836 — 2,836
Own shares (795) — (795)
Retained earnings 368,960 (330,396) 38,564
Total equity 724,309 (328,922) 395,387 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 96
Company Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements. The Directors have chosen to prepare the
financial statements for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the
financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period and comply with UK GAAP and the Companies Act 1985. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue 
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also
responsible for the system of internal controls, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 97
Company Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2005
2004
Restated
2005 note 45
Notes £’000 £’000
Fixed Assets
Tangible 36 904 1,550
Investments 37 953,563 646,686
954,467 648,236
Current assets
Stocks 38 299 200
Debtors - due within one year 39 52,162 52,324
- due after more than one year 39 440,401 440,454
Cash at bank and in hand 6,337 1,757
499,199 494,735
Creditors: amounts falling within one year 40 (117,550) (200,767)
Net current assets 381,649 293,968
Total assets less current liabilities 1,336,116 942,204
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 41 (575,365) (261,041)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 43 360 (304)
Net assets 761,111 680,859
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 27 
Equity 28,666 28,532
Non-equity 1,106 1,106
29,772 29,638
Reserves-equity 44 731,339 651,221
Shareholders’ funds 761,111 680,859
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
T J Bowdler, Chief Executive Officer S R Paterson, Chief Financial Officer
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005
35. Significant Accounting Policies
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. As permitted by that Act,
the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Applicable Accounting Standards. No profit
and loss account is presented as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. Of the Group profit for the year, £96,835,000
(2004 - £35,524,000) is dealt with in the financial statements of the parent company. The financial statements have been prepared on
the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain fixed assets. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed asset balances are shown at valuation, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided
on all property, plant and equipment, excluding land, at varying rates calculated to write-off cost over the useful lives. The principal
rates employed are:
Heritable and freehold property (excluding land) 2.5% on written down value
Leasehold land and buildings equal annual instalments over lease term
Other plant and machinery 15% on written down value
6.67%, 10%, 20%, 25% and 33% straight line basis
Motor vehicles 25% straight line basis
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. Listed investments are shown at
current market valuation. Upward revaluations are credited to the revaluation reserve. Downward revaluations in excess of any
previous upward revaluations are taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value as follows:
Cost incurred in bringing materials to their present location and condition comprises; (a) raw materials and goods for resale at
purchase cost on a first-in first-out basis; and (b) work in progress at cost of direct materials, labour and certain overheads. Net
realisable value comprises selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. 
Borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including
premia payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the Profit and Loss Account using the effective
interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which
they arise.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit
for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Profit and Loss Account because it excludes items of income or
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available against which such assets can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised
if the timing difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Profit and Loss Account, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity settled share-based benefits to certain employees. These share-based payments are measured at their
fair value at the date of grant and the fair value of expected shares is expensed to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period. Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model, as amended to take account of the Directors’ best
estimate of probable share vesting and exercise.
Dividends
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recorded as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved. 
In the Company’s financial statements, dividends receivable from subsidiaries are recognised as assets in the period in which the
dividends are approved. 
The policies described above relating to share-based payments and dividends represent a change in the policies previously applied.
Accordingly, the prior year balance sheet has been restated. The effect of this is shown in note 45.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 98 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 99
36. Tangible Fixed Assets
Freehold Leasehold Plant and Motor
buildings buildings machinery vehicles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2004 1,960 400 437 104 2,901
Additions — — — 33 33
Disposals (640) — — (59) (699)
At 31 December 2004 1,320 400 437 78 2,235
Additions — — 12 25 37
Disposals (730) — (189) (15) (934)
At 31 December 2005 590 400 260 88 1,338
Depreciation
At 1 January 2004 276 56 253 57 642
Disposals (93) — — (43) (136)
Charge for year 31 9 120 19 179
At 31 December 2004 214 65 373 33 685
Disposals (134)—(189)(6)(329)
Charge for year 28 8 22 20 78
At 31 December 2005 108 73 206 47 434
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 482 327 54 41 904
At 31 December 2004 1,106 335 64 45 1,550
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
a) Freehold land and buildings comprise:
At valuation 590 1,320
At cost — —
590 1,320
Professional valuations were carried out by members of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors on certain of the Company’s
buildings at 31 December 1997.
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
b) Historical cost figures for freehold buildings are:
Cost 542 1,062
Depreciation (112) (191)
430 871 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 100
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
37. Investments
Subsidiary Unlisted
Undertakings investments Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2005 644,944 3,526 648,470
Acquisitions 306,877 — 306,877
At 31 December 2005 951,821 3,526 955,347
Provisions for impairment
At 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2005 — 1,784 1,784
Net book value 
At 31 December 2005 951,821 1,742 953,563
Net book value
At 1 January 2005 644,944 1,742 646,686
The company's principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Country of Proportion
incorporation of ownership
Name of company and operation interest Nature of Business
Johnston Publishing Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Johnston (Falkirk) Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
Strachan & Livingston Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers
Wilfred Edmunds Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
North Notts Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Yorkshire Weekly Newspaper Group Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
Sussex Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
T R Beckett Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Halifax Courier Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Isle of Man Newspapers Ltd Isle of Man 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
South Yorkshire Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Yorkshire Regional Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*East Midlands Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Welland Valley Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Anglia Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Northamptonshire Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Central Counties Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Premier Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers 
Bedfordshire Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers  Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 101
37. Investments (continued)
Country of Proportion
incorporation of ownership
Name of company and operation interest Nature of Business
Peterboro’ Web Ltd England 100% Contract printers
*Northampton Web Ltd England 100% Contract printers
*Portsmouth Publishing & Printing Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Northeast Press Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*The Tweeddale Press Group Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Yorkshire Post Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Ackrill Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*The Reporter Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*Sheffield Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Lancashire Evening Post Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*Lancashire Publications Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*Lancaster & Morecambe Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*Blackpool Gazette & Herald Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*East Lancashire Newspapers Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*Best Asian Media Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*Thorne Gazette Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
*Ashwell Associates Ltd England 100% Newspaper publishers
Score Press Ltd Scotland 100% Holding Company
*Morton Newspapers Ltd Northern Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Kilkenny People Publishing Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Angus County Press Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Galloway Gazette Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Stornoway Gazette Ltd Scotland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Longford Leader Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Leitrim Observer Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Leinster Leader Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Leinster Express Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Dundalk Democrat Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Limerick Leader Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Tallaght Publishing Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Leader Print Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
Local Press Ltd Northern Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Derry Journal Ltd Northern Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Century Newspapers Ltd Northern Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers and printers
*Donegal Democrat Ltd Republic of Ireland 100% Newspaper publishers 
*Held through subsidiary.
There is no difference in the proportions of ownership interest shown above and the voting power held. All investments in
subsidiary undertakings are held at cost, less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 102
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
38. Stocks
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Raw materials 10 19
Work in progress 2 3
Goods for re-sale 287 178
299 200
39. Debtors
2004
Restated
2005 note 45
£’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 43,684 43,544
Corporation tax recoverable 8,342 8,660
Trade and other debtors and prepayments 136 120
52,162 52,324
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 440,401 440,401
Pension prepayment — 53
440,401 440,454
40. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2004
Restated
2005 note 45
£’000 £’000
Borrowings 48,462 79,086
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 59,415 112,780
Other taxes and social security costs 432 245
Accruals and deferred income 9,124 8,379
Other creditors 117 277
117,550 200,767 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 103
41. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
Borrowings 575,316 260,992
Other creditors 49 49
575,365 261,041
42. Borrowings
2005 2004
The company’s bank overdrafts and loans comprise: £’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts (secured) 7,448 13,549
Bank loans 443,604 156,796
Guaranteed loan stock 41,302 39,440
Private placement of 10 year senior notes 132,785 132,785
625,139 342,570
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year 48,750 80,442
Within one to two years — 113,119
Within two to five years 443,604 16,224
More than five years 132,785 132,785
625,139 342,570
Less amount due for settlement
within one year (48,750) (80,442)
Amount due for settlement after one year 576,389 262,128
The borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of term debt issue costs of £1,361,000 of which £288,000 is deducted from
current liabilities (2004 - £2,492,000 of which £1,356,000 is deducted from current liabilities).
Other details relating to the bank overdrafts and loans are set out in note 21. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 104
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2005 - (continued)
43. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred Unfunded
Tax pensions Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2005 (916) 1,220 304
Credit to profit (664) — (664)
At 31 December 2005 (1,580) 1,220 (360)
The unfunded pension provision is assessed by a qualified actuary at each year end.
The following are the major deferred tax assets recognised by the Company and movements thereon during the year.
Accelerated tax Pension Share-based Other timing
depreciation balances payments differences Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2004 (63) (364) (442) (47) (916)
Charge/(credit) to profit 10 (2) (389) (283) (664)
At 31 December 2005 (53) (366) (831) (330) (1,580)
44. Reserves
Share-based
Share Payments Revaluation Retained Other Own
Premium Reserve Reserve Earnings Reserves Shares Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Opening balances as previously reported 323,670 — 63 414,636 19,510 (795) 757,084
Adjustments in respect of prior year - see note 45
Reversal of 2004 final dividend — — — 13,695 — — 13,695
Reversal of dividend from subsidiary — — — (120,000) — — (120,000)
Provision for share-based payments — 1,474 — (1,032) — — 442
Revised opening balances 323,670 1,474 63 307,299 19,510 (795) 651,221
Profit for the year — — — 96,835 — — 96,835
Revaluation adjustment — — (12) 12———
Dividends — — — (21,826) — — (21,826)
Share premium on new share capital subscribed 3,767————— 3,767
Own shares purchased ————— (567) (567)
Amounts written off ————— 613 613
Provision for share based payments — 1,296 — — — — 1,296
At 31 December 2005 327,437 2,770 51 382,320 19,510 (749) 731,339 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 105
45. Impact of prior year adjustments
UK GAAP Impact of
as previously prior year UK GAAP
reported adjustments as restated
£’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed assets 648,236 — 648,236
Current assets 614,735 (120,000) 494,735
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (214,462) 13,695 (200,767)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (261,041) — (261,041)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (746) 442 (304)
Net assets 786,722 (105,863) 680,859
Shareholders’ funds 786,722 (105,863) 680,859 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 106
Group Five Year Summary
UK GAAP IFRS
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Income Statement
Revenue 300,615 428,394 491,843 519,299 520,154
Operating profit on ordinary activities 90,710 131,217 163,033 178,211 180,210
Share of associates’ operating profit 397 401 581 174 81
Non-recurring items (6,263) (6,185) (2,452) (769) (2,614)
Profit before interest and taxation 84,844 125,433 161,162 177,616 177,677
Net interest payable (16,298) (32,708) (33,210) (27,817) (26,314)
Profit before taxation 68,546 92,725 127,952 149,799 151,363
Taxation (19,958) (26,861) (38,264) (43,187) (43,572)
Profit for the year 48,588 65,864 89,688 106,612 107,791
Statistics
Basic earnings per share 21.69p 24.65p 31.57p 37.41p 37.58p
Underlying earnings per share 23.65p 26.75p 32.36p 37.77p 38.62p
Operating profit to turnover 30.3% 30.7% 33.3% 34.4% 34.7%
Balance Sheet
Intangible assets 425,494 927,557 927,557 927,557 1,314,821
Property, plant and equipment 118,541 154,084 156,972 156,742 222,178
Investments 5,137 4,663 3,980 2,798 2,760
549,172 1,086,304 1,088,509 1,087,097 1,539,759
Net current liabilities (36,654) (46,828) (64,500) (84,836) (41,147)
Total assets less current liabilities 512,518 1,039,476 1,024,009 1,002,261 1,498,612
Non current liabilities (212,016) (472,559) (372,750) (264,002) (606,843)
Long term provisions (12,493) (5,952) (16,327) (342,872) (415,254)
Net Assets 288,009 560,965 634,932 395,387 476,515
Shareholders’ Funds
Ordinary Shares 20,136 28,339 28,399 28,532 28,666
Preference Shares 1,106 1,106 1,106 1,106 1,106
Reserves 266,767 531,520 605,427 365,749 446,743
Capital Employed 288,009 560,965 634,932 395,387 476,515
The 2004 year was a 53 week period. Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 107
Notice of Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the seventy-seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held in the Boardroom, The
Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh on 28 April 2006 at 12.00 noon to transact the following business of the Company:
1. To receive the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
2. To receive the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
3. To declare a dividend.
4. To re-elect Mr PEB Cawdron, Lord Gordon of Strathblane and Mr FPM Johnston as Directors of the Company.
5. To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP , Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, as auditors of the Company and to
authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions of which numbers 6 to 9 will be proposed as
Ordinary Resolutions and numbers 10 and 11 will be proposed as Special Resolutions:-
Ordinary Resolution
6. That the rules of the Johnston Press Performance Share Plan 2006 (the “PSP”) referred to in the Chairman of the Board’s
letter to shareholders dated 8 March 2006 and produced to this meeting and, for the purposes of identification, signed by the
Chairman, be and are hereby approved and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to: 
(i) make such modifications to the PSP as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of the UK Listing
Authority and best practice and to adopt the PSP as so modified and to do all such acts and things as they may consider
appropriate to implement the PSP; and
(ii) establish further plans based on the PSP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in
overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the
limits on individual or overall participation in the PSP .
7. That the period during which the Company may grant matching awards under the Johnston Press plc 2003 Share Matching
Plan (the “SMP”) be and is hereby extended to 28 April 2016 and that the amendments to the rules of the SMP as detailed in
the Chairman of the Board’s letter to shareholders dated 8 March 2006 and produced to this meeting and, for the purposes of
identification, signed by the Chairman, be and are hereby approved and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to adopt
the amendments to the SMP .
8. That the rules of the Johnston Press Group 1997 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (the “Scheme”), as approved by the
Company’s shareholders at general meeting on 25 April 1997, be amended in the form presented to this Meeting and, for the
purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman to enable the Directors to establish further plans based on the rules of
the Scheme, but modified to take account of local tax advantages under similar approved schemes, exchange control or
securities laws in overseas territories for participating companies, and in particular, the Republic of Ireland, and the Directors
be authorised to make such modifications to the amendments as they may consider appropriate to take account of the
requirements of HM Revenue & Customs provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as
counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the Scheme. 
9. That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the
Companies Act 1985 (“the Act”) to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities (as defined for the purpose
of that section) up to a maximum nominal amount of £9,555,623. This authority shall expire on 28 April 2011 save that the
Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to
be allotted after it expires. All previous general authorities under Section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
Special Resolutions
10. That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 set out in the notice of this meeting, the Directors be and are hereby empowered
pursuant to the provisions of Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 (“the Act”) to allot equity securities (within the meaning
of Section 94 of the Act) pursuant to the authority granted by that Resolution for cash, as if sub-section (1) of Section 89 of
the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited:
(i) to the allotment of such equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary Shareholders where the equity
securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary Shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the
respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors
may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or
the requirements of any recognised regulatory body in, any territory; and Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 108
Notice of Meeting
continued
(ii) to the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of
£1,433,343.
This power shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held
in 2007 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement
as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
11. That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning
of Section 163(3) of the Companies Act 1985) of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company (‘Ordinary Shares’) PROVIDED
THAT:
(i) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 28,000,000;
(ii) the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the
middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five
business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price
which may be paid for any such share is 10p (in each case exclusive of associated expenses); and
(iii) the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 12
months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier; but a contract of purchase may be made
before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be
made in pursuance of any such contract.
By Order of the Board
P R Cooper, ACA
Secretary
53 Manor Place
Edinburgh
EH3 7EG
8 March 2006
Notes
A In accordance with the Articles of Association, only holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to attend and vote
at the Meeting.
B An Ordinary Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on
a poll, vote instead of him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
C A form of proxy is enclosed for Ordinary Shareholders which, to be valid, must be completed in accordance with the
instructions printed thereon and be lodged with the Company’s Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the
Meeting.
D The Register of Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company maintained under section 325 of the Companies Act
1985, will be available for reference at the place of the Meeting from 11.30am until its conclusion.
E Copies of all Directors’ Service Contracts will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during
normal business hours on any weekday (Saturdays and public holidays excepted) from the date of this Notice until the date of
the Meeting and on that date at the place of the Meeting from 11.30am until its conclusion.
F A copy of the draft rules of the Johnston Press Performance Share Plan 2006, together with the amended rules of the
Johnston Press plc 2003 Share Matching Plan and the Johnston Press Group 1997 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
will be available for inspection at the offices of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP , 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH during
normal business hours on any weekday (Saturday and English public holidays excluded) until the close of the Annual General
Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting on that date from 11.30pm and during the Annual General Meeting. Contents
Our aim is to serve our local communities 
by publishing quality newspapers, related print publications 
and websites that attract users, providing an effective platform 
for advertisers to reach their target audience.
02 Highlights
04 Digital publishing
06 Acquisitive growth
08 Investing to improve efficiency
10 Chairman’s Statement
12 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
20 Financial Review
24 Management Board
26 Board of Directors
28 Group’s Newspaper Titles
31 Websites by Division
33 Corporate Governance 
37 Corporate Social Responsibility 
43 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
50 Directors’ Report 
53 Independent Auditors’ Report 
54 Group Income Statement 
55 Group Statement of 
Recognised Income and 
Expense 
56 Group Reconciliation of 
Shareholders’ Equity 
57 Group Balance Sheet
58 Group Cash Flow Statement 
59 Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements
96 Company Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities
97 Company Balance Sheet
98 Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
106 Group Five Year Summary
107 Notice of Meeting
The cover of this report and pp1-32 have been printed on Revive Special Silk which contains 30% post
consumer waste, text pp33-108 are printed on Revive Uncoated which contains 100% post consumer waste,
both products are ISO 14001 accredited.
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk
Solicitors
MacRoberts 
152 Bath Street 
Glasgow 
G2 4TB
Ashurst 
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London 
EC2A 2HA
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
and Registered Auditors 
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh 
EH1 2DB
Investment Bankers 
Citigroup
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London 
E14 5LB
Stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank AG London
Winchester House
1 Great Winchester Street
London
EC2N 2DB
Principal Bankers 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
36 St Andrew Square 
Edinburgh 
EH2 2YB
Lloyds TSB Scotland plc
Henry Duncan House
120 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4LH
Barclays Bank plc
Luton Corporate Banking Centre
1 Capability Green
Luton
LU1 3US
National Australia Bank
88 Wood Street
London 
EC2V 7QQ
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgewater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
Advisors Johnston Press plc
53 Manor Place
Edinburgh EH3 7EG
Tel: 0131 - 225 3361
Fax: 0131 - 225 4580
e-mail: enquiries@johnstonpress.co.uk
Web Site: http://www.johnstonpress.co.uk
Registration number 15382
Johnston Press:
Connecting local
communities.
Johnston Press plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Johnston Press plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2005
