 Annual Report 
and Accounts
2006 Front cover image: Sailing at Scammonden Reservoir
We encourage public enjoyment of our reservoirs for 
a range of recreational activities.
Contents
01 Group highlights
02 Our business
03 Our strategy
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Business review
06 Chief Executive’s review
08 Yorkshire Water
11 UK Service Operations
12 Aquarion and KeyLand Developments
13 Financial review
16 Principal risks and uncertainties
17 Corporate Social Responsibility
18 How we go about our business
19 Benchmarking our performance
20 Environment
22 Our role in society
24 Our people
26 Our customers
28 Our service partners
30 Board of directors
31 Directors’ report
34 KPI – Glossary of terms
35 Corporate governance
38 Directors’ remuneration report
43 Directors’ responsibilities
44 Auditor’s report on group 
financial statements
45 Financial statements
46 Group income statement
46 Statement of group recognised 
income and expense
47 Group balance sheet
48 Group cash flow statement
49 Notes to the group accounts
84 Group companies
85 Five year financial summary
86 Auditor’s report on the company 
financial statements
87 Company balance sheet
88 Notes to the company accounts
94 UK regulated water services 
additional information
95 General information
96 Our contact details 01
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The past 12 months have seen a
strong performance from all our
businesses, in particular Yorkshire
Water, which continues to provide 
sector-leading operational and
customer service.
Group profit from continuing operations
Group profit
Profit attributable 
to shareholders
Adjusted earnings
per share Dividend per share
Turnover Operating profit
Group and share of associates and joint
ventures from continuing operations
Group operating profit from continuing
operations
Adjusted earnings per share excluding
exceptional items
Prior years’ figures are not restated under
International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) and are therefore not shown above.
Group highlights
£825.4m
£714.0m
2006
2005
£158.9m
£136.0m
2006
2005
46.9p
42.6p
2006
2005
30.35p
29.00p
2006
2005
£174.1m
£150.2m
2006
2005
£315.4m
£274. 1m
2006
2005 2. UK Service Operations
Turnover: £123.6m (up 108.4%)
Employees: 966
Kelda Water Services
Kelda Water Services Limited (KWS) manages the
group’s non-regulated water and waste water
contract operations in the UK. It is now the second
biggest player in the UK contract operations market,
with operations in England, Scotland and Wales.
KWS is now providing services under:
• a 25 year contract to run four waste water
treatment works in Aberdeenshire, Scotland
• a 25 year contract to provide water and waste
water services to more than 1,000 Ministry of
Defence sites in the Midlands, Wales and the
south west
• a 15 year contract to provide waste water services
in south Wales for Dwr Cymru Welsh Water.
In May 2006, a consortium consisting of KWS, Earth
Tech Engineering Limited and Northstone (NI) Limited
was awarded a 25 year contract to provide water
services for the Northern Ireland Water Service.
Loop
Loop Customer Management Limited (Loop)
specialises in cost effective customer relationship
management. The company’s main contract is to
provide customer service support to Yorkshire Water.
Safe-Move
Safe-Move is a non-regulated business which
provides search information to solicitors and
conveyancers, including information covering
drainage and water services.
3. Aquarion
Turnover: £104.2m (up 13.0%)
Employees: 568
Aquarion is one of the ten largest investor owned
water companies in the US.
It serves 211,000 homes and businesses, the
equivalent of approximately 677,000 people, 
in 52 communities in the states of Connecticut, 
New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
Aquarion Services provides water and waste water
operation and maintenance services through a
number of contracts and partnerships with
municipal authorities.
In February 2006, Kelda announced the conditional
sale of Aquarion, subject to regulatory approval in
the US. Completion of the sale is expected to take
place late in 2006.
4. KeyLand Developments
Turnover: £8.0m 
Employees: 6
KeyLand Developments Limited (KeyLand
Developments) is responsible for managing,
developing and disposing of the group’s surplus
property assets, either on its own or in partnership
with outside organisations.
02
Our business
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
1
2
4
3
1. Yorkshire Water
Turnover: £693.8m (up 8.4%)
Employees: 2,129
Yorkshire Water Services Limited (Yorkshire Water) is
Kelda’s principal UK subsidiary, providing water and
waste water services to more than 4.7m people
and 140,000 businesses.
Every day the company supplies more than 1.2bn
litres of water to homes and businesses in Yorkshire.
Through the efficient operation of its extensive
waste water network and treatment facilities, it also
ensures that the region’s domestic and industrial
waste is returned safely to the environment.
Yorkshire Water currently tops the Office of Water
Services (Ofwat) league table for overall operational
and customer service.
For the past two consecutive years, the company
has also been voted the UK’s Utility of the Year at
the Utility Industry Achievement Awards.
Kelda Group provides essential 
high quality water and waste
water services to customers 
in Yorkshire, Wales, Scotland,
the Midlands, the south west of
England and the United States. Our shareholders
We are committed to creating enduring shareholder
value by a focus on efficiency in everything we do.
Our goal is to deliver consistently good financial
results by out-performing regulatory and other
financial targets and delivering efficiencies across
the group. We will achieve this by sharing best
practice, employing world-class technology and
growing our non-regulated activities.
Our customers
Our aim is to provide a quality of service which is
significantly better than any other utility and at a
price which represents good value for money. To
achieve this we will always consider the customers’
point of view and exceed customers’ expectations
wherever possible. This will lead to improved
financial and operational performance and an
enjoyable customer experience.
Our people
Kelda employs over 3,600 people. Our aim is 
to create a great place to work, a good work-life
balance and the opportunity to make a real
difference. We want to attract and retain the 
best people, with performance and contribution
recognised and rewarded and success celebrated
as part of our culture.
Environmental leadership
Kelda deals with environmental issues as diverse 
as catchment management, sustainable water
management and river water and bathing water
standards. Our performance affects all customers
and everyone who lives in the regions we serve.
Our aim is to achieve 100% compliance with legal
and regulatory obligations and to go beyond
compliance where the benefits exceed the cost.
Society
Our aim is to make a difference to society, opening
up land for public enjoyment and promoting the
value of water and health in schools. Over 30% of
our people are involved in community volunteering
and external leadership roles and in influencing
matters relating to water.
Service partners
Kelda works in close partnership with its service
providers. Our aim is to achieve win-win-win, which
means better customer service, lower costs and
healthy profits for all. To make this happen, we are
looking to set clear expectations and encourage
new ideas and innovation.
03
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Kelda’s strategy remains
unchanged. Our focus is on
improving the efficiency and
performance of our core
businesses, using our expertise
in water and waste water
services to develop long term,
non-regulated income streams
which add shareholder value.
Our strategy
Environmental
leadership
Service 
partners
Our 
customers
Our 
shareholders
Our 
people
Society 04
Chairman’s statement
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
There remains significant opportunity for growth in
our contracting business and in delivering further 
out-performance in Y orkshire Water.
There are a number of firsts for the year
under review. It was the first year of the
fourth 5 year price determination for the 
UK water industry, the first presentation 
of Kelda accounts in the IFRS format, 
and the introduction of major changes 
in the tax treatment of depreciation and 
capital allowances.
IFRS has required a restatement of the prior year
2004/05 numbers and, following the sale of our US
Aquarion operations agreed subject to regulatory
approval, the treatment of the US as a
discontinued operation. The coincidence of the
timing of the introduction of IFRS and significant
tax changes relating to investment has produced
some interesting effects on the restated prior year.
The 2004/05 numbers form a nominal restated
start point for the necessary introduction of IFRS
and, for instance, the required elimination of
discount on deferred tax significantly reduces
2004/05 profit numbers and makes the reported
movements in tax in 2005/06 appear relatively
small. The opposite is the case with significant
increases in actual tax paid in 2005/06. Therefore,
some additional analysis is made on the underlying
year to year results in the financial review.
I am very pleased to report that the company built
on a good first half to produce a strong first year
with a good overall performance. The post tax
profit number of £174.1m is almost identical to
unadjusted prior year. This broadly reflects the
underlying year to year performance. An above
budget, but below prior year result after tax from
Yorkshire Water (YW) has been offset by increased
US and Kelda Water Services (KWS) performance.
The result reflects improved operating performance
in all major operations including the US. In the
principal operating subsidiary YW, first year efficiency
targets have been out-performed and, together
with increased prices allowed under the
determination, helped to offset cost pressures
from energy and other charges. Increases at the
operating profit level were eliminated by increases
in tax charges. The first year phasing of price
increases under the 5 year determination gave a
first year regulatory budget below prior year due 
to the large impact of tax calculation changes.
The budget was bettered due to the operational 
out-performance, but the year to year movement
was as expected. The YW results are summarised
on page 94. In the meantime, the business continues
to drive forward and remains dedicated to delivering
not only improved efficiency, but increased service
standards for customers and improved regulatory
and environmental outputs. YW continues to review
its operations and has successfully implemented a
quarterly assessment scheme for all staff linked to
quarterly bonus payments.
YW achieved a further first when it received 
the Utility of the Year award for the second year 
in succession, a first for the utility industry. In
addition, it tops the Ofwat national efficiency
rating table for all water companies and was
ranked first ahead of all other water companies in 
a survey carried out by a major trade association,
British Water. There has been much comment in
the national press about water shortages in the 
UK with a particular emphasis on the south of
England. In Yorkshire, we are in a fortunate 
position with reservoir capacity at normal levels
and therefore predict no restrictions in the current
year based on worst case historic rainfall. We
continue to take pride in our achievements and 
all round performance.
John Napier
Chairman, Kelda Group plc 05
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The revenue growth of our contract operations
business KWS was excellent with a £64m sector
gain or 129% growth. This reflects the first full
year of the Welsh Water contract. We also
reported we have been named as a preferred
bidder for Northern Ireland water operations,
which should give further growth when it comes
into operation in 2008. The KWS business has
been developed entirely by organic growth and is
now one of the prime water services contracting
businesses in the UK.
Although the US business Aquarion has been
treated as discontinued, I can report it performed
well in the year. In the prior year we incurred
exceptional costs in developing a profit improvement
plan which was fully delivered by the management.
The company also benefited from a more seasonal
rainfall pattern which increased sales. The results
were also helped by a favourable exchange rate.
A decision was announced in February that we 
had achieved a sale to Macquarie Bank, conditional
upon regulatory approval which we expect to receive
towards the end of the year. The initial 2000
investment in the US Aquarion operation gave us 
a valuable insight into the US market which did not
follow the European pattern as expected. It remains
highly fragmented with very high degrees of public
ownership. This has made suitable acquisition targets
and organic growth opportunities more limited.
The lack of opportunity to develop further in the
US at prices which could show an adequate return
to shareholders led to a decision to sell our interests.
I have already reported generally on our dedication
to efficiency and customer service improvement. 
A major part of all our activities is also directed at
improved environmental performance particularly
relating to river and bathing water quality. We
make further important contributions via the
management of our land and water catchment
areas, putting particular emphasis to a balance of
conservation and recreation. We have conservation
sites dedicated as Special Scientific Interest and
generally encourage elsewhere access and recreation
consistent with our water catchment conservation
responsibilities. We focus on children’s health in
our ‘Cool Schools’ programme encouraging the 
use of cold drinking water in schools. We have a
volunteering programme encouraging improved
standards of literacy among school children. As a
regional company we recognise we have important
regional responsibilities, and try to engender a
positive general ethos by developing company
initiatives aimed at making us one of the best water
companies in the UK.
I reported last year on changes made to the 
board with the appointment of Ed Anderson, Chief
Executive of Leeds Bradford Airport, and Kate Avery,
the Retail Distribution Director of Legal and General,
as non executive directors. I am pleased to further
report the board has settled well and that David
Salkeld has taken over the role of Senior Independent
Director with Christopher Fisher continuing as
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As I said at the beginning, this is the first year of a
five year determination where price increases are
phased over the period. There remains significant
opportunity for further growth in our contracting
business and in delivering out-performance 
in YW. Although we have started well there will 
be significant challenges in energy costs. We are
developing a series of alternative energy generation
proposals which will help some plants be more 
self reliant. New process initiatives and improved
quality requirements work to increase energy
usage making energy conservation more difficult.
Last year we raised the final dividend to reflect 
the average performance through the previous 5
year regulatory period and to end with a dividend
growth achievement consistent with that allowed
in the regulatory determination, an annual 2% real
growth. Having increased the dividend to that level
last year we are proposing to maintain the 2% real
growth. This gives a final dividend of 21.60p to give
a full year dividend of 30.35p, a nominal increase of
4.6% on last year. The share buy back announced
last year is 50% completed as planned.
Finally, the management of the company, very
capably led by Kevin Whiteman and his team, 
are motivated and dedicated to further progress. 
It is part of our culture. Existing performance is 
not automatic and must be worked for. We 
remain indebted to all our staff who respond to
the challenges that are set for the company by 
the regulator and by our own commitment to
performance and service improvement. I would 
like to thank all staff and the board for its continuing
contribution and support, essential to maintain 
and improve our all round performance.
adjusted earnings per share increased 10.1%
to 46.9p
4.6%
46. 9p
full year dividend increased 4.6% to 30.35p 
per share
group profit before taxation from continuing
operations up 17.6% to £224.3m
£825.4m
17 .6%
group turnover from continuing operations
up 15.6% to £825.4m Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
CHI
Group profit attributable to shareholders 
(as reported under IFRS) increased by 15.9%
to £174.1m with adjusted earnings per share
increasing 10.1% to 46.9p (2005: 42.6p).
Our full year dividend has increased 4.6% 
to 30.35p a share.
Yorkshire Water had a good year. Improved
efficiency, customer service and environmental
compliance helped the company to further
industry recognition and record levels of 
customer satisfaction.
Progress in developing our Kelda Water Services
(KWS) business has also been excellent. From a
standing start just over 5 years ago, KWS is now
one of the leading utility infrastructure outsourcing
businesses in the UK and well placed to take
advantage of future opportunities in this sector.
Improved performance from our Aquarion water
business in the US preceded our announcement in
February of its conditional sale to Macquarie Bank,
a move which we believe represents a positive
outcome for shareholders and committed new
ownership for Aquarion.
These achievements have put the group in a very
strong position at the end of the financial year and
have been made possible by the commitment and
professionalism of our people and service partners
and our continued drive to deliver total shareholder
value, balanced by improved service, environmental
compliance and good corporate social responsibility.
Review of business performance
Yorkshire Water enjoyed a good start to the new
five year price determination period maintaining
our track record for out-performance of both
operating and capital programme delivery targets.
Increases in turnover and good operating cost
performance have enabled the company to 
deliver a year on year improvement in operating
profit. The impact of IFRS adjustments has also
contributed to improved profitability as detailed 
in the financial review.
Yorkshire Water gained industry recognition by
being named Utility of the Year for the second year
running and for the first time ever, achieved top
position in the 2004/05 annual Ofwat Overall
Performance Assessment, reflecting continuous
improvement in the service provided to customers.
The company was also named by Ofwat as the UK’s
most efficient water and sewerage company, with
3 ‘A’ ratings for efficiency.
Despite below average rainfall for 7 out of the 
12 months during the period there are no water
resource issues in the region and the company has
no plans for water restrictions in Yorkshire in 2006.
KWS also had a good year, with both profits and
turnover increasing as a result of strong operating
performance of existing businesses and the
inclusion of a full year’s contribution from the
operations contract with Welsh Water.
A KWS-led consortium (Dalriada Water Limited) 
was also successful in being named preferred bidder
by the Water Service of Northern Ireland to design,
build, finance and operate water treatment facilities
that will supply 50% of Northern Ireland’s water. 
Kevin Whiteman
Chief executive, Kelda Group plc
All round good performance from Kelda Group
companies has seen real progress on a number 
of fronts this year. 07
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Yorkshire Water had a good
year. Improved efficiency,
customer service and
environmental compliance
helped the company to 
further industry recognition 
and record levels of 
customer satisfaction.
This contract of approximately £500m is over 25
years, with operational commencement expected
in 2008.
At Aquarion profits and turnover increased during
the year due to improved operating performance
and efficiency and better weather during the
summer of 2005. Having improved returns at the
business, but seeing few opportunities for growing
our US interests without further major investment,
we were pleased to announce the conditional sale
of the business to Macquarie Bank. We believe 
we achieved a good price for the sale and are
confident that the move will prove positive for
both shareholders and Aquarion.
Outlook
The conditional sale of Aquarion, continued
operating efficiency and performance at Yorkshire
Water and an increased contribution from KWS has
put the group in a strong position going forward.
Following regulatory approvals and completion 
of the Aquarion sale (anticipated to occur in late
2006) we will provide clarification regarding the
use of the proceeds.
Looking ahead we can expect that prospects 
in 2006/07 for further operating cost out-
performance at Yorkshire Water will be significantly
diminished by escalating energy costs. The
business is exploring a number of initiatives to
deliver savings and reduce consumption.
Our non-regulated businesses continue to make
progress, with KWS now accounting for 14% of
group turnover. The business is well placed to take
advantage of the trend for UK utilities to outsource 
the operation and management of their assets to
companies with a record of delivering efficiency
savings and service improvement.
Overall, our focused strategy and our mantra of
efficiency matched by improved customer service
and environmental compliance continues. We
believe Kelda is well placed to deliver further
progress during the next year.
> Awareness campaign
Yorkshire Water launched a major awareness
campaign aimed at discouraging commercial
kitchens from disposing of fat or grease down
their drains. Last year the company had to
spend in excess of £3m clearing drains that 
had been blocked by solidified fats.
> Schools’ poster competition
Schoolchildren across Yorkshire were invited 
to enter a poster design competition to warn
adults and children alike of the dangers of
swimming in reservoirs. Pictured is Jade
Hodgson of Holybrook Primary School in
Bradford with her winning entry. The poster 
has now been transformed into a striking, 
full size sign for use at reservoir sites. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 08
Business review
Yorkshire Water
How we’re performing
Y orkshire Water has had an excellent 
year, once again out-performing many 
of its regulatory targets.  09
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Yorkshire Water
Regulated turnover increased by 8.4% to £693.8m
(2005: £640.1m) and operating profit increased by
14.9% to £312.7m (2005: £272.1m). This year on
year improved performance reflects tariff increases,
the impact of IFRS adjustments and keen cost
control. Yorkshire Water made a good start in
delivering efficiencies for PR04 by out-performing
regulatory targets by £10m. This level of efficiency
will provide a useful buffer against significant
increases in electricity costs which will be incurred
in 2006/07. The increase in operating profits also
continues to fund the ongoing capital programme
and taxation increases.
Yorkshire Water is a major user of electricity.
Electricity for 2006/07 has now been purchased 
at a cost significantly higher than that allowed 
in the determination. Around 25% of 2007/08
electricity has also been purchased. The company
is implementing initiatives to reduce the impact 
of the cost increase.
Regulated capital investment for the year was
£330.6m (2005: £349.2m). The investment
continues to be directed at the upgrading of the
region’s clean and waste water infrastructure.
Yorkshire Water’s focus on developing industry
leading partnerships has resulted in a strong start
to the delivery of AMP 4 targets for expenditure,
outputs and efficiency.
For the second consecutive year, Ofwat confirmed
Yorkshire Water as the most efficient water and
sewerage company in the UK. The company was
awarded three ‘A’ ratings for the efficient way it
runs its water and waste water operations.
Customer service
Yorkshire Water continued to improve levels of
operational and customer service and was ranked
number one in Ofwat’s Overall Performance
Assessment. The report confirmed that the
company continues to achieve above average
performance in a number of areas, such as
reducing the number of properties suffering from
poor water pressure and cutting the number of
interruptions to customers’ supplies.
Good progress continues to be made to reduce
the number of incidents of sewer flooding and this
remains one of the company’s highest priorities.
Yorkshire Water’s ongoing improvements to its
overall levels of service contributed towards the
company again being named Utility of the Year at
the Utility Industry Achievement Awards 2005. This
was the second consecutive year the company was
awarded the top accolade, an unprecedented feat
for any UK utility.
Two major initiatives were rolled out in 2005/06
with far-reaching implications for the future of
operational and customer service in the business
and employees. The Clear Water and Waste Water
2020 initiatives will deliver a step change in the
levels of service provided by the business and are
designed to help the company achieve its goal of
being clearly the best water company in the UK.
Clear Water aims to eliminate the need to interrupt
customers’ water supplies while carrying out
maintenance or repair work, while Waste Water
2020 will improve customer service, the way the
company manages its assets and disposes of
sewage sludge. Good progress has been made on
both initiatives, with significant operating cost
reductions also being identified.
Environmental performance
During 2005, Business in the Community held up
the company as a ‘National Example of Excellence’
for its proactive approach to environmental
management and performance. The Shields
Environment Award was given for a range of
Yorkshire Water was named Utility of the
Year for an unprecedented second
successive year.
> Yorkshire Water reservoir stocks remain 
at normal levels
Yorkshire Water continues to encourage its
customers to use water wisely all year round.
The company’s ‘Flower Power’ promotion
toured major events in the region distributing
thousands of water conservation devices for 
use in the home and garden.
> Police water consumption
Yorkshire Water’s Business Services department
has been working with West Yorkshire Police 
to help the force reduce its water consumption.
A range of water saving measures have been
introduced. As well as minimising the force’s
impact on the environment, substantial cost
savings were also made. 10
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
environmental initiatives, including staff training 
on environmental issues and the way the company
works with its service partners and suppliers. All
suppliers working with Yorkshire Water are now
assessed using the company’s own Environmental
Vendor Evaluation System, which contributed
towards the company achieving ISO14001
accreditation for every aspect of its operations.
The company staged a series of events in
partnership with the Ramblers’ Association to
celebrate the final stages of implementation of 
the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000.
Good progress was also made towards improving
the condition of Sites of Special Scientific Interest
(SSSIs) on Yorkshire Water land.
Waste water treatment works compliance
continues to be a concern with several works at risk
of failure, however a lot of work is being carried
out to minimise this risk and improve performance.
A proactive pollution prevention campaign saw the
number of Category 1 and 2 pollution incidents
cut from 19 to 13 during the year.
Social impact
Yorkshire Water was ranked 24th in Business in the
Community’s ‘100 Companies That Count’ report, 
a rise of 19 places on the previous year. The report
benchmarks companies’ performance against a
range of social, ethical and environmental issues.
The company, which achieved its highest ever
points score, was said to have delivered outstanding
performance in the areas of community,
environmental and customer management.
During the year Yorkshire Water achieved its target
of 25% of its people being involved in community
volunteering. Our volunteers were involved in a
range of activities including Cares initiatives, 
Right to Read and Numbers Partners. In many
instances our service partners were involved, further
building relationships as well as contributing to 
the community.
A significant milestone was reached by the
company’s Cool Schools campaign. More than
1,000 coolers have now been donated free of
charge to local primary schools to increase the
availability of fresh drinking water to pupils.
Employees
The first year of the new performance management
system introduced in 2004/05 has gone well. 
The system, which was linked to a 5 year pay deal,
involves quarterly performance reviews with the
potential for additional payments based upon
individual and company performance.
Yorkshire Water also has a focus on developing 
the leadership for every individual within the
organisation and sees a direct link between
individual leadership and achievement of the
strategic goals of the company.
The continuing high level of performance of the
company is directly attributable to the talent,
commitment and enthusiasm of our employees.
> Bathing water quality
To celebrate the significant improvements in
bathing water quality resulting from Yorkshire
Water’s recent investment in its waste water
treatment works, the company sponsored local
lifeguards and purchased a new rescue boat 
for use along the county’s east coast. The
campaign was launched by Leeds model 
Nell McAndrew.
Key performance indicators
TARGET CURRENT YEAR
Overall customer 
satisfaction
100% 96%
(Prior year: 95%)
Drinking water
compliance
100% 99.97%
(Prior year: 99.93%)
Waste water treatment 
works (WWTW) 
compliance
100% 99.6%
(Prior year: 99.97%)
Accidents
(Riddor reports)
17 31
(Prior year: 26)
85 179
(Prior year: 153)
For more details on these measures see page 34
WWTW compliance
with sanitary consents
Major & over 
3 days accidents
All
accidents
Overall drinking
water quality
Overall customer
satisfaction 11
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Business review
UK Service Operations
By exploiting our expertise in providing high 
quality water and waste services, over the past 
year we have made good progress in growing 
our non-regulated business.
UK Service Operations
UK Service Operations comprises KWS, Safe-Move
and Loop. The turnover from these non- regulated
businesses, including our share of associates’ 
and joint ventures’ turnover, increased by £64.3m
to £123.6m (2005: £59.3m). Operating profit
increased to £9.1m (2005: £6.4m) mainly reflecting
the continuing strong operating performances of
existing businesses and also the inclusion of the
first year of the waste water operations contract
with Welsh Water.
Kelda Water Services
In 2005/06 KWS consolidated its position as a leading
company in the UK water and waste water operations
and maintenance market. With turnover of £113.4m
(2005: £49.4m) KWS now contributes 14% of the
group’s turnover from continuing operations.
A consortium, including KWS, has entered into 
a contract with the Water Service of Northern
Ireland to design, build, finance and operate water
treatment facilities that will supply 50% of Northern
Ireland’s water . This 25 year contract of approximately
£500m was signed in May 2006 and will commence
operations in 2008.
All of the existing KWS businesses continue to
perform well. The contract to provide waste water
operations and maintenance services to Welsh
Water commenced on 1 April 2005. The contract
involves the operations of 570 waste water plants
and over 13,000km of sewer network. KWS (Wales)
is a 100% subsidiary of KWS. KWS is also a 50%
shareholder in Brey Utilities Ltd which is delivering a
25 year contract with the Ministry of Defence. Delta
Water Services, a wholly owned subsidiary of KWS,
provides sub contracted operational and maintenance
services to over 80% of Brey’s sites. KWS is also 
a 45% shareholder in Aberdeen Environmental
Services which manages four waste water plants in
Aberdeenshire under a 25 year contract. Grampian
Waste Water Services, a wholly owned subsidiary of
KWS, operates the contract.
“The past 12 months have seen
significant growth at Kelda
Water Services which is
earning an enviable reputation
in the marketplace.”
Steve Procter Business development director,
Kelda Group plc 12
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Business review
Aquarion
KeyLand Developments
Aquarion
Operating profit of £32.8m (2005: £25.6m)
was £7.2m (28%) higher than the prior year.
This resulted from the implementation of
improved working practices and operational
efficiencies, a £5.4m exceptional item not
repeated this year and a favourable exchange
rate. Turnover at £104.2m (2005: £92.2m)
was also higher than the previous year,
largely due to more normal rainfall patterns.
After allowing for interest incurred on borrowings
made to fund the Aquarion acquisition, the impact
of Aquarion on the group is broadly earnings neutral.
On 24 February the company announced that it 
had entered into an agreement with Macquarie 
Bank Limited for the sale of the utility business of
Aquarion. The sale is conditional upon certain
regulatory approvals which are expected to be given
in late 2006. The sale is for an enterprise value of
approximately $860m. The consideration for the
sale, which will be payable upon completion, will be
$625m, and Aquarion will retain its own net debt at
completion, expected to be approximately $235m.
Over the last few years the company has focused
on improving Aquarion’s operating performance,
and has kept its options for Aquarion under review.
The opportunity to sell the business to Macquarie
allowed Kelda to exit the US and to enhance the
focus on core UK operations. It also provided
Aquarion with a committed long term owner with
existing significant interests in US infrastructure assets.
The sale does not include Aquarion’s small non-
regulated contract operations business. Kelda
continues to review its strategic options for this
retained business.
KeyLand
Turnover (including share of associates and
joint ventures) was below last year at £8.0m
(2005: £14.6m). KeyLand operating profit
declined by £2m in the year to £3m (2005:
£5m). This was due to the timing of property
sales and planning applications and should
return to historic levels. Net assets of
KeyLand were £31.6m at the end of March
2006 (2005: £34.4m), after payment of an
£8.0m interim dividend.
The primary source of revenue continues to be
from the disposal or development of brownfield
sites for housing and there continues to be a high
demand for prime development land throughout
the region. However, there are ongoing delays
being encountered throughout the planning
process which directly impacts on the timing 
of sales. In particular, land at the Mid Point
development, expected to underpin the second
half results, was affected by such delays. The
second half results were achieved through the
continuing and steady disposal of group assets,
combined with supplementary receipts relating 
to earlier sales.
In addition to its primary activities, KeyLand has
participated in selected joint venture developments.
These contributed turnover of £0.9m (2005: £4.6m)
and operating profit of £0.3m (2005: £0.9m) to
the results. 13
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Operating cost out-performance significantly
contributes towards the year on year increase 
in profitability.
Business review
Financial review
Group results under IFRS,
Yorkshire Water (YW) under UK GAAP
The group commenced reporting under IFRS with
effect from 1 April 2005, with comparative figures
restated. Subsidiary accounts, including YW, will
continue to be reported in accordance with UK
GAAP. In addition, Aquarion is being treated as 
a business to be discontinued following the
announcement of its conditional sale. Together
these factors mean some care is required in
drawing comparisons in our performance over 
the last two years.
To assist in this regard, the results of YW under 
UK GAAP are shown on page 94. As previously
indicated, the impact of IFRS accounting adjustments
has been to increase YW’s reported profits. The year
on year increase in profitability is £18.5m at the 
pre tax level, primarily due to infrastructure
renewals accounting where the charge under UK
GAAP was expected to increase beyond 1 April
2005. Reversing this and an exceptional charge in
2004/05 reveals an underlying profit increase at
YW of £16.3m, or 5.7%. To the credit of YW, over
half this amount is due to the achievement of
operating cost out-performance.
We have signalled for some time that the group
tax charge will rise in 2005/06 to an effective rate
of around 30% under IFRS, and that the mix of tax
would move towards more current tax and less
deferred tax. The current tax charge has more than
doubled from £23.5m to £53.5m, relevant to the
group numbers and YW. These higher levels of
current tax have become the norm since 1 April
2005 as a result of Tax Bulletin 53. Tax payable 
is the single largest item in the last price
determination for YW. The impact for YW from 
a higher current tax charge is a reduction in the
profit after tax.
Under IFRS, discounting of the deferred tax
provision is no longer permitted. A consequential
year on year reduction in the deferred tax charge
of £18.5m is not mirrored under UK GAAP for YW,
where discounting remains and the deferred tax
movement was minimal.
Group operating profit from
continuing operations
Group turnover from continuing operations,
excluding Aquarion but including share of
associates and joint ventures, increased by £111.4m
(15.6%) to £825.4m (2005: £714.0m) for the full
year. This was driven by a £53.7m (8.4%) increase
in UK regulated turnover following the 8.9% tariff
increase at YW and £64.3m growth in non-regulated
turnover in the UK.
Group operating profit from continuing operations
increased by £41.3m (15.1%) to £315.4m. YW’s
dominant contribution accounts for £312.7m
(2005: £272.1m) of group operating profit from
continuing operations. YW’s 14.9% (£40.6m)
increase in operating profit was driven by the tariff
increase and good cost control and the positive
impact of IFRS adjustments, providing funds to
finance the ongoing capital expenditure
programme and increases in taxation paid.
UK Service Operations has also grown its profitability
to £9.1m (2005: £6.4m) which includes strong
operating performance from existing business and
the first full year results for the Welsh Water waste
water contract that commenced in April 2005.
KeyLand profitability declined by £2m in the year 
to £3m. This was due to the timing of property
sales and planning applications and should return
to historic levels.
Martin Towers
Group finance director, Kelda Group plc 14
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
On 24 February 2006, the Board announced its
decision to dispose of Aquarion Company. The
conditional sale of Aquarion to Macquarie Bank 
for an enterprise value of approximately $860m is
contingent on regulatory clearances. No material
profit or loss on the sale is expected and the
impact on earnings, after accounting for interest
on group borrowings made to purchase Aquarion,
is anticipated to be broadly neutral. Aquarion
Operating Services, a small non-regulated business,
is not included in the sale. In accordance with IFRS
the results of Aquarion have been disclosed as
profit from operations to be discontinued and are
summarised in note 9.
Profit before taxation
Profit from continuing operations before taxation
has increased by 17.6% to £224.3m (2005:
£190.7m).
The increase in total net interest expense of £7.7m
to £91.1m (2005: £83.4m) reflects increased levels
of net debt funding the ongoing capital programme,
higher taxation and the £72.9m share buy back.
This figure includes a net £2.0m receivable (2005:
£2.4m) relating to pension fund assets and liabilities,
comprising £37.3m expected return on pension
scheme assets and £35.3m interest on pension
scheme liabilities.
Taxation
The group tax charge relating to continuing
operations of £65.4m (2005: £54.7m) includes 
a net prior year credit of £3.0m (2005: £2.2m),
£53.5m (2005: £23.5m) in respect of the current
tax charge, and £14.9m (2005: £33.4m) in respect
of the deferred tax charge. The underlying
effective tax rate of 30% can be analysed as 24%
in respect of the current tax charge and 6% in
respect of deferred tax.
With effect from 1 April 2005, the basis of taxation
for YW changed in relation to certain items of
capital expenditure in order to comply with Tax
Bulletin 53. As a consequence the current tax
charge increased in the current year to the level
expected to apply in future.
Earnings per share and dividends
Adjusted earnings per share are 46.9p (2005: 42.6p).
An interim dividend of 8.75p (2005: 8.34p) was
paid on 6 January 2006. The board is recommending
the payment of a final dividend of 21.60p (2005:
20.66p) to make a total dividend for the year of
30.35p (2005: 29.00p). The increase in the dividend
of 4.6% reflects an increase in dividend from YW
which is in line with regulatory expectations.
Dividend cover is 1.6 times (2005: 1.4 times).
Cash flow and balance sheet
A pre tax pension deficit of £62.1m, relating to
continuing operations, is included within the
balance sheet. There has been a pensions charge
against profit from continuing operations of
£15.3m (2005: £11.4m).
Net debt of £1,954m at year end (2005: £1,784m)
increased during the year by £170m.
The increase in net debt was mainly attributable to
the share buy back £72.9m, increased taxation
payments £38.5m and the ongoing capital
expenditure programme £331.9m (2005: £342.6m).
Dividend payments were £109.4m (2005: £100.3m).
The first half of the planned two year share buy
back programme of 5% of equity was completed
at a cost of £72.9m for 9.3m shares. This
movement in net debt resulted in the ratios
calculated using funds from operations, net of
taxation being 4.2 times (2005 4.8 times) when
compared with interest, and 23% of net debt
(2005: 24%).
Year end balance sheet gearing is 57% (2005:
55%) and the YW net debt to Regulatory Capital
Value (RCV) is 42.5% (2005: 39.3%).
Accounting policies
The group accounts have been prepared in
accordance with the accounting policies described
in note 2 to the accounts, in accordance with IFRS.
The group commenced reporting under IFRS from
1 April 2005 with comparative figures restated.
A reconciliation of the comparative figures
between UK GAAP and as restated under IFRS is
provided in note 31 to the accounts.
Treasury policy
The group’s treasury operations are controlled
centrally in accordance with approved board
policies, guidelines and procedures. Treasury
strategy is designed to manage the group’s
exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency
exchange rates, preclude speculation and to 
Business review
Financial review source and structure the group’s borrowing
requirements. Note 25 to the accounts shows
details of the financial instruments held by the
group for these purposes.
The group uses a combination of fixed capital,
retained profits, long term loans, finance leases,
and bank facilities to finance its operations. Any
funding required is raised by the group treasury
department in the name of the appropriate
company and supported by guarantees as
necessary. Funds raised by the holding company
may be lent to operating subsidiaries at
commercial rates of interest. Cash surplus to
operating requirements is invested in short term
instruments with institutions having a long term
rating of at least A- or A3 and a short term rating
of at least A1 or P1 issued by Standard and Poor’s
and Moody’s respectively.
Pensions
The disclosed IAS19 deficit in the main UK defined
benefit scheme at 31 March 2006 was £62.1m
(2005: £80.4m).
IAS19 requires that the pension schemes are valued
using market conditions at the company’s year
end. This produces a volatile figure for any surplus
or deficit as it is largely dependent on the levels of
stock markets on one particular date. The group’s
pension liabilities are funded on a long term basis
(based on the triennial review of the Kelda Group
Pension Plan and annual reviews in the US) rather
than IAS19 disclosures.
Shareholder value
The company’s mid market share price at 
31 March 2006 was 788.5p (2005: 598.0p). The
yield on the company’s shares at that date, based
on the recommended final dividend was 3.85%
(2005: 4.85%).
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation that the company has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
15
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Key financial performance indicators
2006 2005
Group interest 
cover 3.5% 3.3%
Cash interest
cover 4.2% 4.8%
Group gearing 57% 55%
Earnings per share
adjusted for 
exceptional items 46.9p 42.6p
Yorkshire Water net
debt to Regulatory
Capital Value (RCV) 42.5% 39.3%
For more details of these measures see page 34
Profit attributable to shareholders 
£158.9m
£1 7 4. 1 m
Group profit Group profit from continuing
operations
Dividend per share 
46. 9p 30.35p
Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted
earnings per share excluding exceptional items
Operating profit Group operating profit from
continuing operations
£825.4m £315.4m
Turnover Group and share of associates and
joint ventures from continuing operations 16
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Business review
Principal risks and uncertainties
There is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks which 
is comprehensive and systematic.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Strategic, financial, commercial, operational, social,
environmental and ethical risks are all considered
as part of Kelda’s internal controls, which are
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives. Therefore
they can only provide reasonable, not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
For a more detailed explanation of our internal
controls, turn to the corporate governance section
on page 37.
Although at present there are no immediate risks
considered likely to have a significant impact on
the short or long term value of the group, the
principal risks identified fall into five categories:
• changes to the regulatory environment;
• changes in legislation;
• climate changes;
• social influences;
• supplier markets.
Changes to the regulatory environment
The group is set allowed returns and price limits in a
relatively stable environment, with investment and
price limits determined by Ofwat on a 5 year cycle.
On 1 April 2006, there were some changes at
Ofwat. Although it will continue to be known as
Ofwat, the statutory name changed to the Water
Services Regulation Authority. A new board has
replaced the Director General and will now take
responsibility for the economic regulation of the
water and sewerage industry in England and Wales. 
The appointment of Philip Fletcher as Chairman,
following his five years as Director General of
Ofwat, helps to promote certainty and reduce
regulatory risk during this transition period.
Changes in legislation
The group continually monitors and attempts to
influence proposed new European and UK legislation
which has potential to impact on the business.
The Water Framework Directive is the most
substantial piece of European water legislation 
to date. It requires all inland and coastal waters 
to reach ‘good status’ by 2015. It will do this by
establishing a river basin district structure within
which demanding environmental objectives will be
set, including ecological targets for surface waters.
The Directive therefore sets a framework which
aims to provide substantial benefits for the long
term sustainable management of water.
This new Directive has the potential to drive major
additional capital investment and increases in
customers’ charges.
Climate changes
The group’s core activities, the provision of 
high quality water and sewerage services, are
inextricably linked with the weather and therefore
any climate changes have the potential to impact
on business.
As the group’s resources are a mixture of water
captured in reservoirs or abstracted from rivers or
underground aquifers, climate change could alter
many of the variables in this complex equation.
Social influences
The group is subject to social influences and may
be required to change its business practices in 
light of regulatory changes brought about by
public opinion in the face of consumer and
stakeholder pressure.
For example, following the passing of the Water Act
2003, in future if we receive formal requests to
fluoridate from strategic health authorities that have
followed all the proper consultation procedures and
can demonstrate public support, we may be
obliged, where practicable, to carry out their wishes.
The company maintains a neutral position on
whether fluoridation is effective or appropriate. 
If required to fluoridate the water supply by certain
Strategic Health Authorities, the company would
have to introduce operational procedures to
enable this.
Supplier markets
As the recent fluctuation in energy prices has
clearly illustrated, the group is also subject to
external market forces, where input prices can rise
beyond the regulatory allowance.
In order to minimise the impact of energy price
fluctuations, Yorkshire Water follows a clear energy
purchasing policy. The group has also continued to
develop new ways of reducing consumption and
renewable energy sources such as wind turbines 
at its treatment works. 17
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Corporate Social Responsibility
Introduction
As a provider of essential drinking water and
sanitation, we recognise the responsible role 
we play in society and in the protection and
improvement of our environment. 18
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
This was a rise of 19 places on the previous
year and clearly underlines our commitment 
to corporate social responsibility and our
desire to make continuous improvements 
to the way we conduct our business. For 
the last two years, we have been the best
performing Yorkshire based company, 
and this year we achieved outstanding
performance in community, environmental
and marketplace management.
Over the past 12 months we have further put into
practice our principle that the interests of our
customers, the environment and society in general
are best served through the efficient and effective
operation of our business.
BitC’s Corporate Responsibility Index is a robust and
comprehensive measure of a company’s total
impact on society and we continue to use it as a
tool to audit all aspects of our operations to ensure
we remain at the forefront of best practice.
We believe our participation in the index over the
last three years played a major part in our principal
subsidiary, Yorkshire Water, being named Utility of
the Year for an unprecedented second year running
at the 2005 Utility Industry Achievement Awards.
In 2004, the judges paid tribute to our quality of
service and wider contribution we make to the
communities we serve. In 2005, the judges again
commended our service, noting that we have
achieved 95% customer satisfaction, as well as 
our best ever water quality.
Loop has now featured in the ‘Sunday Times 100
Best Companies to Work for’ in the UK for 3
consecutive years.
We have used our position as a major regional
employer to advocate responsible business practice
among our peers. In October 2005, our Chief
Executive, Kevin Whiteman gave one of 4 keynote
speeches to a group of MEPs and EC members
from the Yorkshire and Humber Brussels office. 
The theme of the BitC event was selling Yorkshire
as the best place to do ethical business. This year
we have also sponsored a series of corporate social
responsibility workshops, held in association with
BitC, advising Yorkshire companies how they can
integrate CSR into their business.
Whilst we are pleased with the progress we have
made so far and the third party recognition we 
are now achieving for our efforts, we recognise
that there is room for even further improvement 
in the future.
For further details, see our full report online at
www.keldagroup.com/kel/csr
“Yorkshire Water has a record
of engagement with the
communities and strategic
organisations in Bradford that
reflects their commitment to be
a responsible corporate citizen.
The scope of activities is
impressive, from involvement
in strategic partnerships to
programmes such as Cool
Schools and employee
volunteering in schools and
communities.”
Elaine Appelbee Chief executive,
Bradford Vision
Corporate Social Responsibility
How we go about our business
Kelda Group plc was ranked 24th in this year’s 
‘T op 100 Companies that Count’ report produced 
by the independent charity, Business in the
Community (BitC). Data verification
Our CSR data is now independently verified by
Enviros Consulting Limited. The full verification
statement can be viewed at:
www.keldagroup.com/kel/csr/approach/verification/
Business in the Community’s Corporate
Responsibility Index
Established in 2002, the Corporate Responsibility
Index is a business management tool developed to
support companies in improving their impact on
society and the environment. It enables companies
to assess the extent to which their strategy is
translated into responsible practice throughout 
the organisation in managing four key areas –
environment, community (our role in society),
workplace (our people) and marketplace (our
customers and service partners). Companies use
the Index as a tool to manage, measure and report
their performance in these key areas.
Business in the Environment’s (BiE) Index 
of Corporate Environmental Engagement
Now in its tenth year, the BiE Index remains the
leading indicator of corporate environmental
engagement. The annual index benchmarks
companies’ performance against their peers on the
basis of their environmental management and
performance in key impact areas. The index aims
to drive continuous improvement, assist companies
in their gap analysis, help determine progress and
raise awareness of the environment as a strategic,
competitive issue at boardroom level.
For the past four years Kelda has qualified for
‘Premier League’ status – an accolade only
awarded to companies that score above 95%.
Additional information about our environmental
performance is available on pages 20 and 21 or 
by visiting our website at www.keldagroup.com
FTSE4Good Indices
The FTSE4Good Indices are designed to measure
the performance of companies that meet globally
recognised corporate responsibility standards and
to facilitate investment in those companies. Kelda
has been included in selected indices since their
inception by the FTSE group in 2001.
Guardian Giving List
For the first time since it was established five years
ago, Kelda has been featured in this list of FTSE100
givers of money to charities or other forms of
social investment. The companies are ranked in
order of the percentage of pre-tax profit given.
Whilst our community policy focuses more on
time-giving and gifts in kind, we have been ranked
at 73
rd
in the list, giving 0.2% of our pre-tax profits.
Awards
This year, three Yorkshire Water colleagues won
Volunteer of the Year Awards, one of whom, Diane
Bindley of our Human Resources department, also
won the Cares Volunteer of the Year Award at
BitC’s Yorkshire and Humberside Awards for
Excellence. Diane, involved in our Newlands
Business Bridge initiative, was nominated for 
her mentoring work with SNOOP (Special Needs
Objective Outreach Project), offering day and
holiday care for children and young adults with
disabilities and complex needs, and advice and
support for parents and carers. Dave Perrins of 
our IT department was highly commended as
‘Cares Team Leader of the Year’ and the Newlands
Business Bridge Mentoring Team was highly
commended as ‘Cares Team of the Year’.
the number of hours given this year through
our in-house employee volunteering
programme.
19
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
We use a wide range of measures to benchmark 
our performance on social, environmental and 
ethical issues.
Benchmarking our performance
94.5%
6, 1 76
the score we achieved in the 2005 Corporate
Responsibility Index, achieving outstanding
performance in the areas of community,
environmental and marketplace management. 20
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Corporate Social Responsibility
Environment
Sustainable operations are key to the long term
viability of our business. We remain committed 
to conserving and enhancing our environment,
striving to achieve 100% compliance with our
legislative obligations and to lead the field in
environmental management.
Best practice
The prestigious Business in the Community Shields
Environment Award named Yorkshire Water as 
a National Example of Excellence this year for
commitment to sustainable environmental best
practice. The award was given for a range of
initiatives including ISO14001 implementation,
environmental training, partnership working with
contractors and suppliers, sustainable procurement
and continual environmental improvement.
Woodland management
Yorkshire Water won two international Green Apple
Awards in 2005, including the Utilities’ Green Apple
Champion Award, recognising the company’s
forward thinking woodland stewardship policy 
that aims to improve and sustain the company’s
woodland for future generations.
A past strategy left woodlands prone to storm
damage. Since 2000, 50 hectares of our woodland
have been destroyed by storms, exposing soil and
blocking watercourses and recreational routes.
Saleable timber is recovered and sold to the timber
trade, meeting international accreditation standards.
The remaining material is burnt, mulched and
decomposes naturally, creating an environment for
natural regeneration and tree planting.
Woodlands are replanted with a variety of broad-
leafed species or left to regenerate naturally. Ponds,
glades and watercourses are also managed to
ensure greater biodiversity.
Nigg Treatment Works
Aberdeen Environmental Services, a Kelda
consortium, picked up a Gold Green Apple Award for
the sludge treatment, disposal and energy recovery
aspects of the Nigg Waste Water Treatment Works
project. This state-of-the-art sludge treatment plant
is totally energy self-sufficient, and creates a by-
product for use in local agriculture.
What’s next?
• Retain Premier League status in Business in the
Community’s Business in the Environment Index.
• Complete stage 2 of our Biodiversity Action Plan
by April 2007.
• Implement an Environmental Management System
for Kelda Water Services by December 2006.
• Continue our 2005–2010 £227m capital
investment plans to meet the requirements of
the new Freshwater Fish Directive, aimed at
reducing ammonia levels to protect river life.
• Begin implementing a 5 year land and 
recreation strategy to help delight customers
around our region.
97 .3%
11 8
Kelda’ s score in the 2005 Business in the
Environment Index, achieving premier league
status for the fourth consecutive year.
the number of potential pollution incidents
prevented by Hawkeye, a new YW award-
winning specialist pollution prevention
monitoring system, since its introduction 
in June 2004. 21
> BIODIVERSITY ACTION PLAN
BIODIVERSITY – THE ‘VARIETY OF LIFE’ – IS
QUICKLY BEING RECOGNISED AS A SIGNIFICANT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC ISSUE.
YORKSHIRE WATER’S BIODIVERSITY STRATEGY
WAS PUBLISHED IN 2004, ACKNOWLEDGING
THAT OUR OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES HAVE
AN IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT, AND THAT
WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO MANAGE THIS
IMPACT TO CONSERVE AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
ENHANCE THE ENVIRONMENT.
FOR MORE DETAILS VISIT THE HOT TOPIC
SECTION ON WWW.KELDAGROUP.COM/KEL/
CSR/OURENV/HOTTOPICS/BIODIVERSITY
> THE COUNTRYSIDE AND RIGHTS 
OF WAY ACT 2000
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE COUNTRYSIDE
AGENCY, ENGLISH NATURE, TENANT FARMERS,
THE RAMBLERS’ ASSOCIATION AND THE NEW
ACCESS AUTHORITIES WE HAVE DELIVERED
THE FREEDOM TO ROAM ON 33,000 ACRES 
OF UPLAND CATCHMENTS.
WE AIM TO ENSURE INTEGRATED ACCESS WITH
MINIMAL CONFLICT OR IMPACT ON WATER
PRODUCTION, FARMERS, LAND MANAGEMENT
OR CONSERVATION.
“The Ramblers’ Association recognises and commends
Yorkshire Water’s commitment to improving access to its
land, in particular the access team’s work with the Ramblers’
Association and other organisations to ensure the smooth
implementation of the new open access legislation.”
Keith Wadd – Chair of Ramblers’ Association, West Riding 22
We continue to take our wider responsibilities
seriously and, wherever practicable, strive to 
enhance people’s quality of life in the communities
that we serve.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our role in society
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
“Yorkshire Water’s volunteering
programme is renowned for
benefiting communities and
helping its employees develop
new skills and its concern for
children’s health and education
through its innovative Cool
Schools campaign has been
truly inspirational.”
Pam Lee,
Regional director, Business in the Community 23
> COOL SCHOOLS
OUR COOL SCHOOLS CAMPAIGN HAS NOW
ACHIEVED THE LANDMARK INSTALLATION OF
OVER 1,000 FREE WATER COOLERS IN MORE
THAN 550 SCHOOLS. THE INITIATIVE, WHICH
WON A PRESTIGIOUS BUSINESS IN THE
COMMUNITY BIG TICK AWARD IN 2005, WAS
LAUNCHED IN 2002 FOLLOWING CONCERNS
FROM HEALTH EXPERTS ABOUT THE
UNAVAILABILITY OF DRINKING WATER IN
SCHOOLS AND THE DAMAGING EFFECT OF
DEHYDRATION ON CHILDREN’S PERFORMANCE.
FOR MORE INFORMATION GO TO
WWW.KELDAGROUP.COM/KEL/CSR/
SOCIETY/COOLSCHOOLS/
> SPRINGFIELD CENTRE
THIS YEAR, OVER 570 EMPLOYEES FROM
KELDA AND OUR PARTNERS, TOOK PART IN 
50 COMMUNITY GARDENING, DECORATING
OR REFURBISHMENT CHALLENGES. THE
CHALLENGES – ARRANGED THROUGH
BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITY – PROVIDE
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT WHILST GIVING
SOMETHING EXTRA TO COMMUNITIES
AFFECTED BY OUR IMPROVEMENT WORK.
A HIGHLIGHT THIS YEAR IS THE SUPPORT
GIVEN TO BRADFORD’S SPRINGFIELD
COMMUNITY CENTRE. FOR MORE
INFORMATION GO TO WWW.KELDAGROUP.
COM/KEL/CSR/SOCIETY/INVOLVEMENT
Volunteering
Our commitment to providing personal development
opportunities through volunteering has been
strengthened by providing volunteering guidelines 
for managers, whilst a Community Education
Development Matrix – available to all colleagues –
provides a quick reference to which programmes
facilitate the development of which skills.
Eighteen colleagues are piloting a new course 
in conjunction with Business in the Community.
Volunteering Plus is a new national employee
volunteering accreditation, designed to build
learning outcomes from volunteering into
individuals’ own personal and professional
development.
Society Forum
This year we established an internal forum to
discuss the wide range of social issues relevant to
our business. The Forum – which aims to make
policy recommendations to our board CSR
Committee, and develop stakeholder engagement
– will be instrumental in helping us achieve our
society vision. The structure is designed to mirror
that of our well-established Environmental Issues
Forum.
Stakeholders
This year we surveyed our stakeholders on which
social issues they would like us to be involved in.
The results will help shape our new social marketing
campaign. Results suggest that colleagues have 
a preference for environmental and educational
matters, whilst external stakeholders are most
interested in water affordability, employment 
and health.
Charity
Our employees continue to support charities 
through the payroll giving initiative. Since its 
launch in 2001, over £130,000 has been raised 
by Yorkshire Water colleagues for local and
national charities.  
During WaterAid Water Aware Week in March 
2006 colleagues participated in a range of events,
including a rowathon and car parking collection.
Kelda colleagues raised a record £175,000 for
WaterAid in 2005/06.
What’s next?
•Develop a new social marketing initiative based
on stakeholder views, with the aim of launching
it in 2007/08.
• Continue to encourage employees to take up
significant external leadership roles.
• Promote enjoyment, health and recreation
under our ‘Only Available in Yorkshire’ banner.
• Promote water conservation through a 
customer roadshow.
• Consolidate the company’s volunteering
programme.
• Expand our SwimCare campaign, supporting
swimming lessons for children, following a 
new partnership with the Amateur Swimming
Association.
1,000
the number of free Cool Schools water coolers
now donated to Yorkshire primary schools.
£ 175,000
the record amount Yorkshire Water
colleagues raised this year for WaterAid, the
charity aiming to provide clean water and
sanitation in developing countries.
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 24
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Health and safety awareness
This year Yorkshire Water initiated a series of
employee communications exercises to further
raise awareness of health and safety issues and the
individual responsibilities connected with them.
The company’s ‘be a hero, target zero’ message
reflects the part everyone plays in achieving the
company’s target of zero accidents by 2010. The
two main areas of focus are healthy backs and slips,
trips and falls.
During European Health and Safety Week, noise
awareness and stress and relaxation sessions were
held across the region, and employees were able
to ask directors questions about health and safety
at two TalkBack sessions.
Clearly the best
Under the direction of the Diversity Steering Group,
different approaches to attracting and selecting
new recruits have been piloted across Yorkshire
Water, in response to reducing numbers of
applicants from traditional sources. The project 
was called ‘Clearly the Best Talent’. It was featured
recently at a national conference organised by the
Centre for Economic and Social Inclusion and
Talent Recruitment called ‘Recruiting Diversity:
What Works?’ The conference’s keynote speaker
was Margaret Hodge MP, Minister for Employment.
Benchmarking
Having achieved bronze standard in Race for
Opportunity’s annual benchmarking in 2004,
Yorkshire Water benchmarked again in 2005, 
and achieved silver standard for its race and
diversity performance.
Yorkshire Water continues to promote age diversity,
and is keen to retain its reputation as an Age
Positive Employer Champion and holder of the Age
Positive England award by highlighting the benefits
of a mixed-age workforce. This year, one of our
apprentices appeared on Sky TV breakfast news.
Other colleagues have featured in regional and
national press in connection with the Department
of Work and Pensions Age Positive campaigns.
Our strategy addresses a wide diversity agenda,
and we look forward to reporting further successes
across the diversity spectrum in the future.
What’s next?
•Develop a proposal aimed at giving colleagues
across the business a greater understanding of
the company’s society aspirations.
•Invest around £250,000 in creating ‘a better
place to work’ for our employees.
• Continue to modernise our recruitment and
induction processes.
•Develop diversity awareness through the ‘Clearly
the Best Talent’ project.
• Continue to develop clear leadership under the
sponsorship of the Leadership Development Group.
• Launch a programme to increase individual
awareness and knowledge of health and safety
behaviours in our waste water business unit.
860
the number of applications for meter reading
roles received following a recruitment drive to
attract the best candidates.
We are working hard to create a positive culture
where people feel proud to work for the business,
where they can maximise their potential and, in
return, get the recognition and reward they deserve.
80%
percentage of colleagues who voted 
were in favour of the new performance 
management scheme.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our people 25
> PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
YORKSHIRE WATER’S NEW PAY FOR
PERFORMANCE SCHEME WAS LAUNCHED IN
2005. EMPLOYEES NOW DISCUSS PERFORMANCE
WITH THEIR MANAGERS ON A QUARTERLY
BASIS, WITH THE OPPORTUNITY TO BENEFIT
FROM A PERFORMANCE-RELATED INCENTIVE
EACH TIME. AS PART OF A 5 YEAR PAY DEAL, 
A GUARANTEED COST OF LIVING ANNUAL
INCREASE HAS ALSO BEEN INCORPORATED FOR
EVERYONE, WITH ADDITIONAL INCREASES FOR
THOSE WHO DEMONSTRATE CONSISTENTLY
HIGH PERFORMANCE OVER THE YEAR. THE
SCHEME REPLACES THE PREVIOUS PROFIT
RELATED PAY AND ANNUAL PERFORMANCE
ASSESSMENT SCHEMES.
> SUNDAY TIMES SURVEY
LOOP HAS AGAIN BEEN CONFIRMED AS ONE 
OF THE ‘100 BEST COMPANIES TO WORK FOR’ 
IN THE UK. ACHIEVING 80TH PLACE, LOOP HAS 
NOW BEEN RECOGNISED FOR 3 YEARS RUNNING
IN THIS PRESTIGIOUS SUNDAY TIMES INDEX.
THE COMPANY WAS RATED HIGHLY FOR ITS 
WORK-LIFE BALANCE POLICIES, DEMONSTRATING
LOOP’S COMMITMENT TO ENSURING ITS
EMPLOYEES ARE HAPPY AT WORK. LOOP OFFERS
BENEFITS, RANGING FROM PENSIONS AND
SHARESAVE SCHEMES, TO ADOPTION AND
FOSTERING LEAVE, GRANDPARENTS’ LEAVE 
AND TERM-TIME WORKING.
“Yorkshire Water places 
great emphasis on the health,
safety and well being of 
its employees.”
Yuri Clarke Process controller,
Yorkshire Water 26
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our customers
Our domestic and business customers continue to
benefit from industry leading levels of operational
and customer service. Our aspiration is to exceed
customers’ expectations at every point of contact 
to provide a customer experience second to none.
“Yorkshire Water… has improved
still further in 2005… as the
company went from strength 
to strength. In delivering its 
core activities most efficiently 
it is clear Yorkshire Water is
number one, and the company
has backed up its promises 
with delivery.”
Judges of the Utility of the Year,
2005 Utility Industry Achievement Awards 27
> CLEAR WATER
YORKSHIRE WATER’S WATER BUSINESS UNIT
HAS NOW BEGUN IMPLEMENTING THE CLEAR
WATER STRATEGY, FOCUSING ON WHICH
ACTIONS WILL HELP US ACHIEVE OUR VISION
OF BEING CLEARLY THE BEST WATER COMPANY
IN THE UK. IT AIMS TO IMPROVE SERVICE,
REDUCE COSTS AND CARE FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT.
> PARTNERSHIP
YORKSHIRE WATER HAS ENTERED INTO A 
3 YEAR PARTNERSHIP WITH CITIZENS ADVICE
BUREAU. THE PARTNERSHIP INCLUDED
SPONSORSHIP WHICH WILL HELP COVER 
THE COST OF A NEW NATIONAL SPECIALIST
SUPPORT NETWORK, ENABLING MONEY
ADVISERS IN CITIZENS ADVICE BUREAUX
ACROSS YORKSHIRE AND OTHER REGIONS 
TO GIVE HIGH QUALITY CONSISTENT ADVICE
TO THE PUBLIC.
Utility of the Year
For an unprecedented second year running,
Yorkshire Water was named Utility of the Year 
at the prestigious Utility Industry Achievement
Awards. The judges noted that Yorkshire Water 
had achieved the number one position in Ofwat’s
performance league table, as well as achieving 
the best ever water quality and 95% customer
satisfaction.
Efficiency
In December, Ofwat awarded Yorkshire Water with
three A star ratings for efficiency in its water and
waste water operations. We have now held the top
spot in the league table for 2 years running. The
report analyses total and unit annual costs, assessing
each water company for operational performance
and asset maintenance.
Charter Mark
Yorkshire Water continues to achieve the
Government’s prestigious Charter Mark for customer
service excellence, having first achieved it in 1999.
The assessor highlighted 6 areas of best practice,
including performance in comparison to others,
continuous improvement, partnership arrangements,
efficiency and community involvement.
Waste Water 2020
The waste water vision was launched in 2005 
via 8 road shows, held across 4 days, attended 
by colleagues and partners. Through video
presentations and interactive sessions, colleagues
looked at the Waste Water Business Unit’s
performance in the past, present and future and
learned more about the three improvement areas
of customer service, catchment management and
sludge management, to be addressed by a major
improvement programme named ‘Future in Focus’.
Key areas of focus for the vision include meeting
the demands of the new Freshwater Fish Directive,
and eradicating pollution incidents, sewer flooding
and accidents at work by 2020.
What’s next?
• Target investment in our sewerage system to
reduce the level of sewer flooding experienced
by our customers.
•Review and introduce a customer
communication process for all planned repair
and maintenance work.
• Further develop proactive written
communications with customers during or
following an incident.
99.99%
of all billing enquiries are dealt with within 
5 days.
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
The 2005 annual Ofwat performance
league table confirms:
• Yorkshire Water has reduced leakage by 45%
over the last 10 years.
• The number of properties in Yorkshire and
Humberside suffering from poor water pressure
has been reduced to 155.
• The number of properties experiencing sewer
flooding has been almost halved since 1998.
• All billing enquiries are handled within 
5 days.
• 99.8% of all written complaints are dealt 
with within 10 days. 28
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our service partners
The performance of our service partners is critical 
to the success of our business, as they are often the
public face of Kelda. We continue to work closely
together to share our aims, objectives, best practice
and success, helping us to deliver better service, 
lower costs and healthy profits for all.
Signing up
Yorkshire Water’s service partners for the
investment period 2005–10 are signed up to help
deliver our £1.5bn investment programme. The
design and construction companies are responsible
for each of Yorkshire Water’s geographical areas,
working on capital schemes to build and upgrade
assets such as treatment works and sewers.
The partners all worked with Yorkshire Water during
2000–05, and will look after different areas of the
region now. Although we have worked with our
partners already, there was immense competition
within the industry, so many other companies were
looked at during the tender process. We believe we
have the right team to help achieve our vision and
deliver the 5 year investment programme.
CSR workshops
Many of our service partners attended a series of 
5 workshops, sponsored by Yorkshire Water and
held in association with BitC, advising companies
how they can integrate CSR into their business. 
The workshops, also open to BitC members and 
our main suppliers, covered improving business
performance, reporting, workplace health and
supply chain.
Joint branding
Our partners may now carry Yorkshire Water’s
identity on their fleet vehicles. The re-introduction
of joint branding demonstrates how far relationships
with our partners have developed. It also shows our
commitment to achieving the ‘partners’ chapter 
of our vision, reflecting the part our partners have
played in developing Yorkshire Water’s identity,
maintaining the highest service standards. The 
new guidelines ensure that our brand is presented
in a clear, consistent way by our partners and 
is reproduced to a high quality. Only vehicles
dedicated to Yorkshire Water contracts may carry
our identity. Whilst it is not compulsory to include
our identity, the new approach has been well
received by partners.
Community support
Our partners are encouraged to support communities
experiencing our capital works, accommodating
householders’ individual needs and giving time
through Cares challenges, a Yorkshire Water in-
house volunteering programme held in conjunction
with BitC. A recent example is Watermark, who
organised a challenge for 20 Watermark and
Yorkshire Water colleagues to clean and redecorate
the cellars of Sheffield’s William Temple and 
St Aidan’s churches, providing an archive room 
and community space for local youth groups.
What’s next?
• Continue to encourage joint community-based
volunteering initiatives with service partners to
foster closer working.
• Building on the success of previous years, involve
our partners in Yorkshire Water’s Business
Excellence Awards and support business unit
partner events.
•Review the transfer of information from service
partners to Yorkshire Water with the goal of
reducing the current average time of 35 minutes.
• Take a proactive lead with capital partners on
the health and safety aspects of our investment
programme.
158
the number of contract partner colleagues
involved in Yorkshire Water’s community
programme this year.
£6,700
the amount raised by our service partners
for the Guide Dogs for the Blind Association,
through attending Safety at Street Works
workshops.  29
> PARTNER AWARDS
IN JUNE, YORKSHIRE WATER HOSTED ITS
ANNUAL PARTNER AWARDS EVENING AT
RUDDING PARK, HARROGATE. IT INCLUDED
REPRESENTATIVES FROM YORKSHIRE WATER
AND PARTNER ORGANISATIONS, THE
ENVIRONMENT AGENCY, HEALTH AND SAFETY
EXECUTIVE AND WATERVOICE YORKSHIRE
(NOW CONSUMER COUNCIL FOR WATER).
THE EVENING RECOGNISED AND APPLAUDED
THE CONTRIBUTION MADE BY OUR PARTNERS
TOWARDS YORKSHIRE WATER’S VISION OF
BEING CLEARLY THE BEST WATER COMPANY 
IN THE UK.
> SAFETY AT STREET WORKS WORKSHOPS
COLLEAGUES FROM OUR PARTNERS HAVE
TAKEN PART IN WORKSHOPS, RUN BY
YORKSHIRE WATER, FOCUSING ON THE
IMPORTANCE OF SAFE SIGNING AND
GUARDING ON STREET WORKS.
THE WORKSHOPS COVER THE BEST WAYS 
OF SETTING UP STREET WORKS WITH A
PARTICULAR FOCUS ON DISABLED
PEDESTRIANS AND INCLUDE A PRESENTATION
FROM A HIGHWAY AUTHORITY DETAILING
HOW DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION ACT
LEGISLATION IS ENFORCED.
“It is essential that we maintain
good working relationships
with our service partners 
so that we can exceed our
customers’ expectations.”
Nicola Senior Communications advisor,
Yorkshire Water Denotes
A– Member of the audit committee
B– Member of the nomination committee
C– Member of the remuneration committee
D– Member of the corporate social 
responsibility committee
30
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Board of directors
John Napier (63) MA (Econ)
Chairman B,D
Joined the board in June 1999. Appointed
Executive Chairman in April 2000, moving to
Chairman in September 2002. Chairman of
Yorkshire Water Services Limited and Chairman
of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc. He
has formerly held senior posts as Chairman of
Booker plc, Group Managing Director of Hays plc
and was formerly a non executive director of
Waste Recycling Group plc. He is also Chairman
of Yorkshire and Humber Rural Affairs Forum 
and a member of the Yorkshire Forward board.
Kevin Whiteman (49) BSc, CEng, MIME
Chief executive D
Appointed to the board in September 2000 and
appointed Chief Executive in September 2002.
Joined Yorkshire Water Services Limited in 1997
as Business Director, Waste Water. Formerly Chief
Executive and Accounting Officer of the National
Rivers Authority and Regional Director of the
Environment Agency. Previously held senior
positions with British Coal. He is a trustee of
WaterAid.
Martin Towers (53) FCA BA (Econ)
Group finance director
Appointed to the board in March 2003. Formerly
Finance Director of Boots The Chemists, McCarthy
& Stone plc, The Spring Ram Corporation plc,
Allied Textiles Group plc and Yorkshire Group plc.
He is currently a non executive director of
Homestyle Group plc.
Ed Anderson (55) BSc (Econ), CPFA
Non executive director A, B
Appointed to the board in June 2005. Managing
Director of Leeds Bradford International Airport.
Currently a non executive director of Yorkshire
Building Society and St Gemma’s Hospice and
Chairman of Leeds Chamber of Commerce.
Formerly held several positions with Leeds City
Council, West Yorkshire Metropolitan Council
and Bradford Council.
Kate Avery (46) ACIB, FCIM, MBA, FSI
Non executive director A, B, C
Appointed to the board in June 2005. Group
Director (Retail Distribution) at Legal and General.
Currently a member of the ABI Distribution and
Regulation Committee. Formerly held several
positions with Barclays Plc.
Christopher Fisher (52) BA
Non executive director A, B, C
Joined the board in 2003 and became a non
executive director of Yorkshire Water in October
2004. Vice Chairman, corporate finance, at
KPMG, he is also a trustee of the Imperial War
Museum, formerly a managing director of Lazard
and a non executive director of Yates Group plc.
David Salkeld (50) BSc(Econ), Dip PM, FIGD
Senior non executive director B, C
Joined the board in October 2000. Formerly
Group Chief Executive of the Grampian Country
Food Group and Chief Executive of Arla Foods plc
and held senior posts in Grand Metropolitan plc
and Northern Dairies.
Richard Schmidt (62) BSc, MSc, PhD, MBA
Non executive director
Appointed to the board in September 2002.
Joined Aquarion Company in 1995. Formerly
President and Chief Executive Officer of Aquarion
until September 2003, President and Chief
Operating Officer of Mechanical Technology Inc,
President and Chief Executive Officer of Gundle
Environmental Systems and held senior positions
in Ecodyn Corporation. 31
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ report
The directors present 
their report for the year 
to 31 March 2006.
Results and dividends
The group commenced
reporting under IFRS with effect
from 1 April 2005. The profit
attributable to shareholders for
the year was £174.1m. After
dividends totalling £109.4m,
£64.7m was transferred to the
group’s reserves.
The directors recommend a
final dividend of 21.60p per
share to be paid on 25 August
2006 to those shareholders 
on the register at the close 
of business on 4 August 2006. 
An interim dividend of 8.75p
per share was paid on 
6 January 2006.
The total dividend for the year
will amount to 30.35p per
share (2005: 29.00p).
Business review
A review of the development and performance
of the business of the group, including the
financial performance during the year, key
performance indicators and a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties facing the
group, are set out in the business review section
of this Annual Report on pages 6 to 16. The
purpose of the Annual Report is to provide
information to the members of the company.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-
looking statements with respect to the
operations, performance and financial condition
of the group. By their nature, these statements
involve uncertainty since future events and
circumstances can cause results to differ from
those anticipated. Nothing in this Annual Report
should be construed as a profit forecast.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the group are the
supply of clean water and the treatment and
disposal of waste water. Yorkshire Water Services
Limited (Yorkshire Water), the group’s regulated
utility business in the UK, is responsible for 
both water and waste water services. Aquarion
Company, the group’s US subsidiary, includes
the US regulated water supply businesses in the
states of Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts
and New Hampshire and the non-regulated
water and waste water contract operations
business. The group’s other businesses are 
the UK non-regulated water and waste water
services business and KeyLand Developments
Limited, a company which primarily develops
surplus property assets of Yorkshire Water.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 24 February 2006 the company entered 
into a conditional agreement to sell Aquarion
Company to Macquarie Bank Limited for $625m
plus the assumption of external debt. The sale 
is conditional upon regulatory approvals which
are expected to be given in late 2006. The 
sale does not include the small businesses of
Aquarion Services and Aquarion Operation
Services, which comprises the contract operations
business of Aquarion.
Directors
The following directors held office throughout
the year: John Napier, chairman; Kevin Whiteman,
chief executive; Martin Towers, group finance
director; Christopher Fisher, David Salkeld and
Richard Schmidt, non executive directors. 
Kate Avery and Ed Anderson were appointed as
non executive directors on 1 June 2005. Each
director continues to hold office at the date of
this report. Derek Roberts and Ken Jackson retired
as non executive directors on 30 September
2005. Biographical details of each director are
set out on page 30 of this Annual Report.
In accordance with article 105 of the company’s
articles of association, Christopher Fisher and
Martin Towers will retire at the forthcoming
annual general meeting and will offer
themselves for re-election. The evaluation of the
board, as described on page 35, concluded that
each of the directors offering themselves for re-
election continue to demonstrate commitment
to their particular roles, and perform effectively.
Their re-election is recommended by the board.
Details of the terms of Christopher Fisher’s
appointment, and of Martin Towers’ service
agreement appear on page 39.
Details of the terms of all the directors’ service
agreements and letters of appointment appear in
the remuneration report on page 39. Additional
information relating to directors who served
during the year, including remuneration and
interests in the company’s shares is contained on
pages 40 to 42. The details of directors’ interests
in the company’s shares form part of this report.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
As at the date of this report, as far as each
director is aware there is no relevant audit
information of which the company’s auditor 
is unaware and each director has taken such
steps as he or she should have taken as a
director in order to make him or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
Corporate social responsibility
There are group policies for the environment,
health and safety and human resources, as well
as a code of ethics.
The internal control processes described on
page 37 take account of social, environmental
and ethical risks. In addition, the board receives
information as part of the normal reporting
process to identify and assess such significant
risks where they are relevant to the nature of
the company’s business. Further details are
included in the following sections of this report
and in the corporate social responsibility section
of the report on pages 17 to 29. 32
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ report
Employees and employment policies
The group strives to create a positive working
environment for all colleagues and places great
emphasis on open two way communications. It
values involvement at all levels, recognising that
everyone in the business is a potential source 
of innovation and change. Internal consultation
and communication processes provide the key
to this involvement, and play a large part in
achieving our vision to be a great place to work.
The company promotes freedom of association,
principally through its diversity strategy and
through collective bargaining arrangements
with UNISON and GMB, the recognised trade
unions. In those parts of the group where union
representation is low, wider franchise is achieved
through involving ‘workforce’ representatives 
on joint working parties or ‘works council’ 
type arrangements.
The company communications strategy is 
based on a ‘face to face first’ approach and 
all messages are delivered through ‘two way’
channels, including regular ‘talk back’ sessions
with senior management. The company
magazine ‘Connections’ is distributed throughout
the business and aims to provide business news
through the eyes of the company’s people. 
The magazine has won 17 Communicators in
Business Awards since 1998.
Regular employee satisfaction surveys are
undertaken across the group, using a variety of
survey tools including telephone based, online
and paper based surveys.
A ‘total reward’ approach is taken to salary and
benefits which are designed to be competitive.
The group’s sharesave scheme, which has a high
level of participation at all levels in the business,
and ‘pay for performance’ arrangements
provide an opportunity for all employees to
share in the success of the business.
The group’s equality and diversity, ‘open to all’,
policy covers gender, marital status, parental
status, sexual orientation, race, colour, ethnic or
national origin, disability, age, religion or belief
and trade union membership. Having achieved
bronze standard in Race for Opportunity’s
annual benchmarking in 2004, Yorkshire Water
benchmarked again in 2005 and was awarded
silver standard for its race and diversity
performance. Yorkshire Water also received the
Yorkshire and Humberside Age Positive Employer
Award in 2006. The group’s commitment 
to positive action towards applicants with
disabilities has been recognised with the
‘double tick’ accreditation from the UK
employment service.
The group provides a wide range of development
opportunities, including in-house and accredited
programmes to help employees develop the
necessary skills, knowledge, values and experience
to realise their performance potential.
Health and safety
The company is committed to achieving high
health and safety standards throughout its
businesses. The management of health and
safety issues operates in the context of the
health and safety policy adopted by the board
and the system of internal control.
The group has established a framework of 
policy procedural requirements by which all
subsidiaries must have in place appropriate
health and safety policies and procedures and
provide necessary information, instruction,
training and supervision. In addition, the
company provides occupational health, safety
and welfare advisory services for employees.
Specific health and safety goals are also set 
by individual businesses. These goals differ
depending on the business and include a
combination of reductions of accidents and
working time lost as a result of accidents,
training delivery, internal safety audits and
health promotion and surveillance programmes.
Senior management awareness and active
involvement in health and safety is fundamental
to company success. A pilot scheme is being
operated in Yorkshire Water’s waste water
business unit to promote an enhanced health
and safety culture and improve awareness and
behaviour in relation to health and safety issues.
Consultation with all employees via area and
functional health and safety forum groups 
and safety committees is actively encouraged.
Where possible, the intent is for local health and
safety issues to be discussed and resolved with
line management. In Yorkshire Water there are
84 appointed health and safety champions who
work alongside the Trade Union safety
representatives and line management. This
ensures that health and safety issues are
regularly discussed within each team in the
water and waste water business units.
By the nature of accidents, there can be no
guarantee that they will never occur. However,
the measures taken by the company are
intended to place emphasis on prevention and
continuing vigilance. Yorkshire Water has been
awarded a National Safety Award from the
British Safety Council and a Gold Award for
Occupational Safety from the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Accidents for its health and
safety performance during 2005/06.
Environment and community
The environmental policy of the company
recognises that a sustainable water and waste
water business is dependent on environmentally
sustainable operations. It is, therefore, committed
to integrating environmental best practice and
continuous improvement in environmental
performance through the efficient, effective and
proper conduct of its business.
Environmental performance is reported through
the company’s web based environment and
community report which is regularly updated
and independently verified. This can be viewed
at www.keldagroup.com/environment.
The company contributes actively to the
communities which it serves. It encourages and
supports colleagues in volunteering, charitable
giving and community involvement. One in five
employees is active in a wide range of company
supported community activities. These include 
a Speakers’ Panel and support to local education
ranging from Right to Read in junior schools
through to coaching at senior schools, and
mentoring university students from diverse
ethnic backgrounds.
Charitable and political contributions
Charitable contributions totalling £0.5m 
(2005: £0.5m) were made during the year.
No political donations were made.
Research and development
During the year £4.0m (2005: £3.6m) was
committed to research and development
including £3.1m (2005: £2.7m) on fixed assets.
Research and development activities were 33
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
primarily directed towards improving the
performance and efficiency of Yorkshire Water’s
assets and operations.
Purchase of own shares
At the forthcoming annual general meeting, the
company will be seeking to renew the authority
to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
Authority was previously granted at the annual
general meeting in 2005 in respect of 10% of
the company’s issued ordinary share capital but
expires at the close of the forthcoming annual
general meeting. During 2005/06 the company
purchased for cancellation 9,290,000 ordinary
shares at a cost of £72.9m, amounting to
approximately 2.5% of its ordinary shares. 
At the end of the period under review, the
authority granted at the annual general
meeting in 2005 remained valid in respect of
28,276,039 ordinary shares. It is the company’s
intention to complete the purchase of up to 
a further 2.5% of its ordinary shares in the
coming year.
Auditor
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP 
as the company’s auditor and to authorise the
directors to determine their remuneration will
be proposed at the forthcoming annual general
meeting. Details of the group policy designed
to safeguard the independence and objectivity
of the external auditor are included in the
corporate governance section of this report 
on page 36.
Payment terms to suppliers
The company’s normal terms are to make
payment in accordance with suppliers’ terms of
trade or within 30 days from the receipt of
services or invoices subject to satisfactory
performance by the supplier. Kelda Group plc is
a holding company and, at 31 March 2006, had
no trade creditors outstanding. The payment
terms of individual operating subsidiaries are
disclosed in their accounts.
Major shareholdings
As at 23 May 2006 the company had been
notified of the following interests amounting to
3% or more of the company’s issued ordinary
share capital:
Barclays Plc 5.13% 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited 4.76%
Legal & General Group Plc Companies 3.0%
Annual general meeting
The notice convening the company’s 2006
annual general meeting to be held at the Leeds
Marriott Hotel on 25 July 2006 at 11am is set
out in a separate document issued to
shareholders.
By order of the board
Philip Hudson
Group company secretary
24 May 2006
Registered office:
Western House
Halifax Road
Bradford BD6 2SZ
Registered in England
No. 2366627 34
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ report
KPI – Glossary of terms
Group financial key performance indicators
Group interest cover
This measure provides an indication of whether the
group’s profit is sufficient to cover its interest
obligations and is calculated as group operating
profit from continuing operations divided by the
net of finance costs and investment income. These
figures are disclosed in the audited accounts in the
group income statement.
Cash interest (Funds From Operations 
‘FFO’) cover
FFO cover measures the group’s ability to meet its
interest payments. This is calculated as net cash
inflow from operating activities, excluding interest
paid, divided by net interest paid. These figures are
disclosed in the audited accounts in the group
cash flow statement.
Group gearing
This ratio measures the proportion of assets invested
in the business that are financed by borrowing and
is calculated as net debt as a proportion of net
debt plus net assets. These figures are disclosed in
the audited accounts in the group balance sheet
and note 27 on additional cash flow information.
Earnings per share (EPS)
EPS is an important measure of performance and
growth. EPS is calculated on several different bases,
all of which are disclosed in the audited accounts
at the foot of the group income statement. Basic
EPS is expressed as profit for the year attributable
to shareholders, divided by the weighted average
number of shares ranking for dividend. Adjusted
EPS excludes the impact of exceptional items.
Yorkshire Water financial key performance
indicators
Yorkshire Water net debt to Regulatory 
Capital Value (RCV)
The RCV of Yorkshire Water is determined by Ofwat
and is the value of the capital base on which a
return is allowed for price setting purposes. The
values are calculated and published annually by
Ofwat. This ratio expresses Yorkshire Water’s
regulated net debt as a proportion of the RCV, both
of which are published in Yorkshire Water’s audited
regulatory accounts.
Non-financial key performance indicators
Overall customer satisfaction
The group recognises the value of listening to
customers in order to deliver improvements that
not only meet but surpass expectations.
Customer satisfaction is monitored on a regular
basis using a combination of random telephone
surveys and event-based questionnaires.
Yorkshire Water’s tracker research is an ongoing
telephone survey involving 220 customers chosen
at random each month. This monitors customers’
general perceptions and the experience that
customers receive when they come into contact
with the company.
The survey covers a range of issues including
satisfaction with the service received and whether
the customer agrees that Yorkshire Water is
trustworthy, listens to its customers, considers the
customers’ point of view, deals with complaints
quickly and satisfactorily, is enjoyable to deal with,
is sensitive to the customers’ needs and plays key
roles in protecting the environment and helping
people within the community.
Ongoing event-based surveys cover nine specific
areas of customer contacts, namely clean water
and waste water repair and maintenance work,
customer visits by water and waste water field
technicians, meter installations, supply pipe repairs,
new supply applications, mains rehabilitation 
works and the contact centre.
Water quality
The Drinking Water Inspectorate (DWI) regulates
public water supplies in England and Wales.
It is responsible for assessing the quality of drinking
water, taking enforcement action if standards are
not being met and appropriate action when water
is unfit for human consumption.
The Government has set legal standards for
drinking water in the Water Quality Regulations.
Most of these standards come directly from
European law and are based on World Health
Organisation guidelines. The UK has additional
standards to safeguard the already high quality of
water in England and Wales. The standards are
strict and generally include wide safety margins.
They cover:
• bacteria;
• chemicals such as nitrate and pesticides;
• metals such as lead;
• the way the water looks and how it tastes.
Professor Jeni Colbourne, the current Chief
Inspector of Drinking Water, is due to publish her
report for 2005 in July 2006.
According to the DWI’s last report published in 
July 2005, of the 447,822 tests carried out in the
previous calendar year, 99.97% complied fully with
the UK’s stringent, health-related quality standards
(2003: 99.93%).
Waste water treatment works compliance
The Environment Agency issues consents to allow
the discharge of treated water from waste water
treatment works. The three principal consented
limits are for suspended solids, biochemical 
oxygen demand and ammonia. A range of other
substances may be limited depending on the type
of discharge. This indicator shows loads for the
following determinands:
• suspended solids, which can clog fish gills 
and blanket the river bed, thereby destroying
fish habitat;
• biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), which is 
a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed 
in water – usually by organic pollution – and
therefore reflects the quality of the water;
• ammonia, which is toxic to fish;
• phosphate, which can lead to eutrophication in
fresh waters.
All waste water treatment works are monitored 
for compliance with their discharge consents and
the receiving waters are monitored to assess 
their compliance with water quality targets. The
frequency of monitoring depends on the size of
the treatment works; small works are monitored 
on a quarterly basis and large works are monitored
every week.
Reportable and notifiable accidents
The Health and Safety Commission is responsible
for health and safety regulation in Great Britain.
The Health and Safety Executive and local
government are the enforcing authorities who
work in support of the Commission.
RIDDOR – or the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 – place a
legal duty on employers to notify and report some
work-related accidents, diseases and dangerous
occurrences.
These include, for example:
• deaths;
• major injuries;
•over-three-day injuries – where an employee or
self-employed person is away from work or
unable to work normally for more than three
consecutive days;
• injuries to members of the public or people not
at work where they are taken from the scene of
an accident to hospital;
• some work-related diseases (using the F2508A
report form);
• dangerous occurrences – where something
happens that does not result in an injury, but
could have done. 35
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Corporate governance
The board is accountable to the company’s
shareholders for maintaining standards of
corporate governance. The board considers that
the company has complied throughout the
accounting period with the provisions set out 
in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The following is an explanation of how the
company applies the Combined Code.
The board of directors
The board meets at least six times each year and
more frequently where considered appropriate
or where business needs require. In addition,
meetings of the non executive directors are 
held when required. The board has a schedule 
of matters reserved for its decision and the
requirement for board approval on these matters
is communicated widely throughout the senior
management of the group.
The board determines the group’s strategic
objectives and key policies, and approves the
business plans for each group company, interim
and final financial statements, recommendations
of dividends, significant investment and major
new business proposals, as well as significant
organisational matters and corporate governance
arrangements. The board is also responsible for
establishing and reviewing the group’s system of
internal control and risk management, and
reviewing at least annually its effectiveness. The
roles of the board, the chairman and the chief
executive are formally set out and agreed by the
board. There are clear levels of delegated
authority, which enable management to take
decisions in the normal course of business.
During the year a formal performance
evaluation of the board, its committees and its
directors was undertaken. The process involved
the completion by each director of both a self
evaluation and an evaluation of the performance
and effectiveness of the board as a whole 
and individual directors. Individual discussions
between each director and the chairman, and
meetings of the board and the non executive
directors (including meetings without the
chairman to appraise his performance) to
consider issues arising from the evaluation
process and to identify and implement
appropriate action, were held. The evaluation
concluded that the board and its committees
operated effectively, and that each director
demonstrated commitment to the role and
performed effectively.
All new directors receive an induction on joining
the board, including information about the
company and their responsibilities, meetings
with key managers, and visits to the company’s
operations. Briefings are provided to directors
on relevant issues, including legislative, regulatory
and financial reporting matters. Training is
available to directors on, and subsequent to,
their appointment to meet their particular
requirements. There is an agreed procedure 
for directors to take independent professional
advice at the company’s expense in furtherance
of their duties in relation to board or committee
matters. Directors have access to the group
company secretary who is responsible for
ensuring that board procedures are followed.
The directors receive full and timely access to 
all relevant information, including a monthly
board pack of operational and financial reports.
Direct access to key executives is encouraged.
The company has directors’ and officers’
insurance in place.
The board comprises a chairman, two executive
directors and five non executive directors. Ed
Anderson, Kate Avery, Christopher Fisher and
David Salkeld are considered by the board to be
independent of management and free from any
business or other relationship which could
materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgements. Richard Schmidt was
previously an executive of the company. David
Salkeld is the senior independent director. The
roles of chairman and chief executive are separate
and held by John Napier and Kevin Whiteman
respectively. John Napier met the independence
criteria of the Combined Code on his
appointment, although he subsequently served in
an interim executive capacity, which he
relinquished in September 2002.
Any director appointed during the year is required,
under the provisions of the company’s articles of
association, to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
The articles of association of the company require
each director to be subject to re-election at
intervals of no more than three years.
The board has delegated certain authority to
the following committees. Each committee has
formal terms of reference, which are available
on request from the company secretary or on
the corporate governance section of the
company’s website at www.keldagroup.com.
Executive committee
Chaired by the chief executive and comprising
the executive directors and the chairman, 
it has delegated authority to deal with specific
matters remitted to it by the board.
Audit committee
Christopher Fisher is the chairman of the 
audit committee. The other members of the
committee are Ed Anderson and Kate Avery,
each of whom was appointed on 22 September
2005. All three members of the audit committee
are independent non executive directors and
each has sufficient recent and relevant financial
experience to discharge his/her functions. Ken
Jackson and Derek Roberts were members of the
audit committee until their retirement from the
board on 30 September 2005. The external
auditor, the head of internal audit and the
company secretary attend all meetings. The
group finance director and group financial
controller usually attend by invitation. The
committee also meets with the external auditor
without the presence of executive management
when it considers it necessary or appropriate to
do so. The committee chairman reports on the
activities of the committee to the board meeting
immediately following each committee meeting.
The audit committee’s key tasks include:
• the review and monitoring of the integrity of
the interim and annual financial statements;
• the review of the group’s system of internal
control, including financial, operational,
compliance and risk management;
•overseeing the company’s relationship with the
external auditor, agree the nature and scope of
the audit and review the independence and
objectivity of the external auditor;
• the monitoring and reviewing of the
effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In undertaking these tasks the committee
receives and reviews work carried out by the
internal and external auditors and their findings.
Both the internal and external auditor work to
an annual plan developed in consultation with
the committee. In addition the committee
reviews specific business areas and processes
from time to time. In particular, during the year,
the committee considered significant
accounting policies in relation to the adoption
of International Financial Reporting Standards. 36
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Corporate governance
The regular business of the audit committee
includes consideration of reports on financial
statements, audit planning, the activities of
internal audit and its key findings, and the
consideration of the operation of internal control
processes. Additional matters considered during
the year include a review of the system of internal
control and risk management, the appointment
and re-appointment of the external auditor, a
review of the effectiveness of internal audit, and
the adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards. The company has a policy for
disclosure of malpractice, and the audit
committee reviews the arrangements by which
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about
possible improprieties in matters of financial
reporting or other matters.
The independence and objectivity of the external
auditors is considered on a regular basis, with
particular regard to the level of non audit fees.
The company has adopted an auditor
independence policy which establishes
procedures and guidance under which the
company’s relationship with its external auditor
is governed so that the audit committee is able
to satisfy itself that there are no factors which
may, or may be seen to, impinge upon the
independence and objectivity of the audit process.
The key features of the policy are:
• clear accountability of the auditor to the
audit committee and the chairman of the
board of the company;
• the audit committee considers annually its
recommendation to re-appoint the auditor;
• the auditor is required to disclose the
safeguards and steps taken to ensure
independence and objectivity;
• rotation of audit partners and appropriate
restrictions on appointment of employees of
the auditor;
• specific restrictions and procedures in relation
to the allocation of non audit work to the
auditor. These include categories of work
which cannot be allocated to the auditor, and
categories of work which may be allocated to
the auditor, subject to certain provisions as to
materiality, nature of the work, or the approval
of the audit committee. At each of its meetings
the audit committee receives a report of the
fees paid to the auditor in all capacities.
The split between audit and non audit fees for 
the year to 31 March 2006 appears at Note 4 to
the financial statements. The non audit fees were
paid in relation to taxation services including,
exceptionally, £0.4m for the provision of advice in
connection with the conditional sale of Aquarion,
which was of a one-off nature. The amount and
nature of non audit fees are considered by the
committee not to affect the independence or
objectivity of the external auditor.
Remuneration committee
Details of the membership and role of the
remuneration committee are included in the
directors’ remuneration report on page 38.
Nomination committee
John Napier is chairman of the nomination
committee. The other members are Kate Avery,
Ed Anderson, Christopher Fisher and David
Salkeld. Ken Jackson and Derek Roberts were
members of the committee until their
retirement on 30 September 2005.
The main functions of the committee are:
•to review the structure, size and composition
of the board, the audit committee and the
remuneration committee and make
recommendations to the board with regard
to necessary adjustments;
• to prepare a role and capabilities statement
for the appointment of a chairman and to
identify and nominate candidates for the
approval of the board;
• to provide advice and recommendations to
the board in respect of appointments of
other directors.
The nomination committee meets at least
annually to discharge such of these functions 
as may be required.
Kate Avery and Ed Anderson were appointed by
the board as non executive directors on 1 June
2005. Candidates were identified with the
assistance of independent search consultants.
The nomination committee met to consider
applicants and to develop a recommendation 
to the board.
Corporate social responsibility committee
John Napier is chairman of the corporate social
responsibility committee, and Kevin Whiteman 
is a member of it. Roger Hyde, a non executive
director of Yorkshire Water, is also a member 
of the committee. He was formerly the Head 
of the Environment Agency, North East Region.
The committee recommends to the board
appropriate corporate social responsibility
policies and procedures. It is responsible for the
publication of the corporate social responsibility
review which is available on the internet at
www.keldagroup.com.
Board attendance
The table below shows the number of meetings
of the board, audit, remuneration and nomination
committees attended by each director, out of
possible attendances.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
John Napier 8/8 –– 3/3
Ed Anderson 6/6 3/3 – 1/1
Kate Avery 5/6 3/3 2/2 1/1
Christopher Fisher 8/8 4/4 2/2 3/3
Ken Jackson 3/4 1/2 – 2/2
Derek Roberts 4/4 2/2 – 2/2
David Salkeld 8/8 – 2/2 3/3
Richard Schmidt 8/8 –––
Martin Towers 8/8 –––
Kevin Whiteman 8/8 ––– 37
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Communication with shareholders
Shareholders have direct access to the company
via the investor relations section of its website 
at www.keldagroup.com and its free shareholder
information telephone service. The website is
updated with all announcements and
presentations, and contains investor relations
information which is updated regularly.
There is regular dialogue with individual
institutional shareholders as well as general
presentations after the interim and preliminary
results. All shareholders have the opportunity 
to put questions at the company’s annual
general meeting and the company will make 
a presentation at the meeting to highlight the
key business developments. The chairmen of
the audit, remuneration and nominations
committees will be available to answer questions
at the annual general meeting to be held on 
25 July 2006.
The board receives reports from executive
directors following meetings with investors.
Formal reports of investor feedback are
presented to the board following the interim and
annual results presentations. An investor relations
report is presented to the board each month.
Internal control
The board is responsible for the group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the
guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Internal
Control, has been established for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the group and this has been in place 
for the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the annual report and accounts.
Strategic, financial, commercial, operational, and
social, environmental and ethical risks fall within
the scope of this process. The process is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives and can only
provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss. During the
financial year, material joint ventures have been
dealt with as part of the group for the purposes
of applying the guidance.
The group has comprehensive and well defined
control policies with clear structures, delegated
authority levels and accountabilities. There is 
a group procedure governing appraisal and
approval of business development and investment
expenditure. Post completion reviews are
required on significant business development
projects and material investment expenditure.
The group’s risk management process aims to
be comprehensive, systematic and continuous,
and based on constant monitoring of business
risk. The key features of the process include 
the following:
• The main risks facing the group are identified
and recorded in a strategic risk register together
with the control mechanisms applicable to
each risk. These are collated from risk registers
maintained by individual businesses.
• There is clear allocation of management
responsibility for risk identification, recording,
analysis and control.
• The audit committee generally meets four
times each year and reviews the effectiveness
of the systems which are in place and reports
to the board.
• A risk management forum, chaired by 
the group financial controller, has been
established with formal terms of reference
comprising senior management from key
disciplines and operating companies. It advises
and assists operational managing directors
and the board on the implementation of the
risk management process and monitors risk
on behalf of the board. It reports to the 
audit committee.
• Business units are required to report annually
on principal business risks and the operation
of control mechanisms.
• The internal audit department provides
objective assurance and advice on risk
management and control, and monitors the
risk management process.
The audit committee reviews and monitors the
effectiveness of the process on behalf of the
board. During the year the audit committee
undertook a detailed review of the process. As 
a result, a more detailed process for evaluation
and prioritisation of risks has been adopted,
involving specific measures of potential impact
and likelihood of risks arising.
In addition to this process, businesses are
subject to: a quarterly comprehensive review 
by the executive team; independent internal
and external audits which are reported to the
executive team and the audit committee; an
extensive budget and target setting process; 
a quarterly reporting and forecasting process
reviewing performance against agreed
objectives; appropriate delegated authority
levels; established financial policies and
procedures; and other risk management policies
and procedures such as health and safety and
environmental policies.
The board confirms that it has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal control. 
It has received the reports of the audit
committee and has conducted a formal annual
review covering all controls including financial,
operational, compliance and risk management,
in accordance with the Internal Control:
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code
issued in September 1999 and updated in
October 2005. Following its review the board
determined that it was not aware of any
significant deficiency or material weakness 
in the system of internal control. 38
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ remuneration report
The members of the remuneration committee 
are David Salkeld who chairs it, Kate Avery and
Christopher Fisher. Derek Roberts and Ken Jackson
were members of the committee until their
retirement on 30 September 2005. All members
of the committee are regarded by the company
as independent. John Napier and Kevin Whiteman
have provided advice to the committee. For
guidance in recommending remuneration
packages, the remuneration committee uses
published surveys carried out by remuneration
consultants, as well as internal research, together
with other ad hoc projects to support the
objective of ensuring competitive and sustainable
remuneration. New Bridge Street Consultants
advise the company and the remuneration
committee on a variety of remuneration related
issues. The company does not use New Bridge
Street Consultants in any capacity other than as
an independent adviser on remuneration and
employee share scheme matters.
The terms of reference of the remuneration
committee are available on request from the
company secretary or on the corporate
governance section of the company’s website,
at www.keldagroup.com/corporate governance.
The committee makes recommendations to the
board on the framework of executive
remuneration, and its cost. It determines the
remuneration and conditions of employment 
of the chairman, executive directors and the next
most senior category of executives, including
the terms of any compensation in the event 
of early termination of an executive director’s
contract. It also operates the company’s long
term incentive plan. In determining the
remuneration of executive directors and other
senior executives, the committee also takes into
account level of remuneration and pay awards
made generally to employees of the group.
Statement of policy
The company’s policy is to establish remuneration
packages which enable the company to attract,
retain and motivate people with the skills and
experience necessary to lead and manage a
business of Kelda’s size and complexity.
Remuneration packages should be aligned with
the interests of the company’s stakeholders, 
in particular its shareholders and customers.
In recommending remuneration packages, the
remuneration committee follows the principle
of recognition of the individual’s contribution 
to the business. The company intends that
remuneration packages continue to be
developed to enable executive directors to
receive remuneration which is positioned in the
upper quartile of the market for upper quartile
performance, compared to relevant market and
industry comparators and taking into account
individual performance, responsibilities and
experience. Accordingly, a significant proportion
of directors’ remuneration is performance
related through annual and long term incentive
plan awards. Further details of the proportions
are included in the sections below and in the
directors’ emoluments table on page 40. The
design of the total remuneration package is
intended to achieve a weighting of each
component to ensure that above average
remuneration is available through performance
related elements rather than base salary.
The company treats remuneration strategy 
and its people resource as key components in
delivering its vision to the shareholders of Kelda
and to the customers of the group’s businesses.
At the same time, the company recognises fully
the sensitivities of such matters and the need
for due care and attention to be taken when
considering such issues.
Executive directors
The current remuneration package for each
executive director comprises the following:
Annual salary and benefits
The annual salary for each executive director 
is reviewed each year. The review takes into
account relevant market comparators and the
individual responsibilities and experience of
each director. Benefits in kind include a car and
health insurance. Base salary is pensionable.
Annual incentive scheme
During the 2005/06 financial year, each
executive director had the opportunity to earn
an annual incentive award of up to 60% of their
salary. Any bonus payment is made in June
based on performance in the year ending on
the preceding 31 March. Awards are entirely
performance related. At the start of the
financial year, the board sets challenging
financial and operational performance targets.
When determining the actual incentive award,
the remuneration committee considers 
overall group performance including financial
performance, regulatory performance including
published Ofwat measures, and individual
performance. Incentive payments at the 
higher end of the range are payable only for
demonstrably superior company and individual
performance. Annual incentive payments are
not pensionable.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
Under the plan, executive directors may 
receive, at the discretion of the remuneration
committee, a conditional award of Kelda Group
plc shares each year, with a value of up to 80%
of base salary. The proportion of the award to
be vested in the participants after a period of
three years will depend upon the company’s
performance in terms of total shareholder
return (i.e. share price movements and
reinvested dividends) during the three year
period, relative to a comparator group of
companies. The total shareholder return of the
company is considered by the remuneration
committee to be the most appropriate measure
by which the interests of the executives can be
aligned with those of the shareholders. It is
calculated by an independent consultant 
and compared with and ranked against the
comparator group. Vesting of 70% of the award
is determined by a reference to the company’s
ranking against a group of UK listed companies
which own and operate regulated water and
waste water companies and whose characteristics
are considered by the remuneration committee
most similar to those of the company. The
companies in the comparator group during the
period under review were AWG plc, Bristol
Water plc, Dee Valley Water plc, Pennon Group
plc, Severn Trent plc and United Utilities plc.
Following the agreed offer for Bristol Water plc,
the remuneration committee has resolved to
exclude it from the comparator group and to
replace it with Northumbrian Water Group plc in
respect of awards made after April 2006. Vesting
of the remaining 30% of the award is determined
by reference to the constituents of the FTSE 350
index on the date of grant (excluding investment
trusts). The remuneration committee believes
that the constituents of the comparator group
provide the most appropriate comparison for the
company’s performance but keeps this mix of
components under continuous review.
In respect of the 70% of the award determined
by reference to the six listed water companies,
no shares will vest unless Kelda is ranked at least
median, when 30% will vest. Full vesting will
require top ranking and, if Kelda is ranked 39
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
between median and top position, between
30% and 100% of the shares will vest depending
on how close Kelda’s total shareholder return is
to the first and fourth companies.
In respect of the 30% of the award determined
by reference to FTSE 350, no shares will vest
unless Kelda is ranked at least median. 30% 
will vest at median, and 100% will vest if Kelda 
is in the top 20% of companies, with pro-rata
vesting based on ranking position for
intermediate performance.
Irrespective of the total shareholder return
performance, no shares will vest unless the
remuneration committee is satisfied that Kelda’s
underlying financial performance has been
satisfactory over the performance period, taking
into account the company’s circumstances,
including the regulatory regime in place over 
the period, and the committee can scale back
vesting to any extent considered appropriate in
the light of the company’s financial performance.
The rules of the plan provide for early vesting 
of awards in cessation of employment in certain
circumstances, such as death, disability,
redundancy, retirement at expected retirement
age and business transfer. Early vesting is
subject to the same performance conditions 
as apply to vesting at the end of a three year
performance period. On early vesting, the
number of shares vested is reduced pro-rata to
the number of days of the performance period
in which the director was in office.
No benefits under the plan are pensionable.
Non executive directors
The chairman of the board is paid an annual fee
of £165,000. Non executive directors are paid 
a base fee of £30,000 per annum. In addition, 
the chairman of the audit committee and the
chairman of the remuneration committee are
paid fees of £7,500 per annum and £5,000 per
annum respectively. Derek Roberts also received
fees of £20,000 as chairman of Kelda Group
Pension Trustees Limited from which he retired on
31 December 2005. Christopher Fisher received
fees of £16,000 from Yorkshire Water Services
Limited, in his capacity as a non executive director
of that company. The fees of non executive
directors are determined by the board taking
account of responsibilities and time commitments
and of fee levels in comparable companies. 
The non executive directors do not participate in
the annual incentive scheme, the LTIP or group
pension plan.
Service contracts
The company’s policy on the duration of
contracts with executive directors, is that they
should not normally be of fixed duration, should
be subject to twelve months’ notice by the
company and six months’ notice by the director.
The notice periods have been selected to be
consistent with current corporate governance
best practice. Termination payments are made
in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Service contracts do not generally contain
payment in lieu of notice clauses, and terminate
automatically on retirement.
The company’s policy in respect of non
executive directors is to make appointments
generally of three years’ duration, the terms of
which do not contain any express provision for
notice periods or termination payments in the
event of early termination of their appointment.
Appointments may be renewed by mutual
agreement for up to two further three year periods.
Kevin Whiteman and Martin Towers entered 
into service agreements with the company on 
2 September 2002 and 12 February 2003,
respectively. The contracts are not of fixed
duration and each provide for notice periods of
twelve months by the company and six months
by the director. The agreements do not contain
any specific provision for compensation payable
on early termination, and any termination
payment would be calculated to take account
of the contractual notice period and any annual
incentive payment which would have been paid,
subject to the achievement of performance
objectives, and taking into account the period
actually worked.
John Napier’s current appointment as chairman
of the board of Kelda Group plc took effect on 
2 September 2005 and is for a three year term.
The terms of appointment do not contain any
provisions for notice periods or for compensation
in the event of early termination.
Christopher Fisher’s appointment took effect 
on 30 June 2003 for a period of three years. The
board has resolved to re-appoint him for a further
period of three years with effect from 30 June
2006. David Salkeld’s current appointment is
with effect from 2 October 2003 for a period 
of three years. Each of Ed Anderson’s and Kate
Avery’s appointments took effect on 1 June
2005 and is for a period of three years. Richard
Schmidt’s appointment is not for a fixed
duration. The terms of appointment do not
contain any provisions for notice periods or for
compensation in the event of early termination.
Executive directors’ service contracts, and non
executive directors’ terms and conditions of
appointment are available for inspection at the
company’s registered office, and will be available
for 15 minutes prior to the annual general
meeting and during the meeting.
Total shareholder return – Value (£)
Source: Thomson Financial
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
31 Mar 06 31 Mar 05 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 01
Kelda Group FTSE 350 Index (excluding Investment Companies)
This graph shows the value, by the end of March 2006, of £100 invested in Kelda Group on 31 March 2001 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index (excluding Investment Companies). 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. The FTSE 350 Index has been 
selected as a sufficiently broad market index which is most comparable to the company, and which includes 
part of the comparator group under the company’s long term incentive plan. 40
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ remuneration report
The following sections of the remuneration report, with the exception of the table of directors’ beneficial interests in shares, have been audited.
Directors’ emoluments
Total Total
Annual Benefits in Termination emoluments emoluments
Salary/fees bonus kind payment 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
J A Napier 165 – 16 – 181 172
Executive directors
M G Towers 181 87 15 – 283 261
K I Whiteman 325 195 29 – 549 523
Non executive directors
D J Salkeld 35––– 35 35
C C Fisher 54––– 54 46
R K Schmidt 30––– 30 32
C R R Avery (Appointed 01.06.05) 25––– 25
E J S Anderson (Appointed 01.06.05) 25––– 25
K Jackson (Retired 30.09.05) 15––– 15 31
D F Roberts (Retired 30.09.05) 35––– 35 56
Totals 890 282 60 – 1,232 1,156
Pensions
Kevin Whiteman and Martin Towers were members of defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the company during the year.
The main features of the Kelda Group Pension Plan (KGPP) applicable to executive directors are:
i) a normal retirement age of 60;
ii) an accrual rate of 1/30 per year of pensionable service;
iii) four times pensionable pay for death in service;
iv) spouse’s pension on death.
The company has additional contractual commitments to provide pension benefits to certain executives in respect of their earnings over the HM Revenue
& Customs earnings cap in force before 6 April 2006. These additional benefits are currently provided through an unfunded ‘unapproved’ arrangement.
On 6 April 2006 (A Day) a new tax regime applicable to pension schemes came into force. The new regime allows more flexibility in the accrual and
payment of members’ benefits whilst still preserving the favourable tax treatment which applied to schemes approved for tax purposes by HM Revenue
& Customs before A Day.
In some cases, the new regime will allow KGPP executive members the possibility of accruing higher benefits in the KGPP whilst still receiving preferential
tax treatment. In order to take advantage of this new flexibility, KGPP executive members have been given the option of accruing these benefits either
on a funded basis under the KGPP or continuing to receive pension rights on an unfunded basis under the unapproved arrangement. The new
arrangements will not affect the overall benefits to the member, or increase the cost to the company.
The company has made separate accounting provision for unfunded liabilities under the unapproved arrangement. The figures below include the
funded element of the company’s pension provision only. For details of the unfunded liabilities, please refer to note 22. 41
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year (£):
Total Total Increase Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value Total change
accrued accrued in accrued of net increase of accrued of accrued in transfer
pension at pension at pension net in accrual pension at pension at value during Director’s
31/3/06 31/3/05 of inflation over period 31/3/05 31/3/06 period contributions
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
M G Towers 18,921 12,465 6,181 82,083 155,389 284,488 118,242 10,857
K I Whiteman 84,425 67,067 15,883 192,025 724,463 1,105,117 364,814 15,840
i) Pension accruals shown are the amounts that would be paid annually on retirement at age 60 based on service to the year end.
ii) Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
iii)The transfer value of the net increase in pension (4) represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated 
on the assumption service terminated at the year end. It is based on the accrued pension increase (3) and is calculated after deducting the 
director’s contribution.
iv)The change in the transfer value (7) includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and
directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution.
v) Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the directors, who held office at the end of the year, and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the company 
as at 31 March 2006 and at the beginning of the year (or date of appointment where later) are set out below:
At At
31 March 06 1 April 05
Chairman
J A Napier 30,000 30,000
Executive directors
M G Towers – –
K I Whiteman 32,849 25,017
Non executive directors
E J S Anderson (appointed 01.06.05) – –
C R R Avery (appointed 01.06.05) 4,766 –
C C Fisher 5,000 2,000
D J Salkeld – –
R K Schmidt 7,676 –
K Jackson (retired 30.09.05) – –
D F Roberts (retired 30.09.05) 1,973 1,973
David Salkeld purchased 10,000 ordinary shares on 26 May 2006.
In addition to the above beneficial interests in the company’s shares, the executive directors are regarded for Companies Act purposes as being interested
in 2,947,812 ordinary shares of the company held by an employee share ownership trust (ESOT).
All employees (including executive directors) are potential beneficiaries of the trust, the purposes of which is to provide shares to satisfy options under
the company’s save-as-you-earn share option scheme and grants made pursuant to the long term incentive plan.
It is not anticipated that any employee or executive director will be entitled to receive from the trust a greater number of shares than that to which they
are entitled on exercise of options granted to them under the share option scheme or the vesting of awards pursuant to the long term incentive plan.
There have not been any changes to the shareholding or options of the directors between 31 March 2006 and 24 May 2006. 42
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ share options
In common with all eligible employees of the group, executive directors are entitled to participate in the company’s Inland Revenue approved save-as-
you-earn share option scheme. The options are not subject to performance conditions since this is an all-employee scheme to which performance targets
are not applied. The interest of directors in particular issues under the scheme are:
Market
price at
At Granted Exercised Lapsed At Exercise date of Date Date
1 April during during during 31 March price exercise options options
2005 year year year 2006 (p) (p) exercisable expire
M G Towers 2,016––– 2,016 366.0 – 01.03.07 31.08.07
M G Towers 411 – – – 411 461.0 – 01.03.08 31.08.08
The market price of the shares subject to these options at 31 March 2006 was 788.5p (2005: 598.00p) and has ranged from 598.5p to 821.0p during
the year. The aggregate gain on the exercise of share options during the year was £nil (2005: £nil).
Long term incentive plan
Interest of the directors in the plan are:
At Market price Granted Vested Lapsed At Earliest
1 April Date at date of during 28 June during 31 March vesting
2005 awarded award (p) year 2005 year 2006 date
M G Towers 25,742 03.09.03 404.00––– 25,742 02.09.06
M G Towers 19,672 28.05.04 489.25––– 19,672 28.05.07
M G Towers – 02.06.05 654.00 13,834 – – 13,834 01.06.08
R K Schmidt 21,993 12.06.02 436.00 – 15,834 6,159 – 11.06.05
K I Whiteman 16,514 12.06.02 436.00 – 11,890 4,624 – 11.06.05
51,485 03.09.03 404.00––– 51,485 02.09.06
41,492 28.05.04 489.25––– 41,492 27.05.07
– 02.06.05 654.00 39,755 – – 39,755 01.06.08
The performance condition applicable to the Vested Shares were as described on pages 38 and 39.
In addition to the Vested Shares 1,383 Dividend Shares were transferred to Kevin Whiteman and 1,842 Dividend Shares were transferred to Richard
Schmidt in accordance with the rules of the Kelda Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
The market price on 28 June 2005 was 682.5p.
The market price of the shares on 24 May 2006 was 763.0p. The aggregate value of shares vesting during the year was £188,662 (2005: £306,799).
By order of the board
Philip Hudson
Group company secretary
24 May 2006 43
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ responsibilities
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company 
and of the group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the group for the financial year.
In preparing the accounts of the company and of the group, the directors confirm that they have:
i) selected and consistently applied appropriate accounting policies;
ii) made reasonable and prudent estimates and judgements, where appropriate;
iii) followed applicable accounting standards; and
iv) prepared the accounts on a going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the company and its subsidiary undertakings keep accounting records which disclose, with reasonable
accuracy, the financial position of the company and the group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act
1985. They also have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of both the company and the
group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
In addition, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the directors’ renumeration report in accordance with the relevant legislation and 
other requirements.
The above statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditors, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the
respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts. 44
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Auditor’s report on group financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members
of Kelda Group plc
We have audited the group financial statements
of Kelda Group plc for the year ended 31 March
2006 which comprise the group income statement,
statement of group recognised income and
expense, group balance sheet, group cash flow
statement and the related notes 1 to 31. These
group financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent
company financial statements of Kelda Group plc
for the year ended 31 March 2006 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with Section
235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to
the company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the
annual report and the group financial statements
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union as set
out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial
statements in accordance with relevant legal 
and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether 
the group financial statements give a true and
fair view, the group financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation and the information given in the
directors’ report is consistent with the financial
statements. The information given in the director’s
report includes that specific information
presented in the business review that is cross-
referred from the business review section of the
director’s report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have
not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding director’s remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance
Statement reflects the company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
and we report if it does not. We are not required
to consider whether the board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
group’s corporate governance procedures or 
its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the
annual report and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited group financial
statements. The other information comprises
only the directors’ report, the unaudited part of
the directors’ remuneration report, chairman’s
statement, chief executive’s review, business
review, corporate governance statement and
corporate social responsibility report. We
consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the group
financial statements. Our responsibilities do 
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the group financial statements. 
It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the directors
in the preparation of the group financial
statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the group’s
circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the group financial
statements are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and
fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted
by the European Union, of the state of the
group’s affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its
profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the directors’ report
is consistent with the group financial statements.
In our opinion the group financial statements
give a true and fair view, in accordance with
IFRSs, of the state of the group’s affairs as at 
31 March 2006 and of its profit for the year 
then ended.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Leeds
24 May 2006 Contents
46 Group income statement
46 Statement of group recognised income
and expense
47 Group balance sheet
48 Group cash flow statement
49 Notes to the group accounts
84 Group companies
85 Five year financial summary
86 Auditor’s report on the company
financial statements
87 Company balance sheet
88 Notes to the company accounts
94 UK regulated water services 
additional information
95 General information
96 Our contact details
45
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Financial statements 46
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Group income statement
Year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
(restated)
Note £m £m
Turnover: group and share of associates and joint ventures 3 825.4 714.0
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ turnover (46.0) (43.2)
Group turnover 779.4 670.8
Operating costs (before exceptional items) 4 (464.9) (392.5)
Exceptional items 5 – (6.3)
Group operating profit before share of associates and joint ventures 314.5 272.0
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit after tax 0.9 2.1
Group operating profit from continuing operations 3 315.4 274.1
Investment income 7 51.2 56.0
Finance costs 7 (142.3) (139.4)
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 224.3 190.7
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 8 (65.4) (54.7)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 158.9 136.0
Profit for the year from operations to be discontinued 9 15.2 14.2
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 174.1 150.2
Basic earnings per share on profit for the year 11 46.9p 40.5p
Adjusted earnings per share on profit for the year 11 46.9p 42.6p
Adjusted earnings per share (excluding deferred tax) on profit for the year 11 54.0p 52.1p
Diluted earnings per share on profit for the year 11 46.8p 40.4p
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (see note 9) 42.8p 36.7p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (see note 9) 42.7p 36.6p
Statement of group recognised income and expense
Year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 174.1 150.2
(Losses)/gains on cash flow hedges taken to equity 25 (2.7) 3.3
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 15.6 (5.0)
Actuarial gains in respect of defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefits 22 9.5 7.7
Tax on items taken directly to equity (1.5) (2.8)
Other (3.1) –
Total recognised income and expense for the year 191.9 153.4 Group balance sheet
At 31 March 2006
2006 2005
(restated)
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 15.0 209.0
Property, plant and equipment 13 3,798.6 3,991.2
Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 14 1.8 1.3
Loans to associated undertakings and joint ventures 14 18.7 21.2
Financial assets 15 – 32.4
3,834.1 4,255.1
Current assets
Inventories 16 0.5 0.7
Trade and other receivables 17 181.5 185.0
Tax debtor 6.3 3.5
Cash and cash equivalents 18 82.7 167.1
Financial assets 15 27.8 –
298.8 356.3
Assets classified as held for sale 9 658.6 –
Total assets 4,791.5 4,611.4
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (266.0) (250.5)
Tax liabilities (36.5) (27.2)
Short term borrowings 18 (458.8) (33.4)
(761.3) (311.1)
Non-current liabilities
Long term borrowings 18 (1,486.8) (1,949.6)
Long term payables 19 (175.4) (232.2)
Provisions for other liabilities 20 (3.4) (3.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (577.2) (568.6)
Retirement benefits obligation 22 (62.1) (103.8)
(2,304.9) (2,857.3)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 9 (268.3) –
Total liabilities (3,334.5) (3,168.4)
Net assets 1,457.0 1,443.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 57.0 58.4
Share premium account 24 16.7 16.7
Capital redemption reserve 24 146.7 145.3
Treasury shares 24 (9.8) (13.4)
Hedging reserve 24 (9.4) (7.5)
Translation reserve 24 10.6 (5.0)
Share-based payment reserve 24 3.3 1.6
Profit and loss account 24 1,241.9 1,246.9
Net equity 1,457.0 1,443.0
Approved by the board of directors on 24 May 2006 and signed on their behalf by:
Martin Towers, Group finance director
47
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 48
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Group cash flow statement
Year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
£m £m
Group operating profit from continuing operations 314.5 272.0
Operating profit from operations to be discontinued 32.8 25.6
Depreciation 143.6 138.8
Release of grants and contributions (3.2) (3.3)
Exchange rate and other adjustments (18.0) 10.4
Decrease in inventories 0.2 0.1
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (17.3) 2.1
Increase in trade and other payables 9.9 13.4
Cash generated by operations 462.5 459.1
Income taxes paid (38.5) (4.0)
Interest paid (122.4) (111.6)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 301.6 343.5
Investing activities
Interest received 16.1 21.0
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 0.3 1.5
Loans to associates and joint ventures 2.5 (6.5)
Proceeds on disposals of fixed assets 0.1 0.2
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (331.9) (342.6)
Capital grants and contributions 32.3 22.0
Purchase of intangible assets (0.9) (0.4)
Net cash used in investing activities (281.5) (304.8)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (109.4) (100.3)
Increase in/(repayment of) borrowings 101.0 (21.6)
Repayment of capital element of finance leases and hire purchase agreements (9.3) (6.9)
Share re-purchase (72.9) –
Increase/(decrease) in overdrafts 1.2 (6.0)
Net cash used in financing activities (89.4) (134.8)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (69.3) (96.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 167.1 263.8
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1.1 (0.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 98.9 167.1 Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
1. Authorisation of financial statements and
statement of compliance
The group’s financial statements for the year
ended 31 March 2006 were authorised for 
issue by the board of directors on 24 May 2006
and the balance sheet was authorised on the
board’s behalf by Martin Towers, Group Finance
Director. Kelda Group plc is a public limited
company incorporated and domiciled in
England and Wales. The company’s ordinary
shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The group’s financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The
principal accounting policies adopted by the
group are set out in note 2.
2. Group accounting policies under IFRS
A. Basis of preparation
Basis of accounting
The restated financial information for the year
to 31 March 2005, the opening balance sheet
at 1 April 2005 and the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2006 have been
prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (IAS) and IFRS issued by
the International Accounting Standards Board
adopted for use in the European Union.
The financial statements of the group are
prepared under the historical cost convention
except for certain derivative financial
instruments that have been measured at fair
value. The date of transition from accounting
under UK GAAP to accounting under IFRS is 
1 April 2004.
First time adoption of IFRS
In general the group is required to apply its
accounting policies determined under IFRS fully
retrospectively to determine the opening IFRS
balance sheet. In order to ease the transition to
IFRS the accounting standard IFRS1 ‘First-time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards’ includes several exceptions to this
principle, some of which are mandatory and 
some permissive. In preparing these initial
statements the group has applied the following
exemptions to the restatement of historical data:
(a) Business combinations: The group has
chosen not to restate business combinations
prior to the transition date on an IFRS basis.
(b) Employee benefits: All cumulative actuarial
gains and losses have been recognised in equity
at the transition date.
(c) Cumulative translation differences: One of
the requirements of IAS21 ‘The Effects of
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ is that on
disposal of an operation, the cumulative amount
of exchange differences previously recognised
directly in equity for that foreign operation are
to be transferred to the income statement as
part of the profit or loss on disposal. The group
has adopted the exemption allowing these
cumulative translation differences to be reset 
to zero at the transition date.
(d) Share-based payments: The group has
chosen to adopt the exemption to apply IFRS2
‘Share-based Payments’ only to equity settled
awards granted after 7 November 2002 and 
not fully vested before 1 January 2005.
(e) Infrastructure assets: The group has adopted
the option to restate infrastructure assets to use
the fair value as the deemed historic cost in the
balance sheet.
To enhance comparability, the group has 
chosen to adopt IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments:
Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement’ with effect from 1 April 2004
and has not elected to defer application of
these standards to 1 April 2005.
Basis of consolidation
The group financial statements consolidate 
the financial statements of Kelda Group plc, 
its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The results of undertakings acquired or sold 
are consolidated for the periods from the date
of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting.
B. Accounting policies
A summary of the principal accounting policies,
which have been consistently applied
throughout the year and the preceding year, 
is set out below.
Foreign currencies
In the accounts of the group’s companies,
individual transactions denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into local currency at
the actual exchange rates ruling at the dates of
the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into local currency at the rates ruling at the
balance sheet date, or if appropriate, at the
forward exchange rate. Profits and losses on
both individual foreign currency transactions
during the year and monetary assets and
liabilities are dealt with in the income statement.
Differences on foreign currency borrowings 
that provide a hedge against a net investment
in a foreign operation are taken directly to
equity until the disposal of the net investment,
at which time they are recognised in the
consolidated income statement. On disposal 
of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative
amount recognised in equity relating to that
particular foreign operation shall be recognised
in the income statement.
On consolidation, the income statements of 
the overseas subsidiaries are translated at the
average exchange rates for the year and the
balance sheets at the exchange rates at the
balance sheet date. The exchange differences
arising as a result of translating income
statements at average rates and restating
opening net assets at closing rates are taken 
to the translation reserve. Exchange differences
on foreign currency borrowings are taken to
reserves to the extent that they provide an
effective hedge of the exchange differences
arising on net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an
overseas subsidiary, associate or joint venture is
calculated using exchange rates applicable at
the date of acquisition and is subsequently
re-translated at each balance sheet date.
49
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 50
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Revenue
Provision of services
Revenue comprises charges to customers for
water, waste water and environmental services,
excluding value added tax, together with the
proceeds from the sale of commercial and
residential properties to third parties. Revenue
excludes inter-company sales.
Revenue is not recognised until the service has
been provided to the customer. Revenue relates
to charges due in the year, excluding any amounts
paid in advance. Revenue for measured water
charges includes amounts billed plus an
estimation of the amounts unbilled at the year
end. The accrual is estimated using a defined
methodology based upon daily average water
consumption, which is calculated based upon
historical billing information.
Interest
Revenue is recognised as the interest accrues
(using the effective interest method that is the
rate that exactly discounts estimated future
cash receipts through the expected life of the
financial instrument to the net carrying amount
of the financial asset).
Dividends
Revenue is recognised when the shareholders’
right to receive the revenue is established.
Rental income
Rental income arising on investment properties
is accounted for on a straight line basis over the
lease term on ongoing leases.
Research and development expenditure
Research expenditure is written off in the income
statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the
income statement except where the
expenditure meets the criteria for recognition 
as an internally generated intangible asset as
outlined in IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Where the
recognition criteria are met, intangible assets
are capitalised and amortised over their useful
economic lives from launch.
Taxation
Current tax
Current tax for the current and prior periods is,
to the extent unpaid, recognised as a liability. 
If the amount already paid in respect of the
current and prior periods exceeds the amount
payable, the excess is recognised as an asset.
The benefits relating to a tax loss that can be
carried back to recover current tax of a previous
period are held as an asset.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is provided, using the
liability method, on all temporary differences 
at the balance sheet date between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences except:
• where the deferred income tax liability arises
from the initial recognition of goodwill or the
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a
transaction that is not a business combination
and, at the time of the transaction, affects
neither the accounting profit nor taxable
profit or loss; and
• in respect of taxable temporary differences
associated with investments in subsidiaries,
associates and interests in joint ventures,
where the timing of the reversal of the
temporary difference can be controlled and 
it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all
deductible temporary differences, carry-forward
of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to
the extent that it is probable that taxable profit
will be available against which the deductible
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused
tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised:
• except where the deferred income tax asset
relating to the deductible temporary
difference arises from the initial recognition of
an asset or liability in a transaction that is not
a business combination and, at the time of
the transaction, affects neither the accounting
profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
• in respect of deductible temporary
differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint
ventures, deferred tax assets are only
recognised to the extent that it is probable
that the temporary differences will reverse in
the foreseeable future and taxable profit will
be available against which the temporary
difference can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax
assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date
and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be
available to allow all or part of the deferred
income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are
measured at the tax rates that apply to the
period when the asset is realised or the liability
is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that
have been enacted or substantively enacted at
the balance sheet date.
Goodwill
Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the
consideration paid for a business or an associate
over the fair value of the identifiable assets and
liabilities acquired. Goodwill is capitalised and
subject to an impairment review, both annually
and when there are indications that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Prior to 1 April
2004, goodwill was amortised over its
estimated useful life; such amortisation ceased
on 31 March 2004.
Impairment is determined by assessing the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the
recoverable amount is less than the carrying
amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
When an entity is disposed of, any goodwill
associated with it is included in the carrying
amount of the operation when determining 
the gain or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets comprise capitalised 
bid costs on contracts won within the group.
Costs are capitalised from the date a group
company is named as preferred bidder and then
amortised over the shorter of the life of the
contract or the period to the first renewal date.  If preferred bidder status is withdrawn,
capitalised costs will be written off immediately.
Property plant and equipment
Tangible assets, including infrastructure 
assets, are included at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Finance costs incurred in respect of the
construction of tangible fixed assets are 
not capitalised.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation 
is charged on tangible fixed assets on a straight
line basis over their estimated useful economic
lives, or the estimated useful economic lives of
their individual major components, from the
date of commissioning.
Useful economic lives are principally as follows:
Buildings 25 – 60 years
Fixed plant 5 – 40 years
Vehicles, mobile plant
and computers 3 – 10 years
Water mains and sewers 40 – 125 years
Earth banked dams 
and reservoirs 200 years
Assets in the course of construction are not
depreciated until commissioned. The carrying
values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed 
for impairment if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value
may not be recoverable.
In the UK regulated water services business,
infrastructure assets comprise a network of
systems being mains and sewers, impounding
and pumped raw water storage, reservoirs, 
dams and sea outfalls. Prior to 1 April 2004,
expenditure on infrastructure assets to increase
capacity or enhance the network and to
maintain the operating capability of the network
base was treated as a fixed asset addition after
deducting grants and contributions. This policy 
is not permitted under IAS 16. The opening
balance for infrastructure assets was calculated
with reference to the estimated fair value of the
infrastructure network as a whole as the deemed
historic cost. Subsequent expenditure will be
classified as operating expenditure or capital and
accounted for appropriately.
The carrying value of property, plant and
equipment is reviewed for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense
when incurred in accordance with the
benchmark accounting treatment under IAS 23.
Accounting for leases
(i) Finance leases
Assets which are financed by leasing
agreements that transfer substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee
(finance leases) are capitalised in tangible 
fixed assets and the corresponding capital cost
is shown as an obligation to the lessor in
borrowings. Depreciation is generally charged 
to the income statement over the shorter of the
estimated useful life and the term of the lease.
If the operational life of an asset is longer than
the lease term, and the agreement allows an
extension to that term, the asset may be
depreciated over its operational life. The capital
element of lease payments reduces the
obligation to the lessor and the interest element
is charged to the income statement over the
term of the lease in proportion to the capital
amount outstanding.
(ii) Operating leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified
as operating leases. Lease payments are
charged to the income statement on a straight
line basis over the term of the lease.
Government grants and contributions
Government grants and contributions in respect
of property, plant and equipment are deferred
and credited to the income statement by
instalments over the expected economic lives 
of the related assets. Government grants are
recognised at their fair value where there 
is reasonable assurance that the grant will 
be received and all attaching conditions will 
be complied with.
Government grants and contributions received
in respect of an item of expense during the year
are recognised in the income statement on a
systematic basis in line with the cost that it is
intended to compensate.
Investments in associates
The group’s interest in its associates, being
those entities over which it has significant
influence and which are neither subsidiaries 
nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the
equity method of accounting. Under the equity
method, the investment in an associate is
carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-
acquisition changes in the group’s share of net
assets of the associate, less distributions
received and less any impairment in value of
individual investments. The group income
statement reflects the share of the associates’
results after tax.
Financial statements of associates are prepared
for the same reporting period as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring
the accounting policies used into line with those
of the group.
Investments in joint ventures
The group has a number of contractual
arrangements with third parties which represent
joint ventures, these take the form of agreements
to share control over other companies. The
group recognises its interest in the entity’s 
assets and liabilities using the equity method 
of accounting. Under the equity method, the
interest in the joint venture is carried in the
balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition
changes in the group’s share of its net assets, 
less distributions received and less any impairment
in the value of individual investments.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities
are prepared for the same reporting period as
the group. Where necessary, adjustments are
made to bring the accounting policies used into
line with those of the group. The group ceases 
to use the equity method on the date from
which it no longer has joint control over, or
significant influence in, the joint venture.
51
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 52
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Inventories
Stocks are stated at cost less any provision
necessary to recognise damage and
obsolescence. Work in progress is stated at 
the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost
includes labour, materials and an appropriate
proportion of overheads.
Provisions
Provision is made for self insured claims incurred
but not reported, and other known liabilities
which exist at the year end as a result of a 
past event.
Financial instruments
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash equivalents are defined as including short
term deposits with original maturity within 3
months. For the purposes of the consolidated
cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents
consist of cash and cash equivalents net of
outstanding bank overdrafts held with the 
same bank where there is a legal right and
intention to offset.
Trade receivables and payables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest 
and are stated at their nominal value as reduced
by appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts. There is no intention 
to trade the receivables. Trade payables are 
not interest bearing and are stated at their
nominal value.
Invoices for unmeasured water charges are due
on predetermined dates, irrespective of date of
receipt. Other trade receivables generally have
7 to 30 day payment terms. An estimate for
doubtful debts is made when collection of the
full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts
are written off when identified.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised 
at fair value less directly attributable transaction
costs. After initial recognition, interest bearing
loans and borrowings are subsequently measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest
method. Gains and losses arising on re-purchase,
settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities
are recognised respectively in investment income
and finance costs.
Investments
All investments are initially recorded at cost, being
the fair value of the consideration given and
including the acquisition charges associated with
the investment. Investments are classified as
either held-for-trading or available-for-sale, and are
measured at subsequent reporting dates at their
fair value. Where securities are held for trading
purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in
fair value are included in net profit or loss for the
period. For available for sale investments, gains
and losses arising from changes in fair value are
recognised directly in equity, until the security is
disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at
which time the cumulative gain or loss previously
recognised in equity is included in the net profit
or loss for the period. Fair value changes arising
from foreign exchange movements or from
income receivable are recorded in the income
statement for the period.
Derivative financial instruments
The group uses derivative financial instruments
such as foreign currency contracts and interest
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with
interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated
at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is
calculated by reference to current forward
exchange rates for contracts with similar
maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate
swap contracts is determined by reference to
market values for similar instruments.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges
are classified as either fair value hedges where
they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair
value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash
flow hedges where they hedge exposure to
variability in cash flows that is either attributable
to a particular risk associated with a recognised
asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the
conditions for special hedge accounting, any
gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging
instrument at fair value is recognised immediately
in the income statement. Any gain or loss on
the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk
is adjusted against the carrying amount of the
hedged item and recognised in the income
statement. Where the adjustment is to the
carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing
financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised
to the net profit and loss such that it is fully
amortised by maturity.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge firm
commitments which meet the conditions for
special hedge accounting, the portion of the
gain or loss on the hedging instrument that 
is determined to be an effective hedge is
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective
portion is recognised in net profit or loss.
When the hedged firm commitment results in
the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a
liability, then, at the time the asset or liability 
is recognised, the associated gains or losses 
that had previously been recognised in equity
are included in the initial measurement of the
acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the
asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges,
the gains or losses that are recognised in equity
are transferred to the income statement in 
the same period in which the hedged firm
commitment affects the net profit and loss, for
example when the future sale actually occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for special
hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising
from changes in fair value are taken directly 
to net profit or loss for the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for special hedge accounting. At that point 
in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the
hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept
in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss
recognised in equity is transferred to net profit
or loss for the period.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of 
the hedge is recognised in equity and any gain
or loss on the ineffective portion is recognised
in the income statement. On disposal of the
foreign operation the cumulative value of any
gains or losses recognised directly in equity is
transferred to the income statement. Employee benefits
(a) Pension plans
(i) Defined contribution scheme
The group operates defined contribution
schemes for those members of staff who are
not members of its defined benefit scheme.
Two are pension plans under which the group
pays a fixed contribution into a separate entity
which operates the schemes. The other provides
the employees with a lump sum on retirement,
with which they then invest in an annuity. Other
than this contribution the group has no further
legal or constructive obligation to make further
contributions to the scheme.
Obligations for contributions to the scheme 
are recognised as an expense in the income
statement in the period in which they arise.
(ii) Defined benefit scheme
The group operates defined benefit schemes 
in the UK and US. A defined benefit scheme 
is a pension plan under which the amount of
pension benefit that an employee receives on
retirement is defined by reference to factors
including age, years of service and compensation.
The schemes are funded by payments,
determined by periodic actuarial calculations
agreed between the company and the trustees
to trustee administered funds.
A liability or asset is recognised in the balance
sheet in respect of the group’s net obligations
to the schemes calculated separately for each
scheme. The liability represents the present
value of the defined benefit obligations at the
balance sheet date, less the fair value of the
scheme assets and past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation represents 
the estimated amount of future benefits that
employees have earned in return for their
services in current and prior periods, discounted
at a rate representing the yield on a high quality
corporate bond at the balance sheet date,
denominated in the same currency as the
obligations and having the same terms to
maturity as the related pension liability, applied
to the estimated future cash outflows arising
from these obligations. The calculation is
performed by a qualified actuary using the
projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses at 1 April 2004, the
date of transition to IFRS, have been recognised
in the group’s reserves. Actuarial gains and
losses on experience adjustments and changes
in actuarial assumptions that arise subsequent
to 1 April 2004 are recognised in the period in
which they arise directly in the statement of
recognised income and expense.
(b) Equity settled share-based payments
The company operates a savings related share
option scheme under which options have been
granted to employees. The fair value of
employee services rendered in exchange for the
grant of options is recognised as an expense in
the income statement with a corresponding
credit to equity.
The total amount which is expensed over the
specified period until the options can be
exercised (the vesting period) is determined by
the fair value of the option at the date of the
grant. The fair value of the option calculated is
determined by use of mathematical modelling
including the Black Scholes option pricing model.
The group re-assesses its estimate of the
number of options that are expected to
become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Any adjustments to the original estimates are
recognised in the income statement (and
equity). No expense is recognised for awards
that do not ultimately vest, except for awards
where vesting is conditional upon a market
condition, which are treated as vesting
irrespective of whether or not the market
condition is satisfied, provided that all other
performance conditions are satisfied.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan have
two separate vesting conditions, both of which
are dependent on market-based conditions (Kelda
shareholder return against a comparator group
and against the market). The market-based
conditions of the award are taken into account 
in valuing the award at the grant date. At each
subsequent balance sheet date the group revises
its estimate of the number of employees who will
receive awards. It recognises the impact of the
revision of original estimates, if any, in the income
statement, and a corresponding adjustment to
equity over the remaining vesting period.
Investment in own shares
The group has an employee share trust (ESOT)
for the granting of group shares to executives
and senior employees. Shares in the group 
held by the employee share trust are treated 
as treasury shares and presented in the balance
sheet as a deduction from equity.
The finance costs and administration costs
relating to the ESOT are charged to the income
statement. Dividends earned on shares held 
in the trust have been waived. The shares are
ignored for the purposes of calculating the
company’s earnings per share.
Segmental reporting
The group’s primary reporting format is its
business segments and its secondary format 
is geographical segments. A segment is a
component of the group which can be
distinguished separately as providing a product
or service within a particular environment which
is subject to risks and rewards that are different
from those of other segments. The group has
identified four business segments:
• UK regulated water services – Yorkshire Water
• US Operations – Aquarion
• UK Service Operations – Kelda Water Services,
Safe-Move and Loop
• Property Development – KeyLand
The Business Review details the activities of each
segment.
Transfer pricing between business segments is
set on an arm’s length basis similar to
transactions with third parties.
The group’s geographical segments are
determined by the location of the group’s
assets and operations.
Non-current assets held for sale
On classification as held for sale, non-current
assets are recognised at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held
for sale are included in profit or loss, as are any
gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items which
derive from events or transactions that fall
within the ordinary activities of the reporting
entity and which individually or, if of a similar
type, in aggregate need to be disclosed by
virtue of their size or incidence if the financial
statements are to give a true and fair view.
53
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 54
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
C. New standards and interpretations not applied
During the year the IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial
statements. Of these, only the following are expected to be relevant to the group:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 19 Amendment – Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Fair Value Option 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39 – Transition and Initial Recognition of Financial 1 January 2006
Assets and Financial Liabilities (Day 1 Profits)
IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 January 2006
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the group’s financial statements in
the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent
of risks that they give rise to. More specifically, the group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater
detail. There will be no effect on reported income or net assets. 3. Segmental information
The primary segment reporting format is determined to be business segments as the group’s risks and rates of return are affected predominantly by
differences in the products and services provided. Secondary segment information is reported geographically. The operating businesses are organised
and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Segment revenue,
segment expense and segment result include transfers between business segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
It is not possible to split the pension deficit between the UK subsidiary companies. It is therefore recognised within unallocated.
US operations
UK regulated KeyLand KeyLand UK service ops UK service ops Eliminations/ Total (to be
water services group assoc group JV unallocated continuing discontinued) Total
Year ended 31 March 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Total sales 693.8 7.6 0.9 104.0 45.1 – 851.4 104.2 955.6
Inter-company sales – (0.5) – (25.5) – – (26.0) – (26.0)
External sales 693.8 7.1 0.9 78.5 45.1 – 825.4 104.2 929.6
Depreciation (130.2) (0.1) – (1.3) – – (131.6) (12.0) (143.6)
Amortisation of deferred
grant income 3.2 – – – – – 3.2 – 3.2
Other operating costs (254.1) (4.3) (0.6) (73.4) (39.8) – (372.2) (59.4) (431.6)
Operating profit 312.7 2.7 0.3 3.8 5.3 – 324.8 32.8 357.6
Unallocated corporate expenses (4.7) – (4.7)
320.1 32.8 352.9
Less associates’ and joint ventures’ interest (3.8) – (3.8)
Less associates’ and joint ventures’ tax (0.9) – (0.9)
Group operating profit 315.4 32.8 348.2
Balance sheet
Assets 3,933.7 35.6 – 111.5 – (58.4) 4,022.4 639.8 4,662.2
Liabilities (1,045.2) (3.0) – (74.7) – 2.3 (1,120.6) (131.0) (1,251.6)
Net debt (1,563.5) 0.2 – (175.3) – (96.5) (1,835.1) (118.5) (1,953.6)
Net assets 1,325.0 32.8 – (138.5) – (152.6) 1,066.7 390.3 1,457.0
Other information
Capital additions 309.9 0.1 – 1.5 – – 311.5 37.0 348.5
55
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 56
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
3. Segmental Information (continued)
US operations
UK regulated KeyLand KeyLand UK service ops UK service ops Eliminations/ Total (to be
water services group assoc group JV unallocated continuing discontinued) Total
Year ended 31 March 2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Total sales 640.1 10.7 4.6 44.1 38.6 – 738.1 92.2 830.3
Inter-company sales – (0.7) – (23.4) – – (24.1) – (24.1)
External Sales 640.1 10.0 4.6 20.7 38.6 – 714.0 92.2 806.2
Depreciation (126.7) (0.2) – (0.6) – – (127.5) (11.3) (138.8)
Amortisation of deferred 
grant income 3.3––––– 3.3 – 3.3
Other operating costs (244.6) (5.7) (3.7) (19.4) (32.9) – (306.3) (55.3) (361.6)
Operating profit 272.1 4.1 0.9 0.7 5.7 – 283.5 25.6 309.1
Unallocated corporate expenses (4.9) – (4.9)
278.6 25.6 304.2
Less associates’ and joint ventures’ interest (3.7) – (3.7)
Less associates’ and joint ventures’ tax (0.8) – (0.8)
Group operating profit 274.1 25.6 299.7
Balance sheet
Assets 3,757.3 33.7 – 39.5 – 18.1 3,848.6 563.3 4,411.9
Liabilities (982.3) (4.5) – (9.7) – (77.8) (1,074.3) (111.1) (1,185.4)
Net debt (1,334.5) 7.4 – (116.7) – (235.1) (1,678.9) (104.6) (1,783.5)
Net assets 1,440.5 36.6 – (86.9) – (294.8) 1,095.4 347.6 1,443.0
Other information
Capital additions 320.4 0.1 – 0.5 – – 321.0 31.2 352.2
The group’s operations are located in the United Kingdom and North America.
The following provides an analysis of sales, assets and capital expenditure by geographical market.
US
(to be
UK discontinued) Total
Year ended 31 March 2006 £m £m £m
Sales revenue 825.4 104.2 929.6
Carrying value of assets 4,022.4 639.8 4,662.2
Capital expenditure 311.5 37.0 348.5
North America
United (to be
Kingdom discontinued) Total
Year ended 31 March 2005 £m £m £m
Sales revenue 714.0 92.2 806.2
Carrying value of assets 3,848.6 563.3 4,411.9
Capital expenditure 321.0 31.2 352.2 4. Operating costs
Continuing Operations to 2006 Continuing Operations to 2005
operations be discontinued total operations be discontinued total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Own work capitalised (23.7) (4.6) (28.3) (23.8) (4.0) (27.8)
Raw materials and consumables 19.1 – 19.1 18.6 – 18.6
Other external charges 240.5 34.6 275.1 192.1 29.1 221.2
Staff costs (see note 6) 104.3 29.7 134.0 86.5 27.2 113.7
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets:
On owned assets – UK infrastructure 17.9 – 17.9 17.2 – 17.2
– other assets 98.8 12.0 110.8 96.1 11.3 107.4
On assets held under finance lease –
– UK infrastructure 2.0 – 2.0 1.2 – 1.2
– other assets 12.9 – 12.9 13.0 – 13.0
Operating lease rentals (minimum lease payments)
– plant and equipment 1.8 – 1.8 1.7 – 1.7
– other 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Amortisation of grants and contributions (3.2) – (3.2) (3.3) – (3.3)
Research and development 0.9 – 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Other operating income (6.7) (0.3) (7.0) (8.0) (2.4) (10.4)
464.9 71.4 536.3 392.5 61.2 453.7
Auditor’s remuneration
2006 2005
£m £m
Audit of the financial statements 0.5 0.4
Other fees to auditors:
Taxation services 0.5 0.2
1.0 0.6
5. Exceptional items
Exceptional costs incurred during the prior year were as follows:
2005
£m
Relating to continuing operations:
Business reorganisation costs (5.8)
Other (0.5)
(6.3)
Relating to discontinued operations:
Goodwill written off (US operations) (1.6)
US business reorganisation costs (3.8)
(5.4)
57
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 58
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
5. Exceptional items (continued)
Reorganisation costs
During the prior year the group incurred costs of £5.8m in the UK and £3.8m in the US in respect of reorganisation costs, mainly in rationalising our
organisational structure. In particular an early retirement programme was rolled out in the US.
Goodwill written off
A loss was recognised on the write-down of the US investment in Aquarion Engineering Services, pending its proposed disposal.
6. Directors and employees
2006 2005
Average monthly number of people employed
Continuing operations:
UK regulated water services 2,129 2,158
Other activities 972 682
Operations to be discontinued:
US operations 568 592
3,669 3,432
Continuing Operations to 2006 Continuing Operations to 2005
operations be discontinued total operations be discontinued total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Total employment costs relating to continuing operations
Wages and salaries 83.8 18.9 102.7 71.6 21.6 93.2
Social security contributions 6.4 1.3 7.7 6.3 1.6 7.9
Other pension costs 14.1 9.5 23.6 8.6 4.0 12.6
104.3 29.7 134.0 86.5 27.2 113.7
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense for share-based payments of £1.6m (2005: £1.3m), all of which is from transactions accounted for as
equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
2006 2005
Directors‘ emoluments £m £m
Directors’ emoluments 1.2 1.2
Amounts receivable under long term incentive plans 0.2 0.3
Number of directors accruing benefits under defined benefit schemes 2 2
The remuneration of the directors who are the key management personnel of the group, is set out above in aggregate for each of the categories
specified in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the
directors’ remuneration report on pages 38 to 42. 7. Investment income and finance costs
Continuing Operations to 2006 Continuing Operations to 2005
operations be discontinued total operations be discontinued total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Investment income
Interest on bank deposits 13.9 0.6 14.5 21.3 0.6 21.9
Return on pension scheme assets 37.3 3.1 40.4 34.7 2.8 37.5
Total investment income 51.2 3.7 54.9 56.0 3.4 59.4
Finance costs
Bank loans and overdrafts 12.8 – 12.8 12.2 – 12.2
Other loans 2.7 8.6 11.3 4.3 9.3 13.6
6.625% bond 2031 15.9 – 15.9 15.9 – 15.9
6.875% guaranteed bonds 2010 13.8 – 13.8 13.8 – 13.8
5.25% Eurobond 2006 21.4 – 21.4 21.8 – 21.8
5.375% bond 2023 10.7 – 10.7 10.7 – 10.7
3.048% Index linked bond 2033 6.2 – 6.2 6.3 – 6.3
Amortisation of issue costs in respect of bonds 0.5 – 0.5 0.7 – 0.7
Finance leases 23.0 – 23.0 21.5 – 21.5
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 35.3 4.0 39.3 32.2 3.5 35.7
Total finance costs 142.3 12.6 154.9 139.4 12.8 152.2
No interest has been capitalised by the group during the year.
8. Taxation on profit on ordinary activities
2006 2005
£m £m
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 30% (2005: 30%) 53.5 23.5
UK adjustments in respect of prior years (13.3) (5.4)
Total current tax from continuing operations 40.2 18.1
US tax – operations to be discontinued 7.6 3.6
Total current tax 47.8 21.7
Deferred tax
UK charge for timing differences arising and reversing in the year 14.9 33.4
UK adjustments in respect of prior years 10.3 3.2
Total deferred tax on continuing activities (see note 21) 25.2 36.6
US deferred tax – operations to be discontinued 1.1 (1.6)
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 74.1 56.7
The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
Taxation on profit from ordinary activities 65.4 54.7
Tax on discontinued operations 8.7 2.0
74.1 56.7
59
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 60
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
8. Taxation on profit on ordinary activities (continued)
2006 2005
£m £m
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity
Deferred tax:
Actuarial (losses)/gains in respect of defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits (2.6) 2.0
Net gain on revaluation of cash flow hedge 0.8 1.0
Share-based payments 0.9 (0.3)
Tax (charge)/credit in the statement of group recognised income and expense (0.9) 2.7
The differences between the total current and deferred tax charge shown and the amount calculated by applying the national rates of corporation tax
(UK: 30%, US: 39.5%) to the profit on ordinary activities before tax is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 249.1 207.7
Less: share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit before tax (1.8) (2.9)
Group profit on ordinary activities before tax 247.3 204.8
Current and deferred tax on group profit on ordinary activities at the standard UK tax rate 74.2 61.4
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 –
Utilisation of tax losses (0.1) (0.7)
Pension obligation and share-based payments – (2.1)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods (2.1) (3.6)
Higher taxes on overseas earnings 2.0 1.7
Group current and deferred tax charge for the period 74.1 56.7
Deferred tax at 31 March 2006 relates to the following:
2006 2005
£m £m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 19.8 39.0
Fair value adjustment of infrastructure assets 2.3 (2.0)
Roll-over relief 0.2 –
Share-based payments (0.8) (0.2)
Retirement benefits obligation 4.8 (1.8)
Deferred tax charge 26.3 35.0
The tax charge in future periods may be affected by the following factors:
(i) capital investment for the UK water services business is expected to remain at similar levels and the group expects to be able to claim capital
allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at a similar level to the current year; and
(ii) the US tax rates are higher than those in the UK, primarily because the profits earned in the US are taxed at a rate of 39.5%. 9. Operations to be discontinued
On 24 February 2006, the board announced its decision to dispose of Aquarion Company Inc’s regulated water businesses. Kelda has entered into a
conditional agreement to sell Aquarion. Completion of the sale is conditional upon customary regulatory clearances, including clearances in the four
states in which Aquarion operates. It is anticipated that completion will occur late in 2006.
Aquarion Operating Services does not form part of the sale, however, it is anticipated that completion of the sale of the small retained business will also
occur late in 2006.
The results of Aquarion Company Inc for the year are summarised below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Revenue 104.2 92.2
Expenses (71.4) (61.2)
Profit before exceptional items 32.8 31.0
Exceptional items – (5.4)
Operating profit 32.8 25.6
Investment income 3.7 3.4
Finance costs (12.6) (12.8)
Profit before tax 23.9 16.2
Tax charge (8.7) (2.0)
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 15.2 14.2
The tax charge all relates to ordinary activities during the year.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of Aquarion Company Inc classified as held for sale as at 31 March are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Assets
Property plant and equipment 404.9 350.5
Intangible assets 212.1 193.5
Receivables 22.8 19.3
Cash and short term investments 18.8 11.8
658.6 575.1
Liabilities
Payables (108.3) (87.7)
Pension and post-retirement healthcare obligation (22.7) (23.4)
Borrowings (137.3) (116.4)
(268.3) (227.5)
The Group net cash flows attributable to Aquarion Company Inc are as follows:
Operating cash flows 25.4 11.5
Investing cash flows (24.9) (36.9)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) 0.5 (25.4)
Group profit per share from operations to be discontinued:
Basic 4.1p 3.8p
Diluted 4.1p 3.8p
However this does not take into account the future effect on earnings per share arising from the use of the gross sale proceeds of $625m (£360.3m).
61
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 62
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
10. Dividends
2006 2005
£m £m
Equity – ordinary
Final declared and paid (relating to prior financial year): 20.66p (2005: 18.73p) per share 76.9 69.5
Interim paid: 8.75p (2005: 8.34p) per share 32.5 30.8
Dividends paid 109.4 100.3
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 21.60p (2005: 20.66p) per share 78.3 76.9
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these
financial statements.
Dividends amounting to £0.9m (2005: £1.2m) in respect of the company’s shares held by the ESOT (see note 23) have been waived and are therefore
excluded from the aggregate of dividends paid and proposed.
11. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares in issue during the year. The ordinary shares held in the ESOT are excluded from the weighted average number of shares for this purpose.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 
The group has only one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than
the average market price of the company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Weighted Weighted
average 2006 average 2005
number of Earnings number of Earnings
Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share
£m m p £m m p
Basic EPS 174.1 371.0 46.9 150.2 370.5 40.5
Effect of dilutive share options – 1.2 (0.1) – 1.7 (0.1)
Diluted EPS 174.1 372.2 46.8 150.2 372.2 40.4
Group adjusted EPS is considered by the directors to give a better and more consistent indication of the group’s underlying performance,
and is calculated as follows:
Basic EPS 174.1 371.0 46.9 150.2 370.5 40.5
Exceptional costs (net of tax) ––– 7.5 – 2.1
Adjusted EPS 174.1 371.0 46.9 157.7 370.5 42.6
Effect of dilutive share options – 1.2 (0.1) – 1.7 (0.1)
Diluted adjusted EPS 174.1 372.2 46.8 157.7 372.2 42.5
Basic EPS 174.1 371.0 46.9 150.2 370.5 40.5
Exceptional costs (net of tax) ––– 7.5 – 2.1
Deferred tax 26.3 – 7.1 35.3 – 9.5
Adjusted EPS (excluding deferred tax) 200.4 371.0 54.0 193.0 370.5 52.1
Effect of dilutive share options – 1.2 (0.1) – 1.7 (0.1)
Diluted adjusted EPS (excluding deferred tax) 200.4 372.2 53.9 193.0 372.2 52.0 12. Intangible assets
Capitalised
bid costs Goodwill Total
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 – 214.1 214.1
Additions 0.4 0.1 0.5
Disposals – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange differences – (5.5) (5.5)
At 31 March 2005 0.4 208.6 209.0
Additions 0.6 0.3 0.9
Exchange differences – 17.3 17.3
Amortisation (0.1) – (0.1)
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale – (212.1) (212.1)
At 31 March 2006 0.9 14.1 15.0
Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test. Goodwill has arisen within two operating segments. The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated
between the operating segments as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
UK regulated water services (continuing operations) 14.1 14.1
US operations – discontinued operations 212.1 194.5
226.2 208.6
(a) UK regulated water services
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of the entire share capital of York Waterworks plc on 8 March 1999. Following the transition to IFRS goodwill is no
longer amortised and is instead subject to annual impairment reviews.
The recoverable amount is determined on a value in use basis using cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the board covering 
a four year period. The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.12% (2005: 8.12%). No growth rate was assumed.
(b) US operations
The recoverable amount is determined on a value in use basis using cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the board covering 
a four year period. The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.12% (2005: 8.12%). The growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows
beyond the four year period is 2.0% (2005: 2.0%). The growth rate is based upon industry standard rates.
The value in use is sensitive to the following assumptions:
Discount rates: These reflect management’s estimate of return on capital employed (ROCE) required in the business. The rates applied are based on 
the spread between current ROCE and base interest rates.
Growth rate assumptions: As disclosed above these are based on published industry research.
With regard to the assessment of value in use, management believes that no reasonably possible change in key assumptions could cause the carrying
value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
63
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 64
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
13. Tangible fixed assets
Land and Infrastructure Plant and Under Group
buildings assets equipment construction total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 1,440.5 2,156.5 2,013.8 279.6 5,890.4
Exchange adjustments 7.9 – 34.2 1.0 43.1
Additions 21.0 47.8 84.4 195.3 348.5
Transfers on commissioning 28.1 142.5 61.0 (231.6) –
Disposals (0.7) – (10.9) (1.0) (12.6)
Grants and contributions – – – (23.1) (23.1)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (96.8) – (435.5) (24.4) (556.7)
At 31 March 2006 1,400.0 2,346.8 1,747.0 195.8 5,689.6
Depreciation
At 1 April 2005 421.6 741.0 736.6 – 1,899.2
Exchange adjustment 1.7 – 10.4 – 12.1
Disposals (0.6) – (11.5) – (12.1)
Charge for the year 25.5 20.5 97.6 – 143.6
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (21.6) – (130.2) – (151.8)
At 31 March 2006 426.6 761.5 702.9 – 1,891.0
Net book amount at 31 March 2006 973.4 1,585.3 1,044.1 195.8 3,798.6
Cost
At 1 April 2004 1,407.2 2,081.9 1,892.6 203.2 5,584.9
Exchange adjustments (2.4) – (10.2) (0.2) (12.8)
Additions 20.1 26.1 79.3 226.7 352.2
Transfers on commissioning 16.0 48.5 62.0 (126.5) –
Disposals (0.4) – (9.9) (2.7) (13.0)
Grants and contributions – – – (20.9) (20.9)
At 31 March 2005 1,440.5 2,156.5 2,013.8 279.6 5,890.4
Depreciation
At 1 April 2004 397.2 722.6 656.4 – 1,776.2
Exchange adjustments (0.5) – (3.4) – (3.9)
Disposals (0.2) – (11.7) – (11.9)
Charge for the year 25.1 18.4 95.3 – 138.8
At 31 March 2005 421.6 741.0 736.6 – 1,899.2
Net book amount at 31 March 2005 1,018.9 1,415.5 1,277.2 279.6 3,991.2
Assets included above held under finance leases amount to:
Land and Infrastructure Plant and Under Group
buildings assets equipment construction total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost 150.9 86.4 279.9 – 517.2
Depreciation (27.2) (11.7) (122.2) – (161.1)
Net book amount at 31 March 2006 123.7 74.7 157.7 – 356.1
Cost 150.8 59.4 281.6 32.5 524.3
Depreciation (24.6) (9.7) (115.0) – (149.3)
Net book amount at 31 March 2005 126.2 49.7 166.6 32.5 375.0 14. Investments
Share of Total Share of Total
net assets Loans to investments net assets Loans to investments
in associated associated in associated in joint joint in joint
undertakings undertakings undertakings ventures ventures ventures
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost and share of post acquisition retained profits
At 1 April 2004 2.0 3.8 5.8 (1.2) 10.9 9.7
Share of retained profits for the year (1.0) – (1.0) 1.5 – 1.5
Movement in the year – 2.6 2.6 – 3.9 3.9
At 1 April 2005 1.0 6.4 7.4 0.3 14.8 15.1
Share of retained profits for the year (0.6) – (0.6) 1.1 – 1.1
Movement in the year – (2.4) (2.4) – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 March 2006 0.4 4.0 4.4 1.4 14.7 16.1
Of which the aggregate amounts of net assets, revenue and operating profit relating to associates are:
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current assets 5.1 6.3
Current assets 7.3 3.6
Share of gross assets 12.4 9.9
Current liabilities (10.1) (4.7)
Non-current liabilities (1.9) (4.2)
Share of liabilities (12.0) (8.9)
Share of net assets 0.4 1.0
Revenue 0.9 4.6
Operating profit 0.3 0.9
Of which the aggregate amounts of net assets and net profit relating to joint ventures are:
Non-current assets 37.2 36.2
Current assets 31.8 26.0
Share of gross assets 69.0 62.2
Current liabilities (23.4) (17.4)
Non-current liabilities (44.2) (44.5)
Share of liabilities (67.6) (61.9)
Share of net assets 1.4 0.3
Revenue 45.1 38.6
Operating costs (39.8) (32.9)
Operating profit 5.3 5.7
Finance costs (3.5) (3.6)
Profit before tax 1.8 2.1
Income tax (0.7) (0.6)
Net profit 1.1 1.5
65
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 66
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
15. Financial assets
Financial assets consist of swaps, changing fixed rate euro liabilities to floating rate sterling liabilities. At 31 March 2006 the series of swaps had a fair
value of £27.8m (2005: £32.4m). The maturity dates for the swaps are 26 July 2006.
16. Inventories
2006 2005
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 0.5 0.7
17. Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 57.5 61.6
Amounts owed by associated undertakings 1.7 2.7
Prepayments and accrued income 85.6 91.2
Other debtors:
Receivable within one year 36.6 29.0
Receivable after more than one year 0.1 0.5
181.5 185.0
18. Financing
(i) Cash and short term deposits
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand – 5.4
Short term deposits 82.7 161.7
82.7 167.1
At 31 March 2006 the group had available £500m (2005: £500m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents in continuing operations 82.7 167.1
Cash and cash equivalents held in discontinued operations 16.2 –
98.9 167.1
(ii) Borrowings
2006 2005
Short term borrowings: £m £m
Bank loans 14.3 16.2
5.25% Eurobond 2006 429.0 –
Bank overdrafts 3.2 2.1
Other loans 4.4 7.9
Finance leases 7.9 7.2
458.8 33.4 18. Financing (continued)
(ii) Borrowings (continued)
2006 2005
Long term borrowings: £m £m
Bank loans 294.0 208.3
6.625% bond 2031 240.2 240.1
6.875% guaranteed bonds 2010 199.3 199.2
5.25% Eurobond 2006 – 433.0
5.375% bond 2023 196.1 196.0
3.048% Index linked bond 2033 108.0 105.0
Other loans 2.7 111.0
Finance leases 446.5 456.4
7.67% Preference shares 2008 – 0.6
Total borrowings 1,486.8 1,949.6
6.625% bond 2031
The bonds are repayable in one sum on 17 April 2031. Interest is charged at 6.625%.
6.875% guaranteed bonds 2010
The bond is repayable on 23 April 2010 in one sum. Interest is charged at 6.875%.
5.25% Eurobond 2006
The Eurobond is repayable in one instalment on 26 July 2006. Interest is charged at 5.25%.
5.375% bond 2023
This bond is repayable in one instalment on 21 February 2023. Interest is charged at 5.375%.
3.048% Index linked bond 2033
This bond is repayable in one instalment on 21 February 2033. The interest is paid at 3.048% multiplied by an index ratio and the principal amount 
is increased semi-annually in line with the retail price index.
Bank loans
Bank loans are denoted in sterling and bear interest at normal commercial rates.
Short and long term bank loans are the aggregate of £308.3m in sterling (2005: £224.5m). The weighted average interest rates associated 
with the bank loans were 4.9% (2005: 5.1%). The directors estimate that the fair value of the bank loans is £310.5m (2005: £226.9m).
(iii) Finance leases
Minimum lease
payments
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 55.1 54.0
More than one but less than five years 243.0 233.7
After five years 594.4 660.6
892.5 948.3
Less: future finance charges (438.1) (484.7)
Present value of lease obligations 454.4 463.6
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 7.9 7.2
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 446.5 456.4
454.4 463.6
67
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 68
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
18. Financing (continued)
(iii) Finance leases (continued)
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The weighted average lease term is 16.6 years. For the year ended 31 March 2006, the average effective borrowing rate was 5.4%. Interest rates are
fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying value.
19. Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade payables 45.3 59.7
Capital payables 71.3 54.7
Deferred grants and contributions on depreciated fixed assets 3.2 3.3
Social security and payroll deductions 2.9 2.6
Receipts in advance 51.7 47.7
Other payables 91.6 82.5
266.0 250.5
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Deferred grants and contributions on depreciated fixed assets 82.2 139.5
Other payables 93.2 92.7
175.4 232.2
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The directors consider that the carrying
amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
20. Provisions for other liabilities
£m
At 1 April 2005 3.1
Additions during the year 1.2
Utilised/released in year (0.9)
At 31 March 2006 3.4
Provisions are principally in respect of self insurance and vacant properties on which costs are expected to be incurred over the next 9 years. 21. Deferred tax liability
Fair value
Accelerated adjustment of
capital infrastructure Roll-over Financial Pension Share-based
allowances assets relief instruments obligations payments Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 542.8 26.7 0.7 (4.2) (34.0) (1.0) 531.0
Charge/(credit) to income 39.0 (2.0) – – (1.8) (0.2) 35.0
(Credit)/charge to equity (0.7) – – 1.0 2.6 (0.3) 2.6
At 1 April 2005 581.1 24.7 0.7 (3.2) (33.2) (1.5) 568.6
Charge/(credit) to income 19.8 2.3 0.2 – 4.8 (0.8) 26.3
Charge/(credit) to equity 2.3 – – (0.8) 1.9 (0.9) 2.5
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (29.7) – – – 9.0 0.5 (20.2)
At 31 March 2006 573.5 27.0 0.9 (4.0) (17.5) (2.7) 577.2
The group has unrecognised capital losses of £12.8m which are available indefinitely against future eligible capital profits of the group.
22. Pensions
(i) Description of schemes
UK pension scheme
The group sponsors a UK pension scheme, called the Kelda Group Pension Plan (KGPP). The KGPP has a number of benefit categories providing benefits
on a defined benefit basis and one category providing benefits on a defined contribution basis.
Contributions over the year ended 31 March 2006 were paid by members at 3%, 4%, 4.5%, 5% or 6% of pensionable pay (depending on benefit
category). The company contributed at 475% of members’ contributions during the accounting year in respect of the majority of members.
An accrual for unfunded benefits of £3.4m (2005: £2.6m) has been included in the group’s accounts at 31 March 2006.
US pension scheme
Aquarion in the US operates a number of non contributory defined benefit retirement plans. The principal retirement plans relate to Aquarion company,
employees of the American Water Works companies and employees of Aquarion Services Company. Aquarion also provides healthcare benefits for
certain categories of employees.
(ii) Major assumptions
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries, Mercer Human Resource Consulting, on the basis of annual
valuations using the projected unit credit method.
2006 2005
UK US UK US
%% %%
Inflation 2.7 – 2.7 –
Rate of increase in salaries 3.9 4.0 3.9 4.0
Rate of increase to pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.7 2.5 2.7 2.5
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.9 5.95 5.4 5.7
Life expectancy for a male pensioner aged 60 (in years) 23.0 21.7 21.2 21.7
Projected life expectancy at age 60 for male aged 40 (in years) 25.9 21.7 23.9 21.7
The rate of increase in health care costs in the US varies by year of projection with an ultimate rate of 5% pa from 2011. Pension increases in the US
apply only to certain members of the Aquarion Services Company Pension Plan.
69
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 70
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
22. Pensions (continued)
(iii) Scheme assets and liabilities
Scheme assets are stated at their bid values at the respective balance sheet dates.
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is
invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
2006
UK US
Expected long Expected long
Market term rate of Market term rate of
value return value return
£m % £m %
Fair value of scheme assets
Equities 517.4 6.85 28.5 7.65
Bonds 142.5 4.43 21.3 5.95
Property 49.9 6.85 – –
Other 21.9 4.10 0.3 4.90
731.7 50.1
Present value of scheme liabilities (793.8) (72.8)
Pension liability (62.1) (22.7)
2005
UK US
Expected long Expected long
Market term rate of Market term rate of
value return value return
£m % £m %
Fair value of scheme assets
Equities 378.6 7.30 27.4 7.55
Bonds 156.6 4.80 15.9 5.70
Property ––––
Other 12.0 4.55 0.4 4.80
547.2 43.7
Present value of scheme liabilities (627.6) (67.1)
Pension liability (80.4) (23.4)
The pension plans have not invested in any of the group’s own financial instruments nor in properties or other assets used by the group.
(iv) Analysis of the amounts included within the financial statements
2006 2005
UK US Total UK US Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis of amount charged to operating costs:
Current service cost 12.8 1.7 14.5 10.7 1.8 12.5
Past service cost 4.5 – 4.5 3.2 2.2 5.4
Analysis of amount credited to other investment income/finance costs:
Expected return on pension scheme assets (37.3) (3.1) (40.4) (34.7) (2.8) (37.5)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 35.3 4.0 39.3 32.2 3.5 35.7
Amounts charged to the income statement before taxation 15.3 2.6 17.9 11.4 4.7 16.1 22. Pensions (continued)
(iv) Analysis of the amounts included within the financial statements (continued)
2006 2005
UK US Total UK US Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis of amounts recognised in statement of group recognised 
income and expense:
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 110.3 1.0 111.3 20.0 (0.1) 19.9
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme’s liabilities ––– (6.7) – (6.7)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present 
value of the scheme’s liabilities (104.4) 2.6 (101.8) (3.2) (2.3) (5.5)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of group 
recognised income and expense 5.9 3.6 9.5 10.1 (2.4) 7.7
The total contributions to the defined benefits plan in the year ending 31 March 2007 are expected to be £11.5m for the group (including £9.0m 
in relation to continuing operations). The disposal of Aquarion Inc during 2006/07 will reduce the group’s retirement benefit obligation.
(v) Reconciliation of opening and closing retirement benefit liabilities and assets
Movement in liabilities during the year:
Liabilities at beginning of year (627.6) (67.1) (694.7) (587.0) (60.5) (647.5)
Movement in year
– plan participants’ contributions (3.6) (0.1) (3.7) (3.3) (0.1) (3.4)
– current service cost (12.8) (1.7) (14.5) (10.7) (1.8) (12.5)
– interest cost (35.3) (4.0) (39.3) (32.2) (3.5) (35.7)
– past service cost (4.5) – (4.5) (3.2) (2.2) (5.4)
– benefits paid 22.4 3.3 25.7 19.5 1.6 21.1
– actuarial loss (104.4) 2.6 (101.8) (9.9) (2.3) (12.2)
– business combinations (27.5) – (27.5) –––
Unremitted contributions at the year end (0.5) – (0.5) (0.8) – (0.8)
Exchange differences – (5.8) (5.8) – 1.7 1.7
Pension liabilities at end of year (793.8) (72.8) (866.6) (627.6) (67.1) (694.7)
Movement in assets during the year:
Assets beginning of year 547.2 43.7 590.9 499.1 42.1 541.2
Movement in year
– plan participants’ contributions 3.6 0.1 3.7 3.3 0.1 3.4
– current service cost 32.6 1.5 34.1 9.6 1.6 11.2
– other finance income 37.3 3.1 40.4 34.7 2.8 37.5
– actuarial gain 110.3 1.0 111.3 20.0 (0.1) 19.9
– benefits paid (22.4) (3.3) (25.7) (19.5) (1.6) (21.1)
– business combinations 23.1 – 23.1 –––
Exchange differences – 4.0 4.0 – (1.2) (1.2)
Pension assets at end of year 731.7 50.1 781.8 547.2 43.7 590.9
The net amount is presented in the balance sheet under non-current liabilities.
71
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 72
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
22. Pensions (continued)
(vi) History of experience gains and losses
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
UK £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 731.7 547.2 499.1 407.1 540.2
Present value of defined benefit obligation (793.8) (627.6) (587.0) (566.9) (515.0)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme (62.1) (80.4) (87.9) (159.8) 25.2
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities – 6.7 7.3 – –
Experience gains and losses on scheme assets 110.3 20.0 72.9 (162.9) –
US
Fair value of scheme assets 50.1 43.7 42.1 40.2 53.3
Present value of defined benefit obligation (72.8) (67.1) (60.5) (57.4) (35.7)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme (22.7) (23.4) (18.4) (17.2) 17.6
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities – ––––
Experience gains and losses on scheme assets 1.0 (0.1) 5.5 (7.0) –
IAS 19 requires that the pension schemes are valued using market conditions at the company’s year end. This produces a volatile figure for any surplus
or deficit as it is largely dependent on the levels of stock markets on one particular date. The group’s pension liabilities are funded on a long term basis
(based on the triennial review of KGPP and annual reviews in the US) rather than the IAS 19 disclosures.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the group statement of recognised income and expense is
£17.2m (2005: £7.7m).
(vii) Post-retirement medical scheme in US
A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have the following effects:
Increase Decrease
£m £m
Effect on aggregate service cost and interest cost 0.3 (0.2)
Effect on defined benefit obligation 4.1 (3.3)
23. Called up share capital
2006 2005
Nominal Nominal
2006 Value 2005 Value
Number £ Number £
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 15
5
/ 9p each 814,395,258 126,683,707 814,395,258 126,683,707
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 15
5
/ 9p each 366,370,396 56,990,950 375,660,396 58,436,061
During the year 9,290,000 ordinary shares of 15
5
/ 9p were bought back for cancellation.
The group has an ESOT which is used to administer the issue of shares to employees and directors under the company’s ‘Sharesave’ save-as-you-earn
share option scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP).
The ESOT is a trust funded by interest free loans from the company. All the administration costs of the trust are written off to the profit and loss
account as they accrue. The trust holds 2,947,812 shares at 31 March 2006 (3,991,704 at 31 March 2005). 23. Called up share capital (continued)
2006 2005
Date of Number of Number of Option Normal
Options granted and outstanding at 31 March 2006 grant shares shares price exercise date
Sharesave schemes
Three year schemes 4 Jan 2002 – 25,478 275.0p Mar–Aug 2005
10 Jan 2003 39,489 653,551 320.0p Mar–Aug 2006
9 Jan 2004 391,227 422,411 366.0p Mar–Aug 2007
7 Jan 2005 399,358 418,099 461.0p Mar–Aug 2008
30 Dec 2005 467,190 – 588.0p Mar–Aug 2009
Five year schemes 7 Jan 2000 – 60,600 240.0p Mar–Aug 2005
5 Jan 2001 14,443 216,966 299.0p Mar–Aug 2006
4 Jan 2002 277,701 288,409 275.0p Mar–Aug 2007
10 Jan 2003 463,769 478,564 320.0p Mar–Aug 2008
9 Jan 2004 270,794 288,684 366.0p Mar–Aug 2009
7 Jan 2005 375,033 389,734 461.0p Mar–Aug 2010
30 Dec 2005 288,214 – 588.0p Mar–Aug 2011
24. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
Capital Investment Share-based Profit and
Issued Share redemption in own Hedging Translation payment loss
capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 58.4 16.7 145.3 (13.4) (7.5) (5.0) 1.6 1,246.9 1,443.0
Transfer from the income 
statement ––––––– 174.1 174.1
Share buy back (1.4) – 1.4 – – – – (72.9) (72.9)
Dividends approved and paid ––––––– (109.4) (109.4)
Treasury shares disposed 
of through vesting of
share schemes – – – 3.6 – – (0.8) – 2.8
Losses on cash flow hedges –––– (2.7) – – – (2.7)
Translation differences ––––– 15.6 – – 15.6
Actuarial gains in respect 
of pension and other 
post-retirement benefits ––––––– 9.5 9.5
Tax on items taken directly 
to equity –––– 0.8 – 0.9 (3.2) (1.5)
Other –––––– 1.6 (3.1) (1.5)
At 31 March 2006 57.0 16.7 146.7 (9.8) (9.4) 10.6 3.3 1,241.9 1,457.0
73
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 74
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
25. Financial instruments
Treasury policy is described in the financial review on page 14 to15. The disclosures below exclude short term receivables and payables which are
primarily of a trading nature and expected to be settled within normal commercial terms.
(a) Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
The interest rate risk profile of the group’s financial liabilities at 31 March, after taking account of the interest rate and currency swaps used to manage
the interest and currency profile, was as follows:
Financial liabilities
Within 1–2 2–3 3–4 4–5 More than
1 year years years years years 5 years Total
Year ended 31 March 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Bank loans 14.3 14.5 24.7 25.0 27.1 202.7 308.3
6.625% bond 2031 ––––– 240.2 240.2
6.875% guaranteed bonds 2010 –––– 199.3 – 199.3
5.25% Eurobond 2006 50.0 – – – – – 50.0
5.375% bond 2023 ––––– 196.1 196.1
Other loans –––– 1.2 132.4 133.6
Preference shares – 0.6–––– 0.6
Finance lease swaps 1.5 – 1.4 3.3 0.2 8.9 15.3
65.8 15.1 26.1 28.3 227.8 780.3 1,143.4
Floating rate
Short term loan 4.4––––– 4.4
Bank overdraft 3.2 – – – – – 3.2
5.25% Eurobond 2006 379.0––––– 379.0
3.048% index linked bond 2033 ––––– 108.0 108.0
Other loans 3.1 – – 2.7 – – 5.8
Finance leases 7.9 6.2 9.0 9.6 10.3 411.4 454.4
397.6 6.2 9.0 12.3 10.3 519.4 954.8
Financial assets
Floating rate
Cash and short term deposits (101.5) – –––– (101.5)
Financial assets (27.8) – –––– (27.8)
(129.3) – – – – – (129.3) 25. Financial instruments (continued)
(a) Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Financial liabilities
Within 1–2 2–3 3–4 4–5 More than
1 year years years years years 5 years Total
Year ended 31 March 2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Bank loans 16.2 14.3 14.5 24.7 25.0 129.8 224.5
6.625% bond 2031 ––––– 240.1 240.1
6.875% guaranteed bonds 2010 ––––– 199.2 199.2
5.25% Eurobond 2006 – 49.8 –––– 49.8
5.375% bond 2023 ––––– 196.0 196.0
Other loans ––––– 107.9 107.9
Preference shares – – 0.6 – – – 0.6
Finance lease swaps 0.4 2.3 – 1.6 3.5 5.4 13.2
16.6 66.4 15.1 26.3 28.5 878.4 1,031.3
Floating rate
Bank overdraft 2.1––––– 2.1
5.25% Eurobond 2006 – 383.2 –––– 383.2
3.048% Index linked bond 2033 ––––– 105.0 105.0
Other loans 7.9 – – – 3.1 – 11.0
Finance leases 7.2 7.8 8.4 9.0 9.6 421.6 463.6
17.2 391.0 8.4 9.0 12.7 526.6 964.9
Financial assets
Floating rate
Cash and short term deposits (167.1) ––––– (167.1)
Financial assets – (32.4) –––– (32.4)
(167.1) (32.4) – – – – (199.5)
(b) Credit risk
The carrying value of the swaps represent the cost, at market rates, of replacing them in the event of default.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. The amounts presented in the balance
sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current
economic environment.
Centrally managed funds are invested entirely with counterparties whose credit rating is ‘A-’ or better.
(c) Foreign currency risk
The group may borrow in appropriate foreign currencies in order to mitigate the effects of the currency exposures arising from its net investments
overseas. The foreign exchange exposure on the translation into sterling of the net assets of Aquarion, which are denominated in US dollars, is hedged
by a mixture of US dollar currency swaps and forward contracts.
There are no currency exposures on short term debtors and creditors or monetary assets and liabilities giving rise to a profit and loss account charge.
75
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 76
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
(d) Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The following table provides a comparison by category of the book values and the fair values of the group’s financial assets and liabilities, including
those classified under discontinued operations, at 31 March.
2006 2006 2005 2005
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Primary financial instruments financing the group’s operations
Financial assets
Cash and short term deposits (101.5) (101.5) (167.1) (167.1)
Eurobond swaps (27.8) (27.8) (32.4) (32.4)
Financial liabilities
Short term loans 4.4 4.4 ––
Bank overdraft 3.2 3.2 2.1 2.1
Fixed rate interest rate swaps in respect of finance leases 15.3 15.3 13.2 13.2
Fixed rate bank loans 308.3 310.5 224.5 226.9
Fixed rate sterling bonds 635.6 713.8 635.3 691.9
Floating rate sterling bonds 108.0 129.7 105.0 113.5
Eurobond 429.0 429.0 433.0 433.0
US loans 136.7 162.7 107.9 151.9
Finance leases 454.4 454.4 463.6 463.6
Preference shares 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6
Other loans 2.7 2.7 11.0 11.0
The fair values for all financial instruments have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at interest rates prevailing for a
comparable maturity period for each instrument.
(e) Hedges
The group’s policy is to hedge interest rate risk within approved board policies and guidelines.
Interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and collars and forward rate agreements are used to manage interest rate exposure under a policy that requires
between 85% and 95% of Yorkshire Water Services Limited’s net debt and 70% and 95% of Kelda Group plc’s net debt to be held at fixed rates. At the
financial year end the proportions were 85% and 77% respectively.
Hedging of Eurobond (€625m)
In July 1999 the group issued a 7 year €625m 5.25% Eurobond to finance the group’s US acquisition and to provide further funds for the non-UK
regulated business. During 2003, €12.1m was bought back, leaving a nominal value outstanding of €612.9m.
The group does not have a requirement for euros and is exposed to movements in the euro/sterling exchange rate which affects the sterling equivalent of
the loan. The exposure occurs at each reporting date and also upon ultimate repayment of the loan. In order to fully protect the sterling liability the group
has entered into a number of hedging instruments.
The euro fixed rate liability has been swapped in the most part into a floating rate sterling liability with a proportion swapped into a fixed rate sterling liability
in a series of swaps. The combination of the series of swaps is considered to be a hedge of the underlying requirement to pay fixed rate euro interest.
The hedging mechanism is a perfect hedge against the liability to pay fixed rate euro interest because the dates of interest payments under the series
of swaps are the same as the dates on which interest repayments are due per the original bond.
The fair value of the hedging instrument at 31 March 2006 was an unrealised gain of £27.8m (2005: £32.2m gain).
The cash flow hedge was assessed to be highly effective at 31 March 2006 and an unrealised loss of £4.4m (2005: £3.5m) relating to the hedging
instrument was included in equity, however it was fully offset by the unrealised loss on the Eurobond.
Hedging of interest due under finance leases
Yorkshire Water has a number of finance leases with a number of counterparties lasting from inception for periods up to 32 years. In each instance
interest payable under the lease is set once a year in late March or early April based on 12 month LIBOR. Yorkshire Water is therefore exposed to
changes in 12 month LIBOR which could have a material effect on interest costs from year to year. In order to fix the interest cost on a proportion of 
its net debt, Yorkshire Water has entered into a number of floating to fixed rate interest rate swaps. 25. Financial instruments (continued)
(e) Hedges (continued)
Hedging of interest due under finance leases (continued)
The hedging instrument is a perfect cash flow hedge against changes in 12 month LIBOR for the period of the swap agreements because the dates of
interest payments under the swaps are the same as the dates on which interest is due per the leasing agreements and the nominal value of the swaps
that hedge the cost total less than the nominal value outstanding.
The fair value of the hedging instrument at 31 March 2006 was an unrealised loss of £13.5m (2005: £10.9m loss).
The cash flow hedge was assessed to be highly effective at 31 March 2006 and an unrealised loss of £1.8m (2005: £2.3m gain) relating to the hedging
instrument was included in equity (net of deferred tax).
Hedging of investments in foreign operations
At each reporting date the group translates the dollar value in the UK investment in the US operations into sterling at the closing rate. To hedge against
movements in the US dollar/sterling exchange rate the group has entered into cross currency swaps and forward exchange contracts. Together these
two instruments hedge $461m of the group’s exposure.
The two hedging mechanisms are perfect hedges and both are translated at each reporting date using the same exchange rates as that used in
retranslating the investment. Gains or losses on the retranslation of these instruments are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on the
retranslation of the investment in the subsidiary.
26. Share-based payments
Share options
The employee share option plans are open to all qualifying employees and provide for an exercise price equal to the daily average market price on the
date of grant less 20%. The options will vest if the employee remains in service for the full duration of the option scheme (either three or five years). 
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted
average average
2006 exercise 2005 exercise
Options price (£) Options price (£)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,242,496 3.65 3,836,230 3.14
Granted during the year 757,210 5.88 809,394 4.61
Lapsed during the year (72,666) 3.81 (186,065) 3.64
Exercised during the year (938,712) 3.15 (1,217,063) 2.66
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,988,328 4.50 3,242,496 3.65
Of which exercisable at the end of the year 53,932 3.14 86,078 2.50
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £7.98 (2005: £5.95).
The options outstanding at 31 March 2006 had a weighted average exercise price of £4.50, and a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 2.5 years.
The fair value of the share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black Scholes statistical model. 
The inputs into the Black Scholes model are as follows:
2006 2005
Share price at date of grant 735p 629p
Exercise price 588p 461p
Expected volatility 25% 25%
Expected life 3 and 5 years 3 and 5 years
Risk free rate 4.56% 4.81%
Expected dividends 30p 29p
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the group’s share price over the previous 6 years.
77
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 77
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 78
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan have two separate vesting conditions, both of which are dependent on market-based conditions. 
The market-based conditions of the award are taken into account in valuing the award at the grant date by applying the probability that the LTIPs 
will vest to the current market price of the group’s shares. At each subsequent balance sheet date the group revises its estimate of the number of
employees who will receive awards. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding
adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
70% of the full value of the LTIPs will vest based on the company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance over the performance period (three
years). The group’s share performance will be compared with reference to the six UK listed water companies. At the end of the performance period the
TSR of all seven companies will be calculated, and the results ranked. Full vesting will require top ranking and, if Kelda is ranked between median and
top position, between 30% and 100% of the shares will vest depending on how close Kelda’s TSR is to the first and fourth companies.
For the remaining 30%, the group’s TSR will be compared to the constituents of the FTSE 350 index. No shares will vest unless Kelda is ranked at 
least median. 30% vest at median and 100% will vest if Kelda is in the top 20% of companies, with pro-rata vestings based on ranking position for
intermediate performance.
2006 2005
Weighted Weighted
average average
fair fair
LTIPs value (£) LTIPs value (£)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 884,525 2.86 770,838 3.45
Granted during the year 294,149 2.43 348,604 1.82
Lapsed during the year (86,259) 3.04 (127,568) 3.09
Vested during the year (121,144) 3.45 (107,349) 3.45
Outstanding at the end of the year 971,271 2.64 884,525 2.86
27. Additional cash flow information
Analysis of movement in net debt
Fair value Fair value Transferred Continuing
and other and other to assets and operations
At 1 April Cash non-cash At 31 March Cash non-cash At 31 March liabilities at 31 March
2004 movement movements 2005 movement movements 2006 for sale 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 263.8 (96.1) (0.6) 167.1 (69.3) 1.1 98.9 (16.2) 82.7
Short term deposits (> 3 months)––––– 2.6 2.6 (2.6) –
Financial assets 28.9 – 3.5 32.4 – (4.6) 27.8 – 27.8
292.7 (96.1) 2.9 199.5 (69.3) (0.9) 129.3 (18.8) 110.5
Overdrafts (8.1) 6.0 – (2.1) (1.2) 0.1 (3.2) – (3.2)
Debt due within one year (22.5) (1.6) – (24.1) 30.1 (456.8) (450.8) 3.1 (447.7)
Finance leases due within 
one year (6.9) (0.3) – (7.2) (0.7) – (7.9) – (7.9)
(37.5) 4.1 – (33.4) 28.2 (456.7) (461.9) 3.1 (458.8)
Debt due after one year (1,515.9) 23.2 (0.5) (1,493.2) (131.1) 449.8 (1,174.5) 134.2 (1,040.3)
Finance leases due after 
one year (463.7) 7.2 0.1 (456.4) 10.0 (0.1) (446.5) – (446.5)
(1,979.6) 30.4 (0.4) (1,949.6) (121.1) 449.7 (1,621.0) 134.2 (1,486.8)
Net debt (1,724.4) (61.6) 2.5 (1,783.5) (162.2) (7.9) (1,953.6) 118.5 (1,835.1) 79
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 79
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
28. Commitments
2006 2005
£m £m
Contracts placed at 31 March 301.0 148.4
The long term investment programme for the UK regulated water services business, which is expected to identify substantial future capital expenditure
commitments in the period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2010, was agreed as part of the Periodic Review process finalised in December 2004.
The group has entered into a contract to fix the price of certain future electricity purchases.
At 31 March, group companies were committed to making the following payments under non cancellable operating leases as set out below.
The group has entered into commercial leases on certain property, motor vehicles and items of machinery. These leases have an average duration of
between 3 and 10 years. There are no restrictions placed on the group by entering into the leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2006 2006 2005 2005
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
Within one year 0.3 1.0 0.3 1.0
Between two and five years 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.1
0.5 1.1 0.7 1.1
29. Contingent liabilities
At the time of completion of the Waste Recycling Group (WRG) merger, an indemnity was given to WRG by Yorkshire Environmental Solutions Limited
backed by a Kelda Group plc guarantee, in respect of a land fill site managed by 3C Waste Limited and known as the Rhonda site. The indemnity 
is unlimited in amount and the time limit for bringing claims is seven years from 26 January 1999, except for personal injury claims where the limit is 
15 years. The matters covered under this indemnity are any losses arising out of:
(a) non compliance with an Environment Agency notice served in May 1998;
(b) any claims by individuals for personal injury, harm to health, nuisance etc;
(c) liability for negligent performance of the contract between 3C Waste Limited and Rhonda Waste Disposal Limited.
30. Related parties
Group companies have extended finance to several associates and joint ventures on a proportionate basis with other principal stakeholders. 
These loans are included in investments analysed in note 14.
Sales to Loans to/(from)
related parties related parties
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Joint ventures
Aberdeen Environmental Services (Holdings) Limited 4.1 3.5 1.0 2.4
Brey Utilities Limited – – 13.7 12.4
Brey Services Limited 6.6 5.8 – –
Associates
KeyLandmark Limited – – 1.9 0.7
Whitehall Landing Limited – – (0.3) (0.5)
Whinmoor Limited – – 0.1 0.1
KeyLand Gregory Limited – – 2.2 1.5
KeyLand Gregory (Retail) Limited – – 0.1 4.6
10.7 9.3 18.7 21.2 80
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
30. Related parties (continued)
The loans carry market rates of interest. Total interest received on loans to associated undertakings and joint ventures was £2.2m (2005: £2.0m). 
All outstanding balances are unsecured. Sales to related parties are made at normal market prices. Sales and purchases between related parties are
made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances with entities other than subsidiaries are unsecured. During the years ended 31 March 2006 and
2005 the group has not made any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties.
There were no other material transactions between the group and its associated undertakings or joint ventures during the year.
Compensation of key management personnel (including directors)
2006 2005
£m £m
Short term benefits 2.2 2.2
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2
Share-based payments 0.2 0.5
2.7 2.9
31. Explanation of transition to IFRS
This is the first year the company has presented its financial statements under IFRS. The following disclosures are required in the year of transition. 
The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 March 2005 and date of transition to IFRS was 1 April 2004.
Accordingly, the group has prepared financial statements which comply with IFRS applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
and the significant accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in note 2. This note explains the principal adjustments made by the group
in restating its UK GAAP balance sheet as at 1 April 2004 and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
IFRS1 allows first time adopters certain exemptions from the general requirements to apply IFRS as effective for March 2006 year ends retrospectively.
Details of the exemptions taken by the group are are set out in note 2.
Reconciliation of income for the year ended 31 March 2005
Associate
and Reclassify
joint venture operations
presentational Effect on to be
UK GAAP change transition discontinued IFRS
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 763.0 – – (92.2) 670.8
Operating costs 1, 2, 4 (459.4) – (6.0) 66.6 (398.8)
Operating profit 303.6 – (6.0) (25.6) 272.0
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit after tax 6.6 (4.5) – – 2.1
310.2 (4.5) (6.0) (25.6) 274.1
Net finance costs 4 (98.2) 3.7 1.7 9.4 (83.4)
Profit before tax 212.0 (0.8) (4.3) (16.2) 190.7
Tax expense 6 (37.8) 0.8 (19.7) 2.0 (54.7)
Profit after tax 174.2 – (24.0) (14.2) 136.0
Profit after tax from operations to be discontinued – – – 14.2 14.2
Net profit/(loss) 174.2 – (24.0) – 150.2 31. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 31 March 2005
Effect on 
UK GAAP transition IFRS
Note £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 1 243.5 (34.5) 209.0
Property, plant and equipment 2 3,909.0 82.2 3,991.2
Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 1.3 – 1.3
Loans to associated undertakings and joint ventures 21.2 – 21.2
Financial assets 3 – 32.4 32.4
4,175.0 80.1 4,255.1
Current assets
Inventories 0.7 – 0.7
Trade and other receivables 4 201.9 (13.4) 188.5
Cash and cash equivalents 167.1 – 167.1
369.7 (13.4) 356.3
Total assets 4,544.7 66.7 4,611.4
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 5 (338.9) 88.4 (250.5)
Tax liabilities (27.2) – (27.2)
Short term borrowings (33.4) – (33.4)
(399.5) 88.4 (311.1)
Non-current liabilities
Long term borrowings 3 (1,916.8) (32.8) (1,949.6)
Long term payables (232.2) – (232.2)
Provisions for other liabilities (3.1) – (3.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (206.8) (361.8) (568.6)
Retirement benefits obligation 4 – (103.8) (103.8)
(2,358.9) (498.4) (2,857.3)
Total liabilities (2,758.4) (410.0) (3,168.4)
Net assets 1,786.3 (343.3) 1,443.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 58.4 – 58.4
Share premium account 16.7 – 16.7
Reserves 1,710.6 (342.7) 1,367.9
1,785.7 (342.7) 1,443.0
Minority interest 3 0.6 (0.6) –
Net equity 1,786.3 (343.3) 1,443.0
81
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 82
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
31. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 31 March 2004
Effect on
UK GAAP transition IFRS
Note £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 1 244.1 (30.0) 214.1
Property, plant and equipment 2 3,719.7 89.0 3,808.7
Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 1.8 – 1.8
Loans to associated undertakings and joint ventures 13.7 – 13.7
Financial assets 3 – 28.9 28.9
3,979.3 87.9 4,067.2
Current assets
Inventories 0.8 – 0.8
Trade and other receivables 4 220.6 (13.4) 207.2
Cash and cash equivalents 263.8 – 263.8
485.2 (13.4) 471.8
Total assets 4,464.5 74.5 4,539.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 5 (306.5) 71.5 (235.0)
Tax liabilities (26.8) – (26.8)
Short term borrowings (37.5) – (37.5)
(370.8) 71.5 (299.3)
Non-current liabilities
Long term borrowings 3 (1,950.3) (29.3) (1,979.6)
Long term payables (233.8) – (233.8)
Provisions for other liabilities (2.9) – (2.9)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (191.8) (339.2) (531.0)
Retirement benefits obligation 4 – (107.5) (107.5)
(2,378.8) (476.0) (2,854.8)
Total liabilities (2,749.6) (404.5) (3,154.1)
Net assets 1,714.9 (330.0) 1,384.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 58.4 – 58.4
Share premium account 16.7 – 16.7
Reserves 1,639.2 (329.4) 1,309.8
1,714.3 (329.4) 1,384.9
Minority interest 3 0.6 (0.6) –
Net equity 1,714.9 (330.0) 1,384.9 Notes to the reconciliation of the balance
sheet at 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004
and the income statement for the year ended
31 March 2005:
1. Goodwill
Under IAS21, where an entity has previously
accounted for goodwill arising on the acquisition
of a foreign operation as an asset of the group,
and therefore denominated in the currency of
the group (sterling), such goodwill must now 
be treated as being denominated in a foreign
currency and translated into the group’s
functional currency at each balance sheet date.
From 1 April 2004, goodwill was retranslated
into US dollars. At 1 April 2004 the cumulative
translation differences on the US goodwill of
£30.0m was recognised.
Also, under IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised 
and must be tested annually for impairment.
Following this requirement, goodwill amortisation
ceased from 1 April 2004 with the value at that
date being adopted as the fair value of goodwill.
2. Infrastructure renewals
Prior to 1 April 2004, all expenditure on
infrastructure assets to increase capacity, to
enhance the network and to maintain operating
capability of the network was treated as a fixed
asset addition after deducting grants and
contributions. The depreciation charge was the
estimated level of annual expenditure required
to maintain the operating capability of the
network based on an independently certified
asset management plan. This policy is no longer
permitted under IAS 16. The opening balance
for infrastructure assets under IAS 16 was
restated to the estimate fair value of the
infrastructure network as a whole as deemed
historic cost.
Infrastructure renewals expenditure will now 
be allocated between operating and capital
expenditure, the latter being depreciated in 
accordance with IAS 16. The infrastructure
renewals charge will be replaced by the resulting
depreciation charge and operating costs.
3. Financial instruments
The group uses derivative financial instruments 
to manage certain exposures to fluctuations 
in foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates. All derivative financial instruments are
accounted for at fair value whilst other financial
instruments are accounted for at either amortised
cost or fair value depending on their classification.
Subject to stringent criteria, derivative financial
instruments, financial assets and liabilities may 
be designated as forming hedge relationships, 
as a result of which fair value changes are offset
against the fair value changes of the hedged
item in the income statement or charged or
credited to equity depending on the nature 
of the hedge relationship.
The group has interest rate swaps which hedge
against the variability in floating rate finance
lease payments due to interest rate movements,
within a subsidiary of the group, Yorkshire Water
Services Limited. At each balance sheet date the
swaps are restated to fair value and the effective
position of the hedge is recognised as a cash
flow hedge directly in equity. Initial recognition
sees the fair value of the swaps as a liability in
the balance sheet with a debit to equity.
The group also has a series of swaps to hedge 
a ‘Eurobond’. Transition to IFRS resulted in the
creation of a financial asset, with a corresponding
entry in reserves. The fair value movement on the
Eurobond is recognised with a corresponding
financial liability.
The redeemable preference shares are
reclassified from equity to long term debt.
4. Employee benefits
Under IAS 19, the group’s obligations to fund 
its defined benefit pension schemes must be
recognised in the financial statements. IAS 19 
also requires the separate recognition of the
operating and finance costs of the scheme in
the income statement. The group has chosen 
to recognise actuarial gains and losses in the
statement of recognised income and expense.
5. Dividends
Under IAS 10 dividends are not recognised until
they are declared. The final dividend declared
after the end of the accounting period has
therefore been reversed, resulting in an increase
in net assets at the end of the accounting
period. Dividends will no longer be shown on
the face of the income statement but instead
will be shown within the analysis of movements
on reserves.
6. Tax
Under IAS 12, deferred tax is not permitted to be
discounted. The discount at 31 March 2004 was
£351m. Adoption of IFRS will lead to an increase
in the tax charge by comparison with UK GAAP.
IAS 12 also requires deferred tax to be recognised
on all taxable or temporary differences (except
as set out in the accounting policies note) rather
than on timing differences. There has also been
a change in the deferred tax charges due to
changes in the calculation rules applied to assets
and liabilities previously recognised under UK
GAAP. Deferred tax changes have also arisen as 
a result of the recognition of items under IFRS
not previously recognised under UK GAAP. (For
example the deficit on the group’s defined
benefit pension schemes.)
83
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 84
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Class of Proportion
Country of shares of class of
Principal subsidiary companies incorporation in issue share held
Water services
Yorkshire Water Services Limited* England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Aquarion Company Inc US Ordinary 100%
Aquarion Water Company of Connecticut Inc US Ordinary 100%
Aquarion Water Company of New York Inc US Ordinary 100%
Aquarion Water Company of New Hampshire Inc US Ordinary 100%
Aquarion Water Company of Massachusetts Inc US Ordinary 100%
Aquarion Water Company of Sea Cliff Inc US Ordinary 100%
Delta Water Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Grampian Waste Water Services Limited Scotland Ordinary 100%
Kelda Water Services Limited* England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Kelda Water Services (Wales) Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Other activities
KeyLand Developments Limited* England & Wales Ordinary 100%
KeyLand Investment Properties Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Loop Customer Management Limited* England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Holding and finance companies
Featurepack Limited* England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Kelda Group Inc US Ordinary 100%
Yorkshire Water Services Finance Plc England & Wales Ordinary 100%
Class of Proportion
Country of shares of class of
Principal associated undertakings and joint ventures incorporation in issue share held
Aberdeen Environmental Services (Holdings) Limited Scotland Ordinary ‘A’ Nil
Scotland Ordinary ‘B’ 100%
Scotland Ordinary ‘C’ Nil
Brey Utilities Limited England & Wales Ordinary ‘A’ 100%
England & Wales Ordinary ‘B’ Nil
England & Wales Ordinary ‘C’ Nil
Brey Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary ‘A’ 100%
England & Wales Ordinary ‘B’ Nil
England & Wales Ordinary ‘C’ Nil
* Shares held by parent company
Group companies IFRS UK GAAP
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Turnover: Group and share of associates and joint ventures £m 929.6 806.2 822.6 838.1 799.8
Water Services
– UK regulated £m 693.8 640.1 604.4 567.0 559.8
– US operations £m 104.2 92.2 94.1 93.7 70.5
Other activities £m 85.6 30.7 27.0 29.8 28.5
Associates and joint ventures £m 46.0 43.2 97.1 147.6 141.0
Operating profit: Group and share of associates and joint ventures £m 352.9 304.2 292.2 277.1 265.3
Water Services
– UK regulated £m 312.7 272.1 252.5 233.7 225.5
– US operations £m 32.8 25.6 31.6 34.9 28.2
Other activities £m 6.5 4.8 4.7 2.6 (3.5)
Associates and joint ventures £m 5.6 6.6 8.2 11.8 20.3
Corporate costs £m (4.7) (4.9) (4.8) (5.9) (5.2)
Profit before taxation and exceptional items £m 248.2 218.6 191.6 175.2 162.7
Profit before taxation £m 248.2 206.9 206.2 164.3 197.1
Earnings per share p 46.9 40.5 47.1 32.7 39.3
Adjusted earnings per share (excluding deferred tax) p 54.0 52.1 46.2 42.4 39.1
Dividend per share – interim p 8.75 8.34 8.10 7.86 7.70
– final p 21.60 20.66 18.73 18.19 17.80
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Assets employed
Non-current assets (including discontinued operations) £m 4,451.1 4,222.7 3,996.3 3,988.6 3,661.9
Net current assets/(liabilities) and non-current liabilities £m (1,040.5) (996.2) (558.6) (550.3) (534.9)
£m 3,410.6 3,226.5 3,437.7 3,438.3 3,127.0
Financed by
Shareholders’ funds £m 1,457.0 1,443.0 1,731.3 1,717.3 1,690.5
Minority interests £m – – 0.6 0.6 –
Net debt £m 1,953.6 1,783.5 1,705.8 1,720.4 1,436.5
£m 3,410.6 3,226.5 3,437.7 3,438.3 3,127.0
Yorkshire Water regulated investment
Capital expenditure £m 270.3 282.2 246.4 263.3 270.2
Infrastructure renewals £m 60.3 67.0 55.9 56.2 54.5
£m 330.6 349.2 302.3 319.5 324.7
Employees (average number)
Water services
– UK regulated No. 2,129 2,158 2,157 2,147 2,103
– US operations No. 568 592 589 490 411
Other activities No. 972 682 715 621 650
Group total No. 3,669 3,432 3,461 3,258 3,164
Regulatory accounts
The regulatory accounting information of Yorkshire Water Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2006 published in accordance with Condition F
of the Instrument of Appointment, can be obtained free of charge by writing to the Company Secretary, Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford BD6 2SZ.
IFRS and UK GAAP
The amounts disclosed for 2004 and earlier periods is stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate amounts for periods prior
to the date of transition to IFRS. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are explained in note 31 to the financial statements which
provides an explanation of the transition to IFRS.
85
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Five year financial summary 86
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of Kelda Group plc
We have audited the parent company financial
statements of Kelda Group plc for the year ended
31 March 2006 which comprise the company
balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 13.
These parent company financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set
out therein. We have also audited the information
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the group
financial statements of Kelda Group plc for the
year ended 31 March 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with Section
235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to
the company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and
auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration
Report and the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and accounting standards (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) as set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether 
the parent company financial statements give a
true and fair view, the parent company financial
statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and that the information
given in the directors’ report is consistent with
the parent company financial statements. 
This information given in the director’s report
includes that specific information presented in
the business review that is cross-referred from the
business review section of the directors’ report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the information
and explanations we require for our audit, 
or if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other transactions 
is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in 
the Annual Report and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. The other information
comprises only the unaudited part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Chairman’s
Statement and the Business Review. We consider
the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the parent company financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend 
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the parent
company financial statements, and of whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the
company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as 
to obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the parent company
financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give
a true and fair view, in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs
as at 31 March 2006;
• the parent company financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985; and
• the information given in the directors’ report
is consistent with the parent company
financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Leeds
24 May 2006
Auditor’s report on the company financial statements Company balance sheet
At 31 March 2006
2006 2005
(restated)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Financial assets 13 – 32.4
Investments in group undertakings 4 1,722.0 1,669.6
Current assets
Debtors 5 85.3 52.9
Financial assets 13 27.8 –
Cash and short term deposits 78.6 98.9
191.7 151.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Short term borrowings 7 (433.4) –
Other creditors 6 (173.0) (214.3)
Net current liabilities (414.7) (62.5)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,307.3 1,639.5
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Long term borrowings 7 (439.5) (872.3)
Other creditors 6 (2.0) (2.0)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 8 – (0.4)
Net assets 865.8 764.8
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 57.0 58.4
Share premium account 9 16.7 16.7
Capital redemption reserve 9 146.7 145.3
Profit and loss account 9 651.4 555.5
Share-based payment reserve 9 3.8 2.2
Hedging reserve 9 – 0.1
Investment in own shares 9 (9.8) (13.4)
Equity shareholders’ funds 865.8 764.8
Approved by the board of directors on 24 May 2006 and signed on their behalf by:
Martin Towers, Group finance director
87
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 88
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Notes to the company accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
1. Company accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared under
the historical cost convention, modified to
include revaluation of certain financial
instruments as described below, in accordance
with applicable UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (UK GAAP). The company
has departed from consistent accounting
policies with the group as the group financial
statements are prepared under International
Accounting Standards for the first time in 2006
and the company directors have taken the
decision to continue preparing the company
financial statements in accordance with UK
GAAP. The main differences can be found in
note 31 to the group financial statements.
The accounting policies of the company have
been consistently applied over both the current
and preceding period. The going concern basis
has been applied in these accounts.
New accounting standards
The company has adopted the following
accounting standards in the year:
• FRS17 ‘Retirement Benefits’. FRS17 is fully in
effect for the current year. As set out below,
the company is unable to identify its share 
of the underlying assets and liabilities in the
group schemes and therefore continues to
account for pensions on a contributions basis.
As a result, adoption of FRS17 has no effect
on the company’s results or net assets.
• FRS20 ‘Share-based Payments’. Under FRS20
the company is required to reflect share-
based payments in the profit and loss
account. The company operates a savings
related share option scheme under which
options have been granted to employees. 
The fair value of employee services rendered
in exchange for the grant of options is
recognised as an expense in the income
statement with a corresponding credit 
to equity.
The total amount which is expensed over
the specified period until the options can be
exercised (the vesting period) is determined
by the fair value of the option at the date 
of the grant. The fair value of the option
calculated is determined by use of 
mathematical modelling including the Black
Scholes option pricing model.
The company re-assesses its estimate of 
the number of options that are expected to
become exercisable at each balance sheet
date. Any adjustments to the original
estimates are recognised in the income
statement (and equity). No expense is
recognised for awards that do not ultimately
vest, except for awards where vesting is
conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective 
of whether or not the market condition 
is satisfied, provided that all other
performance conditions are satisfied.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan
have two separate vesting conditions, both
of which are dependent on market-based
conditions (Kelda shareholder return against
a comparator group and against the market).
The market-based conditions of the award
are taken into account in valuing the award
at the grant date. Details of the valuation
method adopted for shares granted under
the plan are set out in note 26 to the
consolidated financial statements. At
each subsequent balance sheet date the
company revises its estimate of the number
of employees who will receive awards. It
recognises the impact of the revision of
original estimates, if any, in the income
statement, and a corresponding adjustment
to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The provisions of FRS20 have been applied
to options granted after 7 November 2002
and not vested before 1 January 2005. The
adoption of FRS20 increased net assets by
£0.4m and has a £nil effect on the profit
and loss account.
• FRS21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’.
FRS21 changes the approach to dividends
declared after the balance sheet date in
respect of the year for which the accounts
are prepared such that these dividends are no
longer accrued for in the balance sheet. As a
result of adopting FRS21 the company’s net
assets at 31 March 2005 increased by £0.2m.
• FRS23 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates’. FRS23 sets out additional
guidance on the translation method for
transactions in foreign currencies and on
determining the functional and presentational
currencies. The adoption of FRS23 has no
effect on the company’s profit or net assets.
• FRS25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure 
and Presentation’. FRS25 sets out the
requirements for the presentation of and
disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The adoption of FRS25 had no effect on the
company’s profit or net assets; disclosures
complying with FRS25 are included in the
group financial statements.
• FRS26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’.
FRS26 sets out requirements for
measurement, recognition and 
de-recognition of financial instruments. 
The adoption of FRS26 had increased the
company’s net assets by £0.1m.
• FRS28 ‘Corresponding amounts’. FRS28 sets
out the requirements for the disclosure of
corresponding amounts for items shown in
an entity’s primary financial statements and
the notes to the financial statements. The
adoption of FRS28 had no effect upon the
company’s profit or net assets.
Foreign currencies
In preparing the financial statements for the
current year the company has adopted FRS23.
As noted above while this represents a change 
in accounting policy there is no reportable
impact on comparative figures.
The presentational currency of the company 
is sterling.
Assets and liabilities expressed in overseas
currencies are translated into sterling at the
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed
assets at rates calculated to write-off the cost,
less estimated residual value, of each asset
evenly over its expected useful life.
Useful economic lives are principally as follows:
Fixed plant 5 – 40 years
Vehicles, mobile plant 
and computers 3 – 10 years Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result
for the year as adjusted for disallowable and
non taxable items using current rates and takes
into account taxation deferred because of
timing differences between the treatment of
certain items for taxation and for accounting
purposes. Deferred tax is recognised in respect
of all timing differences that have originated
but not reversed at the balance sheet date
where transactions or events that result in an
obligation to pay more or a right to pay less
tax in the future have occurred at the balance
sheet date, subject to the following:
• provision is made for gains on disposals of
fixed assets that have been rolled over into
replacement assets only where, at the
balance sheet date, there is a commitment
to dispose of the replacement assets;
• deferred tax assets are recognised only to
the extent that the directors consider that 
it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the
future reversal of the underlying timing
differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates at which
it is estimated that tax will arise based on tax
rates and laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet
date. Deferred tax is discounted using post tax
yields to maturity that could be obtained at
the balance sheet date on government bonds
with maturity dates similar to those of the
deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost
and reviewed for impairment if there are
indications that the carrying value may not 
be recoverable.
Financial instruments
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash equivalents are defined as including short
term deposits with original maturity within 3
months. For the purposes of the consolidated
cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents
consist of cash and cash equivalents net of
outstanding bank overdrafts held with the
same bank where there is a legal right and
intention to offset.
Trade debtors and creditors
Trade debtors do not carry any interest and 
are stated at their nominal value as reduced by
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable
amounts. There is no intention to trade the
debtors. Trade creditors are not interest bearing
and are stated at their nominal value.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised
at fair value less directly attributable transaction
costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing
loans and borrowings are subsequently measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest
method. Gains and losses arising on re-purchase,
settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities
are recognised respectively in investment income
and finance costs.
Investments
All investments are initially recorded at cost,
being the fair value of the consideration given
and including the acquisition charges associated
with the investment. Investments are classified
as either held-for-trading or available-for-sale,
and are measured at subsequent reporting
dates at their fair value. Where securities are
held for trading purposes, gains and losses
arising from changes in fair value are included in
net profit or loss for the period. For available-for-
sale investments gains and losses arising from
changes in fair value are recognised directly in
equity, until the security is disposed of or is
determined to be impaired, at which time the
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in
equity is included in the net profit or loss for the
period. Fair value changes arising from foreign
exchange movements or from income
receivable are recorded in the income
statement for the period.
Derivative financial instruments
The company uses derivative financial
instruments such as foreign currency contracts
and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks
associated with interest rate and foreign currency
fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments
are stated at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts 
is calculated by reference to current forward
exchange rates for contracts with similar 
maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate
swap contracts is determined by reference to
market values for similar instruments.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges
are classified as either fair value hedges where
they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair
value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash
flow hedges where they hedge exposure to
variability in cash flows that is either attributable
to a particular risk associated with a recognised
asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the
conditions for special hedge accounting, any
gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging
instrument at fair value is recognised immediately
in the income statement. Any gain or loss on
the hedged item attributable to the hedged
risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of
the hedged item and recognised in the income
statement. Where the adjustment is to the
carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing
financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised
to the net profit and loss such that it is fully
amortised by maturity.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge firm
commitments which meet the conditions for
special hedge accounting, the portion of the
gain or loss on the hedging instrument that 
is determined to be an effective hedge is
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective
portion is recognised in net profit or loss.
When the hedged firm commitment results in
the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a
liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is
recognised, the associated gains or losses that
had previously been recognised in equity are
included in the initial measurement of the
acquisition cost or other carrying amount of
the asset or liability. For all other cash flow
hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised
in equity are transferred to the income
statement in the same period in which the
hedged firm commitment affects the net
profit and loss, for example when the future
sale actually occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for special
hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising
from changes in fair value are taken directly 
to net profit or loss for the period.
89
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 90
Notes to the company accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the
hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for special hedge accounting. At that point 
in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the
hedging instrument recognised in equity is
kept in equity until the forecasted transaction
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or
loss recognised in equity is transferred to net
profit or loss for the period.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the
hedge is recognised in equity and any gain or
loss on the ineffective portion is recognised in
the income statement. On disposal of the
foreign operation the cumulative value of any
gains or losses recognised directly in equity is
transferred to the income statement.
The directors have taken advantage of the
exemption in FRS25 and have excluded
disclosures relating to financial instruments
from the financial statements on the basis that
the financial instruments of the company are
included within the consolidated financial
statements of the group.
Pensions
The company’s employees participate in a
number of group defined benefit schemes as
described in note 22 in the consolidated
financial statements. The company is unable 
to identify its share of the underlying assets
and liabilities in the schemes on a consistent
and reasonable basis and therefore accounts
for the schemes as if they were defined
contribution schemes. Details of the defined
benefit schemes of the group (accounted for
in accordance with group’s accounting policies)
can be found in note 2 of the consolidated
financial statements.
Provisions
Provision is made in accordance with FRS12 for
self-insured third party liability claims incurred
but not reported.
2. Profit attributable to parent company
The profit of the parent company, was
£278.6m (2005: £88.6m). Advantage has been
taken of the exemption available under section
230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present
a profit and loss account for the company
alone. The parent company profit and loss
account was approved by the board on 
24 May 2006.
3. Tangible fixed assets
The assets of the parent company comprise
plant and equipment. At both 1 April 2005
and 31 March 2006 both the cost and
accumulated depreciation of the fixed assets
was £0.3m, leaving a net book value of £nil.
The company does not have any assets held
under finance leases. 4. Investments
Total
Loans investments
Shares in group to group in group
undertakings undertakings undertakings
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 (restated) 934.1 735.5 1,669.6
Movement in year 0.9 51.5 52.4
At 31 March 2006 935.0 787.0 1,722.0
5. Debtors
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 33.3 29.3
Prepayments and accrued income 20.1 17.9
Deferred tax asset 0.4 0.3
Tax debtor 30.2 4.5
Other debtors:
Receivable within one year 1.3 0.9
85.3 52.9
Deferred tax asset
£m
At 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 0.3
Additions during the year 0.1
At 31 March 2006 0.4
Deferred tax in the company is in relation to a short term timing difference. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that
taxable profit will be available against which the deductible timing differences can be utilised.
6. Other creditors
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 117.6 163.9
Other creditors 55.4 50.4
173.0 214.3
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Other creditors 2.0 2.0
2.0 2.0
91
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 92
Notes to the company accounts
Year ended 31 March 2006
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
7. Borrowings
Short term borrowings
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
Other loans 4.4 –
5.25% Eurobond 2006 429.0 –
At 31 March 2006 433.4 –
Long term borrowings
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
6.625% bond 2031 240.2 240.1
6.875% guaranteed bonds 2010 199.3 199.2
5.25% Eurobond 2006 – 433.0
439.5 872.3
Long term borrowings are repayable as follows:
In more than one year but not more than two years – 433.0
In more than two years but not more than five years – –
After more than five years 439.5 439.3
439.5 872.3
8. Provisions
£m
At 1 April 2005 0.4
Utilised in year (0.4)
At 31 March 2006 –
9. Movement on reserves
Capital Investment Share-based Profit and
Issued Share redemption in own Hedging payment loss
capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Shareholders’ funds at 1 April 2005 58.4 16.7 145.3 (13.4) 0.1 2.2 555.5 764.8
Retained profit for the year –––––– 278.6 278.6
Share buy back (1.4) – 1.4––– (72.9) (72.9)
Dividends approved and paid –––––– (109.4) (109.4)
Treasury shares disposed of through vesting 
of share schemes –– 3.6 ––– 3.6
Losses on cash flow hedges – – – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Share-based payment charges ––––– 1.6 – 1.6
Retranslation of US dollar loan –––––– (0.4) (0.4)
Shareholders’ funds at 31 March 2006 57.0 16.7 146.7 (9.8) – 3.8 651.4 865.8
Investments in own shares consists of 2,947,812 ordinary shares of the company with a nominal value of 15 
5
/
9
p which are held in the ESOT. 
The market value of the shares held by the ESOT at 31 March 2006 was £23.2m (net book value £9.8m). The market value of the shares held by the 
ESOT on 24 May 2006 was £22.5m. 10. Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds
2006 2005
£m £m
Shareholders’ funds at 1 April 764.8 768.7
Adoption of FRS20, FRS21 and FRS26 – 0.7
Shareholders’ funds at 1 April 764.8 769.4
Profit attributable to shareholders 278.6 88.6
Share buy back (72.9) –
Dividends approved and paid (109.4) (100.3)
Treasury shares disposed of through vesting of share schemes 3.6 5.3
Losses on cash flow hedges (0.1) –
Share-based payment charges 1.6 1.8
Retranslation of US dollar loan (0.4) –
Shareholders’ funds at 31 March 865.8 764.8
11. Share-based payments
Details of share-based payments schemes operated by the company are disclosed in note 26 of the group accounts. The charge for share-based
payments was £0.1m (2005: £0.3m).
12. Directors and employees
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 1.9 2.2
Social security contributions 0.2 0.2
Other pension costs 1.0 0.3
3.1 2.7
On average the company had 28 employees during the year ending 31 March 2006 (2005: 31). Details of directors’ emoluments are set out in the
directors’ remuneration report. No elements related specifically to their work in the company.
13. Other information
Disclosure notes relating to share capital, share re-purchases and financial instruments are included within the financial statements of the group.
The company has guaranteed certain subsidiary undertakings’ borrowings of £763.4m (2005: £691.8m).
The company has taken advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3c of FRS8, not to disclose transactions with other group companies.
The auditor’s remuneration for the year was £0.1m (2005: £0.1m).
93
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 94
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
UK regulated water services additional information
1. Analysis of operating profit
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
UK GAAP before exceptional items 300.9 284.6
Exceptional items – (5.8)
UK GAAP after exceptional items 300.9 278.8
IFRS adjustments 11.8 (6.7)
IFRS 312.7 272.1
2. Summary income statement under UK GAAP
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Turnover 693.8 640.1
Expenses (392.9) (355.5)
Profit excluding exceptional costs 300.9 284.6
Exceptional costs – (5.8)
Operating profit 300.9 278.8
Finance costs (81.7) (76.8)
Profit before tax 219.2 202.0
Tax (66.1) (35.7)
Profit for the year 153.1 166.3 General information
Financial calendar
Announcement of preliminary results 24 May 2006
Annual general meeting 25 July 2006
Ex dividend date 02 August 2006
Record date 04 August 2006
Final dividend payment date 25 August 2006
Announcement of interim results 28 November 2006
Ex dividend date 06 December 2006
Record date 08 December 2006
Interim dividend payment date 05 January 2007
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 31 March 2006 by size of account and category
Number of Number of % of total
holders shares held share
1 – 500 20,880 4,929,427 1.35%
501 – 1,000 12,295 9,187,200 2.51%
1,001 – 10,000 14,870 31,118,047 8.49%
10,001 – 100,000 582 18,861,049 5.15%
100,001 – 500,000 195 46,363,628 12.65%
500,001 + 101 255,911,045 69.85%
48,923 366,370,396
Number of Number of % of total
holders shares held share
Individuals 45,354 52,155,723 14.23%
Nominee companies 3,285 308,918,741 84.32%
Banks & insurance companies 20 1,743,951 0.48%
Pension funds 56 1,894,995 0.52%
Other corporate bodies 208 1,656,986 0.45%
48,923 366,370,396
Payment of dividends to mandated accounts
Shareholders who do not currently have their
dividends paid directly to a bank or building
society account and who wish to do so should
complete a mandate form obtainable from the
registrar. Tax vouchers are sent to the
shareholder’s registered address under this
arrangement unless requested otherwise.
Share price information
The latest Kelda Group plc share price is
available at www.keldagroup.com, Ceefax,
Teletext and also on the FT CityLine, telephone
0906 003 5492 (calls charged at 60p per minute).
Information on gifting your shares
To transfer your shares to another member of
your family as a gift, please ask the company’s
registrar for a gift transfer form. The completed
transfer form and relevant share certificate(s)
should be returned to the registrar to record the
change in ownership.
The company supports a scheme whereby
shareholders with small holdings of shares,
whose value makes them uneconomic to sell,
can donate them to Wateraid. Details can be
obtained from the shareholder information
office. Further information about Wateraid is
available at www.wateraid.org.uk.
Share dealing service
Information on a low cost share dealing service
offered by our registrar is available from Capita
on 0870 458 4577 or at www.capitadeal.com.
Report on cassette tape
For the benefit of blind and partially sighted
shareholders the text of the Annual Report
2006 is available on audio cassette tape free of
charge from the shareholder information office.
Anyone knowing a shareholder who could
benefit from this service is asked to draw it to
their attention.
Avoiding unsolicited mail
The company is legally obliged to make its
register of members available to other
organisations on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may result in shareholders receiving
unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the amount
of unsolicited mail, you should write to Mailing
Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 LON20771,
London W1 EOZT Tel: 0845 703 4599, or you
can register online at www.mpsonline.org.uk.
95
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 96
Our contact details
Secretary and Registered Office
Philip Hudson
Kelda Group plc
Western House
Halifax Road
Bradford
BD6 2SZ
Tel: 01274 600 111
Registrar
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 OLA
Tel: 0870 162 3131
www.capitaregistrars.com
e-mail:
shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
PO Box 61
Cloth Hall Court
14 King Street
Leeds
LS1 2JN
Principal Bankers
National Westminster Bank plc
City Office
Park Row
Leeds
LS1 2QS
Financial Advisers
Greenhill & Co
Regent Gate
56–58 Conduit Street
London
W1S 2YZ
Joint Stockbrokers
UBS
1 Finsbury Avenue
London
EC2M 2PP
JP Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Shareholder Information Office
Freephone: 0800 919 303
Water Supply and General Enquiries
Customer helpline: 0845 1 24 24 24
Waste Water Enquiries
Customer helpline: 0845 1 24 24 29
Billing Enquiries
Customer helpline: 0845 1 24 24 20
www.keldagroup.com
www.yorkshirewater.com
www.aquarion.com
www.loop.co.uk
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 100% of the text pages 1-44 of this report are 
produced on material which contains 50% recycled 
and de-inked pulp from post-consumer waste. The
remaining 50% is made up of Forest Stewardship
Council (FSC) virgin fibre and pulp. 
The cover and pages 45-96 are also produced on
material which is 50% recycled from post-consumer waste.
Designed and produced by salterbaxter
Printed by CTD Kelda Group plc
Western House
Halifax Road
Bradford BD6 2SZ
www.keldagroup.com
