 Annual Report 
and Accounts
2007
Kelda Group plc
Western House 
Halifax Road
Bradford BD62SZ
www.keldagroup.com
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 By taking our wider 
responsibilities seriously 
we can make a real 
difference
Our people generate new 
ideas to deliver service 
improvements
Kelda’s customers  
enjoy some of the highest 
service levels in the UK
To create a sustainable 
business, we balance 
economic, social and 
environmental needs
This report is produced on material which 
contains 50% recycled and de-inked pulp from 
post-consumer waste. The remaining 50% is 
made up of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
virgin fibre and pulp.
Designed and produced by salterbaxter 
Printed by CTD Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007  It has been another successful year for the Kelda Group.  
Our strategy has delivered further value for our shareholders  
and improved service for our customers.
Group highlights
2006/07
Contents
01 Group highlights
02 Our business
03 Our strategy
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Business review
06 Chief Executive’s review
09 Yorkshire Water
11 UK Service Operations
12 KeyLand Developments and Aquarion
13 Financial review
15 Looking forward
16  Principal risks and uncertainties
18 Corporate Social Responsibility
25 Board of directors
26 Directors’ report
29 KPI – Glossary of terms
30 Corporate governance
33 Directors’ remuneration report
38 Directors’ responsibilities
39 Auditor’s report on group  
financial statements 
40 Financial statements
41 Group income statement
41 Group statement of recognised  
income and expense
42 Group balance sheet
43 Group cash flow statement
44 Notes to the group accounts
78 Group companies
79 Five year financial summary
80 Auditor’s report on the company  
financial statements
81 Company balance sheet
82 Notes to the company accounts
87 General information
88 Our contact details 
Turnover
Group and share of associates and  
joint ventures from continuing operations
Group profit
Group profit after tax from continuing operations
Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations
Operating profit
Group operating profit from  
continuing operations
Profit attributable  
to shareholders
Dividend per share Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2
Our business
Kelda is well placed to continue to build on 
the successful progress of previous years.
2. UK Service Operations
Turnover: £130.9m (up 5.9%) 
Operating profit: £10.7m
Employees: 1,055
Kelda Water Services
Kelda Water Services Limited (KWS) manages 
the group’s non-regulated water and waste water 
contract operations in the UK. It is now the second 
biggest player in the UK contract operations 
market, with operations in England, Scotland, 
Wales and Northern Ireland.
The results of the UK service operations include 
the results of associates and joint ventures.
Loop Customer Management Ltd
Loop specialises in cost effective customer 
relationship management. The company’s main 
contract is to provide customer service support 
to Yorkshire Water.
Safe-Move
Safe-Move is a non-regulated business which 
provides search information to solicitors and 
conveyancers including information covering 
drainage and water services.
Business strategy
• To be the best in UK water contract operations.
• Maximise value from existing operations.
• Be alert to potential growth opportunities.
3. KeyLand Developments
Turnover: £6.9m 
Operating profit: £4.3m
Employees: 6
KeyLand Developments Limited (KeyLand) is 
responsible for managing, developing and 
disposing of the group’s surplus property assets, 
either on its own or in partnership with outside 
organisations.
The results of KeyLand include the results of 
associates and joint ventures.
Business strategy
• To maximise the value of the group’s surplus 
property portfolio.
1. Yorkshire Water
Turnover: £741.1m (up 6.8%) 
Operating profit: £332.7m
Employees: 2,198
Yorkshire Water is Kelda’s principal UK subsidiary, 
providing water and waste water services to more 
than 4.7m people and 140,000 businesses. 
Every day the company supplies more than 
1.3bn litres of water to homes and businesses 
in Yorkshire. Through the efficient operation of 
its extensive waste water network and treatment 
facilities, it also ensures that the region’s domestic 
and industrial waste is returned safely to the 
environment.
Yorkshire Water has been voted Utility Company 
of the Year at the Utility Industry Achievement 
Awards for the past three consecutive years.
Business strategy
• To be clearly the best water company in the UK.
• Focus on striking the right balance between 
service, compliance, value, people, partners 
and society.
4. Aquarion
Aquarion has been disclosed as a 
discontinued operation in the results 
for the year ended 31 March 2007
On 1 May 2007 we announced the completion 
of the sale of our US business Aquarion to a 
consortium led by Macquarie Bank.
1
2
4
3 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
Our shareholders
We are committed to creating enduring 
shareholder value by a focus on efficiency 
in everything we do. Our goal is to deliver 
consistently good financial results by out-
performing regulatory and other financial  
targets and delivering efficiencies across the  
group. We will achieve this by sharing best 
practice, employing world-class technology  
and growing our non-regulated activities.
Our customers
Our aim is to provide a quality of service which  
is significantly better than any other utility and at  
a price which represents good value for money.  
To achieve this we will design our service from the 
outside-in, considering the customer’s point of 
view and eliminating service failures. This will lead 
to improved financial and operational performance 
and an enjoyable customer experience.
Our people
Kelda employs over 3,800 people. Our aim is to 
create a great place to work, with zero accidents,  
a good work-life balance and the opportunity to 
make a real difference. We want to attract and 
retain the best people, with performance and 
contribution recognised and rewarded and  
success celebrated as part of our culture.
Environmental leadership
Kelda deals with environmental issues as diverse  
as catchment management, sustainable water 
management, and river water and bathing water 
standards. Our performance affects all customers 
and everyone who lives in the regions we serve. 
Our aim is to achieve 100% compliance with legal 
and regulatory obligations and to go beyond 
compliance where the benefits exceed the cost.
Society
Our aim is to make a difference to society, opening 
up land for public enjoyment and promoting the 
value of water and health in schools. Around 38% 
of our colleagues are involved in community 
volunteering and external leadership roles and  
in influencing matters relating to water.
Service partners
Kelda has created a new level of partnership, 
understanding and transparency with its key service 
providers. Our aim is to achieve win-win-win, which 
means better customer service, lower costs and 
healthy profits for all. To make this happen, we are 
looking to set clear expectations and encourage 
new ideas and innovation.
Our strategy
Our focus remains on improving the efficiency  
and performance of our core businesses, using  
our experience in water and waste water services  
to develop sustainable, non-regulated income  
streams which add shareholder value.
Environmental
leadership
Service  
partners
Our  
customers
Our  
shareholders
Our  
people
Society Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 4
The current and expected results depend 
upon commitment, excellence and hard work. 
We continue to set ourselves demanding 
standards of performance.
In this second year of the 2005 – 2010 
price determination, I am pleased to report 
continuing progress in our core UK water 
and waste water operations and the 
completion of the sale of our US regulated 
water interests now ﬁ nalised following 
receipt of the required US regulatory 
approvals. We have also already given 
notice of our intent to improve our balance 
sheet and capital efﬁ ciency by making a 
related return of approximately £750m to 
shareholders by means of what is known as 
a B share scheme. These actions are 
consistent with our policy of focus on water 
and waste water operations where we can 
maximise our leverage and expertise to 
reduce costs, achieve regulatory out-
performance and improve service standards 
and regulatory compliance. This focus 
beneﬁ ts our customers in the long run as 
regulatory out-performance reduces prices 
into the future and capital efﬁ ciency is 
necessary to meet regulatory and 
shareholder expectations.
The performance of Yorkshire Water (YW) 
continued to progress strongly. YW was recognised 
as the most efﬁ cient water and sewerage company 
in the UK. When service and overall compliance is 
taken into account it maintained its top 2 ranking 
in Ofwat’s Overall Performance Assessment 
(OPA) which compares the performance of water 
companies. The results included a reduction in 
pollution incidents and a 100% compliance of 
waste water installations. There was also a best 
ever performance on bathing beach standards and 
our leakage reduction targets were met in full.
The success of YW reﬂ ects not only the continuing 
efforts of everyone at Kelda as part of our 
commitment to being the ‘best in class’ but our 
focus on technology and better ways of working 
involving our major contract partners. We continue 
to develop applications to minimise disruption to 
customers when there are interruptions to supply 
and have increased the electronic monitoring of 
underground assets seeking to anticipate rather 
than just react to service breakdowns. In particular 
I would like to report on the technology success in 
our Loop customer service operation of a complete 
replacement of our computer-based billing systems 
which was achieved over a three year period with 
no loss of continuity of service or disruption.
The advances we have made help us to develop and 
expand our third party contract services business 
KWS, which has beneﬁ ted from the full year effect 
of earlier contract wins. We are on plan with the 
building in Northern Ireland of 4 water treatment 
plants. The KWS business now has revenues of 
£123m per annum and has grown organically to 
this level from a standing start over the last 5 years. 
The smaller operations of Loop and KeyLand 
also performed well.
The completion of our sale of our US regulated 
water operations took longer than anticipated but 
was announced as completed following regulatory 
approvals on 1 May 2007. This sale in the US has 
provided an opportunity to intensify our focus 
strategy and address issues of balance sheet 
efficiency. The sustainable optimum cost of capital 
is achieved by having gearing levels close to the 
upper range of regulatory borrowing assumptions 
in the price determination. This will be achieved by 
Chairman’s statement
John Napier
Chairman, Kelda Group plc Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
making a capital return to shareholders of £750m, 
utilising a combination of the net sale proceeds of 
Aquarion and increases in our long term debt. We 
also took the opportunity to reduce our pension 
deficit by making a one time £50m contribution. 
This will be an addition to the contribution 
agreed under the regulatory determination. The 
mechanics of the return of capital to shareholders 
may seem complex to some shareholders for which 
I apologise. The use of a B share approach is 
commonly used because it offers choice to 
shareholders.
The ﬁ nancial performance for the year was 
strong in the continuing operations with proﬁ t 
after tax up 8.1%. The principal contributor was 
YW which beneﬁ ted from a regulatory price 
increase. It did however incur a very signiﬁ cant 
increase in energy costs which was mitigated by 
further increases in efﬁ ciency and reductions in 
cost in other areas. YW continued to out-perform 
the regulatory targets and given this second 
year result we plan to achieve a 7.5% capital 
expenditure out-performance over the 5 year 
regulatory period ending in 2010. We also 
invested £362.7m in the year in upgrading 
our clean and waste water assets. 
The achievement of a 12.4% improvement in 
earnings per share on continuing operations linked 
to further sustainable progress in our performance 
has allowed the board to recommend a ﬁ nal 
dividend of 23.0p per share. This will make the 
full year dividend 32.25p, an increase of 6.3%, 
which is within the regulatory framework that 
allows a 2% growth in real terms.
On other important matters our commitment 
to excellence, efﬁ ciency and service is also 
matched by our focus on wider environment 
and community support opportunities. We 
continue to take the lead in encouraging our 
own and contract partner staff in community 
volunteering. We regularly review and maintain a 
balance between public access, conservation and 
security of our moorland water catchment areas 
optimising opportunities for access and leisure. 
We have completed the drinking water initiative 
in primary schools, ‘Cool Schools’, and are now 
developing a series of healthy eating and energy 
and environmental awareness initiatives which we 
hope to roll out in the coming year. Our range of 
community actions together with improvements 
in our customer service standards has raised 
our standing to platinum status in the Sunday 
Times ‘Top 100 Companies that Count’ based 
upon Business in the Community’s Corporate 
Responsibility Index.
There was further external recognition of our 
achievements when our Chief Executive Kevin 
Whiteman was named Business Leader of the Year 
at the National Business Awards. We also gained an 
unprecedented third consecutive award as Utility 
Company of the Year. Kevin would be the ﬁ rst to 
acknowledge that these achievements depend 
on the commitment and support of everyone 
in the company and our contract partners. On 
behalf of our shareholders the board would like 
to congratulate everyone for this magniﬁ cent 
achievement and thank them for their 
continuing commitment and support. 
On board matters generally, following the 
completion of the US sale, Rich Schmidt our US 
based Non-executive director, will be retiring from 
the board at the AGM. The board would like to 
thank Rich for his services to the company. 
The audit committee and the board also 
undertook a review of auditors which resulted in 
PricewaterhouseCoopers being recommended for 
appointment as auditors with effect from the year 
ending 31 March 2008. I would like to thank the 
outgoing auditors Ernst & Young for their support 
and contribution made to the company in their 
11 years as auditor to the group.
In summary, a strong second year result with 
a good all-round performance in all areas of 
efﬁ ciency, service, regulatory compliance and 
out-performance which we are conﬁ dent that 
we can sustain. We are on plan to execute our 
capital investment programme of £1.6bn over 
the regulatory period. We also look forward to 
further growth in our KWS third party contracting 
business. The current and expected results depend 
upon commitment, excellence and hard work. 
We continue to set ourselves demanding 
standards of performance.
 
SSSIs recovery on track
Yorkshire Water has made significant 
progress in preventing the deterioration 
of countryside designated as SSSI (Sites 
of Special Scientific Interest) across the 
Pennines. The Government has set a Public 
Service Agreement (PSA) target for the 
next three years of ensuring 95% of all 
SSSIs are in either a favourable or recovering 
condition as judged by Natural England’s 
conservation officers.
Research by Natural England’s predecessor, 
English Nature, suggested Yorkshire Water
had significant improvements to make as 
the company owns large areas of moorland 
damaged by 200 years of air pollution 
and post-war agricultural policies that 
encouraged the drainage of land to create 
grazing for sheep and heather burning to 
improve grouse shooting.
After working in partnership with Natural 
England, Moors For the Future and Pennine 
Prospects Ltd, Yorkshire Water’s SSSIs are on 
the road to recovery with 36% now meeting 
the PSA target – an improvement of 27% 
against a national figure of 18.5%.
As biodiversity improves within these 
special habitats, it is hoped that the 
enhanced environment will encourage 
more people to visit the countryside in a 
responsible manner, further contributing 
to other Government aims to encourage 
people to live a healthier lifestyle. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6
Kelda is leading the way for customer service 
efficiency and value in UK clean and waste  
water services.
It has been another successful year for the Kelda 
Group. Our continuing strategy to focus on our 
core UK water and waste water business has 
delivered further value for our shareholders and 
with an improved service for our customers.
Group profit after tax from continuing operations 
has increased by 8.1% to £171.7m on turnover up 
6.5% to £878.9m. Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations have increased 12.4%  
to 48.1p and it is proposed that our full year 
dividend is increased 6.3% to 32.25p per share.
Staying focused has led to another strong year for 
Yorkshire Water and we have again demonstrated 
market leading operational and customer service 
performance. In addition, KWS has continued to 
make good progress and the sale of our US 
regulated water business Aquarion means Kelda is 
now entirely focused on its UK water and waste 
water operations. All our energies are now 
directed at continuing to be clearly the best in the 
UK at what we do.
Yorkshire Water has continued to improve both  
its operational and customer service during  
a challenging year for the UK water industry 
overall. We are pleased with the progress which 
has been made through our continuing drive to 
run an efficient operation and to out-perform.
Kelda’s approach is to strike the right balance by 
providing a satisfactory return for shareholders, an 
improved service for customers and environmental 
improvements. Over recent years, this approach 
has delivered benefits for all and will continue as 
we approach the next price review in the UK.
Striking the right balance in Yorkshire
Yorkshire Water had a strong year, improving its 
efficiency and overall service levels and gaining 
external recognition as ‘Utility of the Year’ for  
the third successive year.
Both operating and capital costs are better than  
target, despite high energy prices. The company 
was again named by Ofwat as the UK’s most 
efficient water and sewerage company, with four 
‘A’ ratings for efficiency. As a result, Yorkshire 
Water remains on target to out-perform the  
rest of the current price review.
Customers are central to the company’s 
philosophy and our aim is to provide a quality of 
service which is significantly better than any other 
UK utility. In 2006/07 Yorkshire Water improved  
its score in Ofwat’s annual Overall Performance 
Assessment (OPA) for the ninth successive year.
Ofwat’s report shows that the company continues 
to deliver an improved level of service, including  
a reduction in pollution incidents and 100%  
waste water treatment works compliance. We 
have also achieved our best ever bathing beach 
performance, with seven Blue Flags awarded to 
the region’s beaches.
By applying new technology, Yorkshire Water  
also made dramatic reductions in customer 
interruptions and street excavations. For example, 
in 2006/07 the company achieved a 32% 
reduction in interruptions to supply.
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
Kevin Whiteman
Chief Executive, Kelda Group plc Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
The last year has also been an excellent one for 
delivering water supply security. The company met 
its leakage targets for the tenth consecutive year.
We expect a similar performance in 2007 and  
will continue to set ourselves challenging targets 
around customer service, value and compliance  
to maintain the momentum which we have 
developed over recent years.
UK clean and waste water focus
In selling our US water business Aquarion we will 
become a group focused on our UK water and 
waste water businesses.
Over recent years our strategy has been to divest 
non-core activities and many other companies in 
the sector have also followed suit.
KWS enjoyed another good year and now operates 
major clean and waste water contracts across the 
UK. With its growing track record, skills and 
experience, KWS is now established as a key player 
in the UK market for outsourced clean and waste 
water services. Our aspiration is to continue to 
grow in this developing market by further 
leveraging off our core skills.
Financial efficiency
The sale of Aquarion also allows us to undertake 
some prudent financial management and improve 
the efficiency of our balance sheet. To this end, 
we have received shareholder approval to return 
approximately £750m of capital to shareholders by 
way of a B share scheme and share consolidation.
The effect of our plans is to increase the Yorkshire 
Water net debt to approximately 60% of the 
Regulatory Capital Value, which is in line with  
the 55-65% range assumed by Ofwat in the  
2004 Final Determination.
Dividends in respect of the year ending 31 March, 
2008 will be adjusted to take account of the 
return of capital. For the current regulatory period 
to 2010, we also plan to retain our policy of 
growing dividends by 2% real, in line with 
regulatory expectations.
This structure will have the effect of bringing our 
financial efficiency in line with our operational 
efficiency, and will continue to provide Kelda  
with the right balance of risk and flexibility.
Getting the balance right
Whilst Kelda is leading the way for customer 
service, efficiency and value, we also concentrate 
on wider issues which are important to our 
employees, the environment and society.
The continued success of Kelda is thanks to the 
professionalism and dedication of our people  
and I would like to take the opportunity in this 
report to thank them for their hard work over  
the last year. It is their continuing commitment  
at all levels within our organisation which 
generates new ideas and momentum to  
deliver improvements.
We also want to improve our environmental 
performance and will go beyond compliance 
where we believe the benefits exceed the cost. 
Over the last year Yorkshire Water has commited 
to invest over £20m in renewable energy, 
including wind turbines, combined heat and 
power and hydro generation.
We recognise that we also have an important role 
to play in society and over the last year we have 
improved recreational facilities at our key reservoir 
sites, including new routes and paths for customers 
and trails suitable for wheelchair access. We also 
remain committed to volunteering, with one in 
three of our people making a real difference in  
the community.
As we begin to develop our plans for the new 
investment period and beyond, the views of  
our customers and stakeholders will be crucial  
in helping to shape our thinking. Kelda is well 
placed to continue to build on the successful 
progress of previous years.
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations up 12.4% to 48.1p
6.3%
Group operating profit from continuing 
operations up 7.2% to £338.2m
£878.9m
7.2%
Full year dividend increased 6.3% to 32.25p Group turnover from continuing operations up 
6.5% to £878.9m
48.1p Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 8
Kelda’s customers enjoy  
some of the highest  
service levels in the UK
Business review Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
Regulatory performance
Regulated turnover increased by 6.8% to £741.1m 
(2006: £693.8m) and operating profit increased by 
6.4% to £332.7m (2006: £312.7m). This year on 
year improved performance reflects tariff increases 
and the delivery of further efficiencies. Yorkshire 
Water will still out-perform Ofwat’s operating 
cost targets by £2m even after absorbing 
considerable increases in energy prices. 2007/08 
electricity has now been purchased at a cost 
significantly higher than that allowed in the 
determination, but at a lower level than that 
seen in 2006/07. The company is implementing 
initiatives to reduce the impact of the continuing 
high energy costs.
Regulated capital investment for the year was 
£362.7m (2006: £330.6m). The investment 
continues to be directed at the upgrading of the 
region’s clean and waste water infrastructure. 
The capital programme continues to go well, 
with all regulatory outputs delivered on or ahead 
of schedule, and we are on track to achieve our 
planned 7.5% out-performance of Ofwat’s 
expenditure targets.
Ofwat again confirmed Yorkshire Water as the 
most efficient water and sewerage company in 
the UK. The company was awarded four ‘A’ ratings 
for the efficient way it runs its water and waste 
water operations.
Customer service
Yorkshire Water continued to improve levels 
of operational and customer service in Ofwat’s 
Overall Performance Assessment (OPA), with an 
increase in score for the ninth consecutive year. 
The report confirmed that the company achieved 
the highest grades available in all categories of 
service indicators.
This has been an excellent year for delivering 
water supply security and further improving 
our customers’ confidence in the company’s 
management of water resources. The company 
continued to achieve leakage reduction targets.
A number of significant initiatives in both the clean 
and waste water businesses are already delivering 
improvements in service and efficiencies.
The biggest technology project within the company 
in the last five years was successfully delivered in 
November 2006. A new, more customer focused, 
billing system replaced a 25 year old system and 
has run well since. This area of technological 
change has been notoriously difficult for other 
utility companies and we are pleased to report 
that our project was delivered on time, on 
budget and with no customer impact. 
Environmental performance
All suppliers working with Yorkshire Water are now 
assessed using the company’s own Environmental 
Vendor Evaluation System, which contributed 
towards the company achieving ISO14001 
accreditation for every aspect of its operations.
Good progress was also made towards improving 
the condition of Sites of Special Scientific Interest 
(SSSIs) on Yorkshire Water land. In addition, 7 Blue 
Flags were awarded to the region’s beaches, a best 
ever performance. We also achieved 100% waste 
water treatment works compliance. The total 
number of pollution incidents reduced year on 
year. We will be investing further capital and 
resource in 2007 to reduce the stubborn but 
small number of more serious pollution incidents.
Business review
Yorkshire Water
Equal opportunities
Age is certainly no barrier to employment 
at Yorkshire Water. 
At the age of 61, Keith Wood from 
Huddersfield shunned all thoughts of 
taking retirement and became a Yorkshire 
Water leakage detector instead.
Keith, who has spent most of his working 
life in a timber yard, now spends his 
days patrolling the streets of Yorkshire 
proactively searching for bursts and leaks.
Technological innovation 
Technology is at the heart of Yorkshire 
Water’s plans to repair bursts and leaks 
without ever having to shut off customers’ 
water supplies.
Pictured are Dr Steve Joseph, Dr Toby Buxall 
and Ian Robinson, trialling a new bag 
system developed by the University of 
Sheffield which can seal leaks without the 
need to dig disruptive holes in the highway.
Such innovation has seen a 40% reduction 
in the number of customers whose 
supplies are interrupted each year.
Key performance indicators
  TARGET CURRENT YEAR
Overall customer 
satisfaction
 100% 85%
  (Prior year: 85%)
Drinking water
compliance
 100% 99.94%
  (Prior year: 99.94%)
Waste water treatment 
works (WWTW) 
compliance
 100% 99.99%
  (Prior year: 98.97%)
Accidents
(Riddor reports)
 17 35
  (Prior year: 31)
 85 180
  (Prior year: 179)
 For more details on these measures see page 29
WWTW compliance 
with sanitary consents
Major and over 
3 days accidents
All
accidents
Overall drinking
water quality
Overall customer
satisfaction Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10
Social impact
We achieved platinum status in the Sunday 
Times ‘Top 100 Companies that Count’ 2007 report, 
based on Business in the Community’s Corporate 
Responsibility Index. The report benchmarks 
companies’ performance against a range of social, 
ethical and environmental issues. The company, 
which achieved its highest ever score of 97%, 
achieved outstanding performance in the areas 
of community, environmental, workplace and 
customer management.
During the year Yorkshire Water increased 
the percentage of its people being involved in 
community volunteering to 38%. Our volunteers 
were involved in a range of activities including 
Cares initiatives, ‘right to read’ and Numbers 
Partners, often being supported by colleagues 
from our service partners.
The Cool Schools campaign has concluded 
successfully. At the end of the initiative, more than 
1,400 coolers have been installed in 750 schools. 
A new schools campaign is being planned for the 
near future.
Yorkshire Water continued to be recognised for its 
environmental efforts, collecting two Green Apple 
environment awards and a Big Tick re-accreditation 
for its Environmental Management System.
Employees
The progress and momentum generated over 
recent years is directly attributable to the talent, 
commitment and enthusiasm of Yorkshire Water’s 
people – and particularly their response to change. 
New technology and ways of working have been 
carefully introduced and adopted over recent years 
and today, innovation is seen at work throughout 
the business, improving customer service and 
job satisfaction.
Yorkshire Water’s commitment to creating a 
skilled and motivated workforce is seen in its 
investment in training, with over 250 managers 
and service partner representatives taking part 
in extensive leadership development programmes 
during the year.
Recreational opportunities
Well-known celebrities have been 
supporting a high profile campaign to 
promote the recreational opportunities 
available at Yorkshire Water’s reservoirs.
Customers can take part in a range of 
activities at the company’s sites, including 
sailing, fishing, rambling, bird-watching, 
cycling and horse-riding.
Yorkshire poet Ian McMillan encouraged 
customers to put pen to paper and write 
about their favourite reservoir site.
Countryfile and former Newsround 
presenter John Craven returned to his 
home town of Leeds to launch a new 
promotional TV campaign on the banks 
of Eccup Reservoir.
For further information visit 
www.yorkshirewater.com/recreation Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007  Kelda uses its expertise in water and waste water 
services to develop long term, non-regulated 
income streams which add shareholder value.
UK Service Operations comprises Kelda Water 
Services (KWS), Loop and Safe-Move. Operating 
profit increased to £10.7m (2006: £9.1m), mainly 
reflecting the continuing strong operating 
performances of existing businesses.
Kelda Water Services
KWS provides a clear focus for Kelda’s UK  
non-regulated water and waste water contract 
operations businesses. It has grown in the last five 
years from nothing to a £123m turnover business 
and has established a proven track record of 
winning contracts and delivering on its 
commitments on service, operations and financial 
returns. KWS continues to seek new growth 
opportunities in its area of operation.
2006/07 saw KWS operating across the UK through 
its subsidiaries and associate undertakings:
• Aberdeen Environmental Services (AES), which  
is 45% owned by KWS, manages four waste 
water plants in Aberdeenshire under a 30 year 
contract. Grampian Waste Water Services,  
a wholly owned subsidiary of KWS, operates  
the contract. 
• A successful second full year has been 
completed in the contract to provide waste 
water operations and maintenance services  
to Welsh Water (Dwr Cymru), involving the 
operations of 570 waste water plants and  
over 13,000km of sewer network.
• KWS is a 50% shareholder in Brey Utilities,  
which runs a 25 year contract with the Ministry 
of Defence. Delta Water Services, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of KWS, provides sub-
contracted operational and maintenance 
services to over 80% of Brey’s sites. 
• Dalriada Water Services, a joint venture, is 
currently progressing well on its building of  
four water treatment works and associated 
infrastructure following the successful  
award of Project Alpha by Water Services 
Northern Ireland.
Loop
Loop Customer Management Limited specialises in 
cost effective customer relationship management. 
The company’s main contract is to provide 
customer service support to Yorkshire Water. Over 
the last year Loop helped Yorkshire Water to achieve 
some of the best levels of customer service and the 
best performance in revenue collection in the water 
industry. Loop also made a significant contribution 
to the highly successful implementation of the new 
Yorkshire Water billing system. 
Safe-Move
Safe-Move is a non-regulated business which 
provides search information to solicitors and 
conveyancers, including information covering 
drainage and water services.
Business review
UK Service Operations
Innovation
Every time a toilet is flushed in Newport, 
Wales, few realise they’re producing power, 
protecting the environment and making 
national history too!
KWS Wales has perfected a technique that 
allows treated water to be passed through 
a heat exchanger, almost in the same way 
as a fridge works, to warm up the offices  
at Nash Waste Water Treatment Works.
The offices are no longer powered by 
liquid petroleum gas, cutting carbon 
emissions by three quarters and annual 
energy bills by 85%.
KWS Wales plans to roll out the system, 
which was designed in conjunction with 
Sheffield’s ECO Heat Pumps, to other  
large treatment works. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2
In selling our US water business Aquarion  
we will become a group focused on our  
UK water and waste water businesses.
KeyLand
Operating profit increased by £1.3m in the year  
to £4.3m (2006: £3m) which is closer to historic 
levels of profitability. The decrease in the prior  
year was due to the timing of property sales and 
planning applications. Net assets of KeyLand were 
£30.8m at the end of March 2007 (2006: £32.8m).
The primary source of revenue continues to be 
from the disposal or development of brownfield 
sites. The timing of sales is impacted by the 
planning process.
Aquarion
The group announced on 1 May 2007 that  
it had completed the disposal of its US regulated 
water supply business, Aquarion. We believe that 
exiting the US market is in the best interest of our 
shareholders and following a number of years of 
operational and efficiency improvements, the new 
owners have acquired a well run and efficient 
business and Aquarion has secured a long term 
quality owner.
Business review
KeyLand Developments 
Aquarion
Regeneration
A KeyLand project to renovate a disused 
pumping station in Whitby has led to a 
unique new addition to the town. KeyLand 
Developments handles all Yorkshire Water 
property that has become surplus to 
requirements. The old pumping station  
at Whitby became defunct as part of 
Yorkshire Water’s recent £120 million 
investment in waste water treatment works 
along the East Coast. The property, which 
attracted a lot of interest from the local 
media, was sold to a local hotelier who  
has since transformed the station into a 
luxury annexe suite. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
It has been another positive year for the group 
with operating profit from continuing operations 
increasing by 7.2%.
Group operating profit from continuing 
operations
Group turnover from continuing operations, 
including share of associates and joint ventures,  
increased by £53.5m (6.5%) to £878.9m (2006: 
£825.4m) for the full year. This was driven by a 
£47.3m (6.8%) increase in UK regulated turnover 
following a 7.7% tariff increase at Yorkshire Water. 
Turnover from UK Service Operations, including 
associates and joint ventures, has increased by 
£7.3m (5.9%) to £130.9m (2006: £123.6m).
Group operating profit from continuing operations 
increased by £22.8m (7.2%) to £338.2m. Yorkshire 
Water’s dominant contribution accounts for 
£332.7m (2006: £312.7m) of group operating 
profit from continuing operations. Yorkshire 
Water’s 6.4% (£20.0m) increase in regulated 
operating profit was driven by the tariff increase 
and good cost control, providing funds to finance 
the ongoing capital expenditure programme.
UK Service Operations has also grown its 
profitability to £10.7m (2006: £9.1m) which 
includes strong operating performance from 
existing business. Operating profit margin has 
increased from 7.4% to 8.2%.
KeyLand profitability increased by £1.3m in the year 
to £4.3m. This was due to the timing of property 
sales and is closer to historic levels of profit.
Profit before taxation
Profit from continuing operations before  
taxation has increased by 7.5% to £241.2m  
(2006: £224.3m).
The increase in net interest expense of £5.9m to 
£97.0m (2006: £91.1m) reflects increased levels of 
net debt funding the ongoing capital programme 
and the share buy back of £59.3m from the first 
half of the year. Total net interest expense includes 
a net £6.9m receivable (2006: £2.0m) relating  
to pension fund assets and liabilities, comprising 
£45.7m expected return on pension scheme assets 
and £38.8m interest on pension scheme liabilities.
Taxation
The group tax charge relating to continuing 
operations of £69.5m (2006: £65.4m) includes 
£49.6m (2006: £53.5m) in respect of the  
current tax charge, a prior year credit of £2.9m  
(2006: £3.0m) and £22.8m (2006: £14.9m)  
in respect of the deferred tax charge. The 
underlying effective tax rate excluding prior year 
adjustments of 30% can be analysed as 21% in 
respect of the current tax charge and 9% in 
respect of deferred tax.
Discontinued operations
The results of our US operations are presented as a 
discontinued business as required by IFRS 5. 
Turnover of £99.4m (2006: £104.2m) is broadly 
comparable with the previous year in dollar terms. 
Operating profit of £41.6m has the benefit of 
£12.7m depreciation not charged to operating 
profit under IFRS 5. On a like for like basis, the 
2006 operating profit of £32.8m after depreciation 
compares with a 2007 equivalent of £28.9m. The 
overall loss for the year on the discontinued US 
operations activity is £20.4m, having made an 
impairment charge to recognise the exit from the 
US (see note 8).
Earnings per share and dividends
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations are 48.1p (2006: 42.8p).
An interim dividend of 9.25p (2005: 8.75p)  
was paid on 5 January 2007. The board is 
recommending the payment of a final dividend of 
23.0p (2006: 21.60p) to make a total dividend for 
the year of 32.25p (2006: 30.35p). The increase  
in the dividend of 6.3% is in line with regulatory 
expectations of 2% growth in real terms. 
Business review
Financial review
Martin Towers
Group Finance Director, 
Kelda Group plc Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Subject to approval at the AGM on 1 August 2007, 
the final dividend will be paid on 31 August 2007 
to shareholders on the register on 15 June 2007.
Dividend cover is 1.7 times (2006: 1.6 times).  
This is based on dividends declared and excludes 
impairment charges but includes results for 
discontinued operations.
Cash flow and balance sheet
As previously announced in connection with the 
proposed return of capital, in March 2007, a special 
contribution of £50m was made to the group’s UK 
pension scheme. As at 31 March 2007 the group’s 
UK pension surplus under IAS 19 was £7.3m  
(2006: deficit of £62.1m). The pension scheme 
actuaries are undertaking the triennial actuarial 
valuation as at 31 March 2007. There has been a 
pensions charge against profit from continuing 
operations of £12.1m (2006: £15.3m).
Net debt of £2,104.3m at the year end  
(2006: £1,953.6m) increased during the year by 
£150.7m. The increase in borrowings includes the 
impact of the ongoing capital programme, the buy 
back of 7.8m shares for cancellation at a cost of 
£59.3m and the £50m payment into the pension 
scheme. Dividend payments were £109.7m  
(2006: £109.4m). At 31 March 2007, the group 
had unused committed borrowing facilities 
amounting to £831m.
This movement in net debt resulted in the ratios 
calculated using funds from operations, net of 
taxation being 5.0 times (2006: 4.2 times) when 
compared with interest, and 23% of net debt 
(2006: 23%). The group continues to enjoy  
sound investment grade credit ratings.
Year end balance sheet gearing is 59% (2006: 
57%). A dividend was paid from Yorkshire Water  
to Kelda Group plc in preparation for the return  
of approximately £750m to shareholders in July 
2007. This has increased Yorkshire Water net debt 
to RCV to 60.6% (2006: 42.5%). As part of this 
transaction Yorkshire Water has successfully raised 
£600m in the long term sterling bond market, split 
£350m in the fixed rate market and £250m of 
index linked debt, since the year end.
Accounting policies
The group accounts have been prepared in 
accordance with the accounting policies described 
in note 2 to the accounts, in accordance with IFRS. 
Treasury policy
The group’s treasury operations are controlled 
centrally in accordance with approved board 
policies, guidelines and procedures. Treasury 
strategy is designed to manage the group’s 
exposure to fluctuations in interest and currency 
exchange rates, preclude speculation and to  
source and structure the group’s borrowing 
requirements. Note 24 to the accounts shows 
details of the financial instruments held by the 
group for these purposes.
The group uses a combination of fixed capital, 
retained profits, long term loans, finance leases, 
and bank facilities to finance its operations. Any 
funding required is raised by the group treasury 
department in the name of the appropriate 
company and supported by guarantees as 
necessary. Funds raised by the holding  
company may be lent to operating subsidiaries  
at commercial rates of interest. Cash surplus to 
operating requirements is invested in short term 
instruments with institutions having a long term 
rating of at least A- or A3 and a short term rating 
of at least A1 or P1 issued by Standard and Poor’s 
and Moody’s respectively.
Pensions
The disclosed IAS 19 surplus in the main UK  
defined benefit scheme at 31 March 2007  
was £7.3m (2006: deficit of £62.1m). 
IAS 19 requires that the pension schemes are 
valued using market conditions at the company’s 
year end. This produces a volatile figure for any 
surplus or deficit as it is largely dependent on the 
levels of stock markets on one particular date. The 
group’s pension liabilities are funded on a long 
term basis (based on the triennial review of the 
Kelda Group Pension Plan and annual reviews in the 
US) rather than IAS 19 disclosures.
Shareholder value
The company’s mid market share price at 31 March 
2007 was 938.0p (2006: 788.5p). The yield on the 
company’s shares at that date, based on the 
recommended final dividend was 3.44%  
(2006: 3.85%).
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the company has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going  
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Change of auditors
In accordance with best practice of  
corporate governance, a review of the  
auditors was completed. This has resulted in 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP being selected for 
appointment as the group’s auditors with effect 
from the year ending 31 March 2008. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank the outgoing 
auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, for their professionalism 
during their 11 years as auditors of the group.
Business review
Financial review
4
Key financial performance indicators
5.0x
60.6%
59% 3.5x
48.1p
Group interest cover
2007 3.5x 2006 3.5x 
For more details of these measures see page 29
Cash interest cover
2007 5.0x 2006 4.2x 
Group gearing
2007 59% 2006 57% 
Basic earnings per share from  
continuing operations
2007 48.1p 2006 42.8p 
Yorkshire Water net debt to  
Regulatory Capital Value (RCV)
2007 60.6% 2006 42.5% Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
Kelda’s strategy is to focus on improving  
the efficiency and performance of our core 
businesses in the UK to provide benefits for all.
Yorkshire Water
Keeping the right balance for all of Yorkshire 
Water’s stakeholders is fundamental to achieving 
the company’s vision of being clearly the best 
water company in the UK.
The company’s plans are therefore aligned 
with making progress in six key areas – service, 
compliance, value, people, partners and society.
A great customer service
A key aspiration is to develop innovative thinking 
and employ new technologies to deliver an 
improved level of operational and customer 
service. By reducing the number of customer 
interruptions and the invasive nature of repair  
and maintenance work, the company will  
deliver better service for lower cost.
Environmental leadership
During 2007/08, Yorkshire Water will continue to 
invest in improving waste water treatment works 
compliance, with a particular focus on sewage 
pumping stations. The company’s aim is to  
achieve zero serious pollution incidents.
The company is also investing over £20m in 
renewable energy.
Setting the pace for value
In 2007/08 the aim remains to out-perform 
key financial targets and to be Ofwat’s frontier 
company for efficiency. By being operationally  
and financially efficient, shareholders and 
customers will benefit.
In this, the third year of the investment period 
2005 – 2010, Yorkshire Water will be delivering  
its largest annual capital programme for  
the period.
A great place to work
Yorkshire Water plans further significant  
investment in leadership and people development 
over the next year with over 250 managers, 
including service partners, joining its Leading 
People + programme.
The bigger team
Successful service partners share Yorkshire Water’s 
philosophy of improved service and lower costs. 
Next year, some service partners will be integrated 
onto the company’s IT systems to deliver much 
closer partnership.
Making a difference in Yorkshire
2007/08 will be a key year for the next price review 
and the company will be setting out its position on 
a number of key issues for stakeholder consultation 
as part of a Strategic Direction Statement to be 
published in late 2007.
The company will also be making further 
investment in improving customer enjoyment  
of its landholdings and launching a major new 
schools programme.
UK Service Operations
Kelda Water Services (KWS)
The KWS vision is to be the best in UK water 
contract operations and the company is totally 
focused on providing the best in water and waste 
water solutions on behalf of its clients in England, 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
2007/08 will be an important year for delivering 
new treatment works and pipeline infrastructure 
for Water Services Northern Ireland. The state-
of-the-art treatment works, expected to be 
completed by October 2008, will provide 
significant water quality benefits to people  
in Northern Ireland.
In its third year of operation in Wales, KWS will  
be working closely with Welsh Water (Dwr Cymru) 
in preparation for the new investment period. KWS 
will also be expanding its PFI contract in Scotland.
The company is also actively pursuing 
opportunities for further growth in the UK market 
for outsourced clean and waste water services.
Loop
In 2007/08 Loop will make a further significant 
investment in people to achieve industry leading 
levels of customer service in the contact centre.
KeyLand
In 2007/08 KeyLand will continue its successful 
partnership approach in order to maximise 
shareholder value from surplus Yorkshire  
Water assets.
Business review
Looking forward Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6
The group’s risk management process aims to be 
comprehensive, systematic and continuous and 
based on constant monitoring of business risk.
The board is responsible for the group’s internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
We classify principal risks in five categories:
• Changes to the regulatory environment
• Changes in legislation
• Climatic changes
• Social influences
• Supplier markets
Changes to the regulatory environment
Yorkshire Water’s price limits are set every five years  
by Ofwat. In setting price limits Ofwat make  
assumptions about, for example, required 
investment levels, appropriate cost of capital and 
Yorkshire Water’s costs. There are some mechanisms 
for addressing changes to these assumptions 
between price reviews but, to a significant extent, 
the risk of such variations is carried by Yorkshire 
Water until the next price review.
PR09 Price Review
On 30 March 2007, Ofwat published its forward 
programme to 2010 setting out the timetable for 
the next price review which is due to be concluded 
in 2009.
For the first time, as well as producing a five  
year business plan, water companies will also be 
required to produce a 25 year strategic direction 
statement as a basis for consultation with 
customers and stakeholders.
The key milestones are:
• December 2007 
Companies to submit 25 year strategic  
direction statements.
• August 2008 
Companies submit and publish draft  
business plans.
• August 2008 to January 2009 
Public consultation on draft business plans.
• September 2008 
Ofwat publishes industry-level summary of  
key issues raised by draft business plans.
• April 2009 
Companies submit and publish final  
business plans.
• July 2009 
Ofwat publishes draft determinations.
• September 2009 
Ofwat considers representations on  
draft determinations.
• November 2009 
Ofwat publishes final determinations.
• April 20 0 
New price limits take effect.
Water industry competition
A legislative regime for market competition in 
water was established by The Water Act 2003  
but as yet has not resulted in any significant 
competitive activity. Ofwat has instigated 
consultations and intend to carry out further 
consultations later this year as to how to  
increase the level of competition in the industry. 
Competitive activity carries risks for Yorkshire  
Water of losing customers.
Changes in legislation
Water strategy
In the summer of 2007, the Government is due to 
announce a new Water Strategy. The overarching 
aim of the new strategy is:
“to improve standards of service and quality, 
through sustainable water management, whilst 
achieving a balance between environmental 
impacts, water quality of surface and ground 
waters, supply and demand, and social and 
economic effects”.
Defra states that the strategy will provide  
“a timely, high-level steer on the Government’s 
water priorities in a way that will be helpful  
to the water industry and Ofwat during the 
forthcoming price review”.
The strategy will set out priorities, as opposed to 
details of specific policies. Any resulting policy 
initiatives will be developed with full public 
consultation and will be subject to regulatory 
impact assessments where appropriate.
Business review
Principal risks and uncertainties
The group has comprehensive and well-defined 
control policies, with clear structures, delegated 
authority levels and accountabilities. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
Water Framework Directive
The Water Framework Directive (WFD) is the most 
substantial piece of European water legislation to 
date. It requires all inland and coastal waters to 
reach ‘good status’ by 2015. It will do this by 
establishing a river basin district structure within 
which demanding environmental objectives will be 
set, including ecological targets for surface waters. 
The WFD therefore sets a framework which aims  
to provide substantial benefits for the long term 
sustainable management of water.
This new Directive has the potential to drive major 
additional capital investment and increases in 
customers’ charges.
Climate Change Bill
In March 2007 the Government published a draft 
Climate Change Bill which sets out a framework  
for moving the UK to a low carbon economy.
For the first time, the Government is proposing to 
set clear and legally-binding targets for reducing 
carbon dioxide emissions.
In doing so, the Government is encouraging 
businesses to make significantly more efficient use 
of energy and invest more in low carbon fuels and 
technologies, such as carbon capture and storage, 
wind, wave and solar power.
As some aspects of the water and sewage 
treatment process can be relatively energy 
intensive, this legislation has the potential  
to impact on companies’ energy strategies.
A Joint Committee of Lords and Commons has 
been appointed to consider and report on the 
draft Bill by 13 July 2007.
Climatic changes
The group’s core activities, the provision of  
high quality water and sewerage services, are 
inextricably linked with the weather and therefore 
any climate changes have the potential to impact 
on business.
As the group’s resources are a mixture of water 
captured in reservoirs or abstracted from rivers or 
underground aquifers, climate change could alter 
many of the variables in this complex equation.
Social influences
The group is subject to social influences and  
may be required to change its business practices  
in light of regulatory changes brought about  
by stakeholder and consumer pressure.
Public and private sewers
In February 2007, Defra announced that private 
sewers, which are currently the responsibility of  
the owners of the properties they serve, are to be 
transferred into the ownership of the nine statutory 
water and sewerage companies in England.
This decision follows an extensive review of private 
sewers which was launched in 2001 in response  
to concerns raised by householders. A consultation 
in 2003 revealed a high level of support for the 
transfer and the Government concluded there  
was a clear case for action.
The decision will add more than 50% to the  
length of sewers Yorkshire Water is responsible  
for maintaining in the future.
The costs of transfer and of maintaining these 
sewers is expected to be taken into account  
by Ofwat when it sets Yorkshire Water’s price  
limits in 2009.
The Government has launched a public 
consultation to seek views on how the transfer 
should be implemented.
Supplier markets
The group is also subject to external market forces, 
where input prices can sometimes rise beyond the 
regulatory allowance. A good example of this was 
the fluctuation of energy prices in 2006. 8
By taking our wider 
responsibilities seriously  
we can make a  
real difference
Corporate Social Responsibility
How we go about our business
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Making a difference in society is integral to Kelda’s 
approach to business and an essential part of 
building a successful and sustainable water company.
The successful operation of our business makes 
a huge contribution to the quality of life of our 
customers and the protection and improvement 
of the environment. To make clear progress, our 
customers and stakeholders need to see that 
we are running our business in an efficient and 
responsible way and that we are delivering a  
great customer service.
Getting these fundamentals right gives us a great 
platform to deliver further value to society and go 
beyond regulation where we believe the benefits 
exceed the cost.
As a public service provider, we also want to be a 
good neighbour. In 2006, 38% of our people took 
part in community volunteering in Yorkshire alone 
and they are great ambassadors for our business 
in society. Our service partners also played a big 
part in our volunteering programme last year, 
recognising the benefits to their own operations.
Our managers are encouraged to take on 
significant external leadership roles bringing their 
skills and experience to charities, businesses and 
organisations in the region. We also work hard to 
build strong relationships with regional leaders and 
the many stakeholders who work in partnership 
with us, or take an interest in our business.
It is important to us that we are trusted and 
that customers see that we provide good value 
for money and take into account their point of 
view. For example, last year we invested in new 
technology to cut roadworks and interruptions 
to supply, modelling our service around what 
is important to our customers, rather than 
convenient to us as a business.
Where practical, we also want to be enjoyable to 
deal with and in 2006 we invested in recreational 
facilities at our reservoirs, including new routes, 
customer-friendly signage, bridleways, cycle routes 
and disabled access.
These investments and activities are not driven by 
regulation, but by our aspiration to put something 
back into the communities we serve and to delight 
our customers. They are also fundamentally good 
business and in line with our basic philosophy of 
striking the right balance in our operations, in a 
way which provides benefits for all.
Further information and evidence of the clear 
progress we are making can be found on our  
new CSR website and a flavour of our work is 
included in this short CSR review.
Kevin Whiteman
Chief Executive, Kelda Group plc
Corporate Social Responsibility
Introduction
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
As a provider of essential drinking water and 
sanitation, we recognise the responsible role  
we play in society and in the protection and 
improvement of our environment.
“ Yorkshire Water is  
an organisation that is 
dedicated to CSR and 
excellence in making a  
positive impact on society.”
Pam Lee, Regional Director of  
Business in the Community
Our CSR website
For more detail and case studies relating  
to our CSR performance, including our  
full statement of CSR principles and  
performance tables, visit: 
http://csr.keldagroup.com
To ask a question or share your comments, 
email us at: csr@yorkshirewater.co.uk
97%
We scored 97% in Business in the 
Community’s 2006 Corporate Responsibility 
Index and 97 .25% in the Environment Index, making 
us platinum players in both. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20
We remain committed to conserving and 
enhancing our environment, striving to achieve 
100% regulatory compliance and continuous 
environmental improvement. 
Environmental management –  
setting the pace
We continue to drive environmental best practice 
through our operations, with over 90% of the Kelda 
Group now covered by Environmental Management 
Systems certified to IS014001. This year we 
achieved Platinum Status in Business in the 
Community’s Environment Index for the fifth 
consecutive year and received a number of awards 
in recognition of our environmental best practice. 
Yorkshire Water collected two Green Apple 
environment awards and a Big Tick re-accreditation 
for its Environmental Management System. We are 
now half way through the implementation of our 
innovative Geographical Information Systems-based 
Biodiversity Action Plan, and continue to work 
closely with our independent Environmental 
Advisory Panel of 22 key regional stakeholders  
to ensure we continue to lead the way in 
environmental management.
Tackling climate change
We are committed to managing our carbon 
emissions to assist in the mitigation of climate 
change and are working in partnership with the 
Carbon Trust to achieve this. We are currently 
developing a Yorkshire Water 25 year climate 
change strategy, which will set out a programme  
of research and activities for mitigating and 
adapting to climate change. The new strategy  
will also enable us to consider the carbon  
footprint effects of our investment decisions  
which in turn will allow us to take a more active 
role in working with the Government on  
designing future environmental legislation.
Driving energy improvements
We have been proactively driving energy efficiency 
throughout our operations and increasing the 
amount of renewable energy we generate, with  
an aspiration for 10% of our energy to be 
generated in-house by 2010. Over the past year  
we have commissioned four new Combined Heat 
and Power units and improved the performance  
of existing equipment to increase our renewable 
generation by over 25%. We are actively 
researching further opportunities for renewable 
generation and have obtained planning permission 
for three new wind turbines. In addition, we are 
currently constructing a new Combined Heat and 
Power plant and hydroturbine at our Esholt Waste 
Water treatment works.
Targets for 2007/08
• Deliver the 2007/08 commitments of the £227m 
Freshwater Fish Directive investment programme 
to further enhance the river life of Yorkshire. 
• Continue to implement a five year land and 
recreation strategy to help delight customers 
around our region and enhance as well as 
protect our SSSIs.
• Retain Platinum Status in Business in the 
Community’s Environment Index. 
• Increase our renewable energy generation by 
30% to drive towards achieving 10% of our 
energy requirements through self-generated 
renewable energy by 2010.
• Complete the next stage of our Biodiversity  
Action Plan. 
We have a range of other environmental 
targets which can be found on our website 
at: http:/ /csr.keldagroup.com
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our role in the environment
Enjoying our land
This year, Yorkshire Water launched a new 
website which promotes the recreational 
opportunities available on our land. 
Podcasts guiding visitors on walks around 
selected reservoirs have been recorded by 
John Craven as well as fellow Yorkshire 
celebrities Nell McAndrew, Gaynor Faye and 
Harry Gration. The aim is to raise customers’ 
awareness of our role as stewards of the 
countryside and as a provider of numerous 
leisure opportunities, such as walking, 
fishing, riding, cycling, wind-surfing and 
rowing. For more information and to 
download a walk pack or podcast, visit 
www.yorkshirewater.com/recreation. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2 “ Yorkshire Water sets the 
benchmark on developing  
a culture of employee 
volunteering which delivers 
real impact across a diverse 
range of initiatives.”
Liz Needleman, 
yorkshire and Humberside Regional Cares 
Director, Business in the Community
Our colleagues are actively encouraged to 
volunteer to develop skills such as leadership, 
coaching or public speaking through a wide  
range of programmes. For example, our Newlands 
Business Bridge initiative helps colleagues develop 
mentoring skills through supporting social 
enterprises and was awarded a prestigious  
Business in the Community Big Tick in 2006.
Our education centres continued to be extremely 
busy this year with over 8,400 visitors. Since 2003, 
35,000 children have visited one of our three 
education centres in Leeds, Sheffield and North 
Yorkshire, to learn about the water cycle.
All of our community initiatives are linked to  
our capital investment programme, so that the 
communities we work in receive something in 
addition to water quality and environmental 
improvements. This year, we delivered safety 
presentations to over 4,300 children and  
teachers potentially affected by our works.
Many of our colleagues give to charity through 
Payroll Giving and are involved in fundraising 
through our Waterwheelers team and WaterAid 
Committee. Colleagues raised a record £258,000  
for WaterAid this year through events such as 
WaterAware Week and the Six Peaks Challenge.
What’s next?
The launch of a major new community campaign. 
Developed in close liaison with internal and 
external stakeholders, it covers a broad agenda  
of health, environment and education and aims  
to achieve our aspiration to be a national role 
model for volunteering by 2010.
For more detail and case studies relating 
to our community programme, visit: 
http:/ /csr.keldagroup.com
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our role in society
Our aim is to impact positively on communities 
through volunteering, sharing skills and providing 
educational support for local schools.
Walk for Water
In 2006, our successful Cool Schools 
campaign, through which we provided  
over 1,400 free mains-fed water coolers  
in 750 local primary schools, concluded.  
A highlight was that 1,600 children took 
part in ‘Walk for Water’ to help raise money 
to install water coolers in their schools.
Giving our time
In 2006/07, a record number of 886 
colleagues and 153 service partners took 
part in our volunteering programme, 
beating our target of 30% of colleagues 
to be involved in volunteering over the 
year. We invested the equivalent of over 
£144,000 of our colleagues’ time in 
community work.
38%
38% of our colleagues are involved in our 
volunteering programme
1 ,400
,400 free Cool Schools water coolers have 
been installed in primary schools Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22
We aim to create a great place to work, where 
colleagues feel proud to work for us, can maximise 
their potential and receive the recognition and 
reward they deserve.
“ I was recruited as a field 
management team scheduler 
at 57 years of age. In my 
opinion, Yorkshire Water is 
a fair and good employer 
where everyone has the same 
opportunity to progress.”
Roger Ferreira, Field Support Technician
We aspire to attract, develop and retain the best 
people. In 2007, we launched an e-recruitment 
system to provide a more positive experience 
for candidates when exploring opportunities 
and applying for roles with us online.
Investment in people through training and personal 
development remains a high priority. In 2007, 
we repeated our popular Career Development 
Workshop, enabling colleagues to explore and 
develop their career and life goals.
In 2006/07 we discussed and agreed ways to 
modernise Yorkshire Water’s formal consultation, 
information and negotiation arrangements. 
In 2007/08 we plan to move to a fully inclusive 
approach, based on partnership principles agreed 
between the company and the trade unions. 
New forums, representing both unionised and 
non-unionised colleagues, will consult and 
communicate on matters affecting our people.
What’s next?
We will continue to develop a culture of ‘Think 
Safety First’. During 2007, the European Year 
of Diversity, we will hold a diversity conference 
and apply our learning across the business.
For more detail and case studies relating to 
our people visit: http:/ /csr.keldagroup.com
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our people
80%
80% of Yorkshire Water colleagues participating 
in the Sunday Times Top 100 Companies to Work 
for 2007 survey said they are proud to work for 
the company
Think Safety First
In 2006/07, our new Think Safety First 
campaign raised the profile of health 
and safety, ensuring Yorkshire Water is a 
great, healthy and safe place to work. 
Initiatives include new Think Safety First 
site signage, an employee Team Talk DVD 
to share accident experiences, a 
behavioural safety training programme 
and a ‘Big Number’ on the intranet, 
showing the number of days since the 
last accident. We have also introduced a 
health and safety leadership training 
module and integrated health and safety 
into performance management training. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our customers
“ To pick up the title of Utility  
of the Year for a third year 
running was a remarkable 
achievement. We were 
impressed with Yorkshire 
Water’s… obvious pride  
and ambition.”
Judges of the Utility of the Year 
2006 utility Industry Achievement Awards
This year, we have:
• Won UK Utility of the Year for the third time at 
the Utility Industry Achievement Awards 2006.
• Again met the Government’s Charter Mark 
standard for excellence in customer service.
• Again achieved four ‘A’ ratings and been named 
as the most efficient water and sewerage 
company in the UK, with Ofwat labelling us as 
the ‘benchmark company’ for operating costs.
• Achieved high quality drinking water. The 
Drinking Water Inspectorate’s 2006 Report 
stated that the quality of customers’ drinking 
water in Yorkshire remains high, with a 
compliance level of 99.94%.
• Achieved our highest ever score for customer 
service in the Ofwat Performance Assessment 
Table, achieving second place for operational 
and customer service excellence.
What’s next?
We aspire to work towards zero customer  
impact failures, zero excavations, zero road  
traffic congestion and proactive, not reactive, 
customer service.
For more detail and case studies relating  
to our customer service programme, visit:  
http:/ /csr.keldagroup.com
Our customers continue to benefit from industry 
leading service levels. Our aspiration is to exceed 
expectations at every point of contact, providing  
a customer experience second to none.
93%
93% of the 220 customers we randomly 
telephone each month are satisfied with the  
service we provide
Great customer service
Our Clearwater initiative aims to improve 
service through seeking out and designing 
technology to minimise customer impacts. 
As part of Clearwater, Yorkshire Water  
is driving innovation unlike anything 
currently used in the industry. In 2006, 
Johnny Ball helped to demonstrate an 
endescope, commonly used in surgery  
– a thermal imaging camera which can  
be inserted into pipes to identify any 
potential problems and the need for any 
maintenance work. Using this type of 
technology means reducing the number  
of excavations carried out.
New billing system
In 2006 Yorkshire Water introduced  
YorBill, a new contact and billing  
system to enhance flexibility, service and 
opportunities to introduce innovative ways 
for customers to see and pay their bills 
through technologies such as mobile 
phones and interactive television. Around 
1.3m bills were successfully issued using 
YorBill in Spring 2007. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 24
Corporate Social Responsibility
Our service partners
Our partners share the same high levels of 
commitment to customers and communities as  
we do. In 2006, Balfour Beatty Utilities was named 
Utilities Customer Service team of the Year at the 
National Customer Service Awards. Working in 
partnership with Yorkshire Water on our two year 
scheme to upgrade 95km of water mains at Ilkley, 
West Yorkshire, the project is a customer and team 
focused approach, ensuring work is ahead of 
schedule with minimal disruptions.
Watermark, who improve our waste water  
system in South Yorkshire, have an innovative 
approach to health and safety. Their ‘zero  
accident culture’ has resulted in no reportable 
accidents on Yorkshire Water schemes during 
2006/07. Accidents are well below the national 
average, leading Watermark to achieve Gold  
Award status in the RoSPA safety awards.
In 2006, Earth Tech Morrison treated pupils at  
Holy Spirit Primary School in Heckmondwike to  
an unusual school outing. Pupils were given safety 
gear and talks and taken to an excavation in their 
school playing field to see how an underground 
storm chamber is being installed to hold excess 
waste water, which can then be slowly released 
back into the sewerage system. The children then 
created a newspaper report on their experience  
of the flood prevention scheme.
All of our contract partners helped with  
many Cares Challenges in 2006/07 supporting 
community groups in areas where we carried out 
capital improvement works. For example, Laing 
O’Rourke spent their evenings re-painting and 
refurbishing the changing room, entrance and 
toilets of the Burton Pidsea Memorial Hall in East 
Yorkshire, as well as making safe the children’s 
playground, leading to increased visitors.
Colleagues from Mott MacDonald Bentley and 
Yorkshire Water’s West Yorkshire team held an 
open day in 2006 to showcase how £30m has 
been invested in the area’s waste water services 
over the last two years. The event included 
practical demonstrations of the latest innovations 
used on construction sites, including concrete 
which looks like a dry stone wall, pre-cast units  
for reservoir wave walls and prefabricated 
reinforcements which save money whilst 
preventing accidents.
For more detail and case studies  
relating to our partners, visit: 
http:/ /csr.keldagroup.com
We work closely with our service partners to share 
our aims, objectives, best practice and success, 
helping us to deliver a better service, supporting 
the communities we serve.
Community Spirit Awards
Our annual Community Spirit Awards 
celebrate voluntary work carried out by 
colleagues and partners. In 2007, over 
£1,000 was collected through the 
WaterAid raffle at the event, with partners 
such as Costains, Earth Tech Morrison 
(ETM), RPS Consultants and Mott 
MacDonald Bentley donating prizes.
Costain won the Contract Partner of the 
Year Award for their contribution to the 
community, with Watermark being highly 
commended.
“ We fully support Yorkshire 
Water’s Community Affairs 
programme as it makes a 
positive difference to the  
quality of people’s lives,  
leaving a lasting legacy to  
their customers. It benefits 
employees’ personal 
development, providing an 
enriching working life.”
Maria Melton
Relationships, Learning and Improvement 
Manager, Costain Ltd Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25
 Denotes
A – Member of the audit committee 
B – Member of the nomination committee
C – Member of the remuneration committee
D –  Member of the corporate social  
responsibility committee
John Napier (64) MA (Econ)
Chairman B,D
Joined the board in June 1999. Appointed 
Executive Chairman in April 2000, moving to 
Chairman in September 2002. Chairman of 
Yorkshire Water Services Limited and Chairman 
of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc. He 
has formerly held senior posts as Chairman of 
Booker plc, Group Managing Director of Hays plc 
and was formerly a non-executive director of 
Waste Recycling Group plc. He is also Chairman 
of Yorkshire and Humber Rural Affairs Forum  
and a member of the Yorkshire Forward board.
Kevin Whiteman (50) BSc, CEng, MIME
Chief Executive D
Appointed to the board in September 2000 and 
appointed Chief executive in September 2002. 
Joined Yorkshire Water Services Limited in 1997 
as Business Director, Waste Water. Formerly Chief 
Executive and Accounting Officer of the National 
Rivers Authority and Regional Director of the 
Environment Agency. Previously held senior 
positions with British Coal. He is a non-executive 
director of UK Coal plc and a trustee of WaterAid.
Martin Towers (54) FCA BA (Econ)
Group Finance Director
Appointed to the board in March 2003.  
Formerly Finance Director of Boots The  
Chemists, McCarthy & Stone plc, The Spring  
Ram Corporation plc, Allied Textiles Group plc 
and Yorkshire Group plc, and a former non-
executive director of Homestyle Group plc.
Ed Anderson (56) BSc (Econ), CPFA
non-executive director A, B
Appointed to the board in June 2005. Managing 
Director of Leeds Bradford International Airport. 
Currently chairman of Yorkshire Building Society, 
Leeds Chamber of Commerce and a non- 
executive director of St Gemma’s Hospice. 
Formerly held several positions with Leeds City 
Council, West Yorkshire Metropolitan Council 
and Bradford Council.
Kate Avery (47) ACIB, FCIM, MBA, FSI
non-executive director A, B, C
Appointed to the board in June 2005. Group 
Executive Director (Wealth Management)  
at Legal and General. Formerly a member of  
the ABI Distribution and Regulation Committee 
and held several positions with Barclays Plc.
Christopher Fisher (53) BA MPP
non-executive director A, B, C
Joined the board in June 2003 and became a 
non-executive director of Yorkshire Water in 
October 2004. He is a partner in Penfida, a new 
firm which provides financial advice to pension 
fund trustees, and is also a non-executive 
director of Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC, 
a trustee of the Imperial War Museum and a 
member of the Council of Reading University. 
Formerly a managing director of Lazard and a 
vice chairman, corporate finance, at KPMG.
David Salkeld (51) BSc (Econ), Dip PM, FIGD
Senior non-executive director B, C
Joined the board in October 2000. Formerly 
Group Chief Executive of the Grampian Country 
Food Group and Chief Executive of Arla Foods plc 
and held senior posts in Grand Metropolitan plc 
and Northern Dairies.
Richard Schmidt (63) BSc, MSc, PhD, MBA
non-executive director
Appointed to the board in September 2002. 
Joined Aquarion Company in 1995. Formerly 
President and Chief Executive Officer of Aquarion 
until September 2003, President and Chief 
Operating Officer of Mechanical Technology Inc, 
President and Chief Executive Officer of Gundle 
Environmental Systems and held senior positions 
in Ecodyn Corporation.
Board of directors Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ report
26
Results and dividends
The profit attributable to shareholders for the year 
was £151.3m. After dividends totalling £109.7m, 
£41.6m was transferred to the group’s reserves.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 23.0p 
per share to be paid on 31 August 2007 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 15 June 2007. The record date  
of 15 June 2007 is earlier than usual so that  
it falls before the share consolidation associated 
with the B share scheme referred to in the 
Chairman’s statement. The final dividend will 
therefore be paid by reference to shares held  
prior to the consolidation. An interim dividend  
of 9.25p per share was paid on 5 January 2007.
The total dividend for the year will amount  
to 32.25p per share (2006: 30.35p).
Business review
A review of the development and performance of 
the business of the group, including the financial 
performance during the year, key performance 
indicators and a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the group, forward-looking 
statements, and treasury policy are set out in the 
business review section of this Annual Report on 
pages 13 to 17. The purpose of the Annual Report 
is to provide information to the members of the 
company. The Annual Report contains certain 
forward-looking statements with respect to the 
operations, performance and financial condition  
of the group. By their nature, these statements 
involve uncertainty since future events and 
circumstances can cause results to differ from 
those anticipated. Nothing in this Annual Report 
should be construed as a profit forecast.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the group are the supply 
of clean water and the treatment and disposal  
of waste water. Yorkshire Water Services Limited 
(Yorkshire Water), the group’s regulated utility 
business in the UK, is responsible for both water 
and waste water services. Following completion  
on 30 April 2007 of the sale of the group’s 
regulated water supply businesses in the states  
of Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts and  
New Hampshire, the group continues to operate 
the small non-regulated water and waste water 
contract operations business in the US. However, 
the group intends to sell this in the near future. 
The group’s other businesses are the UK non-
regulated water and waste water services business 
and KeyLand Developments Limited, a company 
which primarily develops surplus property assets of 
Yorkshire Water.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 1 May 2007 the company announced the sales 
of Aquarion Company to Macquarie, Utilities Inc, 
Aquarion Water Company of New York to United 
Waterworks Inc and Aquarion Water Company of 
Sea Cliff to Aqua New York Inc.  
The sales do not include the small businesses of 
Aquarion Services and Aquarion Operating Services, 
which comprise the contract operations business 
of Aquarion.
Directors
The following directors held office throughout  
the year: John Napier, chairman; Kevin Whiteman, 
chief executive; Martin Towers, group finance 
director; Kate Avery, Ed Anderson, Christopher 
Fisher, David Salkeld and Richard Schmidt, non-
executive directors.
Biographical details of each director are set out  
on page 25 of this Annual Report.
In accordance with article 105 of the company’s 
articles of association, David Salkeld and Richard 
Schmidt will retire at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting and David Salkeld will offer 
himself for re-election. The evaluation of the board, 
as described on page 30, concluded that any  
director offering him or herself for re-election 
continues to demonstrate commitment to  
their particular roles, and perform effectively.  
The re-election is recommended by the board. 
Details of the terms of his appointment, and of  
his service agreement appear on page 34.
Details of the terms of all the directors’ service 
agreements and letters of appointment appear in 
the remuneration report on page 34. Additional 
information relating to directors who served during 
the year, including remuneration and interests in 
the company’s shares, is contained on pages 35  
to 37. The details of directors’ interests in the 
company’s shares form part of this report.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
As at the date of this report, as far as each director 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the company’s auditor is unaware and each 
director has taken such steps as he or she should 
have taken as a director in order to make him or 
herself aware of any relevant audit information,  
and to establish that the company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
Corporate social responsibility
There are group policies for the environment, 
health and safety and human resources, as well  
as a code of ethics.
The internal control processes described on  
page 32 take account of social, environmental  
and ethical risks. In addition, the board receives 
information as part of the normal reporting 
process to identify and assess such significant  
risks where they are relevant to the nature of the 
company’s business. Further details are included 
in the following sections of this report and in the 
corporate social responsibility section of the report 
on pages 18 to 24.
Employees and employment policies
The group strives to create a positive working 
environment for all colleagues and places great 
emphasis on open two way communications.  
It values involvement at all levels, recognising that 
everyone in the business is a potential source of 
innovation and change. Internal consultation and 
communication processes provide the key to this 
involvement, and play a large part in achieving our 
vision to be a great place to work.
The company promotes freedom of association, 
principally through its diversity strategy and 
through collective bargaining arrangements with  
its recognised trade unions. In those parts of the 
group where union representation is low, wider 
franchise is achieved through involving ‘workforce’ 
representatives on joint working parties or ‘works 
council’ type arrangements.
The directors present their report  
for the year to 31 March 2007. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
The company communications strategy is based  
on a ‘face to face first’ approach and all messages 
are delivered through ‘two way’ channels, including 
regular ‘talk back’ sessions with senior management. 
The company magazine Connections is distributed 
throughout the business and aims to provide 
business news through the eyes of the  
company’s employees.
Regular employee satisfaction surveys are 
undertaken across the group, using a variety  
of survey tools including telephone-based,  
online and paper-based surveys.
A ‘total reward’ approach is taken to salary and 
benefits which are designed to be competitive.  
The group’s sharesave scheme, which has a high 
level of participation at all levels in the business, 
and ‘pay for performance’ arrangements, provide  
an opportunity for all employees to share in the 
success of the business.
The group’s equality and diversity, ‘open to all’, 
policy covers gender, marital status, parental status, 
sexual orientation, race, colour, ethnic or national 
origin, disability, age, religion or belief and trade 
union membership. In 2006 Yorkshire Water 
received the Yorkshire and Humberside Age Positive 
Employer Award in recognition of its approach to 
age diversity, and its diverse recruitment project 
Clearly the Best People was featured as a case study 
in Equal Opportunities Review. The group’s 
commitment to positive action towards applicants 
with disabilities has been recognised with the 
‘double tick’ accreditation from the UK 
Employment Service.
The group provides a wide range of development 
opportunities, including in-house and accredited 
programmes to help employees develop the 
necessary skills, knowledge, values and experience 
to realise their performance potential.
Health and safety
The company is committed to achieving high 
health and safety standards throughout its 
businesses. The management of health and safety 
issues operates in the context of the health and 
safety policy adopted by the board and the system 
of internal control.
The group has established a framework of policy 
procedural requirements by which all subsidiaries 
must have in place appropriate health and safety 
policies and procedures and provide necessary 
information, instruction, training and supervision.  
In addition, the company provides occupational 
health, safety and welfare advisory services  
for employees.
Specific health and safety goals are also set by 
individual businesses. These goals differ depending 
on the business and include a combination of 
reductions of accidents and working time lost as  
a result of accidents, training delivery, internal 
safety audits and health promotion and  
surveillance programmes.
Senior management awareness and active  
employee involvement in health and safety is 
fundamental to company success. A new Think 
Safety First programme was launched in Yorkshire 
Water during 2006. This programme included 
projects for sharing personal accident experiences, 
promoting key safety messages, managers leading 
by example, rewarding and recognising colleagues 
and implementing a behavioural safety coaching 
process. Elements of this programme are being 
shared with other group companies to improve 
safety awareness and ensure all colleagues  
Think Safety First.
Consultation with all employees via area and 
functional health and safety forum groups and 
safety committees is actively encouraged.  
Where possible, the intent is for local health and 
safety issues to be discussed and resolved with  
line management. In Yorkshire Water there are 
health and safety champions who work alongside 
the Trade Union safety representatives and line 
management. This ensures that health and safety 
issues are regularly discussed within each team  
in the Water and Environmental business units.
By the nature of accidents, there can be no 
guarantee that they will never occur. However,  
the measures taken by the company are intended 
to place emphasis on prevention and continuing 
vigilance. Yorkshire Water has again been awarded 
a National Safety Award from the British Safety 
Council and a Gold Award for Occupational Safety 
from the Royal Society for the Prevention of 
Accidents for its health and safety performance 
during 2006/07.
Environment and community
The environmental policy of the company 
recognises that a sustainable water and waste 
water business is dependent on environmentally 
sustainable operations. It is, therefore, committed 
to integrating environmental best practice and 
continuous improvement in environmental 
performance through the efficient, effective  
and proper conduct of its business.
Environmental performance is reported through 
the company’s web based environment and 
community report which is regularly updated  
and independently verified. This can be viewed  
at http://csr.keldagroup.com.
The company contributes actively to the 
communities which it serves. It encourages and 
supports colleagues in volunteering, charitable 
giving and community involvement. One in five 
employees is active in a wide range of company 
supported community activities. These include  
a Speakers’ Panel and support to local education 
ranging from ‘right to read’ in junior schools 
through to coaching at senior schools, and 
mentoring university students from diverse  
ethnic backgrounds.
Charitable and political contributions
Charitable contributions totalling £0.6m  
(2006: £0.5m) were made during the year.
No political donations were made.
Research and development
During the year £4.6m (2006: £4.0m) was 
committed to research and development including 
£3.7m (2006: £3.1m) on fixed assets. Research and 
development activities were primarily directed 
towards improving the performance and efficiency 
of Yorkshire Water’s assets and operations. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28
Purchase of own shares
At the forthcoming annual general meeting, the 
company will be seeking to renew the authority 
to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares which 
was conditionally renewed at the extraordinary 
general meeting held on 1 June 2007. Authority was 
previously granted at the annual general meeting in 
2006 in respect of 10% of the company’s issued 
ordinary share capital. The authority expires at the 
close of the forthcoming annual general meeting. 
During 2006/07 the company purchased for 
cancellation 7,845,000 ordinary shares at a cost of 
£59.3m, amounting to approximately 2.1% of its 
ordinary shares. At the end of the period under 
review, the authority granted at the annual general 
meeting in 2006 remained valid in respect of 
29,721,039 ordinary shares.
Auditor
A resolution to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP as the company’s auditor and to authorise 
the directors to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting. The provision of audit services 
to the company was offered for tender in 2007. 
The audit committee conducted the tender 
process and recommended to the board that 
a change of auditor from Ernst & Young LLP 
to PricewaterhouseCoopers was appropriate. 
The proposal is supported by the board. Details 
of the group policy designed to safeguard the 
independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor are included in the corporate governance 
section of this report on page 31.
Payment terms to suppliers
The company’s normal terms are to make 
payment in accordance with suppliers’ terms 
of trade or within 30 days from the receipt 
of services or invoices subject to satisfactory 
performance by the supplier. Kelda Group plc is 
a holding company and, at 31 March 2007, had 
no trade creditors outstanding. The payment 
terms of individual operating subsidiaries are 
disclosed in their accounts.
Major shareholdings
As at 13 June 2007 the company had been 
notified of the following interests amounting to 
3% or more of the company’s issued ordinary 
share capital:
Threadneedle Asset Management 7.49%
Pictet Asset Management 7.29%
Barclays Plc 4.05%
Zurich Financial Services 3.14%
Legal & General Group Plc 3.55%
Subsequent events
The sale of Aquarion and the company’s return 
of cash to shareholders through a B share scheme 
(as approved by shareholders on 1 June 2007) 
are referred to in the Chairman’s statement.
Annual general meeting
The notice convening the company’s 2007 annual 
general meeting to be held at the Leeds Marriott 
Hotel on 1 August 2007 at 11.00am, is set out in a 
separate document issued to shareholders.
By order of the board
Stuart McFarlane
Group Company Secretary
14 June 2007
Registered office:
Western House
Halifax Road
Bradford BD6 2SZ
Registered in England
No. 2366627
Directors’ report Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
Directors’ report
KPI – Glossary of terms
Group financial key performance indicators
Group interest cover
This measure provides an indication of whether 
the group’s profit is sufficient to cover its interest 
obligations and is calculated as group operating 
profit from continuing operations divided by the net 
of finance costs and investment income. These 
figures are disclosed in the audited accounts in the 
group income statement.
Cash interest (Funds From Operations  
‘FFO’) cover
FFO cover measures the group’s ability to meet its 
interest payments. This is calculated as net cash 
inflow from operating activities, excluding interest 
paid, divided by net interest paid. These figures are 
disclosed in the audited accounts in the group cash 
flow statement.
Group gearing
This ratio measures the proportion of assets invested 
in the business that are financed by borrowing and 
is calculated as net debt as a proportion of net debt 
plus net assets. These figures are disclosed in the 
audited accounts in the group balance sheet and 
note 26 on additional cash flow information.
Earnings per share (EPS)
EPS is an important measure of performance and 
growth. EPS is calculated on several different bases, 
all of which are disclosed in the audited accounts at 
the foot of the group income statement. Basic EPS is 
expressed as profit for the year attributable to 
shareholders, divided by the weighted average 
number of shares ranking for dividend. This is 
quoted in relation to both continuing and total 
operations. Diluted EPS is adjusted to assume 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 
These relate to share options granted to employees 
where the exercise price is less than average market 
price of the company’s ordinary shares during  
the year.
Yorkshire Water financial key  
performance indicators
Yorkshire Water net debt to Regulatory 
Capital Value (RCV)
The RCV of Yorkshire Water is determined by 
Ofwat and is the value of the capital base on 
which a return is allowed for price setting purposes. 
The values are calculated and published annually 
by Ofwat. This ratio expresses Yorkshire Water’s 
regulated net debt as a proportion of the RCV, both 
of which are published in Yorkshire Water’s audited 
regulatory accounts.
Non-financial key performance indicators
Overall customer satisfaction
The group recognises the value of listening to 
customers in order to deliver improvements  
that not only meet but surpass expectations.
Customer satisfaction is monitored on a regular 
basis using a combination of random telephone 
surveys and event-based questionnaires.
Yorkshire Water’s tracker research is an ongoing 
telephone survey involving 220 customers chosen at 
random each month. This monitors customers’ 
general perceptions and the experience that 
customers receive when they come into contact 
with the company.
Yorkshire Water also has a separate telephone survey 
each month to a sample of customers who have 
telephoned our contact centre. This survey is based 
upon Ofwat’s regulatory customer survey. The 
results of the surveys are published on Yorkshire 
Water’s website www.yorkshirewater.com.
Ongoing event-based surveys cover 12 specific areas 
of customer contacts, namely clean water and waste 
water repair and maintenance work, customer visits 
by water and waste water field technicians, meter 
installations, meter reading, supply pipe repairs, new 
supply applications, mains rehabilitation works, 
waste water capital works and calls to our contact 
centre about billing and operational matters.
In addition to its continuous customer research 
programme for domestic customers, Yorkshire 
Water also tracks customer satisfaction with its 
business users. An online survey is conducted with 
its largest business users throughout the year and a 
telephone survey is carried out with other smaller 
business users on an annual basis.
Water quality
The Drinking Water Inspectorate (DWI) regulates 
public water supplies in England and Wales. It is 
responsible for assessing the quality of drinking 
water, taking enforcement action if standards are 
not being met and appropriate action when water is 
unfit for human consumption.
The Government has set legal standards for drinking 
water in the Water Quality Regulations. Most of 
these standards come directly from European law 
and are based on World Health Organisation 
guidelines. The UK has additional standards to 
safeguard the already high quality of water in 
England and Wales. The standards are strict and 
generally include wide safety margins. They cover:
• Bacteria.
• Chemicals such as nitrate and pesticides.
• Metals such as lead.
• The way the water looks and how it tastes.
Although overall compliance with standards is no 
longer published by the DWI, internal monitoring 
shows that in the year ending December 2006, 
99.94% of all water quality tests met the prescribed 
standards (2005: 99.94%).
Waste Water Treatment Works Compliance
The Environment Agency issues consents to allow the 
discharge of treated water from waste water treatment 
works. The three principal consented limits are for 
suspended solids, biochemical oxygen demand and 
ammonia. A range of other substances may be limited 
depending on the type of discharge. This indicator 
shows loads for the following determinants:
• Suspended solids, which can blanket the river 
bed, thereby destroying fish habitat.
• Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), which is  
a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed 
in water – usually by organic pollution – and 
therefore reflects the quality of the water.
• Ammonia, which is toxic to fish.
• Phosphate, which can lead to eutrophication  
in fresh waters.
All waste water treatment works are monitored for 
compliance with their discharge consents and the 
receiving waters are monitored to assess their 
compliance with water quality targets. The frequency 
of monitoring depends on the size of the treatment 
works; small works are monitored on a quarterly basis 
and large works are monitored every week.
Reportable and notifiable accidents
The Health and Safety Commission is responsible for 
health and safety regulation in Great Britain. The 
Health and Safety Executive and local government 
are the enforcing authorities who work in support of 
the Commission.
RIDDOR – or the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 – place a 
legal duty on employers to notify and report some 
work-related accidents, diseases and dangerous 
occurrences.
These include, for example:
• deaths;
• major injuries;
• over-three-day injuries – where an employee or 
self-employed person is away from work or 
unable to work normally for more than three 
consecutive days;
• injuries to members of the public or people not 
at work where they are taken from the scene of 
an accident to hospital;
• some work-related diseases (using the F2508A 
report form); and
• dangerous occurrences – where something 
happens that does not result in an injury, but 
could have done. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30
Corporate governance
The board is accountable to the company’s 
shareholders for maintaining standards of 
corporate governance. The board considers  
that the company has complied throughout  
the accounting period with the provisions set  
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The following is an explanation of how the 
company applies the Combined Code.
The board of directors
The board meets at least six times each  
year and more frequently where considered 
appropriate. In addition, meetings of the non-
executive directors are held when required. The 
board has a schedule of matters reserved for its 
decision and the requirement for board approval 
on these matters is communicated widely 
throughout the senior management of the group.
The board determines the group’s strategic 
objectives and key policies, and approves the 
business plans for each group company, interim 
and final financial statements, recommendations  
of dividends, significant investment and major  
new business proposals, as well as significant 
organisational matters and corporate governance 
arrangements. The board is also responsible for 
establishing and reviewing the group’s system  
of internal control and risk management, and 
reviewing at least annually its effectiveness. The 
roles of the board, the chairman and the chief 
executive are formally set out and agreed by  
the board. There are clear levels of delegated 
authority, which enable management to take 
decisions in the normal course of business.
During the year a formal performance evaluation 
of the board, its committees and its directors was 
undertaken. The process involved the completion 
by each director of both a self evaluation and an 
evaluation of the performance and effectiveness  
of the board as a whole and individual directors. 
Individual discussions between each director and 
the chairman, and meetings of the board and  
the non-executive directors (including meetings 
without the chairman to appraise his performance) 
to consider issues arising from the evaluation 
process and to identify and implement appropriate 
action, were held. The evaluation concluded that 
the board and its committees operated effectively. 
All new directors, where applicable, receive  
an induction on joining the board, including 
information about the company and their 
responsibilities, meetings with key managers, and 
visits to the company’s operations. Briefings are 
provided to directors on relevant issues, including 
legislative, regulatory and financial reporting 
matters. Training is available to directors on, and 
subsequent to, their appointment to meet their 
particular requirements. There is an agreed 
procedure for directors to take independent 
professional advice at the company’s expense in 
furtherance of their duties in relation to board or 
committee matters. Directors have access to the 
group company secretary who is responsible for 
ensuring that board procedures are followed. The 
directors receive full and timely access to all relevant 
information, including a monthly board pack of 
operational and financial reports. Direct access to 
key executives is encouraged. The company has 
directors’ and officers’ insurance in place.
The board currently comprises a chairman, two 
executive directors and five non-executive directors.  
Ed Anderson, Kate Avery, Christopher Fisher and  
David Salkeld are considered by the board to be 
independent of management and free from any 
business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgements. Kate Avery is a director of Legal & 
General which owned 3.55% of the company’s 
shares as at 13 June 2007. The company does not 
consider this to affect her independence as her 
role at Legal & General does not include direct 
responsibility for investment decisions. Richard 
Schmidt was previously an executive of the 
company. David Salkeld is the senior independent 
director. The roles of chairman and chief executive 
are separate and held by John Napier and Kevin 
Whiteman respectively. John Napier met the 
independence criteria of the Combined Code on  
his appointment, although he subsequently served 
in an interim executive capacity, which he 
relinquished in September 2002.
Any director appointed during the year is required, 
under the provisions of the company’s articles  
of association, to retire and seek election by 
shareholders at the next annual general meeting. 
The articles of association of the company require 
each director to be subject to re-election at 
intervals of no more than three years.
The board has delegated certain authority to the 
following committees. Each committee has formal 
terms of reference, which are available on request 
from the company secretary or on the corporate 
governance section of the company’s website at 
www.keldagroup.com.
Executive committee
Chaired by the chief executive and comprising  
the executive directors and the chairman, it has 
delegated authority to deal with specific matters 
remitted to it by the board.
Audit committee
Christopher Fisher was the chairman of the audit 
committee during 2006/07. The other members  
of the committee were Ed Anderson and Kate 
Avery. Ed Anderson was appointed as chairman  
of the committee on 30 May 2007 in place of 
Christopher Fisher, who continues to serve as a 
member of the committee. All three members  
of the audit committee are independent non-
executive directors and each has sufficient recent 
and relevant financial experience to discharge his/
her functions. The external auditor, the head of 
internal audit and the company secretary attend all 
meetings. The group finance director and group 
financial controller usually attend by invitation. The 
committee also meets with the external auditor 
without the presence of executive management 
when it considers it necessary or appropriate to  
do so. The committee chairman reports on the 
activities of the committee to the board meeting 
immediately following each committee meeting.
The audit committee’s key tasks include:
• the review and monitoring of the integrity of 
the interim and annual financial statements;
• the review of the group’s system of internal 
control, including financial, operational, 
compliance and risk management;
• overseeing the company’s relationship  
with the external auditor, agree the nature  
and scope of the audit and review  
the independence and objectivity of  
the external auditor;
• the monitoring and reviewing of the 
effectiveness of the internal audit function. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3 
In undertaking these tasks the committee receives 
and reviews work carried out by the internal and 
external auditors and their findings. Both the 
internal and external auditor work to an annual  
plan developed in consultation with the committee. 
In addition the committee reviews specific business 
areas and processes from time to time.
The regular business of the audit committee 
includes consideration of reports on financial 
statements, audit planning, the activities of internal 
audit and its key findings, and the consideration  
of the operation of internal control processes. 
Additional matters considered during the year 
include a review of the systems and controls in 
preparing and submitting regulatory data of 
Yorkshire Water Services Limited, and systems of 
internal control and risk management operating  
in Kelda Water Services Limited and companies  
in which it holds joint venture investments.  
The committee also undertook a review of the 
effectiveness of internal audit with the assistance  
of external advisers. It also undertook a tender 
exercise of external audit services, which  
led to the recommendation to appoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers for the year ending 31 
March 2008. The company has a policy for disclosure  
of malpractice, and the audit committee reviews  
the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in 
matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor is considered on a regular basis, with 
particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The company has adopted an auditor 
independence policy which establishes procedures 
and guidance under which the company’s 
relationship with its external auditor is governed  
so that the audit committee is able to satisfy itself 
that there are no factors which may, or may be 
seen to, impinge upon the independence and 
objectivity of the audit process.
The key features of the policy are:
• clear accountability of the auditor to the audit 
committee and the chairman of the board of 
the company;
• the audit committee considers annually its 
recommendation to re-appoint the auditor;
• the auditor is required to disclose the safeguards 
and steps taken to ensure independence and 
objectivity;
• rotation of audit partners and appropriate 
restrictions on appointment of employees  
of the auditor;
• specific restrictions and procedures in relation to 
the allocation of non-audit work to the auditor. 
These include categories of work which cannot 
be allocated to the auditor, and categories of 
work which may be allocated to the auditor, 
subject to certain provisions as to materiality, 
nature of the work, or the approval of the audit 
committee. At each of its meetings the audit 
committee receives a report of the fees paid  
to the auditor in all capacities.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for  
the year to 31 March 2007 appears at note 4  
to the financial statements. Non-audit fees of 
£0.5m were paid in relation to taxation services  
and corporate finance services, including services 
relating to the return of cash to shareholders 
through a B share scheme, which was of a one-off 
nature. The amount and nature of non-audit fees 
are considered by the committee not to affect the 
independence or objectivity of the external auditor.
Remuneration committee
Details of the membership and role of the 
remuneration committee are included in the 
directors’ remuneration report on page 33.
Nomination committee
John Napier is chairman of the nomination 
committee. The other members are Kate Avery,  
Ed Anderson, Christopher Fisher and David Salkeld. 
The main functions of the committee are:
• to review the structure, size and composition  
of the board, the audit committee and the 
remuneration committee and make 
recommendations to the board with regard  
to necessary adjustments;
• to prepare a role and capabilities statement for 
the appointment of a chairman and to identify 
and nominate candidates for the approval of  
the board; and
• to provide advice and recommendations  
to the board in respect of appointments  
of other directors.
The nomination committee meets at least  
annually to discharge such of these functions  
as may be required.
Corporate social responsibility committee
John Napier is chairman of the corporate social 
responsibility committee, and Kevin Whiteman  
is a member of it. Roger Hyde, a non-executive 
director of Yorkshire Water, is also a member  
of the committee. He was formerly the Head  
of the Environment Agency, North East Region.  
The committee recommends to the board 
appropriate corporate social responsibility policies 
and procedures. It is responsible for the publication 
of the corporate social responsibility review  
which is available on the internet at  
http://csr.keldagroup.com.
Board attendance
The table overleaf shows the number of meetings  
of the board, audit, remuneration and nomination 
committees attended by each director, out of 
possible attendances. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 32
Communication with shareholders
Shareholders have direct access to the company  
via the investor relations section of its website  
at www.keldagroup.com and its free shareholder 
information telephone service. The website  
is updated with all announcements and 
presentations, and contains investor relations 
information which is updated regularly.
There is regular dialogue with individual 
institutional shareholders as well as general 
presentations after the interim and preliminary 
results. All shareholders have the opportunity to 
put questions at the company’s annual general 
meeting and the company will make a presentation 
at the meeting to highlight the key business 
developments. The chairmen of the audit, 
remuneration and nomination committees will  
be available to answer questions at the annual 
general meeting to be held on 1 August 2007.
The board receives reports from executive  
directors following meetings with investors.  
Formal reports of investor feedback are presented 
to the board following the interim and annual 
results presentations. An investor relations  
report is presented to the board each month.
Internal control
The board is responsible for the group’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
An ongoing process, in accordance with the 
guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Internal 
Control, has been established for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the group and this has been in place for the 
year under review and up to the date of approval 
of the Annual Report and Accounts. Strategic, 
financial, commercial, operational, social, 
environmental and ethical risks fall within the  
scope of this process. The process is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. During the financial 
year, material joint ventures have been dealt with 
as part of the group for the purposes of applying 
the guidance.
The group has comprehensive and well defined 
control policies with clear structures, delegated 
authority levels and accountabilities. There is  
a group procedure governing appraisal and 
approval of business development and investment 
expenditure. Post completion reviews are required 
on significant business development projects and 
material investment expenditure.
The group’s risk management process aims to be 
comprehensive, systematic and continuous, and 
based on constant monitoring of business risk. The 
key features of the process include the following:
• The main risks facing the group are identified 
and recorded in a strategic risk register together 
with the control mechanisms applicable to each 
risk. These are collated from risk registers 
maintained by individual businesses.
• There is clear allocation of management 
responsibility for risk identification, recording, 
analysis and control.
• The audit committee generally meets four 
times each year and reviews the effectiveness  
of the systems which are in place and reports  
to the board.
• A risk management forum, chaired by the group 
financial controller, has been established with 
formal terms of reference comprising senior 
management from key disciplines and operating 
companies. It advises and assists operational 
managing directors and the board on the 
implementation of the risk management 
process and monitors risk on behalf of the 
board. It reports to the audit committee.
• Business units are required to report annually  
on principal business risks and the operation  
of control mechanisms.
• The internal audit department provides 
objective assurance and advice on risk 
management and control, and monitors  
the risk management process.
The audit committee reviews and monitors the 
effectiveness of the process on behalf of the 
board. During the year the audit committee 
undertook a detailed review of the process.
In addition to this process, businesses are subject 
to: a quarterly comprehensive review by the 
executive team; independent internal and external 
audits which are reported to the executive team 
and the audit committee; an extensive budget and 
target setting process; a quarterly reporting and 
forecasting process reviewing performance against 
agreed objectives; appropriate delegated authority 
levels; established financial policies and procedures; 
and other risk management policies and 
procedures such as health and safety and 
environmental policies.
The board confirms that it has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control.  
It has received the reports of the audit committee 
and has conducted a formal annual review covering 
all controls including financial, operational, 
compliance and risk management, in accordance 
with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on 
the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and 
updated in October 2005. Following its review the 
board determined that it was not aware of any 
significant deficiency or material weakness in  
the system of internal control.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
John Napier 6/6 – – 1/1
Ed Anderson 6/6 4/4 – 1/1
Kate Avery 6/6 4/4 5/6 1/1
Christopher Fisher 6/6 4/4 6/6 1/1
David Salkeld 5/6 – 6/6 1/1
Richard Schmidt 5/6 – – –
Martin Towers 6/6 – – –
Kevin Whiteman 6/6 – – –
Corporate governance Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33
Directors’ remuneration report
The members of the remuneration committee  
are David Salkeld, who chairs it, Kate Avery and 
Christopher Fisher. All members of the committee 
are regarded by the company as independent. John 
Napier and Kevin Whiteman have provided advice 
to the committee. For guidance in recommending 
remuneration packages, the remuneration 
committee uses published surveys carried out  
by remuneration consultants, as well as internal 
research, together with other ad hoc projects to 
support the objective of ensuring competitive  
and sustainable remuneration. New Bridge  
Street Consultants advise the company and  
the remuneration committee on a variety of 
remuneration related issues. The company does 
not use New Bridge Street Consultants in any 
capacity other than as an independent adviser on 
remuneration and employee share scheme matters.
The terms of reference of the remuneration 
committee are available on request from  
the company secretary or on the corporate 
governance section of the company’s website,  
at http://www.keldagroup.com/kel/csr/corpgov/
summary. The committee makes recommendations 
to the board on the framework of executive 
remuneration, and its cost. It determines the 
remuneration and conditions of employment of  
the chairman, executive directors and the next 
most senior category of executives, including the 
terms of any compensation in the event of early 
termination of an executive director’s contract.  
It also operates the company’s long term incentive 
plan. In determining the remuneration of executive 
directors and other senior executives, the 
committee also takes into account level of 
remuneration and pay awards made generally  
to employees of the group.
Statement of policy
The company’s policy is to establish remuneration 
packages which enable the company to attract, 
retain and motivate people with the skills and 
experience necessary to lead and manage  
a business of Kelda’s size and complexity. 
Remuneration packages are designed to be  
aligned with the interests of the company’s 
stakeholders, in particular its shareholders  
and customers.
In recommending remuneration packages, the 
remuneration committee follows the principle of 
recognition of the individual’s contribution to the 
business. The aspiration of the committee is that 
executives should be fairly and appropriately 
awarded if the company achieves upper quartile 
levels of performance relative to other water and 
sewerage companies. Accordingly, a significant 
proportion of directors’ remuneration is 
performance related through annual and long  
term incentive plan awards. Further details of the 
proportions are included in the sections below  
and in the directors’ emoluments table on page 35. 
The design of the total remuneration package is 
intended to achieve a weighting of each 
component to ensure that above average 
remuneration is available through performance 
related elements rather than base salary.
The company treats remuneration strategy and  
its people resource as key components in delivering 
its vision to the shareholders of Kelda and to the 
customers of the group’s businesses. At the same 
time, the company recognises fully the sensitivities 
of such matters and the need for due care and 
attention to be taken when considering such issues.
Executive directors
The current remuneration package for each 
executive director comprises the following:
Annual salary and benefits
The annual salary for each executive director is 
reviewed each year. The review takes into account 
relevant market comparators and the individual 
responsibilities and experience of each director. 
Benefits in kind include a car and health insurance. 
Base salary is pensionable.
Annual incentive scheme
During the 2006/07 financial year, each executive 
director had the opportunity to earn an annual 
incentive award of up to 75% of their salary.  
This was increased from 60% during the year as an 
interim measure pending the review of executive 
incentive payment structure. Following that review, 
in 2007/08, each executive director will have the 
opportunity to earn an annual incentive award of 
up to 100% of their salary. Any bonus payment is 
made in June based on performance in the year 
ending on the preceding 31 March. Awards are 
entirely performance related. From 2007/08, 50% 
of any award will be determined by financial targets 
which are set by the board at the start of the year. 
30% will be determined by Yorkshire Water’s 
position in the Overall Performance Assessment 
determined by Ofwat. 20% will be determined  
by reference to personal performance objectives 
established at the beginning of the year. Incentive 
payments at the higher end of the range are 
payable only for demonstrably superior company 
and individual performance. Annual incentive 
payments are not pensionable.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
Under the plan, executive directors may receive,  
at the discretion of the remuneration committee,  
a conditional award of Kelda Group plc shares  
each year, with a value of up to 80% of base salary.  
The proportion of the award to be vested in the 
participants after a period of three years will 
depend upon the company’s performance in  
terms of total shareholder return (i.e. share price 
movements and reinvested dividends) during the 
three year period, relative to a comparator group  
of companies. The total shareholder return of  
the company is considered by the remuneration 
committee to be an appropriate measure by which 
the interests of the executives can be aligned with 
those of the shareholders. It is calculated by an 
independent consultant and compared with and 
ranked against the comparator group. Vesting of 
70% of the award is determined by a reference  
to the company’s ranking against a group of UK 
listed companies which own and operate regulated  
water and waste water companies and whose 
characteristics are considered by the remuneration 
committee most similar to those of the company. 
The companies in the comparator group during the 
period under review were Dee Valley Water plc, 
Pennon Group plc, Severn Trent plc and United 
Utilities plc. AWG plc and Bristol Water plc both 
ceased to be listed during the 2006/07 financial 
year, and the remuneration committee exercised  
its discretion to exclude them from the comparator 
group in relation to awards vesting in 2007.  
The committee has also resolved to include 
Northumbrian Water Group plc in the comparator 
group for awards made after 2006. Vesting of the 
remaining 30% of the award is determined by 
reference to the constituents of the FTSE 350 index 
on the date of grant (excluding investment trusts). 
The remuneration committee believes that the 
constituents of the comparator group provides  
an appropriate comparison for the company’s 
performance but keeps this mix of components 
under continuous review.
In respect of the 70% of the award determined  
by reference to listed water companies, no shares 
will vest unless Kelda is ranked at least median, 
when 30% will vest. Full vesting will require top 
ranking and, if Kelda is ranked between median  
and top position, between 30% and 100% of  
the shares will vest depending on how close  
Kelda’s total shareholder return is to the first  
and fourth companies. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 34
Directors’ remuneration report
In respect of the 30% of the award determined by 
reference to FTSE 350, no shares will vest unless 
Kelda is ranked at least median. 30% will vest at 
median, and 100% will vest if Kelda is in the top 
20% of companies, with pro-rata vesting based on 
ranking position for intermediate performance.
Irrespective of the total shareholder return 
performance, no shares will vest unless the 
remuneration committee is satisfied that Kelda’s 
underlying financial performance has been 
satisfactory over the performance period, taking 
into account the company’s circumstances, 
including the regulatory regime in place over the 
period, and the committee can scale back vesting 
to any extent considered appropriate in the light  
of the company’s financial performance.
The rules of the plan provide for early vesting of 
awards in cessation of employment in certain 
circumstances, such as death, disability, redundancy, 
retirement at expected retirement age and business 
transfer. Early vesting is subject to the same 
performance conditions as apply to vesting at the 
end of a three-year performance period. On early 
vesting, the number of shares vested is reduced pro-
rata to the number of days of the performance 
period in which the director was in office.
No benefits under the plan are pensionable. The 
remuneration committee considers that recent 
performance of the company has been highly 
impressive as evidenced by the company being 
voted Utility Company of the Year for the last three 
years and being the overall most efficient water 
and sewerage company in respect of operating 
and capital maintenance efficiency in each of the 
last five years (according to Ofwat data). However, 
the committee felt that this outstanding 
performance was not being fairly reflected in the 
outturns from the current incentive arrangements, 
in particular the low percentage of awards vesting 
under the LTIP. As the necessary discretions to 
correct the situation are outside the process of  
the committee, the committee will therefore seek 
shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming annual 
general meeting to amend the structure of the LTIP 
scheme for the future by proposing amendments 
which intend to make the allocations and 
performance conditions more appropriate. Details 
of the proposed amendments are included with 
the separate notice of meeting.
Non-executive directors
The chairman of the board is paid an annual fee  
of £185,000 and non-executive directors are paid  
a base fee of £35,000 per annum, both with effect 
from 1 January 2007. In addition, the chairman of 
the audit committee and the chairman of the 
remuneration committee are paid fees of £7,500 
per annum and £5,000 per annum respectively. 
Christopher Fisher received fees of £16,000 from 
Yorkshire Water Services Limited, in his capacity  
as a non-executive director of that company.  
The fees of non-executive directors are determined 
by the board taking account of responsibilities  
and time commitments and of fee levels in 
comparable companies. 
The non-executive directors do not participate in 
the annual incentive scheme, the LTIP or group 
pension plan.
Service contracts
The company’s policy on the duration of contracts 
with executive directors, is that they should not 
normally be of fixed duration, should be subject  
to 12 months’ notice by the company and six 
months’ notice by the director. The notice periods 
have been selected to be consistent with current 
corporate governance best practice. Termination 
payments are made in accordance with the terms 
of the contract. Service contracts do not generally 
contain payment in lieu of notice clauses, and 
terminate automatically on retirement.
The company’s policy in respect of non-executive 
directors is to make appointments generally of 
three years’ duration, the terms of which do not 
contain any express provision for notice periods  
or termination payments in the event of early 
termination of their appointment. Appointments 
may be renewed by mutual agreement for up  
to two further three-year periods.
Kevin Whiteman and Martin Towers entered  
into service agreements with the company on  
2 September 2002 and 12 February 2003, 
respectively. The contracts are not of fixed duration 
and each provide for notice periods of 12 months 
by the company and six months by the director. 
The agreements do not contain any specific 
provision for compensation payable on early 
termination, and any termination payment would 
be calculated to take account of the contractual 
notice period and any annual incentive payment 
which would have been paid, subject to the 
achievement of performance objectives, and  
taking into account the period actually worked.
John Napier’s current appointment as chairman  
of the board of Kelda Group plc took effect on  
2 September 2005 and is for a three-year term. 
The terms of appointment do not contain any 
provisions for notice periods or for compensation 
in the event of early termination.
Christopher Fisher’s appointment took effect on  
30 June 2006 for a period of three years. David 
Salkeld’s current appointment is with effect from  
2 October 2006 for a period of three years. Each  
of Ed Anderson’s and Kate Avery’s appointments 
took effect on 1 June 2005 and is for a period of 
three years. Richard Schmidt’s appointment is not 
for a fixed duration. The terms of appointment do 
not contain any provisions for notice periods or for 
compensation in the event of early termination. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35
Executive directors’ service contracts, and non-executive directors’ terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at the company’s registered 
office, and will be available for 15 minutes prior to the annual general meeting and during the meeting.
The following sections of the remuneration report, with the exception of the table of directors’ beneficial interests in shares, have been audited.
Directors’ emoluments
Salary/fees 
£000
Annual 
bonus 
£000
Benefits in 
kind 
£000
Termination 
payment 
£000
Total 
emoluments  
2007 
£000
Total 
emoluments 
2006 
£000
Chairman 
J A Napier 181 – 5 – 86 181
Executive directors
M G Towers 196 133 12 – 34 283
K I Whiteman 356 280 27 – 663 549
Non-executive directors
D J Salkeld 36 – – – 36 35
C C Fisher 55 – – – 55 54
R K Schmidt 31 – – – 3 30
C R R Avery 31 – – – 3 25
E J S Anderson 31 – – – 3 25
K Jackson (Retired 30.09.05) – – – – – 15
D F Roberts (Retired 30.09.05) – – – – – 35
Totals 917 413 44 – ,374 1,232
Pensions
Kevin Whiteman and Martin Towers were members of defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the company during the year.
The main features of the Kelda Group Pension Plan (KGPP) applicable to executive directors are:
i) a normal retirement age of 60;
ii) an accrual rate of 1/30 per year of pensionable service;
iii) four times pensionable pay for death in service;
iv) spouse’s pension on death.
The company has additional contractual commitments to provide pension benefits to certain executives in respect of their earnings over the HM Revenue & 
Customs earnings cap in force before 6 April 2006. These additional benefits are currently provided through an unfunded ‘unapproved’ arrangement.
Following changes made to the tax treatment of pension benefits with effect from 6 April 2006, KGPP executive members have been given the option of 
accruing these benefits either on a funded basis under the KGPP or continuing to receive pension rights on an unfunded basis under the unapproved 
arrangement. These arrangements do not affect the overall benefits to the member, or increase the cost to the company.
The company has made separate accounting provision for unfunded liabilities under the unapproved arrangement. The figures below include the funded 
element of the company’s pension provision only. For details of the unfunded liabilities, please refer to note 21. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 36
Directors’ remuneration report
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the year (£):
 
Total accrued 
pension at 
31/3/07 
(1)
Total accrued 
pension at 
31/3/06 
(2)
Increase 
in accrued 
pension net 
of inflation 
(3)
Transfer 
value of net 
increase in 
accrual over 
period  
(4)
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension at 
31/3/06 
(5)
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension at 
31/3/07 
(6)
Total change 
in transfer 
value during 
period  
(7)
Director’s 
contributions 
(8)
M G Towers 33,718 18,921 13,965 69,794 284,488 493,819 74,604 134,727
K I Whiteman 105,032 84,425 16,892 130,388 1,105,117 1,367,188 172,578 89,493
i) The total accrued pension as at 31 March 2007 in (1) includes benefits granted in the Kelda Group Pension Plan (KGPP) as a result of transfers from previous 
employment pension arrangements.
ii) The Director’s contributions in (8) include transfer values received totalling £123,544 for Mr Towers and £69,093 for Mr Whiteman.
iii) Accrued pensions shown are the amounts that would be paid annually on retirement at age 60 based on service to the year end.
iv) Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
v) The transfer value of the net increase in pension (4) represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the 
assumption service terminated at the year end. It is based on the accrued pension increase (3) and is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution.
vi) The change in the transfer value (7) includes the offset of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and 
directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution.
(vii) Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the directors who held office at the end of the year, and their immediate families, in the ordinary shares of the company as at 31 March 
2007 and at the beginning of the year (or date of appointment where later) are set out below:
At  
3 March 07
At
1 April 06
Chairman
J A Napier 30,000 30,000
Executive directors
M G Towers 9,937 –
K I Whiteman 48,692 32,849
Non-executive directors
E J S Anderson 3,939 –
C R R Avery 4,766 4,766
C C Fisher 5,000 5,000
D J Salkeld 0,000 –
R K Schmidt 7,676 7,676
In addition to the above beneficial interests in the company’s shares, the executive directors are regarded for Companies Act purposes as being interested in 
2,010,519 ordinary shares of the company held by an employee share ownership trust (ESOT).
All employees (including executive directors) are potential beneficiaries of the trust, the purposes of which is to provide shares to satisfy options under the 
company’s save-as-you-earn share option scheme and grants made pursuant to the long term incentive plan.
It is not anticipated that any employee or executive director will be entitled to receive from the trust a greater number of shares than that to which they  
are entitled on exercise of options granted to them under the share option scheme or the vesting of awards pursuant to the long term incentive plan.
Since 31 March 2007 and the date of this document, 27,366 shares under the LTIP vested for Kevin Whiteman and 12,974 for Martin Towers. Further awards  
have also been made of 32,331 and 14,440 respectively. All other shareholdings of the directors have not changed. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37
Directors’ share options
In common with all eligible employees of the group, executive directors are entitled to participate in the company’s Inland Revenue approved save-as-you-earn 
share option scheme. The options are not subject to performance conditions since this is an all-employee scheme to which performance targets are not applied. 
The interests of directors in particular issues under the scheme are:
At 1 April 
2006
Granted 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 31 
March 
2007
Exercise 
price (p)
Market price 
at date of 
exercise
Date options 
exercisable
Date options 
expire
M G Towers 2,016 – 2016 – – 366.0 878.5p 01.03.07 31.08.07
M G Towers 411 – – – 411 461.0 – 01.03.08 31.08.08
M G Towers – 1,020 – – 1,020 741.0 – 01.03.10 31.08.10
The market price of the shares subject to these options at 31 March 2007 was 938.0p (2006: 788.5p) and has ranged from 726.5p to 955.0p during the year. 
The aggregate gain on the exercise of share options during the year was £10,513.44 (2006: £nil).
Long term incentive plan
Interest of the directors in the plan are:
At 1 April 
2006
Date 
awarded
Market price 
at date of 
award (p)
Granted 
during year
Vested  
20 Sept 
2006
Lapsed 
during year
At  
31 March 
2007
Earliest 
vesting date
M G Towers 25,742 03.09.03 404.00 – 12,201 13,541 – 02.09.06
M G Towers 19,672 28.05.04 489.25 – – – 19,672 27.05.07
M G Towers 13,834 02.06.05 654.00 – – – 13,834 01.06.08
M G Towers – 13.06.06 746.50 14,940 – – 14,940 12.06.09
K I Whiteman 51,485 03.09.03 404.00 – 24,403 27,082 – 02.09.06
K I Whiteman 41,492 28.05.04 489.25 – – – 41,492 27.05.07
K I Whiteman 39,755 02.06.05 654.00 39,755 – – 39,755 01.06.08
K I Whiteman – 13.06.06 746.50 36,339 – – 36,339 12.06.09
The performance condition applicable to awards granted and shares vested were as described on pages 33 and 34.
In addition to the vested shares 2,488 dividend shares were transferred to Kevin Whiteman and 1,244 dividend shares were transferred to Martin Towers  
in accordance with the rules of the Kelda Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
The market price on 20 September 2006 was 849.5p.
The market price of the shares on 14 June 2007 was 966.5p. The aggregate value of shares vesting during the year was £310,951 (2006: £188,662).
By order of the board
Stuart McFarlane
Group Company Secretary
14 June 2007 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 38
Directors’ responsibilities for the accounts
The directors are responsible for preparing the group and parent company accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations. 
The directors are required to prepare group financial statements for each financial year, in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
adopted by the European Union (EU) which present fairly the financial position of the group and the financial performance and cash flows of the group for that 
period. In preparing those group accounts, the directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors” and then apply them consistently; 
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable comparable and understandable information;
•  Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the group’s financial position and financial performance; and
• State that the group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Under United Kingdom law the directors have elected to prepare the parent company accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), which are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent 
company and of the profit or loss of the parent company for that period. In preparing the parent company accounts, the directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts; and
• Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the accounts. The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the accounts 
comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, in the case of the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the group’s website. It should be noted that 
information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
Auditor’s report on group financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the Members of Kelda Group Plc
We have audited the group financial statements of 
Kelda Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 
which comprise the group income statement,  
the group statement of recognised income and 
expense, the group balance sheet, the group cash 
flow statement and the related notes 1 to 30. 
These group financial statements have been 
prepared under the accounting policies set  
out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent 
company financial statements of Kelda Group plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the 
information in the directors’ remuneration report 
that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the company's 
members, as a body, in accordance with Section 
235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company's members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditors' report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility  
to anyone other than the company and the 
company's members as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities  
of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the 
Annual Report and the group financial statements 
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set 
out in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial 
statements in accordance with relevant legal  
and regulatory requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the 
group financial statements give a true and fair view 
and whether the group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. We also report to you whether in our 
opinion the information given in the directors' 
report is consistent with the financial statements. 
The information given in the directors' report 
includes that specific information presented in  
the business review that is cross referred from the 
business review section of the directors' report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion,  
we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding director’s 
remuneration and other transactions is not 
disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance 
Statement reflects the company’s compliance with 
the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code 
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does 
not. We are not required to consider whether the 
board’s statements on internal control cover all 
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the group’s corporate governance 
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual 
Report and consider whether it is consistent with 
the audited group financial statements. The other 
information comprises only the directors’ report, 
the unaudited part of the director’s remuneration 
report, group highlights, our business, chairman’s 
statement, chief executive review, business review, 
corporate governance statement and corporate 
social responsibility statement. We consider the 
implications for our report if we become aware of 
any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the group financial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other 
information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.  
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of 
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures 
in the group financial statements. It also includes 
an assessment of the significant estimates and 
judgments made by the directors in the 
preparation of the group financial statements, and 
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to 
obtain all the information and explanations which 
we considered necessary in order to provide us 
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the group financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming 
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 
of the presentation of information in the group 
financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and 
fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, of the state of the 
group’s affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its 
profit for the year then ended; 
• the group financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; and
• the information given in the directors' report is 
consistent with the group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
Leeds
14 June 2007  40
Contents
4 1 	 G r o u p 	 i n c o m e 	 s t a t e m e n t
4 1 	 G r o u p 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 o f 	 r e c o g n i s e d	 	
i n c o m e 	 a n d 	 e x p e n s e
42 	 G r o u p 	 b a l a n c e 	 s h e e t
43 	 G r o u p 	 c a s h 	 f l o w 	 s t a t e m e n t
44 	 N o t e s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 g r o u p 	 a c c o u n t s
78 	 G r o u p 	 c o m p a n i e s
79 	 F i v e 	 y e a r 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s u m m a r y
80 	 A u d i t o r ’ s 	 r e p o r t 	 o n 	 t h e 	 c o m p a n y	 	
f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s
8 1 	 C o m p a n y 	 b a l a n c e 	 s h e e t
82 	 N o t e s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 c o m p a n y 	 a c c o u n t s
87 	 G e n e r a l 	 i n f o r m a t i o n
88 	 O u r 	 c o n t a c t 	 d e t a i l s	
Financial statements
Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
Group income statement
Year ended 31 March 2007
       2007 2006 
      Notes £m £m
Turnover: group and share of associates and joint ventures 	 	 	 	 	 3 	 878.9 	 825.4
Shar e	 of	 associat es’	 and	 joint	 v entur es’	 tur no v er	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (46.3) 	 (46.0)
Group turnover 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 832.6 	 779.4
Oper ating	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 4 	 (494.6) 	 (464.9)
Group operating profit before share of associates and joint ventures 	 	 	 	 388.0 314.5
Shar e	 of	 associat es’	 and	 joint	 v entur es’	 pr ofit	 af t er	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 3 	 0.2 0.9
Group operating profit from continuing operations 	 	 	 	 	 	 3 338.2 315.4
Inv estment	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 6	 64.1 51.2
Finance	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 6	 (161.1)	 (142.3)
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 241.2 	 224.3
T ax	 expense	 	 	 	 	 	 7	 (69.5)	 (65.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 171.7	 158.9
Discontinued operations 	
(Loss)/pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 (20.4) 	 15.2
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 	 	 	 	 	 	 151.3 	 174.1
Basic	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 10 	 42.3p 	 46.9p
Basic	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 10 48.1p 42.8p
Dilut ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 10 42.1p 46.8p
Dilut ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 10 47.9p 42.7p
Group statement of recognised income and expense
Year ended 31 March 2007
 
       2007 2006 
      Notes £m £m
R ecy cling	 of	 losses	 on	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg es	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.9) 	 (2.1)
Gains/(losses)	 on	 hedg es	 t ak en	 t o	 eq uity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 19.1 	 (0.6)
Ex c hang e	 dif f er ences	 on	 r etr anslation	 of	 f or eign	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 (7.9) 	 15.6
A ctuarial	 g ains	 in	 r espect	 of	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 and	 ot her	 post-r etir ement	 benefits	 	 	 21 	 26.1 	 9.5
T ax	 on	 it ems	 t ak en	 dir ectl y	 t o	 eq uity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (12.7) 	 (1.5)
Ot her	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.8) 	 (3.1)
Total of items taken directly to equity 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 18.9 	 17.8
Pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 attribut able	 t o	 eq uity	 shar eholders       151.3 174.1
Total recognised income and expense for the year       170.2 191.9 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 42
Group balance sheet
At 31 March 2007
       2007 2006 
      Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Int angible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 11	 14.5	 15.0
Pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 	 	 	 	 	 12 	 3,975.3 	 3,798.6
Inv estments	 in	 associat ed	 under t akings	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 	 	 	 	 13 	 2.0 	 1.8
Loans	 t o	 associat ed	 under t akings	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 	 	 	 	 	 13 	 21.2 	 18.7
R etir ement	 benefits	 surplus	 	 	 	 	 	 21 	 7.3 	 –
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,020.3 	 3,834.1
Current assets
Inv ent ories	 	 	 	 	 	 15 	 0.6 	 0.5
T r ade	 and	 ot her	 r eceiv ables	 	 	 	 	 	 16 	 157.2 	 181.5
T ax	 debt or	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 6.3
Cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 	 	 	 	 	 17 	 102.0 	 82.7
Financial	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 14 	 –	 27.8
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 259.8 	 298.8
Assets included in disposal groups held for sale 	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 596.0 	 658.6
Total assets 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,876.1 	 4,791.5
Current liabilities
T r ade	 and	 ot her	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 18 	 (241.3) 	 (264.5)
Financial	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 24 	 –	 (1.5)
T ax	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (35.6) 	 (36.5)
Shor t	 t er m	 bor r o wings	 	 	 	 	 	 17 	 (314.1) 	 (458.8)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (591.0) 	 (761.3)
Non-current liabilities
Long	 t er m	 bor r o wings	 	 	 	 	 	 17 	 (1,769.5) 	 (1,486.8)
Long	 t er m	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 18 	 (76.0) 	 (79.4)
Financial	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 24 	 (0.5) 	 (13.8)
Def er r ed	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	 on	 depr eciat ed	 assets	 	 	 	 	 18 	 (79.4) 	 (82.2)
Pr o visions	 	 	 	 	 	 19 	 (1.2) 	 (3.4)
Def er r ed	 t ax	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 20	 (611.0)	 (577.2)
R etir ement	 benefits	 oblig ation	 	 	 	 	 	 21	 –	 (62.1)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2,537.6) 	 (2,304.9)
Liabilities included in disposal groups held for sale 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	 (285.0)	 (268.3)
Total liabilities 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (3,413.6) 	 (3,334.5)
Net assets 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,462.5 	 1,457.0
Capital and reserves
Issued	 shar e	 capit al	 	 	 	 	 	 22 55.8 	 57.0
Shar e	 pr emium	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 23 	 16.7 	 16.7
Capit al	 r edem ption	 r eserv e	 	 	 	 	 	 23 	 147.9 	 146.7
Inv estment	 in	 o wn	 shar es	 	 	 	 	 	 23 	 (6.7) 	 (9.8)
Hedging	 r eserv e	 	 	 	 	 	 23 	 1.9 	 (9.4)
T r anslation	 r eserv e	 	 	 	 	 	 23 	 2.7 	 10.6
Shar e-based	 pa yment	 r eserv e	 	 	 	 	 	 23	 4.5	 3.3
R et ained	 ear nings	 	 	 	 	 	 23 	 1,239.7 	 1,241.9
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,462.5 	 1,457.0
Appr o v ed	 b y	 t he	 boar d	 of	 dir ect ors	 on	 1 4	 June	 2007	 and	 signed	 on	 t heir	 behalf	 b y:
Martin Towers, Group Finance Director Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
Group cash flow statement
Year ended 31 March 2007
       2007 2006 
      Notes £m £m
Gr oup	 oper ating	 pr ofit	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 26 	 338.2 	 315.4
Oper ating	 pr ofit	 fr om	 discontinued	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 26 	 41.6 	 32.8
Depr eciation	 	 	 	 	 	 12 	 140.9 	 143.6
Amor tisation	 of	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (3.2) 	 (3.2)
Ex c hang e	 r at e	 adjustments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 38.0 	 (18.9)
(Incr ease)/decr ease	 in	 inv ent ories	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.1) 	 0.2
Decr ease/(incr ease)	 in	 tr ade	 and	 ot her	 r eceiv ables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7.5 	 (17.3)
P ension	 contributions	 in	 ex cess	 of	 oper ating	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (38.8) 	 (15.1)
Incr ease	 in	 tr ade	 and	 ot her	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10.6 	 25.0
Cash generated by operations 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 534.7 	 462.5
Income	 t ax es	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (45.2) 	 (38.5)
Int er est	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (105.4) 	 (122.4)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 384.1 	 301.6
Investing activities
Int er est	 r eceiv ed	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10.2 	 16.1
Dividends	 r eceiv ed	 fr om	 associat es	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.3
Loans	 (t o)/fr om	 associat es	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.5) 	 2.5
Pr oceeds	 on	 disposals	 of	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 	 	 	 	 	 13.9 	 0.1
Pur c hases	 of	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (395.0) 	 (331.9)
Capit al	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 20.2 	 32.3
Pur c hase	 of	 int angible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.9)
Net cash used in investing activities 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (353.2) 	 (281.5)
Financing activities
Dividends	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 9 	 (109.7) (109.4)
R epa yment	 of	 5.25%	 Eur obond	 	 	 	 	 	 (401.3) –
Pr oceeds	 fr om	 index	 link ed	 bonds	 	 	 	 	 	 250.0 –
Pr oceeds	 fr om	 ot her	 bor r o wings	 	 	 	 	 	 368.4 	 101.0
R epa yment	 of	 oblig ations	 under	 finance	 leases	 and	 hir e	 pur c hase	 ag r eements	 	 	 	 	 (62.3) 	 (9.3)
R epur c hase	 of	 o wn	 shar es	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (59.3) 	 (72.9)
Net cash used in financing activities 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (14.2) 	 (90.6)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 	 	 	 	 	 	 16.7 	 (70.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 	 	 	 	 	 95.7 	 165.1
Ef f ect	 of	 f or eign	 ex c hang e	 r at e	 c hang es	 on	 cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 	 	 	 	 (1.0) 	 1.1
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 	 	 	 	 	 17 	 111.4 	 95.7 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 44
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
1. Authorisation of financial statements  
and statement of compliance
The	 g r oup’s	 financial	 st at ements	 f or	 t he	 y ear	
ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 w er e	 aut horised	 f or	 	
issue	 b y	 t he	 boar d	 of	 dir ect ors	 on	 1 4	 June	
2007	 and	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 w as	 signed	 on	
t he	 boar d’s	 behalf	 b y	 Mar tin	 T o w ers,	 Gr oup	
Finance	 Dir ect or .	 K elda	 Gr oup	 plc	 is	 a	 public	
limit ed	 com pan y	 incorpor at ed	 and	 domiciled	
in	 Eng land	 and	 W ales.	 The	 com pan y’s	 or dinar y	
s h a r e s 	 a r e 	 t r a d e d 	 o n 	 t h e 	 L o n d o n 	 S t o c k 	 E x c h a n g e .
T h e 	 g r o u p ’ s 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n	
p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 I n t e r n a t i o n a l	
F i n a n c i a l 	 R e p o r t i n g 	 S t a n d a r d s 	 ( I F R S ) 	 a s 	 a d o p t e d	
b y 	 t h e 	 E u r o p e a n 	 U n i o n 	 a s 	 t h e y 	 a p p l y 	 t o 	 t h e	
F i n a n c i a l 	 S t a t e m e n t s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 g r o u p 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 y e a r	
e n d e d 	 3 1 	 M a r c h 	 2 0 0 7 .
2. Group accounting policies
(A) Basis of preparation 
Basis of accounting
The	 g r oup’s	 financial	 st at ements	 ha v e	 been	
pr epar ed	 in	 accor dance	 wit h	 Int er national	
Financial	 R epor ting	 S t andar ds	 (IFRS)	 as	 adopt ed	
b y	 t he	 Eur opean	 Union	 as	 t he y	 appl y	 t o	 t he	
financial	 st at ements	 of	 t he	 g r oup	 f or	 t he	 y ear	
ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007 .
The	 financial	 st at ements	 ar e	 pr epar ed	 under	
t he	 hist orical	 cost	 conv ention	 ex cept	 f or	 all	
deriv ativ e	 financial	 instruments	 t hat	 ha v e	 been	
measur ed	 at	 f air	 v alue	 and	 disposal	 g r oups	 held	
f or	 sale	 t hat	 ha v e	 been	 measur ed	 at	 t he	 lo w er	
of	 f air	 v alue	 less	 cost	 t o	 sell	 and	 t heir	 car r ying	
amounts	 prior	 t o	 t he	 decision	 t o	 tr eat	 t hem	 	
as	 held	 f or	 sale,	 t hr ough	 pr ofit	 or	 loss.
A t	 1	 April	 2004	 (“tr ansition	 dat e”)	 t he	 g r oup	
applied	 t he	 f ollo wing	 ex em ptions	 t o	 t he	
r est at ement	 of	 hist orical	 dat a,	 whic h	 ar e	
per mitt ed	 b y	 IFRS	 1	 “First	 time	 adoption	 of	
Int er national	 Financial	 R epor ting	 S t andar ds”:
(a)	 Business	 combinations:	 The	 g r oup	 c hose	 not	
t o	 r est at e	 business	 combinations	 prior	 t o	 t he	
tr ansition	 dat e	 on	 an	 IFRS	 basis,	 as	 no	 significant	
acq uisitions	 had	 t ak en	 place	 f or	 t he	 t hr ee	 y ears	
prior	 t o	 t he	 tr ansition	 dat e.
(b)	 Em plo y ee	 benefits:	 All	 cumulativ e	 actuarial	
g ains	 and	 losses	 had	 been	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	
at	 t he	 tr ansition	 dat e.	 This	 w as	 t o	 maint ain	
consist ency	 wit h	 pr ospectiv e	 g r oup	 policy ,	
wher eb y	 all	 actuarial	 g ains	 and	 losses	 will	 be	
r ecognised	 dir ectl y	 in	 r eserv es	 via	 t he	 st at ement	
of	 r ecognised	 income	 and	 expense.
( c ) 	 C u m u l a t i v e 	 t r a n s l a t i o n 	 d i f f e r e n c e s : 	 O n e	
o f 	 t h e 	 r e q u i r e m e n t s 	 o f 	 I A S 2 	 1 	 “ T h e 	 E f f e c t s 	 o f	
C h a n g e s 	 i n 	 F o r e i g n 	 E x c h a n g e 	 R a t e s ” 	 i s 	 t h a t 	 o n	
d i s p o s a l 	 o f 	 a n 	 o p e r a t i o n , 	 t h e 	 c u m u l a t i v e 	 a m o u n t	
o f 	 e x c h a n g e 	 d i f f e r e n c e s 	 p r e v i o u s l y 	 r e c o g n i s e d	
d i r e c t l y 	 i n 	 e q u i t y 	 f o r 	 t h a t 	 f o r e i g n 	 o p e r a t i o n 	 a r e	
t o 	 b e 	 t r a n s f e r r e d 	 t o 	 t h e 	 i n c o m e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 a s	
p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 p r o f i t 	 o r 	 l o s s 	 o n 	 d i s p o s a l . 	 T h e 	 g r o u p	
h a d 	 a d o p t e d 	 t h e 	 e x e m p t i o n 	 a l l o w i n g 	 t h e s e	
c u m u l a t i v e 	 t r a n s l a t i o n 	 d i f f e r e n c e s 	 t o 	 b e 	 r e s e t	 	
t o 	 z e r o 	 a t 	 t h e 	 t r a n s i t i o n 	 d a t e .
(d)	 Shar e-based	 pa yments:	 The	 g r oup	 adopt ed	
t he	 ex em ption	 t o	 appl y	 IFRS	 2	 “Shar e-based	
P a yment”	 onl y	 t o	 eq uity	 settled	 a w ar ds	 g r ant ed	
af t er	 7	 No v ember	 2002	 and	 not	 full y	 v est ed	
bef or e	 1	 Januar y	 2005.
(e)	 Infr astructur e	 assets:	 The	 g r oup	 adopt ed	 t he	
option	 t o	 r est at e	 infr astructur e	 assets	 t o	 use	 t he	
f air	 v alue	 as	 t he	 deemed	 cost	 in	 t he	 balance	
sheet,	 using	 t he	 f air	 v alue	 at	 t he	 balance	 sheet	
dat e	 as	 deemed	 cost.
The	 g r oup	 has	 c hosen	 t o	 highlight	 t he	
measur es	 of	 Ear nings	 per	 Shar e	 (EPS)	 r eg ar ding	
continuing	 oper ations,	 whic h	 ar e	 disclosed	 in	
t he	 income	 st at ement.	 A djust ed	 ear nings	 per	
shar e	 continue	 t o	 be	 disclosed	 in	 t he	 not es	 t o	
t he	 accounts.	 The	 dir ect ors	 consider	 t hat	 t he	
measur es	 included	 on	 t he	 income	 st at ement	
pr o vide	 t he	 most	 useful	 indications	 of	 t he	
g r oup’s	 per f or mance	 f or	 t his	 y ear .
The	 g r oup	 has	 also	 amended	 t he	 pr esent ation	
of	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 t o	 giv e	 additional	
disclosur es	 of	 def er r ed	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	
on	 depr eciat ed	 assets	 and	 financial	 liabilities.	
This	 is	 consider ed	 t o	 im pr o v e	 t he	 tr anspar ency	
of	 t he	 balance	 sheet.
Basis of consolidation
The	 g r oup	 financial	 st at ements	 consolidat e	
t he	 financial	 st at ements	 of	 K elda	 Gr oup	 plc	
and	 its	 subsidiaries.	 The	 r esults	 of	 under t akings	
acq uir ed	 or	 sold	 ar e	 consolidat ed	 f or	 t he	
periods	 fr om	 t he	 dat e	 of	 acq uisition	 or	 up	 t o	
t he	 dat e	 of	 disposal.	 A cq uisitions	 of	 subsidiaries	
ar e	 account ed	 f or	 under	 t he	 pur c hase	 met hod	
of	 accounting.	 Associat es	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 	
ar e	 account ed	 f or	 under	 t he	 eq uity	 met hod	 	
of	 accounting.
(B) Accounting policies
A	 summar y	 of	 t he	 principal	 accounting	
policies,	 whic h	 ha v e	 been	 consist entl y	 applied	
t hr oughout	 t he	 y ear	 and	 t he	 pr eceding	 y ear ,	 	
is	 set	 out	 belo w .
Foreign currencies
In	 t he	 accounts	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 com panies,	
individual	 tr ansactions	 denominat ed	 in	 f or eign	
cur r encies	 ar e	 tr anslat ed	 int o	 functional	
cur r ency	 at	 t he	 actual	 ex c hang e	 r at es	 ruling	 at	
t he	 dat es	 of	 t he	 tr ansactions.	 Monet ar y	 assets	
and	 liabilities	 denominat ed	 in	 f or eign	 cur r encies	
ar e	 tr anslat ed	 int o	 functional	 cur r ency	 at	 t he	
r at es	 ruling	 at	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 dat e.	 Pr ofits	
and	 losses	 on	 bot h	 individual	 f or eign	 cur r ency	
tr ansactions	 during	 t he	 y ear	 and	 monet ar y	
assets	 and	 liabilities	 ar e	 dealt	 wit h	 in	 t he	 	
income	 st at ement.
On	 consolidation,	 t he	 income	 st at ements	 of	
t he	 o v erseas	 subsidiaries	 ar e	 tr anslat ed	 at	 t he	
a v er ag e	 ex c hang e	 r at es	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 and	 t he	
balance	 sheets	 at	 t he	 ex c hang e	 r at es	 at	 t he	
balance	 sheet	 dat e.	 The	 ex c hang e	 dif f er ences	
arising	 as	 a	 r esult	 of	 tr anslating	 income	
st at ements	 at	 a v er ag e	 r at es	 and	 r est ating	
opening	 net	 assets	 at	 closing	 r at es	 ar e	 t ak en	 t o	
t he	 tr anslation	 r eserv e.	 Ex c hang e	 dif f er ences	
on	 f or eign	 cur r ency	 bor r o wings	 t hat	 pr o vide	
a	 hedg e	 ag ainst	 a	 net	 inv estment	 in	 a	 f or eign	
oper ation	 ar e	 t ak en	 dir ectl y	 t o	 eq uity	 until	 t he	
disposal	 of	 t he	 net	 inv estment,	 at	 whic h	 time	
t he y	 ar e	 r ecognised	 in	 t he	 consolidat ed	 income	
st at ement.	 Goodwill	 arising	 on	 t he	 acq uisition	 of	
an	 o v erseas	 subsidiar y ,	 associat e	 or	 joint	 v entur e	
is	 calculat ed	 using	 ex c hang e	 r at es	 applicable	 	
at	 t he	 dat e	 of	 acq uisition	 and	 is	 subseq uentl y	
r e-tr anslat ed	 at	 eac h	 balance	 sheet	 dat e.	 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45
Turnover
Provision of services
T ur no v er	 com prises	 c har g es	 t o	 cust omers	 f or	
w at er ,	 w ast e	 w at er	 and	 envir onment al	 services,	
ex cluding	 v alue	 added	 t ax,	 t og et her	 wit h	 t he	
pr oceeds	 fr om	 t he	 sale	 of	 commer cial	 and	
r esidential	 pr oper ties	 t o	 t hir d	 par ties	 whic h	 	
w er e	 pr e viousl y	 held	 as	 st oc k.	 T ur no v er	 	
ex cludes	 int er -com pan y	 sales.	
T ur no v er	 is	 not	 r ecognised	 until	 t he	 service	
has	 been	 pr o vided	 t o	 t he	 cust omer .	 T ur no v er	
r elat es	 t o	 c har g es	 due	 in	 t he	 y ear ,	 ex cluding	
an y	 amounts	 paid	 in	 adv ance.	 T ur no v er	 f or	
measur ed	 w at er	 c har g es	 includes	 amounts	
billed	 plus	 an	 estimation	 of	 t he	 amounts	
unbilled	 at	 t he	 y ear	 end.	 The	 accrual	 is	
estimat ed	 using	 a	 defined	 met hodology	 based	
upon	 dail y	 a v er ag e	 w at er	 consum ption,	 whic h	
is	 calculat ed	 based	 upon	 hist orical	 billing	
inf or mation.
Interest receivable
Int er est	 r eceiv able	 is	 r ecognised	 as	 t he	 int er est	
accrues	 using	 t he	 ef f ectiv e	 int er est	 met hod	
t hat	 is	 t he	 r at e	 t hat	 ex actl y	 discounts	 estimat ed	
futur e	 cash	 r eceipts	 and	 pa yments	 t hr ough	 t he	
expect ed	 lif e	 of	 t he	 financial	 instrument	 t o	 t he	
net	 car r ying	 amount	 of	 t he	 financial	 asset.
Dividends receivable
Dividends	 r eceiv able	 ar e	 r ecognised	 when	 t he	
shar eholders’	 right	 t o	 r eceiv e	 t he	 r e v enue	 is	
est ablished.
Rental income
R ent al	 income	 arising	 on	 inv estment	 pr oper ties	
is	 account ed	 f or	 on	 a	 str aight	 line	 basis	 o v er	 t he	
lease	 t er m	 on	 ongoing	 leases.
Dividends payable
Int erim	 and	 final	 dividends	 pa y able	 ar e	
r ecognised	 on	 pa yment	 of	 t he	 dividend.
Research and development expenditure
R esear c h	 expenditur e	 is	 writt en	 of f	 in	 t he	
income	 st at ement	 in	 t he	 y ear	 in	 whic h	 	
it	 is	 incur r ed.
De v elopment	 expenditur e	 is	 c har g ed	 t o	
t he	 income	 st at ement	 ex cept	 wher e	 t he	
expenditur e	 meets	 t he	 crit eria	 f or	 r ecognition	
as	 an	 int er nall y	 g ener at ed	 int angible	 asset	 as	
outlined	 in	 IAS	 38	 “Int angible	 assets”.	 Wher e	 t he	
r ecognition	 crit eria	 ar e	 met,	 int angible	 assets	
ar e	 capit alised	 and	 amor tised	 o v er	 t heir	 useful	
economic	 liv es	 fr om	 launc h.
Taxation
Current tax 
Cur r ent	 t ax	 f or	 t he	 cur r ent	 and	 prior	 periods	 is,	
t o	 t he	 ext ent	 un paid,	 r ecognised	 as	 a	 liability .	
If	 t he	 amount	 alr eady	 paid	 in	 r espect	 of	 t he	
cur r ent	 and	 prior	 periods	 ex ceeds	 t he	 amount	
pa y able,	 t he	 ex cess	 is	 r ecognised	 as	 an	 asset.	
The	 benefits	 r elating	 t o	 a	 t ax	 loss	 t hat	 can	 be	
car ried	 bac k	 t o	 r eco v er	 cur r ent	 t ax	 of	 a	 pr e vious	
period	 ar e	 held	 as	 an	 asset.
Deferred tax
Def er r ed	 income	 t ax	 is	 pr o vided,	 using	 t he	
liability	 met hod,	 on	 all	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ences	
at	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 dat e	 betw een	 t he	 t ax	
bases	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 and	 t heir	 car r ying	
amounts	 f or	 financial	 r epor ting	 purposes	 wit h	
t he	 f ollo wing	 ex ceptions:
wher e	 t he	 def er r ed	 income	 t ax	 liability	 arises	
fr om	 t he	 initial	 r ecognition	 of	 goodwill	 or	 t he	
initial	 r ecognition	 of	 an	 asset	 or	 liability	 in	 a	
tr ansaction	 t hat	 is	 not	 a	 business	 combination	
and,	 at	 t he	 time	 of	 t he	 tr ansaction,	 af f ects	
neit her	 t he	 accounting	 pr ofit	 nor	 t ax able	 	
pr ofit	 or	 loss;	 and
in	 r espect	 of	 t ax able	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ences	
associat ed	 wit h	 inv estments	 in	 subsidiaries,	
associat es	 and	 int er ests	 in	 joint	 v entur es,	 wher e	
t he	 timing	 of	 t he	 r e v ersal	 of	 t he	 t em por ar y	
dif f er ence	 can	 be	 contr olled	 and	 it	 is	 pr obable	
t hat	 t he	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ence	 will	 not	 r e v erse	 	
in	 t he	 f or eseeable	 futur e.
Def er r ed	 income	 t ax	 assets	 ar e	 r ecognised	 f or	
all	 deductible	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ences,	 car r y-
f or w ar d	 of	 unused	 t ax	 assets	 and	 unused	 t ax	
losses,	 t o	 t he	 ext ent	 t hat	 it	 is	 pr obable	 t hat	
t ax able	 pr ofit	 will	 be	 a v ailable	 ag ainst	 whic h	 t he	
deductible	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ences,	 car r y-f or w ar d	
of	 unused	 t ax	 assets	 and	 unused	 t ax	 losses	 can	
be	 utilised,	 ex cept:
wher e	 t he	 def er r ed	 income	 t ax	 asset	 r elating	 t o	
t he	 deductible	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ence	 arises	 fr om	
t he	 initial	 r ecognition	 of	 an	 asset	 or	 liability	 in	 a	
tr ansaction	 t hat	 is	 not	 a	 business	 combination	
and,	 at	 t he	 time	 of	 t he	 tr ansaction,	 af f ects	
neit her	 t he	 accounting	 pr ofit	 nor	 t ax able	 	
pr ofit	 or	 loss;	 and
in	 r espect	 of	 deductible	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ences	
associat ed	 wit h	 inv estments	 in	 subsidiaries,	
associat es	 and	 int er ests	 in	 joint	 v entur es,	
def er r ed	 t ax	 assets	 ar e	 onl y	 r ecognised	 t o	 t he	
ext ent	 t hat	 it	 is	 pr obable	 t hat	 t he	 t em por ar y	
dif f er ences	 will	 r e v erse	 in	 t he	 f or eseeable	 futur e	
and	 t ax able	 pr ofit	 will	 be	 a v ailable	 ag ainst	 whic h	
t he	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ence	 can	 be	 utilised.
The	 car r ying	 amount	 of	 def er r ed	 income	 t ax	
assets	 is	 r e vie w ed	 at	 eac h	 balance	 sheet	 dat e	
and	 r educed	 t o	 t he	 ext ent	 t hat	 it	 is	 no	 long er	
pr obable	 t hat	 suf ficient	 t ax able	 pr ofit	 will	 be	
a v ailable	 t o	 allo w	 all	 or	 par t	 of	 t he	 def er r ed	
income	 t ax	 asset	 t o	 be	 utilised.
Def er r ed	 income	 t ax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 ar e	
measur ed	 at	 t he	 t ax	 r at es	 t hat	 appl y	 t o	 t he	
period	 when	 t he	 asset	 is	 r ealised	 or	 t he	 liability	
is	 settled,	 based	 on	 t ax	 r at es	 (and	 t ax	 la w s)	 t hat	
ha v e	 been	 enact ed	 or	 subst antiv el y	 enact ed	 at	
t he	 balance	 sheet	 dat e.
Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill	 is	 t he	 ex cess	 of	 t he	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	
consider ation	 paid	 f or	 a	 business	 o v er	 t he	 f air	
v alue	 of	 t he	 identifiable	 assets	 and	 liabilities	
acq uir ed.	 Goodwill	 is	 capit alised	 and	 subject	 t o	
an	 im pair ment	 r e vie w ,	 bot h	 annuall y	 and	 when	
t her e	 ar e	 indications	 t hat	 t he	 car r ying	 v alue	
ma y	 not	 be	 r eco v er able.	 Prior	 t o	 1	 April	 2004,	
goodwill	 w as	 amor tised	 o v er	 its	 estimat ed	 	
useful	 lif e,	 suc h	 amor tisation	 ceased	 on	 	
3 1	 Mar c h	 2004.
Im pair ment	 is	 det er mined	 b y	 assessing	 t he	
r eco v er able	 amount	 of	 t he	 cash-g ener ating	
unit	 t o	 whic h	 t he	 goodwill	 r elat es.	 Wher e	 t he	
r eco v er able	 amount	 is	 less	 t han	 t he	 car r ying	
amount,	 an	 im pair ment	 loss	 is	 r ecognised.	
When	 an	 entity	 is	 disposed	 of,	 an y	 goodwill	
associat ed	 wit h	 it	 is	 included	 in	 t he	 car r ying	
amount	 of	 t he	 oper ation	 when	 det er mining	 	
t he	 g ain	 or	 loss	 on	 disposal. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 46
Ot her	 int angible	 assets	 com prise	 capit alised	
bid	 costs	 on	 contr acts	 w on	 wit hin	 t he	 g r oup.	
Costs	 ar e	 capit alised	 fr om	 t he	 dat e	 a	 g r oup	
com pan y	 is	 named	 as	 pr ef er r ed	 bidder	 and	
t hen	 amor tised	 o v er	 t he	 shor t er	 of	 t he	 lif e	 of	
t he	 contr act	 or	 t he	 period	 t o	 t he	 first	 r ene w al	
dat e.	 If	 pr ef er r ed	 bidder	 st atus	 is	 wit hdr a wn,	
capit alised	 costs	 will	 be	 writt en	 of f	 immediat el y .
Property, plant and equipment
Pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment,	 including	
infr astructur e	 assets,	 ar e	 included	 at	 cost	 less	
accumulat ed	 depr eciation	 and	 an y	 pr o vision	 f or	
im pair ment.	 Finance	 costs	 incur r ed	 in	 r espect	
of	 t he	 construction	 of	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	
eq uipment	 ar e	 not	 capit alised.
F r eehold	 land	 is	 not	 depr eciat ed.	 Depr eciation	
is	 c har g ed	 on	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	
on	 a	 str aight	 line	 basis	 o v er	 t heir	 estimat ed	
useful	 economic	 liv es,	 or	 t he	 estimat ed	
useful	 economic	 liv es	 of	 t heir	 individual	 ma jor	
com ponents,	 fr om	 t he	 dat e	 of	 commissioning.	
Useful	 economic	 liv es	 ar e	 principall y	 as	 f ollo w s:
Buildings	 25	 –	 60	 y ears
Plant and Equipment
Fix ed	 plant	 5	 –	 40	 y ears
V ehicles,	 mobile	 plant 	
and	 com put ers	 	 3	 –	 1 0	 y ears
Infrastructure assets
W at er	 mains	 and	 se w ers	 40	 –	 1 25	 y ears
Ear t h	 bank ed	 dams	 	
and	 r eserv oirs	 200	 y ears
Assets	 in	 t he	 course	 of	 construction	 ar e	 not	
depr eciat ed	 until	 commissioned.	 The	 car r ying	
v alues	 of	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 ar e	
r e vie w ed	 f or	 im pair ment	 if	 e v ents	 or	 c hang es	 	
in	 cir cumst ances	 indicat e	 t hat	 t he	 car r ying	 	
v alue	 ma y	 not	 be	 r eco v er able.	 Useful	 liv es	 	
and	 r esidual	 v alues	 ar e	 r e vie w ed	 annuall y .	
Wher e	 adjustments	 ar e	 r eq uir ed,	 t hese	 ar e	
made	 pr ospectiv el y .
In	 t he	 UK	 r egulat ed	 w at er	 services	 business,	
infr astructur e	 assets	 com prise	 a	 netw ork	 of	
sy st ems	 being	 mains	 and	 se w ers,	 im pounding	
and	 pum ped	 r a w	 w at er	 st or ag e,	 r eserv oirs,	
dams	 and	 sea	 outf alls.	 The	 opening	 balance	
f or	 infr astructur e	 assets	 w as	 calculat ed	 wit h	
r ef er ence	 t o	 t he	 estimat ed	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	
infr astructur e	 netw ork	 as	 a	 whole	 at	 1	 April	
2004.	 Subseq uent	 expenditur e	 will	 be	 classified	
as	 oper ating	 expenditur e	 or	 capit al	 and	
account ed	 f or	 appr opriat el y .
Accounting for leases
(i) Finance leases
Assets	 whic h	 ar e	 financed	 b y	 leasing	
ag r eements	 t hat	 tr ansf er	 subst antiall y	 all	 t he	
risks	 and	 r e w ar ds	 of	 o wnership	 t o	 t he	 lessee	
(finance	 leases)	 ar e	 capit alised	 in	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	
and	 eq uipment	 and	 t he	 cor r esponding	 capit al	
cost	 is	 sho wn	 as	 an	 oblig ation	 t o	 t he	 lessor	 in	
bor r o wings.	 Depr eciation	 is	 g ener all y	 c har g ed	
t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 o v er	 t he	 shor t er	
of	 t he	 estimat ed	 useful	 lif e	 and	 t he	 t er m	 of	
t he	 lease.	 If	 t he	 oper ational	 lif e	 of	 an	 asset	 is	
long er	 t han	 t he	 lease	 t er m,	 and	 t he	 ag r eement	
allo w s	 an	 ext ension	 t o	 t hat	 t er m,	 t he	 asset	 ma y	
be	 depr eciat ed	 o v er	 its	 oper ational	 lif e.	 The	
capit al	 element	 of	 lease	 pa yments	 r educes	 t he	
oblig ation	 t o	 t he	 lessor	 and	 t he	 int er est	 element	
is	 c har g ed	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 o v er	 t he	
t er m	 of	 t he	 lease	 in	 pr opor tion	 t o	 t he	 capit al	
amount	 outst anding.
(ii) Operating leases
Leases	 wher e	 t he	 lessor	 r et ains	 subst antiall y	 all	
t he	 risks	 and	 r e w ar ds	 of	 o wnership	 ar e	 classified	
as	 oper ating	 leases.	 Lease	 pa yments	 ar e	
c har g ed	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 on	 a	 str aight	
line	 basis	 o v er	 t he	 t er m	 of	 t he	 lease.
Government grants and contributions
Go v er nment	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	 in	 r espect	
of	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 ar e	 def er r ed	
and	 cr edit ed	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 b y	
inst alments	 o v er	 t he	 expect ed	 economic	 liv es	
of	 t he	 r elat ed	 assets.	 Go v er nment	 g r ants	 ar e	
r ecognised	 at	 t heir	 f air	 v alue	 wher e	 t her e	 is	
r easonable	 assur ance	 t hat	 t he	 g r ant	 will	 be	
r eceiv ed	 and	 all	 att ac hing	 conditions	 will	 be	
com plied	 wit h.
Go v er nment	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	 r eceiv ed	
in	 r espect	 of	 an	 it em	 of	 expense	 during	 t he	 y ear	
ar e	 r ecognised	 in	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 on	 a	
sy st ematic	 basis	 in	 line	 wit h	 t he	 cost	 t hat	 it	 is	
int ended	 t o	 com pensat e.
Go v er nment	 g r ants	 whic h	 can	 be	 allocat ed	
ag ainst	 an	 individual	 asset	 ar e	 included	 as	 par t	
of	 t he	 car r ying	 v alue	 of	 t he	 asset.	 Go v er nment	
g r ants	 whic h	 cannot	 be	 allocat ed	 t o	 individual	
assets	 ar e	 held	 as	 def er r ed	 income	 and	 	
r eleased	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 o v er	 	
t he	 lif e	 of	 t he	 g r ant.
Investments in joint ventures and associates
The	 g r oup	 has	 a	 number	 of	 contr actual	
ar r ang ements	 wit h	 t hir d	 par ties	 whic h	
r epr esent	 joint	 v entur es,	 t hese	 t ak e	 t he	 f or m	
of	 ag r eements	 t o	 shar e	 contr ol	 o v er	 ot her	
com panies.	 The	 g r oup	 r ecognises	 its	 int er est	 	
in	 t he	 entity’s	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 using	 t he	
eq uity	 met hod	 of	 accounting.
The	 g r oup’s	 int er est	 in	 its	 associat es,	 being	
t hose	 entities	 o v er	 whic h	 it	 has	 significant	
inf luence	 and	 whic h	 ar e	 neit her	 subsidiaries	 	
nor	 joint	 v entur es,	 ar e	 account ed	 f or	 using	 	
t he	 eq uity	 met hod	 of	 accounting.	
Under	 t he	 eq uity	 met hod,	 t he	 inv estment	 in	
t he	 joint	 v entur e	 or	 associat e	 is	 car ried	 in	 t he	
balance	 sheet	 at	 cost	 plus	 post-acq uisition	
c hang es	 in	 t he	 g r oup’s	 shar e	 of	 it’s	 net	
assets,	 less	 distributions	 r eceiv ed	 and	 less	 an y	
im pair ment	 in	 v alue	 of	 individual	 inv estments.	
The	 g r oup	 income	 st at ement	 r ef lects	 t he	 	
shar e	 of	 t he	 joint	 v entur es’	 and	 associat es’	
r esults	 af t er	 t ax.	
Financial	 st at ements	 of	 joint	 v entur es	 and	
associat es	 ar e	 pr epar ed	 f or	 t he	 same	 r epor ting	
period	 as	 t he	 g r oup.	 Wher e	 necessar y ,	
adjustments	 ar e	 made	 t o	 bring	 t he	 accounting	
policies	 used	 int o	 line	 wit h	 t hose	 of	 t he	 g r oup.	
The	 g r oup	 ceases	 t o	 use	 t he	 eq uity	 met hod	 on	
t he	 dat e	 fr om	 whic h	 it	 no	 long er	 has	 contr ol	
o v er	 or	 significant	 inf luence	 in	 t he	 joint	 v entur e	
or	 associat e.	 An y	 unr ealised	 g ains	 or	 losses	
betw een	 t he	 g r oup	 and	 its	 joint	 v entur es	 and	
associat es	 ar e	 eliminat ed	 on	 consolidation.
Inventories 
Inv ent ories	 and	 w ork	 in	 pr og r ess	 ar e	 st at ed	 at	
t he	 lo w er	 of	 cost	 and	 net	 r ealisable	 v alue	 less	
an y	 pr o vision	 necessar y	 t o	 r ecognise	 damag e	
and	 obsolescence.	 Cost	 includes	 labour ,	
mat erials	 and	 an	 appr opriat e	 pr opor tion	 	
of	 o v erheads.	
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
Provisions
Pr o vision	 is	 made	 f or	 self	 insur ed	 claims	 incur r ed	
but	 not	 r epor t ed,	 and	 ot her	 kno wn	 liabilities	
whic h	 exist	 at	 t he	 y ear	 end	 as	 a	 r esult	 of	 a	 	
past	 e v ent.	
Financial instruments
Cash and cash equivalents 	
Cash	 eq uiv alents	 ar e	 defined	 as	 including	 shor t	
t er m	 deposits	 wit h	 original	 maturity	 wit hin	 t hr ee	
mont hs.	 F or	 t he	 purposes	 of	 t he	 consolidat ed	 cash	
f lo w	 st at ement,	 cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 consist	
of	 cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 net	 of	 outst anding	
bank	 o v er dr af ts	 held	 wit h	 t he	 same	 bank	 wher e	
t her e	 is	 a	 leg al	 right	 and	 int ention	 t o	 of f set.
Trade and other receivables
T r ade	 and	 ot her	 r eceiv ables	 do	 not	 car r y	 an y	
int er est	 and	 ar e	 st at ed	 at	 t heir	 nominal	 v alue	
as	 r educed	 b y	 appr opriat e	 allo w ances	 f or	
estimat ed	 ir r eco v er able	 amounts.	 Ther e	 is	 	
no	 int ention	 t o	 tr ade	 t he	 r eceiv ables.	
Inv oices	 f or	 unmeasur ed	 w at er	 c har g es	 ar e	 due	
on	 pr edet er mined	 dat es,	 ir r espectiv e	 of	 dat e	
of	 r eceipt.	 Ot her	 tr ade	 r eceiv ables	 g ener all y	
ha v e	 7–30	 da y	 pa yment	 t er ms.	 An	 estimat e	 f or	
doubtful	 debts	 is	 made	 when	 collection	 of	 t he	
full	 amount	 is	 no	 long er	 pr obable.	 Bad	 debts	 	
ar e	 writt en	 of f	 when	 identified.
Trade and other payables
T r a d e 	 a n d 	 o t h e r 	 p a y a b l e s 	 a r e 	 n o t 	 i n t e r e s t	
b e a r i n g 	 a n d 	 a r e 	 s t a t e d 	 a t 	 t h e i r 	 n o m i n a l 	 v a l u e .
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
A l l 	 l o a n s 	 a n d 	 b o r r o w i n g s 	 a r e 	 i n i t i a l l y 	 r e c o g n i s e d	
a t 	 f a i r 	 v a l u e 	 l e s s 	 d i r e c t l y 	 a t t r i b u t a b l e 	 t r a n s a c t i o n	
c o s t s . 	 A f t e r 	 i n i t i a l 	 r e c o g n i t i o n , 	 i n t e r e s t - b e a r i n g	
l o a n s 	 a n d 	 b o r r o w i n g s 	 a r e 	 s u b s e q u e n t l y	
m e a s u r e d 	 a t 	 a m o r t i s e d 	 c o s t 	 u s i n g 	 t h e 	 e f f e c t i v e	
i n t e r e s t 	 m e t h o d . 	 G a i n s 	 a n d 	 l o s s e s 	 a r i s i n g 	 o n	
r e p u r c h a s e , 	 s e t t l e m e n t 	 o r 	 o t h e r w i s e 	 c a n c e l l a t i o n	
o f 	 l i a b i l i t i e s 	 a r e 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 r e s p e c t i v e l y 	 i n	
i n v e s t m e n t 	 i n c o m e 	 a n d 	 f i n a n c e 	 c o s t s .
Derivative financial instruments
The	 g r oup	 uses	 deriv ativ e	 financial	 instruments	
suc h	 as	 f or eign	 cur r ency	 contr acts	 and	 int er est	
r at e	 sw aps	 t o	 hedg e	 its	 risks	 associat ed	 wit h	
int er est	 r at e	 and	 f or eign	 cur r ency	 f luctuations.	
Suc h	 deriv ativ e	 financial	 instruments	 ar e	 st at ed	
at	 f air	 v alue.
The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 f or w ar d	 ex c hang e	 contr acts	
is	 calculat ed	 b y	 r ef er ence	 t o	 cur r ent	 f or w ar d	
ex c hang e	 r at es	 f or	 contr acts	 wit h	 similar	
maturity	 pr ofiles.	 The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 int er est	 r at e	
sw ap	 contr acts	 is	 det er mined	 b y	 r ef er ence	 t o	
mark et	 v alues	 f or	 similar	 instruments.	
F or	 t he	 purposes	 of	 hedg e	 accounting,	 hedg es	
ar e	 classified	 as	 eit her	 f air	 v alue	 hedg es	 wher e	
t he y	 hedg e	 t he	 exposur e	 t o	 c hang es	 in	 t he	
f air	 v alue	 of	 a	 r ecognised	 asset	 or	 liability	 and	
unr ecognised	 fir m	 commitments;	 or	 cash	 f lo w	
hedg es	 wher e	 t he y	 hedg e	 exposur e	 t o	 v ariability	
in	 cash	 f lo w s	 t hat	 is	 eit her	 attribut able	 t o	 a	
par ticular	 risk	 associat ed	 wit h	 a	 r ecognised	 	
asset	 or	 liability	 or	 a	 f or ecast ed	 tr ansaction.	
I n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 c a s h 	 f l o w 	 h e d g e s 	 t o 	 h e d g e 	 h i g h l y	
p r o b a b l e 	 f o r e c a s t e d 	 t r a n s a c t i o n s 	 w h i c h 	 m e e t 	 t h e	
c o n d i t i o n s 	 f o r 	 h e d g e 	 a c c o u n t i n g , 	 t h e 	 p o r t i o n	
o f 	 t h e 	 g a i n 	 o r 	 l o s s 	 o n 	 t h e 	 h e d g i n g 	 i n s t r u m e n t	
t h a t 	 i s 	 d e t e r m i n e d 	 t o 	 b e 	 a n 	 e f f e c t i v e 	 h e d g e 	 i s	
r e c o g n i s e d 	 d i r e c t l y 	 i n 	 e q u i t y 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 i n e f f e c t i v e	
p o r t i o n 	 i s 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 i n 	 n e t 	 p r o f i t 	 o r 	 l o s s .
When	 t he	 hedg ed	 highl y	 pr obabl y	 f or ecast ed	
tr ansaction	 r esults	 in	 t he	 r ecognition	 of	 a	 non-
monet ar y	 asset	 or	 a	 liability ,	 t hen,	 at	 t he	 time	
t he	 asset	 or	 liability	 is	 r ecognised,	 t he	 associat ed	
g ains	 or	 losses	 t hat	 had	 pr e viousl y	 been	
r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 ar e	 included	 in	 t he	 initial	
measur ement	 of	 t he	 acq uisition	 cost	 or	 ot her	
car r ying	 amount	 of	 t he	 asset	 or	 liability .	 F or	 all	
ot her	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg es,	 t he	 g ains	 or	 losses	 t hat	
ar e	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 ar e	 tr ansf er r ed	 t o	 t he	
income	 st at ement	 in	 t he	 same	 period	 in	 whic h	
t he	 hedg ed	 fir m	 commitment	 af f ects	 t he	 net	
pr ofit	 and	 loss,	 f or	 ex am ple	 when	 t he	 futur e	 	
sale	 actuall y	 occurs.
F or	 deriv ativ es	 t hat	 do	 not	 q ualify	 f or	 hedg e	
accounting,	 an y	 g ains	 or	 losses	 arising	 fr om	
c hang es	 in	 f air	 v alue	 ar e	 t ak en	 dir ectl y	 t o	 	
net	 pr ofit	 or	 loss	 f or	 t he	 period.
Hedg e	 accounting	 is	 discontinued	 when	
t he	 hedging	 instrument	 expir es	 or	 is	 sold,	
t er minat ed	 or	 ex er cised,	 or	 no	 long er	 q ualifies	
f or	 hedg e	 accounting.	 A t	 t hat	 point	 in	 time,	
an y	 cumulativ e	 g ain	 or	 loss	 on	 t he	 hedging	
instrument	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 is	 k ept	 in	 eq uity	
until	 t he	 f or ecast ed	 tr ansaction	 occurs.	 If	 a	
hedg ed	 tr ansaction	 is	 no	 long er	 expect ed	 t o	
occur ,	 t he	 net	 cumulativ e	 g ain	 or	 loss	
r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 is	 tr ansf er r ed	 t o	 pr ofit	 	
or	 loss	 f or	 t he	 period	
Hedg es	 of	 net	 inv estments	 in	 f or eign	 oper ations	
ar e	 account ed	 f or	 similarl y	 t o	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg es.	
An y	 g ain	 or	 loss	 on	 t he	 ef f ectiv e	 por tion	 of	 t he	
hedg e	 is	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 and	 an y	 g ain	 or	
loss	 on	 t he	 inef f ectiv e	 por tion	 is	 r ecognised	
in	 t he	 income	 st at ement.	 On	 disposal	 of	 t he	
f or eign	 oper ation	 t he	 cumulativ e	 v alue	 of	 an y	
g ains	 or	 losses	 r ecognised	 dir ectl y	 in	 eq uity	 is	
tr ansf er r ed	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement.
Employee benefits
(a) Pension plans
(i) Defined contribution scheme
The	 g r oup	 oper at es	 defined	 contribution	
sc hemes	 f or	 t hose	 members	 of	 st af f	 who	 ar e	
not	 members	 of	 its	 defined	 benefit	 sc heme.	
T w o	 ar e	 pension	 plans	 under	 whic h	 t he	 g r oup	
pa y s	 a	 fix ed	 contribution	 int o	 a	 separ at e	 entity	
whic h	 oper at es	 t he	 sc hemes.	 The	 ot her	 pr o vides	
t he	 em plo y ees	 wit h	 a	 lum p	 sum	 on	 r etir ement,	
wit h	 whic h	 t he y	 t hen	 inv est	 in	 an	 annuity .	 Ot her	
t han	 t his	 contribution	 t he	 g r oup	 has	 no	 fur t her	
leg al	 or	 constructiv e	 oblig ation	 t o	 mak e	 fur t her	
contributions	 t o	 t he	 sc heme.
Oblig ations	 f or	 contributions	 t o	 t he	 sc heme	
ar e	 r ecognised	 as	 an	 expense	 in	 t he	 income	
st at ement	 in	 t he	 period	 in	 whic h	 t he y	 arise.
(ii) Defined benefit scheme
The	 g r oup	 oper at es	 defined	 benefit	 sc hemes	
in	 t he	 UK	 and	 US.	 A	 defined	 benefit	 sc heme	
is	 a	 pension	 plan	 under	 whic h	 t he	 amount	 of	
pension	 benefit	 t hat	 an	 em plo y ee	 r eceiv es	
on	 r etir ement	 is	 defined	 b y	 r ef er ence	 t o	
f act ors	 including	 ag e,	 y ears	 of	 service	 and	
com pensation.
The	 sc hemes	 ar e	 funded	 b y	 pa yments,	
det er mined	 b y	 periodic	 actuarial	 calculations	
ag r eed	 betw een	 t he	 com pan y	 and	 t he	 trust ees	
t o	 trust ee	 administ er ed	 funds.
A	 liability	 or	 asset	 is	 r ecognised	 in	 t he	 balance	
sheet	 in	 r espect	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 net	 oblig ations	
t o	 t he	 sc hemes	 calculat ed	 separ at el y	 f or	 eac h	
sc heme.	 The	 liability	 r epr esents	 t he	 pr esent	
v alue	 of	 t he	 defined	 benefit	 oblig ations	 at	 t he	
balance	 sheet	 dat e,	 less	 t he	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	
sc heme	 assets	 and	 past	 service	 costs. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 48
The	 defined	 benefit	 oblig ation	 r epr esents	
t he	 estimat ed	 amount	 of	 futur e	 benefits	 t hat	
em plo y ees	 ha v e	 ear ned	 in	 r etur n	 f or	 t heir	
services	 in	 cur r ent	 and	 prior	 periods,	 discount ed	
at	 a	 r at e	 r epr esenting	 t he	 yield	 on	 a	 high	
q uality	 corpor at e	 bond	 at	 t he	 balance	 sheet	
dat e,	 denominat ed	 in	 t he	 same	 cur r ency	 as	
t he	 oblig ations	 and	 ha ving	 t he	 same	 t er ms	
t o	 maturity	 as	 t he	 r elat ed	 pension	 liability ,	
applied	 t o	 t he	 estimat ed	 futur e	 cash	 outf lo w s	
arising	 fr om	 t hese	 oblig ations.	 The	 calculation	
is	 per f or med	 b y	 a	 q ualified	 actuar y	 using	 t he	
pr oject ed	 unit	 cr edit	 met hod.
A ctuarial	 g ains	 and	 losses	 at	 1	 April	 2004,	 t he	
dat e	 of	 tr ansition	 t o	 IFRS,	 ha v e	 been	 r ecognised	
in	 t he	 g r oup’s	 r eserv es.	 A ctuarial	 g ains	 and	
losses	 on	 experience	 adjustments	 and	 c hang es	
in	 actuarial	 assum ptions	 t hat	 arise	 subseq uent	
t o	 1	 April	 2004	 ar e	 r ecognised	 in	 t he	 period	 in	
whic h	 t he y	 arise	 dir ectl y	 in	 t he	 st at ement	 	
of	 r ecognised	 income	 and	 expense.
(b) Equity settled share-based payments
The	 g r oup	 oper at es	 a	 sa vings	 r elat ed	 shar e	
option	 sc heme	 under	 whic h	 options	 ha v e	 been	
g r ant ed	 t o	 em plo y ees.	 The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 options	
g r ant ed	 in	 ex c hang e	 f or	 em plo y ee	 services	
r ender ed	 is	 r ecognised	 as	 an	 expense	 in	 t he	
income	 st at ement	 wit h	 a	 cor r esponding	 	
cr edit	 t o	 eq uity .
The	 t ot al	 amount	 whic h	 is	 expensed	 o v er	 t he	
v esting	 period	 is	 det er mined	 b y	 t he	 f air	 v alue	
of	 t he	 option	 at	 t he	 dat e	 of	 t he	 g r ant.	 The	 f air	
v alue	 of	 t he	 option	 calculat ed	 is	 det er mined	 	
b y	 use	 of	 mat hematical	 modelling	 including	 	
t he	 Blac k	 Sc holes	 option	 pricing	 model.
The	 g r oup	 r e-assesses	 its	 estimat e	 of	 t he	
number	 of	 options	 t hat	 ar e	 expect ed	 t o	
become	 ex er cisable	 at	 eac h	 balance	 sheet	
dat e.	 An y	 adjustments	 t o	 t he	 original	 estimat es	
ar e	 r ecognised	 in	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 (and	
eq uity).	 No	 expense	 is	 r ecognised	 f or	 a w ar ds	
t hat	 do	 not	 ultimat el y	 v est,	 ex cept	 f or	 a w ar ds	
wher e	 v esting	 is	 conditional	 upon	 a	 mark et	
condition,	 whic h	 ar e	 tr eat ed	 as	 v esting	
ir r espectiv e	 of	 whet her	 or	 not	 t he	 mark et	
condition	 is	 satisfied,	 pr o vided	 t hat	 all	 ot her	
per f or mance	 conditions	 ar e	 satisfied.
A w ar ds	 under	 t he	 Long	 T er m	 Incentiv e	 Plan	 ha v e	
tw o	 separ at e	 v esting	 conditions,	 bot h	 of	 whic h	
ar e	 dependent	 on	 mark et-based	 conditions	
(K elda	 shar eholder	 r etur n	 ag ainst	 a	 com par at or	
g r oup	 and	 ag ainst	 t he	 mark et).	 The	 mark et-
based	 conditions	 of	 t he	 a w ar d	 ar e	 t ak en	 int o	
account	 in	 v aluing	 t he	 a w ar d	 at	 t he	 g r ant	 dat e.	
A t	 eac h	 subseq uent	 balance	 sheet	 dat e	 t he	
g r oup	 r e vises	 its	 estimat e	 of	 t he	 number	 of	
em plo y ees	 who	 will	 r eceiv e	 a w ar ds.	 It	 	
r ecognises	 t he	 im pact	 of	 t he	 r e vision	 of	 	
original	 estimat es,	 if	 an y ,	 in	 t he	 income	
st at ement,	 and	 a	 cor r esponding	 adjustment	 	
t o	 eq uity	 o v er	 t he	 r emaining	 v esting	 period.
Investment in own shares
The	 g r oup	 has	 an	 em plo y ee	 shar e	 trust	 (ESO T)	
f or	 t he	 g r anting	 of	 g r oup	 shar es	 t o	 ex ecutiv es	
and	 senior	 em plo y ees.	 Shar es	 in	 t he	 g r oup	
held	 b y	 t he	 em plo y ee	 shar e	 trust	 ar e	 tr eat ed	 as	
tr easur y	 shar es	 and	 pr esent ed	 in	 t he	 balance	
sheet	 as	 a	 deduction	 fr om	 eq uity .
The	 finance	 costs	 and	 administr ation	 costs	
r elating	 t o	 t he	 ESO T	 ar e	 c har g ed	 t o	 t he	 income	
st at ement.	 Dividends	 ear ned	 on	 shar es	 held	
in	 t he	 T rust	 ha v e	 been	 w aiv ed.	 The	 shar es	 ar e	
ignor ed	 f or	 t he	 purposes	 of	 calculating	 t he	
com pan y’s	 ear nings	 per	 shar e.
Segmental reporting
The	 g r oup’s	 primar y	 r epor ting	 f or mat	 is	 its	
business	 segments	 and	 its	 secondar y	 f or mat	
is	 g eog r aphical	 segments.	 A	 segment	 is	
a	 com ponent	 of	 t he	 g r oup	 whic h	 can	 be	
distinguished	 separ at el y	 as	 pr o viding	 a	 pr oduct	
or	 service	 wit hin	 a	 par ticular	 envir onment	 whic h	
is	 subject	 t o	 risks	 and	 r e w ar ds	 t hat	 ar e	 dif f er ent	
fr om	 t hose	 of	 ot her	 segments.	 The	 g r oup	 has	
identified	 f our	 business	 segments:
•	 UK	 R egulat ed	 W at er	 Services	 –	 Y orkshir e	
W at er
•	 US	 Oper ations	 –	 A q uarion
•	 UK	 Service	 Oper ations	 –	 K elda	 W at er	 Services,	
Saf e	 Mo v e	 and	 Loop
•	 Pr oper ty	 De v elopment	 –	 K e yLand
The	 Business	 R e vie w	 det ails	 t he	 activities	 of	 	
eac h	 segment.
T r ansf er	 pricing	 betw een	 business	 segments	
is	 set	 on	 an	 ar ms	 lengt h	 basis	 similar	 t o	
tr ansactions	 wit h	 t hir d	 par ties.
The	 g r oup’s	 g eog r aphical	 segments	 ar e	
det er mined	 b y	 t he	 location	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 	
assets	 and	 oper ations.
Disposal groups held for sale
On	 classification	 as	 held	 f or	 sale,	 non-cur r ent	
assets	 ar e	 r ecognised	 at	 t he	 lo w er	 of	 car r ying	
amount	 and	 f air	 v alue	 less	 costs	 t o	 disposal.	
Pr ofit	 or	 loss	 associat ed	 wit h	 t hese	 assets	
is	 classified	 as	 “Pr ofit/(loss)	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 on	
discontinued	 oper ations”.	 Im pair ment	 losses	
on	 initial	 classification	 as	 held	 f or	 sale	 ar e	 also	
included	 in	 t his	 classification,	 as	 ar e	 an y	 g ains	
and	 losses	 on	 subseq uent	 r e-measur ement.
Exceptional items
Ex ceptional	 it ems	 ar e	 mat erial	 it ems	 whic h	
deriv e	 fr om	 e v ents	 or	 tr ansactions	 t hat	 f all	
wit hin	 t he	 or dinar y	 activities	 of	 t he	 r epor ting	
entity	 and	 whic h	 individuall y	 or ,	 if	 of	 a	 similar	
type,	 in	 agg r eg at e	 need	 t o	 be	 disclosed	 b y	
vir tue	 of	 t heir	 size	 or	 incidence	 if	 t he	 financial	
st at ements	 ar e	 t o	 giv e	 a	 true	 and	 f air	 vie w .
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49
(c) New standards and interpretations not applied
During	 t he	 y ear	 t he	 IASB	 and	 IFRIC	 ha v e	 issued	 a	 number	 of	 ne w	 st andar ds,	 amendments	 and	 int erpr et ations	 wit h	 an	 ef f ectiv e	 dat e	 af t er	 t he	 dat e	 of	
t hese	 financial	 st at ements.	 Of	 t hese,	 onl y	 t he	 f ollo wing	 ar e	 expect ed	 t o	 be	 r ele v ant	 t o	 t he	 g r oup:	
I F R S 	 7 	 F i n a n c i a l 	 I n s t r u m e n t s : 	 D i s c l o s u r e s 	 1 	 J a n u a r y 	 2 0 0 7
IFRS	 8	 Oper ating	 segments	 1	 Januar y	 2009
IAS	 1	 Pr esent ation	 of	 Financial	 S t at ements:	 Capit al	 Disclosur es	 1	 Januar y	 2007	
IFRIC	 8	 	 Scope	 of	 IFRS	 2	 	 1	 Ma y	 2006	
IFRIC	 9	 R eassessment	 of	 Embedded	 Deriv ativ es	 1	 June	 	 2006
IFRIC	 1 0	 Int erim	 Financial	 R epor ting	 and	 Im pair ment	 1	 No v ember	 2006
IFRIC	 1 2	 Service	 Concession	 Ar r ang ements	 1	 Januar y	 2008	
The	 dir ect ors	 do	 not	 anticipat e	 t hat	 t he	 adoption	 of	 t hese	 st andar ds	 and	 int erpr et ations	 will	 ha v e	 a	 mat erial	 im pact	 on	 t he	 g r oup’s	 financial	 st at ements	 	
in	 t he	 period	 of	 initial	 application.
Upon	 adoption	 of	 IFRS	 7 ,	 t he	 g r oup	 will	 ha v e	 t o	 disclose	 additional	 inf or mation	 about	 its	 financial	 instruments,	 t heir	 significance	 and	 t he	 natur e	 and	
ext ent	 of	 risks	 t hat	 t he y	 giv e	 rise	 t o.	 Mor e	 specificall y ,	 t he	 g r oup	 will	 need	 t o	 disclose	 t he	 f air	 v alue	 of	 its	 financial	 instruments	 and	 its	 risk	 exposur e	 in	
g r eat er	 det ail.	 Ther e	 will	 be	 no	 ef f ect	 on	 r epor t ed	 income	 or	 net	 assets.	 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 50
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
3. Segmental information
The	 primar y	 segment	 r epor ting	 f or mat	 is	 det er mined	 t o	 be	 business	 segments	 as	 t he	 g r oup’s	 risks	 and	 r at es	 of	 r etur n	 ar e	 af f ect ed	 pr edominantl y	 b y	
dif f er ences	 in	 t he	 pr oducts	 and	 services	 pr o vided.	 Secondar y	 segment	 inf or mation	 is	 r epor t ed	 g eog r aphicall y .	 The	 oper ating	 businesses	 ar e	 or g anised	
and	 manag ed	 separ at el y	 accor ding	 t o	 t he	 natur e	 of	 t he	 pr oducts	 and	 services	 pr o vided.
T r ansf er	 prices	 betw een	 business	 segments	 ar e	 set	 on	 an	 ar m’s	 lengt h	 basis	 in	 a	 manner	 similar	 t o	 tr ansactions	 wit h	 t hir d	 par ties.	 Segment	 r e v enue,	
segment	 expense	 and	 segment	 r esult	 include	 tr ansf ers	 betw een	 business	 segments.	 Those	 tr ansf ers	 ar e	 eliminat ed	 on	 consolidation.
It	 is	 not	 possible	 t o	 split	 t he	 r etir ement	 benefit	 surplus	 betw een	 t he	 UK	 subsidiar y	 com panies.	 It	 is	 t her ef or e	 r ecognised	 wit hin	 unallocat ed.
 UK regulated KeyLand KeyLand UK service ops UK service ops Eliminations/ Total US operations 
 water services group assoc group assoc and JV unallocated continuing (discontinued) Total 
Year ended 31 March 2007 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
T ot al	 sales	 741.1 7.0 0.5 111.6 45.8 – 906.0 99.4 1,005.4
Int er -com pan y	 sales	 – (0.6) – (26.5) – – (27.1) – (27.1)
Ext er nal	 sales	 741.1 6.4 0.5 85.1 45.8 – 878.9 99.4 978.3
Depr eciation	 (140.0) (0.1) – (0.8) – – (140.9) – (140.9)
Amor tisation	 of	 def er r ed
g r ant	 income	 3.2 – – – – – 3.2 – 3.2
Ot her	 oper ating	 costs	 (271.6) (2.0) (0.5) (78.7) (40.7) – (393.5) (57.8) (451.3)
 332.7 4.3 – 5.6 5.1 – 347.7 41.6 389.3
Unallocat ed	 corpor at e	 expenses       (4.6) – (4.6)
T ot al:	 Gr oup	 and	 shar e	 of	 associat es	 and	 joint	 v entur es	    343.1 41.6 384.7
Less	 associat es’	 and	 joint	 v entur es’	 int er est	     (4.4) – (4.4)
Less	 associat es’	 and	 joint	 v entur es’	 t ax	      (0.5) – (0.5)
Group operating profit 	      338.2 41.6 379.8
Inv estment	 income      64.1
Finance	 costs	     (161.1)
Profit from continuing operations before taxation      241.2
T ax	 expense      (69.5)
Profit for the year from continuing operations      171.7
 
Balance sheet         
Assets	 4,150.9 47.2  28.2  (48.2) 4,178.1 586.6 4,764.7
Liabilities	 (1,042.2) (4.3)  (21.4)  22.9 (1,045.0) (152.9) (1,197.9)
N et	 debt	 (2,429.5) (12.1)  40.2  419.8 (1,981.6) (122.7) (2,104.3)
Net assets 679.2 30.8  47.0  394.5 1,151.5 311.0 1,462.5
N et	 debt	 as	 not ed	 abo v e	 includes	 cash	 of	 £1 1 1 .4m	 whic h	 is	 included	 in	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 wit hin	 t ot al	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 £2,2 1 5.7m	 whic h	 ar e	
included	 on	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 in	 t ot al	 liabilities.
N et	 debt	 is	 defined	 in	 not e	 26	 and	 does	 not	 include	 financial	 liabilities.
Other information         
Capit al	 additions	 342.2 4.3  1.2  – 347.7 34.5 382.2 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51
3. Segmental information (continued)
 UK regulated KeyLand KeyLand UK service ops UK service ops Eliminations/ Total US operations 
 water services group assoc group assoc and JV unallocated continuing (discontinued) Total 
Year ended 31 March 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
T ot al	 sales	 693.8 7.6 0.9 104.0 45.1 – 851.4 104.2 955.6
Int er -com pan y	 sales – (0.5) – (25.5) – – (26.0) – (26.0)
Ext er nal	 sales	 693.8 7.1 0.9 78.5 45.1 – 825.4 104.2 929.6
Depr eciation	 (130.2) (0.1) – (1.3) – – (131.6) (12.0) (143.6)
Amor tisation	 of	 def er r ed	 	
g r ant	 income	 3.2 – – – – – 3.2 – 3.2
Ot her	 oper ating	 costs	 (254.1) (4.3) (0.6) (73.4) (39.8) – (372.2) (59.4) (431.6)
 312.7 2.7 0.3 3.8 5.3 – 324.8 32.8 357.6 
Unallocat ed	 corpor at e	 expenses       (4.7) – (4.7)
T o t a l : 	 G r o u p 	 a n d 	 s h a r e 	 o f 	 a s s o c i a t e s 	 a n d 	 j o i n t 	 v e n t u r e s 	 	 	 	 320.1 32.8 352.9
L e s s 	 a s s o c i a t e s ’ 	 a n d 	 j o i n t 	 v e n t u r e s ’ 	 i n t e r e s t 	     (3.8) – (3.8)
L e s s 	 a s s o c i a t e s ’ 	 a n d 	 j o i n t 	 v e n t u r e s ’ 	 t a x 	 	     (0.9) – (0.9)
Group operating profit       315.4 32.8 348.2
Inv estment	 income      51.2
Finance	 costs      (142.3)
Profit from continuing operations before taxation      224.3
T ax	 expense      (65.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations      158.9
 
Balance sheet 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
A s s e t s 	 3,933.7 35.6  111.5  (30.6) 4,050.2 639.8 4,690.0
L i a b i l i t i e s 	 (1,045.2) (3.0)  (74.7)  (25.5) (1,148.4) (131.0) (1,279.4)
N et	 debt	 (1,563.5) 0.2  (175.3)  (96.5) (1,835.1) (118.5) (1,953.6)
Net assets 1,325.0 32.8  (138.5)  (152.6) 1,066.7 390.3 1,457.0
N et	 debt	 as	 not ed	 abo v e	 includes	 cash	 of	 £1 0 1 .5m	 whic h	 is	 included	 in	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 wit hin	 t ot al	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 £2,055.1m	 whic h	 ar e	
included	 on	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 in	 t ot al	 liabilities.
N et	 debt	 is	 defined	 in	 not e	 26	 and	 does	 not	 include	 financial	 liabilities.
Other information
Capit al	 additions	 	 309.9 0.1  1.5   311.5 37.0 348.5
The	 g r oup’s	 g eog r aphical	 segments	 ar e	 based	 on	 t he	 g r oup’s	 assets.	 Sales	 t o	 ext er nal	 cust omers	 disclosed	 in	 g eog r aphical	 segments	 ar e	 based	 on	 t he	
g eog r aphical	 location	 of	 its	 cust omers.
The	 g r oup’s	 assets	 ar e	 locat ed	 in	 t he	 Unit ed	 Kingdom	 and	 Nor t h	 America.
The	 f ollo wing	 pr o vides	 an	 anal y sis	 of	 sales,	 assets	 and	 capit al	 expenditur e	 b y	 g eog r aphical	 mark et. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 52
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
3. Segmental information (continued)
      United North America 
      Kingdom (discontinued) Total 
Year ended 31 March 2007      £m £m £m
Sales	 r e v enue	 	 	 	 	 878.9 99.4 978.3
Car r ying	 v alue	 of	 assets	 	 	 	 	 4,208.1 596.0 4,876.1
Capit al	 additions	 t o	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 	 	 	 	 347.7 34.5 382.2
Year ended 31 March 2006      £m £m £m
Sales	 r e v enue	     825.4 104.2 929.6
Car r ying	 v alue	 of	 assets	     4,132.9 658.6 4,791.5
Capit al	 additions	 t o	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	   	 	 311.5 37.0 348.5
4. Operating costs
   Continuing Discontinued 2007 Continuing Discontinued 2006 
   operations operations total operations operations  total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Own	 w ork	 capit alised	 	 	 (26.6) (5.8) (32.4)  (23.7) (4.6) (28.3)
R a w	 mat erials	 and	 consumables	  20.6 – 20.6  19.1 – 19.1
Ot her	 ext er nal	 c har g es	  257.0 37.1 294.1  240.5 34.6 275.1
S t af f	 costs	 (see	 not e	 5)	  111.3 27.2 138.5  104.3 29.7 134.0
Depr eciation	 of	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment:
On	 o wned	 assets	 –	 UK	 infr astructur e	  20.2 – 20.2  17.9 – 17.9
	 –	 ot her	 assets	  108.3 – 108.3  98.8 12.0 110.8
On	 assets	 held	 under	 finance	 lease	  	 	 	 	 	
	 –	 UK	 infr astructur e	  1.8 – 1.8  2.0 – 2.0
	 –	 ot her	 assets	  10.6 – 10.6  12.9 – 12.9
Oper ating	 lease	 r ent als	 –	 minimum	 lease	 pa yments
	 –	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	  2.1 – 2.1  1.8 – 1.8
	 –	 ot her	  0.3 – 0.3  0.3 – 0.3
Amor tisation	 of	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	  (3.2) – (3.2)  (3.2) – (3.2)
Amor tisation	 of	 int angible	 assets	  – – – 0.1 – 0.1
R esear c h	 and	 de v elopment	  0.9 – 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Im pair ment	 of	 tr ade	 r eceiv ables	 	 	 7.2 – 7.2 6.7 – 6.7
Ot her	 oper ating	 income	  (15.9) (0.7) (16.6) (13.5) (0.3) (13.8)
	  494.6 57.8 552.4 464.9 71.4 536.3
Auditor’s remuneration
The	 r emuner ation	 of	 t he	 audit or	 is	 anal y sed	 as	 f ollo w s:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Audit of the financial statements       0.1 0.1
Ot her	 f ees	 t o	 audit or:
–	 local	 st atut or y	 audits	 f or	 subsidiaries	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4 0.4
–	 t ax ation	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2 0.5
–	 corpor at e	 finance	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3 –
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.9 0.9
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0 1.0
£1 6,000	 (2006:	 £1 5,000)	 of	 t he	 audit	 of	 t he	 financial	 st at ements	 r elat es	 t o	 t he	 com pan y . Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53
5. Directors and employees
       2007 2006 
       No No
Average monthly number of people employed
Continuing operations:
UK	 r egulat ed	 w at er	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2,198 2,129
Ot her	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,061 972
Discontinued operations:
US	 oper ations       584 568
       3,843 3,669
   Continuing Discontinued 2007 Continuing Discontinued 2006 
   operations operations total operations operations total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total employment costs:
W ag es	 and	 salaries	 	 	 87.4 19.5 106.9 	 83.8 18.9 102.7
Social	 security	 contributions	 	 	 8.7 1.1 9.8 	 6.4 1.3 7.7
Ot her	 pension	 costs	 	 	 15.2 6.6 21.8 	 14.1 9.5 23.6
	 	 	 111.3 27.2 138.5 	 104.3 29.7 134.0
Included	 in	 w ag es	 and	 salaries	 is	 a	 t ot al	 shar e-based	 pa yments	 expense	 of	 £1 .9m	 (2006:	 £1 .6m),	 all	 of	 whic h	 is	 fr om	 tr ansactions	 account ed	 f or	 as	 an	
eq uity-settled	 shar e-based	 pa yment	 tr ansaction.
       2007 2006 
Directors‘ emoluments       £m £m
Dir ect ors’	 emoluments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.4 	 1.2
Amounts	 r eceiv able	 under	 long	 t er m	 incentiv e	 plans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3 	 0.2
       No No
Number	 of	 dir ect ors	 accruing	 benefits	 under	 defined	 benefit	 sc hemes	 	 	 	 	 2 	 2
The	 r emuner ation	 of	 t he	 dir ect ors	 who	 ar e	 t he	 k e y	 manag ement	 personnel	 of	 t he	 g r oup,	 is	 set	 out	 in	 not e	 29	 in	 agg r eg at e	 f or	 eac h	 of	 t he	 cat egories	
specified	 in	 IAS	 24	 “R elat ed	 P ar ty	 Disclosur es”.	 F ur t her	 inf or mation	 about	 t he	 r emuner ation	 of	 individual	 dir ect ors	 is	 pr o vided	 in	 t he	 audit ed	 par t	 of	 t he	
dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	 r epor t	 on	 pag es	 33	 t o	 37 . Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 54
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
6. Investment income and finance costs
   Continuing Discontinued 2007  Continuing Discontinued 2006 
   operations operations total operations operations total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investment income
Int er est	 on	 bank	 deposits	 	 	 10.6 0.6 11.2 13.9 0.6 14.5
Gain	 on	 cr oss	 cur r ency	 sw ap   7.8 – 7.8 – – –
R etur n	 on	 pension	 sc heme	 assets	 	 	 45.7 3.1 48.8 	 37.3 3.1 40.4
Total investment income 	 	 	 64.1 3.7 67.8 	 51.2 3.7 54.9
 
Finance costs
Bank	 loans	 and	 o v er dr af ts	 	 	 30.0 – 30.0 	 12.8 – 12.8
Ot her	 loans	 	 	 3.6 10.1 13.7 	 2.7 8.6 11.3
6.625%	 bond	 203 1	 	 	 16.0 – 16.0 	 15.9 – 15.9
6.875%	 guar ant eed	 bonds	 20 1 0	 	 	 13.8 – 13.8 	 13.8 – 13.8
5.25%	 Eur obond	 2006	 	 14.4 – 14.4 	 21.4 – 21.4
5.375%	 bond	 2023	 	 	 10.8 – 10.8 	 10.7 – 10.7
3.048%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 2033	 	 	 6.9 – 6.9 	 6.2 – 6.2
1 .46%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 2056	 	 	 2.9 – 2.9 	 – – –
1 .462%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 205 1	 	 	 2.9 – 2.9 	 – – –
Amor tisation	 of	 issue	 costs	 in	 r espect	 of	 bonds	 	 	 0.6 – 0.6 	 0.5 – 0.5
Finance	 leases	 	 	 20.4 – 20.4 	 23.0 – 23.0
Int er est	 cost	 on	 pension	 sc heme	 liabilities	 	 	 38.8 3.9 42.7 	 35.3 4.0 39.3
Total finance costs 	 	 	 161.1 14.0 175.1 	 142.3 12.6 154.9
No	 int er est	 has	 been	 capit alised	 b y	 t he	 g r oup	 during	 t he	 y ear	 (2006:	 £nil).
7. Tax expense
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Current tax
UK	 corpor ation	 t ax	 at	 30%	 (2006:	 30%)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 49.6 	 53.5
UK	 adjustments	 in	 r espect	 of	 prior	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.4) 	 (13.3)
Total current tax from continuing operations 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 48.2 	 40.2
US	 t ax	 –	 discontinued	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4.8 	 7.6
Total current tax 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 53.0 	 47.8
Deferred tax
UK	 c har g e	 f or	 t em por ar y	 dif f er ences	 arising	 and	 r e v ersing	 in	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 22.8 	 14.9
UK	 adjustments	 in	 r espect	 of	 prior	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.5) 	 10.3
Total deferred tax on	 continuing	 activities	 (see	 not e	 20)	 	 	 	 	 21.3 	 25.2
US	 def er r ed	 t ax	 –	 discontinued	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.4 	 1.1
Total deferred tax 	 	 	 	 	 	 22.7 	 26.3
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 	 	 	 	 	 	 75.7 	 74.1
The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
T ax	 on	 pr ofit	 fr om	 or dinar y	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 69.5 	 65.4
T ax	 on	 discontinued	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6.2 	 8.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 75.7 	 74.1 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55
7. Tax expense (continued)
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity
Deferred tax:
A ctuarial	 losses	 in	 r espect	 of	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 sc hemes	 and	 ot her	 post-r etir ement	 benefits	 	 (7.8) 	 (2.6)
N et	 (loss)/g ain	 on	 r e v aluation	 of	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg e	 	 	 	 	 	 (4.9) 	 0.8
Tax charge in the statement of group recognised income and expense 	 	 	 	 (12.7) 	 (1.8)
The	 dif f er ences	 betw een	 t he	 t ot al	 cur r ent	 and	 def er r ed	 t ax	 c har g e	 sho wn	 and	 t he	 amount	 calculat ed	 b y	 appl ying	 t he	 national	 r at es	 of	 corpor ation	 t ax	
(UK:	 30%,	 US:	 40.9%)	 t o	 t he	 pr ofit	 on	 or dinar y	 activities	 bef or e	 t ax	 is	 as	 f ollo w s:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Pr ofit	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 bef or e	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 241.2 224.3
Pr ofit	 fr om	 discontinued	 oper ations	 bef or e	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (14.2) 	 23.9
Less:	 shar e	 of	 associat es’	 and	 joint	 v entur es’	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.5 	 0.9
Pr ofit	 on	 or dinar y	 activities	 bef or e	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 227.5 	 249.1
Less:	 shar e	 of	 associat es’	 and	 joint	 v entur es’	 pr ofit	 bef or e	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.7) 	 (1.8)
Gr oup	 pr ofit	 on	 or dinar y	 activities	 bef or e	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 226.8 	 247.3
Cur r ent	 and	 def er r ed	 t ax	 on	 g r oup	 pr ofit	 on	 or dinar y	 activities	 at	 t he	 st andar d	 UK	 t ax	 r at e	 	 	 68.0 	 74.2
Ef f ects	 of:
Expenses	 not	 deductible	 f or	 t ax	 purposes	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8.4 	 0.1
Utilisation	 of	 t ax	 losses	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.1)
P ension	 oblig ation	 and	 shar e-based	 pa yments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.6 	 –
A djustments	 t o	 t ax	 c har g e	 in	 r espect	 of	 prior	 periods	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.9) 	 (2.1)
Higher	 t ax es	 on	 o v erseas	 ear nings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.6 	 2.0
Group current and deferred tax charge for the period 	 	 	 	 	 75.7 	 74.1
Def er r ed	 t ax	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 r elat es	 t o	 t he	 f ollo wing:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
A cceler at ed	 depr eciation	 f or	 t ax	 purposes	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7.8 	 22.4
F air	 v alue	 adjustment	 of	 infr astructur e	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.3) 	 (0.3)
R oll-o v er	 r elief	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.2
Shar e-based	 pa yments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.8)
R etir ement	 benefits	 oblig ation	 	 	 	 	 	 13.8 	 4.8
Deferred tax charge       21.3 26.3
The	 t ax	 c har g e	 in	 futur e	 periods	 ma y	 be	 af f ect ed	 b y	 t he	 f ollo wing	 f act ors:
(i)	 A	 c hang e	 in	 t he	 UK	 corpor ation	 t ax	 r at e	 fr om	 30%	 t o	 28%	 fr om	 1	 April	 2008	 as	 set	 out	 in	 t he	 2007	 budg et.
(ii)	 A	 c hang e	 in	 t he	 r at e	 of	 capit al	 allo w ances	 as	 announced	 in	 t he	 2007	 budg et.
The	 im pact	 of	 t he	 abo v e	 c hang es	 cannot	 be	 r easonabl y	 assessed	 b y	 t he	 g r oup. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 56
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
8. Discontinued operations
The	 sale	 of	 A q uarion’s	 r egulat ed	 w at er	 business	 w as	 announced	 on	 1	 Ma y	 2007 .	 A q uarion	 Oper ating	 Services	 does	 not	 f or m	 par t	 of	 t he	 sale	 but	
continues	 t o	 be	 tr eat ed	 as	 discontinued	 as	 t he	 g r oup	 expects	 t o	 dispose	 of	 A q uarion	 Oper ating	 Services	 in	 t he	 near	 futur e.
The results of the group’s US operations for the year are summarised below:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
R e v enue	 	 	 	 	 	 99.4 	 104.2
Expenses	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (57.8) 	 (71.4)
Oper ating	 pr ofit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 41.6 	 32.8
Im pair ment	 c har g e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (45.5) 	 –
Inv estment	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3.7 3.7
Finance	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (14.0) 	 (12.6)
(Loss)/pr ofit	 bef or e	 t ax	 fr om	 discontinued	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (14.2) 	 23.9
T ax	 expense	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (6.2) 	 (8.7)
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations 	 	 	 	 	 	 (20.4) 	 15.2
The	 t ax	 expense	 all	 r elat es	 t o	 or dinar y	 activities	 during	 t he	 y ear .	 D i s p o s a l 	 g r o u p s 	 h e l d 	 f o r 	 s a l e 	 a r e 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 a t 	 t h e 	 l o w e r 	 o f 	 c a r r y i n g 	 a m o u n t 	 a n d 	 f a i r 	 v a l u e	
l e s s 	 c o s t s 	 t o 	 d i s p o s a l , 	 r e s u l t i n g 	 i n 	 a n 	 i m p a i r m e n t 	 c h a r g e 	 o f 	 £ 4 5 . 5 m .
The major classes of assets and liabilities relating to US operations included in disposal groups held for sale:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Assets
Pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 	 	 	 	 	 	 388.8 	 404.9
Int angible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 172.8 	 212.1
T r ade	 r eceiv ables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 25.0 	 22.8
Cash	 and	 shor t	 t er m	 inv estments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9.4 	 18.8
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 596.0 	 658.6
Liabilities
T r ade	 and	 ot her	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (113.8) 	 (88.1)
Def er r ed	 t ax	 liability	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (19.0) 	 (20.2)
P ension	 oblig ation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (20.1) 	 (22.7)
Bor r o wings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (132.1) 	 (137.3)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (285.0) 	 (268.3)
The net cash flows attributable to US operations are as follows:
Oper ating	 cash	 f lo w s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 40.5 	 45.9
Inv esting	 cash	 f lo w s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (33.1) 	 (32.9)
Financing	 cash	 f lo w s	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (12.2) 	 (18.2)
Net cash outflow 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (4.8) 	 (5.2)
Profit/(loss) per share from discontinued operations:
Basic	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (5.8)p 	 4.1p
Dilut ed	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (5.8)p 	 4.1p
This	 has	 been	 based	 on	 loss	 of	 £20.4m	 (2006:	 pr ofit	 of	 £1 5.2m),	 a v er ag e	 number	 of	 shar es	 357 .3m	 (2006:	 37 1 .0m)	 and	 dilutiv e	 number	 of	 shar es	 of	
358.4m	 (2006:	 372.2m).	 Ho w e v er ,	 t his	 does	 not	 t ak e	 int o	 account	 t he	 futur e	 ef f ect	 on	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 arising	 fr om	 t he	 use	 of	 t he	 g r oss	 sale	 pr oceeds	
of	 $6 1 0m	 (2006:	 $625m).	 See	 not e	 1 0	 f or	 fur t her	 det ails. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57
8. Discontinued operations (continued)
It ems	 included	 in	 t he	 g r oup	 st at ement	 of	 r ecognised	 income	 and	 expense	 wit h	 r espect	 of	 discontinued	 oper ations	 ar e	 as	 f ollo w s:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Ex c hang e	 dif f er ences	 on	 r etr anslation	 of	 f or eign	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 (7.9) 	 15.6
A ctuarial	 g ains	 in	 r espect	 of	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 and	 ot her	 post-r etir ement	 benefits	 	 	 	 0.5 	 3.6
T ax	 on	 it ems	 t ak en	 t o	 eq uity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.2) 	 (1.4)
T ot al	 on	 it ems	 t ak en	 dir ectl y	 t o	 eq uity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (7.6) 	 17.8
9. Dividends
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Equity – ordinary
Final	 declar ed	 and	 paid	 (r elating	 t o	 prior	 financial	 y ear):	 2 1 .60p	 (2006:	 20.66p)	 per	 shar e	 	 	 	 76.6 	 76.9
Int erim	 paid:	 9.25p	 (2006:	 8.75p)	 per	 shar e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 33.1 	 32.5
Dividends	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 	 109.7 	 109.4
Pr oposed	 final	 dividend	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 of	 23.0p	 (2006:	 2 1 .60p)	 per	 shar e	 	 	 	 81.8 	 78.3
The	 pr oposed	 final	 dividend	 is	 subject	 t o	 appr o v al	 b y	 shar eholders	 at	 t he	 annual	 g ener al	 meeting	 and	 has	 not	 been	 included	 as	 a	 liability	 in	 t hese	
financial	 st at ements.
Dividends	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 amounting	 t o	 £0.6m	 (2006:	 £0.9m)	 in	 r espect	 of	 t he	 com pan y’s	 shar es	 held	 b y	 t he	 ESO T	 (see	 not e	 22)	 ha v e	 been	 w aiv ed	 and	
ar e	 t her ef or e	 ex cluded	 fr om	 t he	 agg r eg at e	 of	 dividends	 paid.
10. Earnings per share
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Basic	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 	 42.3 	 46.9
Basic	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 48.1 	 42.8
A djust ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 	 55.1 	 46.9
A djust ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 (ex cluding	 def er r ed	 t ax)	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 61.4 	 54.0
Dilut ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 	 42.1 	 46.8
Dilut ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 47.9 	 42.7
Dilut ed	 adjust ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 54.9 	 46.8
Dilut ed	 adjust ed	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 (ex cluding	 def er r ed	 t ax)	 on	 pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 61.2 	 53.9
Basic	 ear nings	 per	 shar e	 (EPS)	 is	 calculat ed	 b y	 dividing	 t he	 pr ofit	 attribut able	 t o	 or dinar y	 shar eholders	 b y	 t he	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 number	 of	 or dinar y	
shar es	 in	 issue	 during	 t he	 y ear .	 The	 or dinar y	 shar es	 held	 in	 t he	 ESO T	 ar e	 ex cluded	 fr om	 t he	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 number	 of	 shar es	 f or	 t his	 purpose.
F or	 dilut ed	 EPS,	 t he	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 number	 of	 or dinar y	 shar es	 in	 issue	 is	 adjust ed	 t o	 assume	 conv ersion	 of	 all	 dilutiv e	 pot ential	 or dinar y	 shar es.	 	
The	 g r oup	 has	 onl y	 one	 cat egor y	 of	 dilutiv e	 pot ential	 or dinar y	 shar es:	 t hose	 shar e	 options	 g r ant ed	 t o	 em plo y ees	 wher e	 t he	 ex er cise	 price	 is	 less	 t han	
t he	 a v er ag e	 mark et	 price	 of	 t he	 com pan y’s	 or dinar y	 shar es	 during	 t he	 y ear . Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 58
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
10. Earnings per share (continued)
    Weighted   Weighted 
    average 2007  average 2006 
    number of Earnings  number of Earnings 
   Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share 
   £m m p £m m p
Basic EPS 	 	 	 151.3 357.3 42.3 	 174.1 371.0 46.9
Ef f ect	 of	 dilutiv e	 shar e	 options	 	 	 1.1 (0.2) 	 1.2 (0.1)
Diluted EPS 	 	 	 151.3 358.4 42.1 	 174.1 372.2 46.8
Basic EPS from continuing operations 	 	 	 171.7 357.3 48.1 	 158.9 371.0 42.8
Ef f ect	 of	 dilutiv e	 shar e	 options	 	 	 1.1 (0.2) 	 1.2 (0.1)
Diluted EPS from continuing operations 	 	 	 171.7 358.4 47.9 	 158.9 372.2 42.7
A djust ed	 EPS	 is	 pr esent ed	 as	 an	 alt er nativ e	 measur e	 belo w:
Basic	 EPS	 	 	 151.3 357.3 42.3 	 174.1 371.0 46.9
Im pair ment	 c har g e	 (net	 of	 t ax)	 	 	 45.5 – 12.8 	 – – –
Adjusted EPS 	 	 	 196.8 357.3 55.1 	 174.1 371.0 46.9
Ef f ect	 of	 dilutiv e	 shar e	 options	 	 	 	 1.1 (0.2) 	 – 1.2 (0.1)
Diluted adjusted EPS 	 	 196.8 358.4 54.9 	 174.1 372.2 46.8
Basic	 EPS	 	 	 151.3 357.3 42.3 	 174.1 371.0 46.9
Im pair ment	 c har g e	 (net	 of	 t ax)	 	 	 45.5 – 12.8 	 – – –
Def er r ed	 t ax	 	 	 22.7 – 6.3 	 26.3 – 7.1
Adjusted EPS (excluding deferred tax)   219.5 357.3 61.4 200.4 371.0 54.0
Ef f ect	 of	 dilutiv e	 shar e	 options	 	 	 1.1 (0.2) 	 – 1.2 (0.1)
Diluted adjusted EPS (excluding deferred tax) 	 	 219.5 358.4 61.2 200.4 372.2 53.9
11. Intangible assets
      Capitalised   
      bid costs Goodwill Total 
      £m £m £m
A t	 1	 April	 2005	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4 208.6 209.0
A dditions	 	 	 	 	 	 0.6 0.3 0.9
Amor tisation	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.1) – (0.1)
Ex c hang e	 dif f er ences	 	 	 	 	 	 – 17.3 17.3
T r ansf er r ed	 t o	 assets	 included	 in	 disposal	 g r oups	 held	 f or	 sale	 	 	 	 	 – (212.1) (212.1)
A t	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 0.9 14.1 15.0
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.5) – (0.5)
At 31 March 2007 	     0.4 14.1 14.5
Goodwill	 is	 subject	 t o	 an	 annual	 im pair ment	 t est.	 Goodwill	 has	 arisen	 wit hin	 tw o	 oper ating	 segments.	 The	 car r ying	 amount	 of	 goodwill	 is	 allocat ed	
betw een	 t he	 oper ating	 segments	 as	 f ollo w s:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
UK	 r egulat ed	 w at er	 services	 (continuing	 oper ations)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14.1 	 14.1
US	 oper ations	 (discontinued	 oper ations)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 172.8 	 212.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 186.9 	 226.2 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 59
11. Intangible assets (continued)
(a) UK regulated water services
Goodwill	 ar ose	 on	 t he	 acq uisition	 of	 t he	 entir e	 shar e	 capit al	 of	 Y ork	 W at er w orks	 plc	 on	 8	 Mar c h	 1 999.	 F ollo wing	 t he	 tr ansition	 t o	 IFRS	 goodwill	 is	 no	
long er	 amor tised	 and	 is	 inst ead	 subject	 t o	 annual	 im pair ment	 r e vie w s.
The	 r eco v er able	 amount	 is	 det er mined	 on	 a	 v alue	 in	 use	 basis,	 using	 t hr ee	 y ear	 cash	 f lo w	 pr ojections	 based	 on	 financial	 budg ets	 appr o v ed	 b y	 t he	
boar d.	 The	 discount	 r at e	 applied	 t o	 t he	 cash	 f lo w	 pr ojections	 is	 5.5%	 (2006:	 8.1 2%).	 No	 g r o wt h	 r at e	 w as	 assumed.
(b) US operations
The	 goodwill	 r elating	 t o	 US	 oper ations	 has	 been	 tr ansf er r ed	 int o	 discontinued	 oper ations.	 Consider ation	 of	 its	 car r ying	 v alue	 has	 been	 giv en	 in	 not e	 8	 	
and	 it	 is	 co v er ed	 b y	 t he	 im pair ment	 c har g e	 included	 in	 t hat	 not e.
12. Property, plant and equipment
    Land and Infrastructure Plant and Under Group 
    buildings assets equipment construction total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
A t	 1	 April	 2006	 	 	 1,400.0 2,346.8 1,747.0 195.8 5689.6
A dditions	 	 	 26.4 20.2 50.2 250.9 347.7
T r ansf ers	 on	 commissioning	 	 	 21.3 42.8 51.7 (115.8) –
Disposals	 	 	 (9.4) – (8.7) (0.2) (18.3)
Gr ants	 and	 contributions	 	 	    (24.4) (24.4)
At 31 March 2007 	 	 	 	 1,438.3 2,409.8 1,840.2 306.3 5,994.6
Depreciation
A t	 1	 April	 2006	 	 	 	 426.6 761.5 702.9 – 1,891.0
Disposals	 	 	 	 (4.0) – (8.6) – (12.6)
Char g e	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 24.8 22.0 94.1 – 140.9
At 31 March 2007 	 	 	 	 447.4 783.5 788.4 – 2,019.3
Net book amount at 31 March 2007 	 	 	 	 990.9 1,626.3 1,051.8 306.3 3,975.3
Cost
A t	 1	 April	 2005	 	 	 	 1,440.5 2,156.5 2,013.8 279.6 5,890.4
Ex c hang e	 adjustments	 	 	 	 7.9 – 34.2 1.0 43.1
A dditions	 	 	 	 21.0 47.8 84.4 195.3 348.5
T r ansf ers	 on	 commissioning	 	 	 28.1 142.5 61.0 (231.6) –
Disposals	 	 	 (0.7) – (10.9) (1.0) (12.6)
Gr ants	 and	 contributions	 	 	 – – – (23.1) (23.1)
T r ansf er	 t o	 assets	 included	 in	 disposal	 g r oups	 held	 f or	 sale	 	 	 (96.8) – (435.5) (24.4) (556.7)
	 A t	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 	 	 	 1,400.0 2,346.8 1,747.0 195.8 5,689.6
Depreciation 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
A t	 1	 April	 2005	 	 	 421.6 741.0 736.6 – 1,899.2
Ex c hang e	 adjustments	 	 	 1.7 – 10.4 – 12.1
Disposals	 	 	 (0.6) – (11.5) – (12.1)
Char g e	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 25.5 20.5 97.6 – 143.6
T r ansf er	 t o	 assets	 included	 in	 disposal	 g r oups	 held	 f or	 sale	 	 	 (21.6) – (130.2) – (151.8)
	 A t	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 	 	 	 426.6 761.5 702.9 – 1,891.0
N et	 book	 amount	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 	 	 	 973.4 1,585.3 1,044.1 195.8 3,798.6 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 60
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
12. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Assets	 included	 abo v e	 held	 under	 finance	 leases	 amount	 t o:
    Land and Infrastructure Plant and Under Group 
    buildings assets equipment construction total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Cost	 	 	 	 127.4 85.9 228.9 – 442.2
Depr eciation	 	 	 	 (25.6) (13.5) (112.3) – (151.4)
Net book amount at 31 March 2007 	 	 	 	 101.8 72.4 116.6 – 290.8
Cost	 	 	 	 150.9 86.4 279.9 – 517.2
Depr eciation	 	 	 	 (27.2) (11.7) (122.2) – (161.1)
N et	 book	 amount	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 	 	 	 123.7 74.7 157.7 – 356.1
13. Investments
   Share of  Total Share of  Total 
   net assets Loans to investments net assets Loans to investments 
   in associated associated in associated in joint joint in joint 
   undertakings undertakings undertakings ventures ventures ventures 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost and share of post acquisition retained profits
A t	 1	 April	 2005	 	 	 1.0 6.4 7.4 0.3 14.8 15.1
Shar e	 of	 r et ained	 pr ofits	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 (0.6) – (0.6) 1.1 – 1.1
Mo v ement	 in	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 – (2.4) (2.4) – (0.1) (0.1)
A t	 1	 April	 2006	  0.4 4.0 4.4 1.4 14.7 16.1
Shar e	 of	 r et ained	 pr ofits	 f or	 t he	 y ear	  (0.4) – (0.4) 0.6 – 0.6
Mo v ement	 in	 t he	 y ear	  – 1.4 1.4 – 1.1 1.1
At 31 March 2007 	  – 5.4 5.4 2.0 15.8 17.8
Of	 whic h	 t he	 agg r eg at e	 amounts	 of	 net	 assets,	 r e v enue	 and	 oper ating	 pr ofit	 r elating	 t o	 associat es	 ar e:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Non-cur r ent	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3.1 5.1
Cur r ent	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2 7.3
Share of gross assets 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3.3 	 12.4
Cur r ent	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (3.4) (10.1)
Non-cur r ent	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.1 (1.9)
Share of liabilities 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (3.3) 	 (12.0)
Share of net assets 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.4
Revenue 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.5 	 0.9
Operating profit 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.3 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61
13. Investments (continued)
Of	 whic h	 t he	 agg r eg at e	 amounts	 of	 net	 assets	 and	 net	 pr ofit	 r elating	 t o	 joint	 v entur es	 ar e:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Non-cur r ent	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 44.5 	 37.2
Cur r ent	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 88.8 	 31.8
Share of gross assets 	 	 	 	 	 	 133.3 	 69.0
Cur r ent	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (58.9) 	 (23.4)
Non-cur r ent	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (72.4) 	 (44.2)
Share of liabilities 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (131.3) 	 (67.6)
Share of net assets 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.0 	 1.4
R e v enue	 	 	 	 	 	 45.8 45.1
Oper ating	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (40.7) 	 (39.8)
Operating profit 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5.1 	 5.3
Finance	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (4.1) 	 (3.5)
Profit before tax 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0 	 1.8
Income	 t ax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.4) 	 (0.7)
Net profit 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.6 	 1.1
14. Financial assets
In	 t he	 prior	 y ear ,	 financial	 assets	 consist ed	 of	 sw aps	 t hat	 c hang ed	 fix ed	 r at e	 eur o	 liabilities	 t o	 f loating	 r at e	 st erling	 liabilities.	 	
The	 sw aps	 matur ed	 on	 26	 Jul y	 2006	 and	 ha v e	 not	 been	 r eplaced.	 A t	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 t he	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	 sw aps	 w as	 £27 .8m.
15. Inventories
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
R a w	 mat erials	 and	 consumables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.6 	 0.5
16. Trade and other receivables
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
T r ade	 r eceiv ables	 	 	 	 	 	 59.9 	 57.5
Amounts	 o w ed	 b y	 associat ed	 under t akings	 	 	 	 	 	 1.3 	 1.7
Pr epa yments	 and	 accrued	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 74.4 	 85.6
Ot her	 debt ors:
R eceiv able	 wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 21.6 	 36.6
R eceiv able	 af t er	 mor e	 t han	 one	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 – 0.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 157.2 	 181.5
All	 r eceiv ables	 ar e	 r e vie w ed	 r egularl y	 t o	 assess	 an y	 associat ed	 cr edit	 risk.	 Ther e	 ar e	 no	 significant	 concentr ations	 of	 cr edit	 risk.	 	
An y	 im pair ments	 consider ed	 necessar y	 ha v e	 been	 made	 t o	 t he	 amounts	 included	 abo v e. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 62
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
17. Financing
(i) Cash and short term deposits
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Cash	 at	 bank	 and	 in	 hand	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30.2 	 –
Shor t	 t er m	 deposits	 	 	 	 	 	 	 71.8 	 82.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 102.0 	 82.7
A t	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 t he	 g r oup	 had	 a v ailable	 £83 1m	 (2006:	 £500m)	 of	 undr a wn	 committ ed	 bor r o wing	 f acilities.
F or	 t he	 purpose	 of	 t he	 consolidat ed	 cash	 f lo w	 st at ement,	 cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 com prise	 t he	 f ollo wing:
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 in	 continuing	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 102.0 	 82.7
Cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 held	 in	 discontinued	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 9.4 	 16.2
Bank	 o v er dr af ts	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (3.2)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 111.4 	 95.7
(ii) Borrowings
       2007 2006 
Short term borrowings:       £m £m
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 308.2 	 14.3
5.25%	 Eur obond	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 – 	 429.0
Bank	 o v er dr af ts	 	 	 	 	 	 – 3.2
Ot her	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 – 4.4 	
Finance	 leases	 	 	 	 	 	 5.9 	 7.9
	 	 	 	 	 	 314.1 	 458.8
       2007 2006 
Long term borrowings:       £m £m
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 379.5 	 294.0
6.625%	 bond	 203 1	 	 	 	 	 	 	 240.2 	 240.2
6.875%	 guar ant eed	 bonds	 20 1 0	 	 	 	 	 	 	 199.5 	 199.3
5.375%	 bond	 2023	 	 	 	 	 	 	 196.3 	 196.1
3.048%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 2033	 	 	 	 	 	 	 111.6 	 108.0
1 .462%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 205 1	 	 	 	 	 	 	 127.1 	 –
1 .46%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 2056	 	 	 	 	 	 	 127.1 	 –
Ot her	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.0 	 2.7
Finance	 leases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 386.2 	 446.5
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,769.5 	 1,486.8
6.625% bond 2031
The	 bonds	 ar e	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 sum	 on	 1 7	 April	 203 1 .	 Int er est	 is	 c har g ed	 at	 6.625%.	 The	 principal	 amount	 is	 £240m.
6.875% guaranteed bonds 2010
The	 bond	 is	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 sum	 on	 23	 April	 20 1 0.	 Int er est	 is	 c har g ed	 at	 6.875%.	 The	 principal	 amount	 is	 £200m.
5.25% Eurobond 2006
The	 Eur obond	 w as	 r epaid	 in	 full	 on	 26	 Jul y	 2006.	 Int er est	 w as	 c har g ed	 at	 5.25%.
5.375% bond 2023
This	 bond	 is	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 inst alment	 on	 2 1	 F ebruar y	 2023.	 Int er est	 is	 c har g ed	 at	 a	 const ant	 r at e	 of	 5.375%.	 The	 principal	 amount	 is	 £200m. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63
17. Financing (continued)
(ii) Borrowings (continued)
3.048% index linked guaranteed bond 2033
This	 bond	 is	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 inst alment	 on	 2 1	 F ebruar y	 2033.	 The	 int er est	 is	 paid	 at	 3.048%	 multiplied	 b y	 an	 index	 r atio	 and	 t he	 principal	 amount	 	
is	 incr eased	 semi-annuall y	 in	 line	 wit h	 t he	 r et ail	 price	 index.	 The	 principal	 amount	 is	 £1 00m.
1.462% index linked guaranteed bond 2051
This	 bond	 is	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 inst alment	 on	 1	 A ugust	 205 1 .	 The	 int er est	 is	 paid	 at	 1 .462%	 multiplied	 b y	 an	 index	 r atio	 and	 t he	 principal	 amount	 	
is	 incr eased	 semi-annuall y	 in	 line	 wit h	 t he	 r et ail	 price	 index.	 The	 principal	 amount	 is	 £1 25m.
1.46% index linked guaranteed bond 2056
This	 bond	 is	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 inst alment	 on	 1	 A ugust	 2056.	 The	 int er est	 is	 paid	 at	 1 .46%	 multiplied	 b y	 an	 index	 r atio	 and	 t he	 principal	 amount	 	
is	 incr eased	 semi-annuall y	 in	 line	 wit h	 t he	 r et ail	 price	 index.	 The	 principal	 amount	 is	 £1 25m.
The	 abo v e	 bonds	 ha v e	 an	 earl y	 r epa yment	 option	 at	 t he	 discr etion	 of	 t he	 issuer .
Bank loans
Shor t	 and	 long	 t er m	 bank	 loans	 ar e	 t he	 agg r eg at e	 of	 £394.0m	 held	 in	 st erling	 and	 £293.7m	 held	 in	 dollars	 (2006:	 £308.3m	 in	 st erling).	 The	 £293.7m	
held	 in	 dollars	 is	 r epa y able	 on	 23	 April	 2007	 and	 bears	 int er est	 at	 5.58%.	 All	 ot her	 bank	 loans	 ar e	 denot ed	 in	 st erling	 and	 bear	 int er est	 at	 nor mal	
commer cial	 r at es.	 The	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 int er est	 r at es	 associat ed	 wit h	 t he	 bank	 loans	 w er e	 5.2%	 (2006:	 4.9%).
(iii) Finance leases
  Minimum lease 
  payments
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Amounts	 pa y able	 under	 finance	 leases:
Wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 51.1 	 55.1
Mor e	 t han	 one	 but	 less	 t han	 fiv e	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 	 228.2 	 243.0
Af t er	 fiv e	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 	 474.9 	 594.4
	 	 	 	 	 	 754.2 	 892.5
Less:	 futur e	 finance	 c har g es	 	 	 	 	 	 (362.1) 	 (438.1)
Pr esent	 v alue	 of	 lease	 oblig ations	 	 	 	 	 	 392.1 	 454.4
	
Amount	 due	 f or	 settlement	 wit hin	 1 2	 mont hs	 	 	 	 	 	 5.9 	 7.9
Amount	 due	 f or	 settlement	 af t er	 1 2	 mont hs	 	 	 	 	 	 386.2 	 446.5
	 	 	 	 	 	 392.1 	 454.4
All	 lease	 oblig ations	 ar e	 denominat ed	 in	 st erling.
The	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 lease	 t er m	 is	 1 1 .6	 y ears	 (2006:	 1 6.6	 y ears).	 F or	 t he	 y ear	 ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007 ,	 t he	 a v er ag e	 ef f ectiv e	 bor r o wing	 r at e	 w as	 5.6%	
(2006:	 5.4%).	 All	 leases	 ar e	 on	 a	 fix ed	 r epa yment	 basis	 and	 no	 ar r ang ements	 ha v e	 been	 ent er ed	 int o	 f or	 conting ent	 r ent al	 pa yments. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 64
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
18. Trade and other payables
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
T r ade	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 48.2 	 45.3
Capit al	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 60.3 	 71.3
Def er r ed	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	 on	 depr eciat ed	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 	 	 	 3.5 	 3.2
Social	 security	 and	 pa yr oll	 deductions	 	 	 	 	 	 3.0 	 2.9
R eceipts	 in	 adv ance	 	 	 	 	 	 53.0 	 51.7
Ot her	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 73.3 	 90.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 241.3 	 264.5
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Def er r ed	 g r ants	 and	 contributions	 on	 depr eciat ed	 pr oper ty ,	 plant	 and	 eq uipment	 	 	 	 79.4 	 82.2
Ot her	 pa y ables	 	 	 	 	 	 76.0 	 79.4
	 	 	 	 	 	 155.4 	 161.6
T r ade	 and	 ot her	 pa y ables	 principall y	 com prise	 amounts	 outst anding	 f or	 tr ade	 pur c hases	 and	 ongoing	 costs.	 The	 dir ect ors	 consider	 t hat	 t he	 car r ying	
amount	 of	 tr ade	 and	 ot her	 pa y ables	 appr o ximat e	 t o	 t heir	 f air	 v alue.
19. Provisions
        £m
A t	 1	 April	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	  3.4
Utilised	 in	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	  (2.2)
At 31 March 2007        1.2
Pr o visions	 ar e	 principall y	 in	 r espect	 of	 self	 insur ance	 and	 v acant	 pr oper ties	 on	 whic h	 costs	 ar e	 expect ed	 t o	 be	 incur r ed	 o v er	 t he	 next	 8	 y ears.
20. Deferred tax liability
   Fair value 
  Accelerated adjustment of 
  capital infrastructure Roll-over Financial Pension Share-based  
  allowances assets relief instruments obligations payments Net 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
A t	 1	 April	 2005	 581.1 24.7 0.7 (3.2) (33.2) (1.5) 568.6
Char g e/(cr edit)	 t o	 income	 22.4 (0.3) 0.2 – 4.8 (0.8) 26.3
Char g e/(cr edit)	 t o	 eq uity	 2.3 – – (0.8) 1.9 (0.9) 2.5
T r ansf er	 t o	 asset	 classified	 as	 held	 f or	 sale	 (29.7) – – – 9.0 0.5 (20.2)
A t	 1	 April	 2006	 	 576.1 24.4 0.9 (4.0) (17.5) (2.7) 577.2
Char g e/(cr edit)	 t o	 income	 	 7.8 (0.3) – – 13.8 – 21.3
Char g e	 t o	 eq uity	 	 – – – 4.8 7.7 – 12.5
At 31 March 2007 	 	 583.9 24.1 0.9 0.8 4.0 (2.7) 611.0
The	 g r oup	 has	 unr ecognised	 capit al	 losses	 of	 £1 1 .5m	 	 (2006:	 £1 2.8m)	 whic h	 ar e	 a v ailable	 indefinit el y	 ag ainst	 futur e	 eligible	 capit al	 pr ofits	 of	 t he	 g r oup.	
No	 def er r ed	 t ax	 asset	 has	 been	 r ecognised	 on	 capit al	 losses	 in	 t he	 cur r ent	 or	 prior	 y ear	 as	 t heir	 utilisation	 is	 not	 cur r entl y	 f or eseen. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 65
21. Pensions
(i) Description of schemes
UK pension scheme
The	 g r oup	 sponsors	 a	 UK	 pension	 sc heme,	 called	 t he	 K elda	 Gr oup	 P ension	 Plan	 (K GPP).	 The	 K GPP	 has	 a	 number	 of	 benefit	 cat egories	 pr o viding	 benefits	
on	 a	 defined	 benefit	 basis	 and	 one	 cat egor y	 pr o viding	 benefits	 on	 a	 defined	 contribution	 basis.
Contributions	 o v er	 t he	 y ear	 ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 w er e	 paid	 b y	 members	 at	 3%,	 4%,	 4.5%,	 5%	 or	 6%	 of	 pensionable	 pa y	 (depending	 on	 benefit	
cat egor y).	 The	 com pan y	 contribut ed	 at	 475%	 of	 members’	 contributions	 in	 r espect	 of	 t he	 ma jority	 of	 members.	 P ar t	 of	 t his	 contribution	 f or	 t he	
cur r ent	 accounting	 y ear	 w as	 paid	 in	 adv ance	 in	 Mar c h	 2006.	 The	 g r oup	 also	 made	 a	 special	 contribution	 of	 £50m	 on	 29	 Mar c h	 2007 .
An	 accrual	 f or	 unfunded	 dir ect ors’	 benefits	 of	 £2.7m	 (2006:	 £3.4m)	 has	 been	 included	 in	 t he	 g r oup’s	 accounts	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007 .
US pension scheme
A q uarion	 in	 t he	 US	 oper at es	 a	 number	 of	 non-contribut or y	 defined	 benefit	 r etir ement	 plans.	 The	 principal	 r etir ement	 plans	 r elat e	 t o	 A q uarion	 com pan y ,	
em plo y ees	 of	 t he	 American	 W at er	 W orks	 com panies	 and	 em plo y ees	 of	 A q uarion	 Services	 Com pan y .	 A q uarion	 also	 pr o vides	 healt hcar e	 benefits	 f or	
cer t ain	 cat egories	 of	 em plo y ees.
(ii) Major assumptions
P ension	 contributions	 ar e	 det er mined	 wit h	 t he	 advice	 of	 independent	 q ualified	 actuaries,	 Mer cer	 Human	 R esour ce	 Consulting,	 on	 t he	 basis	 of	 annual	
v aluations	 using	 t he	 pr oject ed	 unit	 cr edit	 met hod.
 2007 2006
     UK US UK US 
     % % % %
Inf lation	 	 	 	 	 3.0 – 	 2.7 –
R at e	 of	 incr ease	 in	 salaries	 	 	 	 	 4.2 4.0 	 3.9 4.0
R at e	 of	 incr ease	 t o	 pensions	 in	 pa yment	 and	 def er r ed	 pensions	 	 	 	 3.0 2.5 	 2.7 2.5
Discount	 r at e	 f or	 sc heme	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 5.3 5.9 	 4.9 5.95
	
Lif e	 expect ancy	 f or	 a	 male	 pensioner	 ag ed	 60	 (in	 y ears)	 	 	 23.0 21.7 	 23.0 21.7 	
Pr oject ed	 lif e	 expect ancy	 at	 ag e	 60	 f or	 male	 ag ed	 40	 (in	 y ears)	 	 	 25.9 21.7 	 25.9 21.7
Chang es	 t o	 legislation	 wit h	 r eg ar d	 t o	 cash	 commut ation	 ha v e	 led	 t o	 no	 c hang es	 in	 assum ptions	 in	 t he	 actuarial	 v aluation.
The	 r at e	 of	 incr ease	 in	 healt h	 car e	 costs	 in	 t he	 US	 v aries	 b y	 y ear	 of	 pr ojection	 wit h	 an	 ultimat e	 r at e	 of	 5%	 pa	 fr om	 20 1 2.	 P ension	 incr eases	 in	 t he	 US	 	
appl y	 onl y	 t o	 cer t ain	 members	 of	 t he	 A q uarion	 Services	 Com pan y	 P ension	 Plan.
(iii) Scheme assets and liabilities
Sc heme	 assets	 ar e	 st at ed	 at	 t heir	 bid	 v alues	 at	 t he	 r espectiv e	 balance	 sheet	 dat es.
T o	 de v elop	 t he	 expect ed	 long	 t er m	 r at e	 of	 r etur n	 on	 assets	 assum ption,	 t he	 com pan y	 consider ed	 t he	 cur r ent	 le v el	 of	 expect ed	 r etur ns	 on	 risk	 fr ee	
inv estments	 (primaril y	 go v er nment	 bonds),	 t he	 hist orical	 le v el	 of	 t he	 risk	 pr emium	 associat ed	 wit h	 t he	 ot her	 asset	 classes	 in	 whic h	 t he	 por tf olio	 is	
inv est ed	 and	 t he	 expect ations	 f or	 futur e	 r etur ns	 of	 eac h	 asset	 class.
  2007 
 UK  US
      Expected long  Expected long 
     Market term rate of Market term rate of 
     value return value return 
     £m % £m %
Fair value of scheme assets
Eq uities	 	 	 	 493.9 7.15 26.2 7.60
Bonds	 	 	 	 233.5 4.71 20.5 5.90
Pr oper ty	 	 	 	 78.9 7.15 – –
Ot her	 	 	 	 11.6 4.40 0.2 4.85
T ot al	 v alue	 of	 assets	 	 	 	 	 817.9  46.9 	
Present value of scheme liabilities     (810.6)  (67.0)
Pension asset/(liability)     7.3  (20.1) Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 66
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
21. Pensions (continued)
(iii) Scheme assets and liabilities (continued)
  2006 
 UK  US
      Expected long  Expected long 
     Market term rate of Market term rate of 
     value return value return 
     £m % £m %
Fair value of scheme assets
Eq uities	 	 	 	 	 517.4 6.85 28.5 7.65
Bonds	 	 	 	 	 142.5 4.43 21.3 5.95
Pr oper ty	 	 	 	 	 49.9 6.85 – – 	
Ot her	 	 	 	 	 21.9 4.10 0.3 4.90
T ot al	 v alue	 of	 assets	 	 	 	 	 731.7  50.1 	
Present value of scheme liabilities     (793.8)  (72.8) 
Pension liability     (62.1)  (22.7) 
The	 pension	 plans	 ha v e	 not	 inv est ed	 in	 an y	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 o wn	 financial	 instruments	 nor	 in	 pr oper ties	 or	 ot her	 assets	 used	 b y	 t he	 g r oup.
(iv) Analysis of the amounts included within the financial statements
   2007 2006
   UK US Total UK US Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Anal y sis	 of	 amount	 c har g ed	 t o	 oper ating	 costs:
Cur r ent	 service	 cost	 	 	 15.9 1.6 17.5 	 12.8 1.7 14.5
P ast	 service	 cost	 	 	 3.1 – 3.1 	 4.5 – 4.5
Anal y sis	 of	 amount	 cr edit ed	 t o	 inv estment	 income/finance	 costs:
Expect ed	 r etur n	 on	 pension	 sc heme	 assets	 	 	 (45.7) (3.1) (48.8) 	 (37.3) (3.1) (40.4)
Int er est	 on	 pension	 sc heme	 liabilities	 	 	 38.8 3.9 42.7 	 35.3 4.0 39.3
Amounts charged to the income statement before taxation 	 	 12.1 2.4 14.5 	 15.3 2.6 17.9
Anal y sis	 of	 amounts	 r ecognised	 in	 st at ement	 of	 g r oup	 r ecognised	 	
income	 and	 expense:
A ctual	 r etur n	 less	 expect ed	 r etur n	 on	 pension	 sc heme	 assets	 	 2.5 1.2 3.7 	 110.3 1.0 111.3
Chang es	 in	 assum ptions	 underl ying	 t he	 pr esent	 	
v alue	 of	 t he	 sc heme’s	 liabilities	 	 	 23.1 (0.7) 22.4 	 (104.4) 2.6 (101.8)
Actuarial gain recognised in the statement of group  
recognised income and expense 	 	 	 25.6 0.5 26.1 	 5.9 3.6 9.5
The	 t ot al	 contributions	 t o	 t he	 defined	 benefits	 plan	 in	 t he	 y ear	 ending	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2008	 ar e	 expect ed	 t o	 be	 £1 8.3m	 f or	 t he	 g r oup.	 The	 disposal	 of	
A q uarion	 in	 2007	 will	 r educe	 t he	 g r oup’s	 r etir ement	 benefit	 oblig ation. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 67
21. Pensions (continued)
(v) Reconciliation of opening and closing retirement benefit liabilities and assets
   2007 2006
   UK US Total UK US Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Mo v ement	 in	 liabilities	 during	 t he	 y ear:
Liabilities	 at	 beginning	 of	 y ear	 	 (793.8) (72.8) (866.6) 	 (627.6) (67.1) (694.7)
Mo v ement	 in	 y ear	 	 	     
–	 plan	 par ticipants’	 contributions	 	 (4.2) (0.1) (4.3) 	 (3.6) (0.1) (3.7)
–	 cur r ent	 service	 cost	 	 (15.9) (1.6) (17.5) 	 (12.8) (1.7) (14.5)
–	 int er est	 cost	 	 (38.8) (3.9) (42.7) 	 (35.3) (4.0) (39.3)
–	 past	 service	 cost	 	 (3.1) – (3.1) 	 (4.5) – (4.5)
–	 benefits	 paid	 	 23.7 3.5 27.2 	 22.4 3.3 25.7
–	 actuarial	 g ain/(loss)	 	 23.1 (0.7) 22.4 	 (104.4) 2.6 (101.8)
–	 business	 combinations	 	 – – – 	 (27.5) – (27.5)
Unr emitt ed	 contributions	 at	 t he	 y ear	 end	 	 (1.6) – (1.6) 	 (0.5) – (0.5)
Ex c hang e	 dif f er ences	  – 8.6 8.6 	 – (5.8) (5.8)
Pension liabilities at end of year 	 	 	 (810.6) (67.0) (877.6) 	 (793.8) (72.8) (866.6)
Mo v ement	 in	 assets	 during	 t he	 y ear:
Assets	 beginning	 of	 y ear	 	 	 731.7 50.1 781.8 	 547.2 43.7 590.9
Mo v ement	 in	 y ear
–	 plan	 par ticipants’	 contributions	 	 	 4.2 0.1 4.3 	 3.6 0.1 3.7
–	 em plo y ers	 contributions	  57.5 1.9 59.4 	 32.6 1.5 34.1
–	 ot her	 finance	 income	  45.7 3.1 48.8 	 37.3 3.1 40.4
–	 actuarial	 g ain	  2.5 1.2 3.7 	 110.3 1.0 111.3
–	 benefits	 paid	  (23.7) (3.5) (27.2) 	 (22.4) (3.3) (25.7)
–	 business	 combinations	 	 – – – 	 23.1 – 23.1
Ex c hang e	 dif f er ences	  – (6.0) (6.0) 	 – 4.0 4.0
Pension assets at end of year 	  817.9 46.9 864.8 	 731.7 50.1 781.8
(vi) History of experience gains and losses
    2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 
UK    £m £m £m £m £m
F air	 v alue	 of	 sc heme	 assets	 	 	 	 817.9 	 731.7 547.2 499.1 407.1
Pr esent	 v alue	 of	 defined	 benefit	 oblig ation	 	 	 	 (810.6) 	 (793.8) (627.6) (587.0) (566.9)
Surplus/(deficit)	 in	 t he	 sc heme	 	 	 	 7.3 	 (62.1) (80.4) (87.9) (159.8)
Experience	 g ains	 and	 losses	 on	 sc heme	 liabilities	 	 	 	 –	 – 6.7 7.3 –
Experience	 g ains	 and	 losses	 on	 sc heme	 assets	 	 	 	 2.5 	 110.3 20.0 72.9 (162.9)
     
US    
F air	 v alue	 of	 sc heme	 assets	 	 	 	 46.9 	 50.1 43.7 42.1 40.2
Pr esent	 v alue	 of	 defined	 benefit	 oblig ation	 	 	 	 (67.0) 	 (72.8) (67.1) (60.5) (57.4)
Deficit	 in	 t he	 sc heme	 	 	 	 (20.1) 	 (22.7) (23.4) (18.4) (17.2)
Experience	 g ains	 and	 losses	 on	 sc heme	 assets	 	 	 	 1.2 	 1.0 (0.1) 5.5 (7.0)
IAS	 1 9	 r eq uir es	 t hat	 t he	 pension	 sc hemes	 ar e	 v alued	 using	 mark et	 conditions	 at	 t he	 g r oup’s	 y ear	 end.	 This	 pr oduces	 a	 v olatile	 figur e	 f or	 an y	 surplus	 or	
deficit	 as	 it	 is	 lar g el y	 dependent	 on	 t he	 le v els	 of	 st oc k	 mark ets	 on	 one	 par ticular	 dat e.	 The	 g r oup’s	 pension	 liabilities	 ar e	 funded	 on	 a	 long	 t er m	 basis	
(based	 on	 t he	 triennial	 r e vie w	 of	 K GPP	 and	 annual	 r e vie w s	 in	 t he	 US)	 r at her	 t han	 t he	 IAS	 1 9	 disclosur es.
The	 cumulativ e	 amount	 of	 actuarial	 g ains/losses	 r ecognised	 since	 1	 April	 2004	 in	 t he	 g r oup	 st at ement	 of	 r ecognised	 income	 and	 expense	 is	 £43.3m	
(2006:	 £1 7 .2m). Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 68
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
21. Pensions (continued)
(vii) Post retirement medical scheme in US
A	 one	 per cent ag e	 point	 c hang e	 in	 t he	 assumed	 r at e	 of	 incr ease	 in	 healt hcar e	 costs	 w ould	 ha v e	 t he	 f ollo wing	 ef f ects:
       Increase Decrease 
       £m £m
Ef f ect	 on	 agg r eg at e	 service	 cost	 and	 int er est	 cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2 	 (0.1)
Ef f ect	 on	 defined	 benefit	 oblig ation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4.0 (3.0)
(viii) Defined contribution scheme
The	 com pan y	 runs	 tw o	 defined	 contribution	 pension	 sc heme	 f or	 its	 em plo y ees	 in	 t he	 UK	 and	 one	 in	 t he	 US.	 The	 t ot al	 c har g ed	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	
f or	 t he	 y ear	 ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 w as	 £1 .2m	 (2006:	 £4.6m).
22. Authorised and issued share capital
      2007  2006 
      Nominal  Nominal 
     2007 Value 2006 Value 
     Number £ Number £
Authorised
Or dinar y	 shar es	 of	 1 5
5 /
9
p	 eac h	 	 	 	 	 814,395,257 	 126,683,707 	 814,395,257 126,683,707
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Or dinar y	 shar es	 of	 1 5
5 /
9
p	 eac h	 	 	 	 358,525,396 55,770,617 	 366,370,396 56,990,950
Mo v ements	 in	 t he	 y ear	 r elat e	 t o	 t he	 com pletion	 of	 a	 shar e	 buy	 bac k	 sc heme	 continued	 fr om	 t he	 prior	 y ear .
During	 t he	 y ear	 7 ,845,000	 (2006:	 9,290,000)	 or dinar y	 shar es	 of	 1 5
5 /
9
p	 w er e	 bought	 bac k	 f or	 cancellation.
The	 g r oup	 has	 an	 ESO T	 whic h	 is	 used	 t o	 administ er	 t he	 issue	 of	 shar es	 t o	 em plo y ees	 and	 dir ect ors	 under	 t he	 com pan y’s	 ‘Shar esa v e’	 sa v e-as-y ou-ear n	
shar e	 option	 sc heme	 and	 t he	 Long	 T er m	 Incentiv e	 Plan	 (L TIP).
The	 ESO T	 is	 a	 trust	 funded	 b y	 int er est	 fr ee	 loans	 fr om	 t he	 com pan y .	 All	 t he	 administr ation	 costs	 of	 t he	 trust	 ar e	 writt en	 of f	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 	
as	 t he y	 accrue.	 The	 trust	 holds	 2,066,306	 shar es	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 (2,947 ,8 1 2	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006).
     2007 2006 
    Date of Number of Number of Option Normal 
Options granted and outstanding at 31 March 2007    grant shares shares price exercise date
Sharesave schemes
Thr ee	 y ear	 sc hemes	 	 	 	 10 Jan 2003 – 39,489 320.0p Mar-Aug 2006
	 	 	 	 9 Jan 2004 39,984 392,235 366.0p Mar-Aug 2007
	 	 	 	 7 Jan 2005 372,116 399,358 461.0p Mar-Aug 2008
    30 Dec 2005 428,689 467,190 588.0p Mar-Aug 2009
	 	 	 	 28 Dec 2006 346,848 – 741.0p Mar-Aug 2010
Fiv e	 y ear	 sc hemes    5 Jan 2001 – 14,443 299.0p Mar-Aug 2006
    4 Jan 2002 12,374 277,803 275.0p Mar-Aug 2007
    10 Jan 2003 436,060 463,769 320.0p Mar-Aug 2008
    9 Jan 2004 257,632 270,794 366.0p Mar-Aug 2009
    7 Jan 2005 361,420 375,033 461.0p Mar-Aug 2010
    30 Dec 2005 277,870 288,214 588.0p Mar-Aug 2011
    28 Dec 2006 177,172 – 741.0p Mar-Aug 2012 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 69
23. Reconciliation of group movements in equity
   Capital Investment   Share-based 
 Issued Share redemption in own Hedging Translation payment Retained 
 capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
A t	 1	 April	 2005	 58.4 16.7 145.3 (13.4) (7.5) (5.0) 1.6 1,246.9 1,443.0
T r ansf er	 fr om	 t he	 income	 	
	 st at ement	 – – – – – – – 174.1 174.1
Shar e	 buy	 bac k	 (1.4) – 1.4 – – – – (72.9) (72.9)
D i v i d e n d s 	 a p p r o v e d 	 a n d 	 p a i d 	 – – – – – – – (109.4) (109.4)
T r easur y	 shar es	 disposed	 	
	 of	 t hr ough	 v esting	 of 	
	 shar e	 sc hemes	 – – – 3.6 – – (0.8) – 2.8
Shar e-based	 pa yment	 c har g e	 – – – – – – 1.6 – 1.6
T ot al	 included	 in	 t he	 	
	 g r oup	 st at ement	 of 	
	 r ecognised	 income	 and	 	
	 expenditur e	 – – – – (1.9) 15.6 0.9 3.2 17.8
At 1 April 2006 57.0 16.7 146.7 (9.8) (9.4) 10.6 3.3 1,241.9 1,457.0
T r ansf er	 fr om	 t he	 income	 	
	 st at ement	 – – – – – – – 151.3 151.3
Shar e	 buy	 bac k	 (1.2) – 1.2 – – – – (59.3) (59.3)
D i v i d e n d s 	 a p p r o v e d 	 a n d 	 p a i d 	 – – – – – – – (109.7) (109.7)
T r easur y	 shar es	 disposed	 	
	 of	 t hr ough	 v esting	 of 	
	 shar e	 sc hemes	 – – – 3.1 – – (0.8) – 2.3 
T ax	 on	 it ems	 t ak en	 dir ectl y	 	
	 t o	 eq uity	 – – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Shar e-based	 pa yment	 c har g e	 – – – – – – 1.9 – 1.9
T ot al	 included	 in	 t he	 	
	 g r oup	 st at ement	 of 	
	 r ecognised	 income	 and	 	
	 expenditur e	 – – – – 11.3 (7.9) – 15.5 18.9
At 31 March 2007 55.8 16.7 147.9 (6.7) 1.9 2.7 4.5 1,239.7 1,462.5 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 70
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
24. Financial instruments
T r easur y	 policy	 is	 described	 in	 t he	 financial	 r e vie w	 on	 pag e	 1 4.	 The	 disclosur es	 belo w	 ex clude	 shor t	 t er m	 r eceiv ables	 and	 pa y ables	 whic h	 ar e	 primaril y	 of	 a	
tr ading	 natur e	 and	 expect ed	 t o	 be	 settled	 wit hin	 nor mal	 commer cial	 t er ms.
(a) Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
The	 int er est	 r at e	 risk	 pr ofile	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h,	 w as	 as	 f ollo w s:
Year ended 31 March 2007
  
Within 1–2 2–3 3–4 4–5 More than 
  
1 year years years years years 5 years Total 
Financial liabilities  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Bank	 loans  14.5 24.7 25.0 27.1 43.0 259.7 394.0
6.625%	 bond	 203 1  – – – – – 240.2 240.2
6.875%	 guar ant eed	 bonds	 20 1 0  – – – 199.5 – – 199.5
5.375%	 bond	 2023  – – – – – 196.3 196.3
Ot her	 loans  – – – 0.9 – 130.6 131.5
Pr ef er ence	 shar es  0.6 – – – – – 0.6
Finance	 lease	 sw aps  – 0.5 1.6 (4.1) (2.3) 4.8 0.5
  15.1 25.2 26.6 223.4 40.7 831.6 1,162.6
Floating rate
Shor t	 t er m	 loan  293.7 – – – – – 293.7
3.048%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 2033  – – – – – 111.6 111.6
1 .462%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 205 1  – – – – – 127.1 127.1
1 .46%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 2056  – – – – – 127.1 127.1
Ot her	 loans  – – 2.0 – – – 2.0
Finance	 leases  5.9 6.4 6.8 7.3 7.8 357.9 392.1
  299.6 6.4 8.8 7.3 7.8 723.7 1,053.6
 
Financial assets
Floating rate
Cash	 and	 shor t	 t er m	 deposits  (111.4) – – – – – (111.4)
Loans	 t o	 associat es/joint	 v entur es  (21.2) – – – – – (21.2)
  (132.6) – – – – – (132.6) Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71
24. Financial instruments (continued)
(a) Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Year ended 31 March 2006
  
Within 1–2 2–3 3–4 4–5 More than 
  1 year years years years years 5 years Total 
Financial liabilities  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Bank	 loans	 	 14.3 14.5 24.7 25.0 27.1 202.7 308.3
6.625%	 bond	 203 1	 	 – – – – – 240.2 240.2
6.875%	 guar ant eed	 bonds	 20 1 0	 	 – – – – 199.3 – 199.3
5.25%	 Eur obond	 2006	 	 50.0 – – – – – 50.0
5.375%	 bond	 2023	 	 – – – – – 196.1 196.1
Ot her	 loans	 	 – – – – 1.2 132.4 133.6
Pr ef er ence	 shar es	 	 – 0.6 – – – – 0.6
Finance	 lease	 sw aps	 	 1.5 – 1.4 3.3 0.2 8.9 15.3
	 	 65.8 15.1 26.1 28.3 227.8 780.3 1,143.4
Floating rate
Shor t	 t er m	 loans	 	 	 4.4 – – – – – 4.4
Bank	 o v er dr af t	 	 3.2 – – – – – 3.2
5.25%	 Eur obond	 2006	 	 379.0 – – – – – 379.0
3.048%	 index	 link ed	 guar ant eed	 bond	 2033	 	 – – – – – 108.0 108.0
Ot her	 loans	 	 3.1 – – 2.7 – – 5.8
Finance	 leases	 	 7.9 6.2 9.0 9.6 10.3 411.4 454.4
	 	 397.6 6.2 9.0 12.3 10.3 519.4 954.8
 
Financial assets
Floating rate
Cash	 and	 shor t	 t er m	 deposits	 	 (1 0 1 .5)	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (1 0 1 .5)
Financial	 assets	 	 (27 .8)	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (27 .8)
Loans	 t o	 associat es/joint	 v entur es	 	 (1 8.7)	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (1 8.7)
  (148.0) – – – – – (148.0)
(b) Credit risk
The	 car r ying	 v alue	 of	 t he	 sw aps	 r epr esents	 t he	 cost,	 at	 mark et	 r at es,	 of	 r eplacing	 t hem	 in	 t he	 e v ent	 of	 def ault.
The	 dir ect ors	 consider	 t hat	 t he	 car r ying	 amount	 of	 tr ade	 and	 ot her	 r eceiv ables	 appr o ximat es	 t o	 t heir	 f air	 v alue.	 The	 amounts	 pr esent ed	 in	 t he	 balance	
sheet	 ar e	 net	 of	 allo w ances	 f or	 doubtful	 r eceiv ables,	 estimat ed	 b y	 g r oup’s	 manag ement	 based	 on	 prior	 experience	 and	 t heir	 assessment	 of	 t he	 cur r ent	
economic	 envir onment.
Centr all y	 manag ed	 funds	 ar e	 inv est ed	 entir el y	 wit h	 count erpar ties	 whose	 cr edit	 r ating	 is	 ‘ A- ’	 or	 bett er .
Maximum	 cr edit	 exposur e	 r elating	 t o	 financial	 assets	 is	 r epr esent ed	 b y	 car r ying	 v alue	 as	 at	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 dat e.
(c) Foreign currency risk
The	 g r oup	 ma y	 bor r o w	 in	 appr opriat e	 f or eign	 cur r encies	 in	 or der	 t o	 mitig at e	 t he	 ef f ects	 of	 t he	 cur r ency	 exposur es	 arising	 fr om	 its	 net	 inv estments	
o v erseas.	 The	 f or eign	 ex c hang e	 exposur e	 on	 t he	 tr anslation	 int o	 st erling	 of	 t he	 net	 assets	 of	 A q uarion,	 whic h	 ar e	 denominat ed	 in	 US	 dollars,	 is	 hedg ed	
b y	 US	 dollar	 bor r o wings	 held. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 72
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
24. Financial instruments (continued)
(d) Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The	 f ollo wing	 t able	 pr o vides	 a	 com parison	 b y	 cat egor y	 of	 t he	 book	 v alues	 and	 t he	 f air	 v alues	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities,	 including	
t hose	 classified	 under	 discontinued	 oper ations,	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h.
     2007 2007 2006 2006 
     Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 
     £m £m £m £m
Primary financial instruments financing the group’s operations
Financial assets
Cash	 and	 shor t	 t er m	 deposits	 	 	 	 	 (111.4) (111.4) 	 (101.5) (101.5)
Eur obond	 sw aps	 	 	 	 	 – – 	 (27.8) (27.8) 
Loans	 t o	 associat es/joint	 v entur es	 	 	 	 	 (21.2) (21.2) 	 (18.7) (18.7) 
Financial liabilities
Shor t	 t er m	 loans	 	 	 	 	 293.7 293.7 	 4.4 4.4 	
Bank	 o v er dr af t	 	 	 	 	 – – 	 3.2 3.2
Fix ed	 r at e	 int er est	 r at e	 sw aps	 in	 r espect	 of	 finance	 leases	 	 	 	 0.5 0.5 	 15.3 15.3
Fix ed	 r at e	 bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 394.0 383.3 	 308.3 310.5
Fix ed	 r at e	 st erling	 bonds	 	 	 	 	 636.0 681.9 	 635.6 713.8
Floating	 r at e	 st erling	 bonds	 	 	 	 	 365.8 370.4 	 108.0 129.7
Eur obond	 	 	 	 	 – – 429.0 429.0
US	 loans	 	 	 	 	 131.5 131.5 	 136.7 162.7
Finance	 leases	 	 	 	 	 392.1 392.1 	 454.4 454.4
Pr ef er ence	 shar es	 	 	 	 	 0.6 0.6 	 0.6 0.6
Ot her	 loans	 	 	 	 	 2.0 2.0 	 2.7 2.7
The	 f air	 v alues	 f or	 all	 financial	 instruments	 ha v e	 been	 calculat ed	 b y	 discounting	 t he	 expect ed	 futur e	 cash	 f lo w s	 at	 int er est	 r at es	 pr e v ailing	 f or	 a	
com par able	 maturity	 period	 f or	 eac h	 instrument	 or	 b y	 r ef er ence	 t o	 mark et	 v alues	 f or	 similar	 instruments.
(e) Hedges
The	 g r oup’s	 policy	 is	 t o	 hedg e	 int er est	 r at e	 risk	 wit hin	 appr o v ed	 boar d	 policies	 and	 guidelines.
Int er est	 r at e	 sw aps	 ar e	 used	 t o	 manag e	 int er est	 r at e	 exposur e	 under	 a	 policy	 t hat	 r eq uir es	 betw een	 85%	 and	 95%	 of	 Y orkshir e	 W at er	 Services	 Limit ed’s	
net	 debt	 and	 70%	 and	 95%	 of	 K elda	 Gr oup	 plc’s	 net	 debt	 t o	 be	 held	 at	 fix ed	 r at es.	 A t	 t he	 financial	 y ear	 end	 t he	 pr opor tions	 w er e	 57%	 and	 72%	
r espectiv el y .	 This	 will	 be	 r ebalanced	 once	 a	 r e vie w	 of	 le v els	 has	 been	 com plet ed	 af t er	 t he	 r etur n	 of	 cash	 t o	 shar eholders.
Hedging of Eurobond (€625m)
During	 t he	 y ear ,	 t he	 g r oup	 r epaid	 its	 7	 y ear	€ 625m	 5.25%	 Eur obond.	 The	 hedging	 instruments	 ended	 on	 t he	 same	 dat e.	 The	 hedg e	 w as	 highl y	
ef f ectiv e,	 and	 t her ef or e	 t her e	 is	 no	 im pact	 on	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 or	 on	 eq uity .
In	 Jul y	 1 999	 t he	 g r oup	 issued	 a	 7	 y ear	€ 625m	 5.25%	 Eur obond	 t o	 finance	 t he	 g r oup’s	 US	 acq uisition	 and	 t o	 pr o vide	 fur t her	 funds	 f or	 t he	 non-UK	
r egulat ed	 business.	 During	 2003,	€ 1 2.1m	 w as	 bought	 bac k,	 lea ving	 a	 nominal	 v alue	 outst anding	 of	€ 6 1 2.9m.
T h e 	 g r o u p 	 h a d 	 n o 	 r e q u i r e m e n t 	 f o r 	 e u r o s 	 a n d 	 w a s 	 e x p o s e d 	 t o 	 m o v e m e n t s 	 i n 	 t h e 	 e u r o / s t e r l i n g 	 e x c h a n g e 	 r a t e 	 w h i c h 	 a f f e c t e d 	 t h e 	 s t e r l i n g 	 e q u i v a l e n t 	 o f 	 t h e	
l o a n . 	 T h e 	 e x p o s u r e 	 o c c u r r e d 	 a t 	 e a c h 	 r e p o r t i n g 	 d a t e 	 a n d 	 a l s o 	 u p o n 	 u l t i m a t e 	 r e p a y m e n t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 l o a n . 	 I n 	 o r d e r 	 t o 	 f u l l y 	 p r o t e c t 	 t h e 	 s t e r l i n g 	 l i a b i l i t y 	 t h e 	 g r o u p	
e n t e r e d 	 i n t o 	 a 	 n u m b e r 	 o f 	 h e d g i n g 	 i n s t r u m e n t s .
T h e 	 e u r o 	 f i x e d 	 r a t e 	 l i a b i l i t y 	 w a s 	 s w a p p e d 	 i n 	 t h e 	 m o s t 	 p a r t 	 i n t o 	 a 	 f l o a t i n g 	 r a t e 	 s t e r l i n g 	 l i a b i l i t y 	 ( i . e . 	 a 	 f a i r 	 v a l u e 	 h e d g e ) 	 w i t h 	 a 	 p r o p o r t i o n 	 s w a p p e d 	 i n t o 	 a 	 f i x e d	
r a t e 	 s t e r l i n g 	 l i a b i l i t y 	 ( i . e . 	 a 	 c a s h 	 f l o w 	 h e d g e ) 	 i n 	 a 	 s e r i e s 	 o f 	 s w a p s . 	 T h e 	 c o m b i n a t i o n 	 o f 	 t h e 	 s e r i e s 	 o f 	 s w a p s 	 w a s 	 c o n s i d e r e d 	 t o 	 b e 	 a 	 h e d g e 	 o f 	 t h e 	 u n d e r l y i n g	
r e q u i r e m e n t 	 t o 	 p a y 	 f i x e d 	 r a t e 	 e u r o 	 i n t e r e s t .
The	 hedging	 mec hanism	 w as	 a	 per f ect	 hedg e	 ag ainst	 t he	 liability	 t o	 pa y	 fix ed	 r at e	 eur o	 int er est	 because	 t he	 dat es	 of	 int er est	 pa yments	 under	 t he	 series	
of	 sw aps	 w er e	 t he	 same	 as	 t he	 dat es	 on	 whic h	 int er est	 r epa yments	 w er e	 due	 per	 t he	 original	 bond.
The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	 hedging	 instrument	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 w as	 an	 unr ealised	 g ain	 of	 £nil	 (2006:	 £27 .8m).
The	 hedg e	 w as	 assessed	 t o	 be	 highl y	 ef f ectiv e	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 and	 an	 unr ealised	 loss	 of	 £4.4m	 r elating	 t o	 t he	 hedging	 instrument	 w as	 included	 in	
eq uity ,	 ho w e v er	 it	 w as	 full y	 of f set	 b y	 t he	 unr ealised	 g ain	 on	 t he	 Eur obond.	 The	 instrument	 w as	 no	 long er	 r eq uir ed	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007 . Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 73
24. Financial instruments (continued) 
Hedging of interest due under finance leases
Y orkshir e	 W at er	 Services	 Ltd	 has	 a	 number	 of	 finance	 leases	 wit h	 a	 number	 of	 count erpar ties	 lasting	 fr om	 inception	 f or	 periods	 up	 t o	 32	 y ears.	 In	
eac h	 inst ance	 int er est	 pa y able	 under	 t he	 lease	 is	 set	 once	 a	 y ear	 in	 lat e	 Mar c h	 or	 earl y	 April	 based	 on	 1 2	 mont h	 LIBOR.	 Y orkshir e	 W at er	 Services	 Ltd	 is	
t her ef or e	 exposed	 t o	 c hang es	 in	 1 2	 mont h	 LIBOR	 whic h	 could	 ha v e	 a	 mat erial	 ef f ect	 on	 int er est	 costs	 fr om	 y ear	 t o	 y ear	 and	 o v er	 time.	 In	 or der	 t o	 fix	
t he	 int er est	 cost	 on	 a	 pr opor tion	 of	 its	 net	 debt,	 Y orkshir e	 W at er	 Services	 Ltd	 has	 ent er ed	 int o	 a	 number	 of	 f loating	 t o	 fix ed	 r at e	 int er est	 r at e	 sw aps.
The	 hedging	 instrument	 is	 a	 per f ect	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg e	 ag ainst	 c hang es	 in	 1 2	 mont h	 LIBOR	 f or	 t he	 period	 of	 t he	 sw aps	 ag r eements	 because	 t he	 dat es	 of	
int er est	 pa yments	 under	 t he	 sw aps	 ar e	 t he	 same	 as	 t he	 dat es	 on	 whic h	 int er est	 is	 due	 per	 t he	 leasing	 ag r eements	 and	 t he	 nominal	 v alue	 of	 t he	 sw aps	
t hat	 hedg e	 t he	 cost	 eq uals	 t he	 nominal	 lease	 v alue	 outst anding.
The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	 hedging	 instrument	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 w as	 a	 £3.5m	 unr ealised	 loss	 (2006:	 £1 3.5m	 loss).
The	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg e	 w as	 assessed	 t o	 be	 highl y	 ef f ectiv e	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 and	 an	 unr ealised	 loss	 of	 £1 1 .3m	 (2006:	 £1 .8m	 loss)	 r elating	 t o	 t he	 hedging	
instrument	 w as	 included	 in	 eq uity	 (net	 of	 def er r ed	 t ax).
Hedging of investments in foreign operations
A t	 eac h	 r epor ting	 dat e	 t he	 g r oup	 r etr anslat es	 t he	 dollar	 v alue	 in	 t he	 UK	 inv estment	 in	 t he	 US	 oper ations	 int o	 st erling	 at	 t he	 closing	 r at e.	 T o	 hedg e	
ag ainst	 mo v ements	 in	 t he	 US	 dollar/st erling	 ex c hang e	 r at e	 t he	 g r oup	 holds	 dollar	 bor r o wings	 whic h	 hedg e	 $46 1m	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 exposur e.
25. Share-based payments
Share options
The	 em plo y ee	 shar e	 option	 plans	 ar e	 open	 t o	 all	 q ualifying	 em plo y ees	 and	 pr o vide	 f or	 an	 ex er cise	 price	 eq ual	 t o	 t he	 dail y	 a v er ag e	 mark et	 price	 on	 t he	
dat e	 of	 g r ant	 less	 20%.	 The	 options	 will	 v est	 if	 t he	 em plo y ee	 r emains	 in	 service	 f or	 t he	 full	 dur ation	 of	 t he	 option	 sc heme	 (eit her	 t hr ee	 or	 fiv e	 y ears).	 	
Ther e	 ar e	 no	 cash	 settlement	 alt er nativ es.
      2007  2006 
      Weighted  Weighted 
      average  average 
     2007 exercise 2006 exercise 
     Options price (£) Options price (£)
Outst anding	 at	 t he	 beginning	 of	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 2,988,328 4.50 3,242,496 3.65
Gr ant ed	 during	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 528,211 7.41 757,210 5.88
Lapsed	 during	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 (121,478) 4.77 (72,666) 3.81
Ex er cised	 during	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 (684,896) 3.29 	 (938,712) 3.15
Outst anding	 at	 t he	 end	 of	 t he	 y ear	 	 	  2,710,165 5.36 2,988,328 4.50
Of	 whic h	 ex er cisable	 at	 t he	 end	 of	 t he	 y ear	 	 	  52,358 3.45 53,932 3.14
The	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 shar e	 price	 at	 t he	 dat e	 of	 ex er cise	 f or	 shar e	 options	 ex er cised	 during	 t he	 y ear	 w as	 £8.56	 (2006:	 £7 .98).
The	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 of	 t he	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	 shar e	 options	 w as	 £4.7 1	 (2006:	 £3.99).
The	 options	 outst anding	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 had	 a	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 ex er cise	 price	 of	 £5.36	 (2006:	 £4.50),	 and	 a	 w eight ed	 a v er ag e	 r emaining	 contr actual	
lif e	 of	 2.3	 y ears	 (2006:	 2.5	 y ears).
The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 t he	 shar e	 options	 g r ant ed	 is	 estimat ed	 as	 at	 t he	 dat e	 of	 g r ant	 using	 t he	 Blac k	 Sc holes	 st atistical	 model.	 	
The	 in puts	 int o	 t he	 Blac k	 Sc holes	 model	 ar e	 as	 f ollo w s:
       2007 2006
Shar e	 price	 at	 dat e	 of	 g r ant	 	 	 	 	 	 926p 735p
Ex er cise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 741p 588p
Expect ed	 v olatility	 	 	 	 	 	 25% 	 25%
Expect ed	 lif e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3 and 5 years 	 3 and 5 years
Risk	 fr ee	 r at e	 	 	 	 	 	 5.08% 	 4.56%
Expect ed	 dividends	 	 	 	 	 	 31p 	 30p
E x p e c t e d 	 v o l a t i l i t y 	 w a s 	 d e t e r m i n e d 	 b y 	 c a l c u l a t i n g 	 t h e 	 h i s t o r i c a l 	 v o l a t i l i t y 	 o f 	 t h e 	 g r o u p ’ s 	 s h a r e 	 p r i c e 	 o v e r 	 t h e 	 p r e v i o u s 	 6 	 y e a r s . Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 74
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
25. Share-based payments (continued)
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
A w ar ds	 under	 t he	 Long	 T er m	 Incentiv e	 Plan	 ha v e	 tw o	 separ at e	 v esting	 conditions,	 bot h	 of	 whic h	 ar e	 dependent	 on	 mark et-based	 conditions.	 	
The	 mark et-based	 conditions	 of	 t he	 a w ar d	 ar e	 t ak en	 int o	 account	 in	 v aluing	 t he	 a w ar d	 at	 t he	 g r ant	 dat e	 b y	 appl ying	 t he	 pr obability	 t hat	 t he	 L TIPs	 	
will	 v est	 t o	 t he	 cur r ent	 mark et	 price	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 shar es.	 A t	 eac h	 subseq uent	 balance	 sheet	 dat e	 t he	 g r oup	 r e vises	 its	 estimat e	 of	 t he	 number	 of	
em plo y ees	 who	 will	 r eceiv e	 a w ar ds.	 It	 r ecognises	 t he	 im pact	 of	 t he	 r e vision	 of	 original	 estimat es,	 if	 an y ,	 in	 t he	 income	 st at ement,	 and	 a	 cor r esponding	
adjustment	 t o	 eq uity	 o v er	 t he	 r emaining	 v esting	 period.
70%	 of	 t he	 full	 v alue	 of	 t he	 L TIPs	 will	 v est	 based	 on	 t he	 com pan y’s	 t ot al	 shar eholder	 r etur n	 (T SR)	 per f or mance	 o v er	 t he	 per f or mance	 period	 (t hr ee	
y ears).	 The	 g r oup’s	 shar e	 per f or mance	 will	 be	 com par ed	 t o	 t hat	 of	 six	 ot her	 UK	 w at er	 com panies.	 A t	 t he	 end	 of	 t he	 per f or mance	 period	 t he	 T SR	 of	 all	
se v en	 com panies	 will	 be	 calculat ed,	 and	 t he	 r esults	 r ank ed.	 Of	 t he	 70%,	 1 00%	 will	 v est	 if	 t he	 g r oup	 is	 r ank ed	 first,	 60%	 if	 t he	 g r oup	 is	 r ank ed	 second	
and	 20%	 if	 t he	 g r oup	 is	 r ank ed	 t hir d.	 Ot her wise	 none	 of	 t he	 70%	 will	 v est.
F or	 t he	 r emaining	 30%,	 t he	 g r oup’s	 T SR	 will	 be	 com par ed	 t o	 t he	 constituents	 of	 t he	 FT SE	 350	 index.	 If	 t he	 g r oup	 is	 in	 t he	 t op	 20%,	 1 00%	 will	 v est,	 	
if	 t he	 g r oup	 is	 at	 t he	 median,	 30%	 will	 v est,	 but	 if	 t he	 com pan y	 is	 r ank ed	 belo w ,	 none	 will	 v est.
      2007  2006 
      Weighted  Weighted 
      average  average 
      fair value  fair value 
     LTIPs (£) LTIPs  (£)
Outst anding	 at	 t he	 beginning	 of	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 971,271 2.64 884,525 2.86
Gr ant ed	 during	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 204,896 2.78 	 294,149 2.43
Lapsed	 during	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 (253,999) 3.25 	 (86,259) 3.04
V est ed	 during	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 (189,796) 3.38 	 (121,144) 3.45
Outst anding	 at	 t he	 end	 of	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 732,372 2.27 	 971,271 2.64
26. Additional cash flow information
     Fair value   Fair value  
     and other   and other 
   At 1 April Cash non-cash At 31 March Cash non-cash At 31 March 
   2005 movement movements 2006 movement movements 2007 
Analysis of movement in net debt   £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 	 	 167.1 (69.3) 1.1 98.9 16.7 (4.2) 111.4
Shor t	 t er m	 deposits	 (>	 3	 mont hs)	 	 	 – – 2.6 2.6 (2.6) – – 
Financial	 assets	 	 	 32.4 – (4.6) 27.8 – (27.8) –
	 	 	 199.5 (69.3) (0.9) 129.3 14.1 (32.0) 111.4
Ov er dr af ts	 	 	 (2.1) (1.2) 0.1 (3.2) – 3.2 –
Debt	 due	 wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 	 (24.1) 30.1 (456.8) (450.8) 114.2 27.8 (308.8)
Finance	 leases	 due	 wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 	 (7.2) (0.7) – (7.9) 2.0 – (5.9)
	 	 	 (33.4) 28.2 (456.7) (461.9) 116.2 31.0 (314.7)
Debt	 due	 af t er	 one	 y ear	 	 	 (1,493.2) (131.1) 449.8 (1,174.5) (354.1) 13.8 (1,514.8)
Finance	 leases	 due	 af t er	 one	 y ear	 	 	 (456.4) 10.0 (0.1) (446.5) 60.3 – (386.2)
	 	 	 (1,949.6) (121.1) 449.7 (1,621.0) (293.8) 13.8 (1,901.0)
Net debt 	 	 	 (1,783.5) (162.2) (7.9) (1,953.6) (163.5) 12.8 (2,104.3) Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 75
26. Additional cash flow information (continued) 	
This	 is	 split	 as	 f ollo w s:
 
2007 2006
   £m £m £m £m £m £m 
   Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
Cash	 and	 cash	 eq uiv alents	 	 	 102.0 9.4 111.4 82.7 16.2 98.9
Shor t	 t er m	 deposits	 (>	 3	 mont hs)	 	 	 – – – – 2.6 2.6
Financial	 assets	 	 	 – – – 27.8 – 27.8
	 	 	 102.0 9.4 111.4 110.5 18.8 129.3
Ov er dr af ts	 	 	 – – – 	 (3.2) – (3.2)
Debt	 due	 wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 (308.2) (0.6) (308.8) (447.7) (3.1) (450.8)
Finance	 leases	 due	 wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 (5.9) – (5.9) (7.9) – (7.9)
	 	 (314.1) (0.6) (314.7) (458.8) (3.1) (461.9)
Debt	 due	 af t er	 one	 y ear	 	 (1,383.3) (131.5) (1,514.8) (1,040.3) (134.2) (1,174.5)
Finance	 leases	 due	 af t er	 one	 y ear	 	 (386.2) – (386.2) (446.5) – (446.5)
	 	 (1,769.5) (131.5) (1,901.0) (1,486.8) (134.2) (1,621.0)
Net debt 	 	 (1,981.6) (122.7) (2,104.3) (1,835.1) (118.5) (1,953.6)
N et	 debt	 does	 not	 include	 financial	 liabilities	 whic h	 ar e	 not	 consider ed	 t o	 be	 par t	 of	 t he	 g r oup’s	 bor r o wings.
Oper ating	 pr ofit	 as	 not ed	 in	 t he	 g r oup	 cashf lo w	 st at ement	 can	 be	 deriv ed	 as	 f ollo w s:
       2007 2006 
      Notes £m £m
Pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 bef or e	 t ax ation	 	 	 	 	 	 241.2 224.3
Inv estment	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 6 	 (64.1) (51.2)
Finance	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 6 	 161.1 142.3
Gr oup	 oper ating	 pr ofit	 fr om	 continuing	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 338.2 	 315.4
Pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 fr om	 discontinued	 oper ations	 bef or e	 t ax ation	 	 	 	 	 8 	 (14.2) 	 23.9
Im pair ment	 c har g e	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 45.5 	 –
Inv estment	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 (3.7) 	 (3.7)
Finance	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 14.0 	 12.6
Oper ating	 pr ofit	 fr om	 discontinued	 oper ations	 	 	 	 	 	 41.6 	 32.8
27. Commitments
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Contr acts	 placed	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 	 	 	 	  345.5 301.0
The	 long	 t er m	 inv estment	 pr og r amme	 f or	 t he	 UK	 r egulat ed	 w at er	 services	 business,	 whic h	 is	 expect ed	 t o	 identify	 subst antial	 futur e	 capit al	 expenditur e	
commitments	 in	 t he	 period	 1	 April	 2005	 t o	 3 1	 Mar c h	 20 1 0,	 w as	 ag r eed	 as	 par t	 of	 t he	 P eriodic	 R e vie w	 pr ocess	 finalised	 in	 December	 2004.
A t	 3 1	 Mar c h,	 g r oup	 com panies	 w er e	 committ ed	 t o	 making	 t he	 f ollo wing	 pa yments	 under	 non-cancellable	 oper ating	 leases	 as	 set	 out	 belo w .
The	 g r oup	 has	 ent er ed	 int o	 commer cial	 leases	 on	 cer t ain	 pr oper ty ,	 mot or	 v ehicles	 and	 it ems	 of	 mac hiner y .	 These	 leases	 ha v e	 an	 a v er ag e	 dur ation	 of	
betw een	 3	 and	 1 0	 y ears.	 Ther e	 ar e	 no	 r estrictions	 placed	 on	 t he	 g r oup	 b y	 ent ering	 int o	 t he	 leases. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 76
Notes to the group accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
27. Commitments (continued)
F utur e	 minimum	 r ent als	 pa y able	 under	 non-cancellable	 oper ating	 leases	 ar e	 as	 f ollo w s:
     2007 2007 2006 2006 
     Land and  Land and 
     buildings Other buildings Other 
     £m £m £m £m
Wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 0.3 2.1 	 0.3 1.0
Betw een	 tw o	 and	 fiv e	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 0.5 1.6 	 0.2 0.1
Ov er	 5	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 0.1 – 	 – –
	 	 	 	 	 0.9 	 3.7 	 0.5 1.1
28. Contingent liabilities
A t	 t he	 time	 of	 com pletion	 of	 t he	 W ast e	 R ecy cling	 Gr oup	 (WR G)	 mer g er ,	 an	 indemnity	 w as	 giv en	 t o	 WR G	 b y	 Y orkshir e	 Envir onment al	 Solutions	 Limit ed	
bac k ed	 b y	 a	 K elda	 Gr oup	 plc	 guar ant ee,	 in	 r espect	 of	 a	 land	 fill	 sit e	 manag ed	 b y	 3C	 W ast e	 Limit ed	 and	 kno wn	 as	 t he	 Rhonda	 sit e.	 The	 indemnity	 	
is	 unlimit ed	 in	 amount	 and	 t he	 time	 limit	 f or	 bringing	 claims	 has	 expir ed,	 ex cept	 f or	 personal	 injur y	 claims	 wher e	 t he	 limit	 is	 1 5	 y ears	 fr om	 26	 Januar y	
1 999.	 The	 matt ers	 co v er ed	 under	 t his	 indemnity	 ar e	 an y	 losses	 arising	 out	 of:
(a)	 non-com pliance	 wit h	 an	 Envir onment	 A g ency	 notice	 serv ed	 in	 Ma y	 1 998;
(b)	 an y	 claims	 b y	 individuals	 f or	 personal	 injur y ,	 har m	 t o	 healt h,	 nuisance	 et c;	 and
(c)	 liability	 f or	 neg lig ent	 per f or mance	 of	 t he	 contr act	 betw een	 3C	 W ast e	 Limit ed	 and	 Rhonda	 W ast e	 Disposal	 Limit ed. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 77
29. Related parties
Gr oup	 com panies	 ha v e	 ext ended	 finance	 t o	 se v er al	 associat es	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 on	 a	 pr opor tionat e	 basis	 wit h	 ot her	 principal	 st ak eholders.	 	
These	 loans	 ar e	 included	 in	 inv estments	 anal y sed	 in	 not e	 1 3.
 Sales to Debtors balance Loans to/(from) 
 related parties with related parties related parties
   2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Joint ventures
A ber deen	 Envir onment al	 Services	 (Holdings)	 Limit ed	 	 	 5.1 	 4.1 0.9 0.7 0.5 1.0
Br e y	 Utilities	 Limit ed	 	 	 –	 – – – 15.3 13.7
Br e y	 Services	 Limit ed	 	 	 6.1 	 6.6 3.4 0.7 – –
Associates
K e yLandmark	 Limit ed	 	 	 –	 – – 	 – 2.4 1.9
Whit ehall	 Landing	 Limit ed	 	 	 –	 – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Whinmoor	 Limit ed	 	 	 –	 – – – 0.1 0.1
K e yLand	 Gr egor y	 Limit ed	 	 	 –	 – – – 2.5 2.2
K e yLand	 Gr egor y	 (R et ail)	 Limit ed	 	 	 –	 – – – 0.7 0.1
	 	 	 11.2 	 10.7 4.3 1.4 21.2 18.7
The	 loans	 car r y	 mark et	 r at es	 of	 int er est.	 T ot al	 int er est	 r eceiv ed	 on	 loans	 t o	 associat ed	 under t akings	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 w as	 £2.0m	 (2006:	 £2.2m).	 	
All	 outst anding	 balances	 ar e	 unsecur ed.	 Sales	 and	 pur c hases	 betw een	 r elat ed	 par ties	 ar e	 made	 at	 nor mal	 mark et	 prices.	 During	 t he	 y ears	 ended	 3 1	
Mar c h	 2007	 and	 2006	 t he	 g r oup	 has	 not	 made	 an y	 pr o vision	 f or	 doubtful	 debts	 r elating	 t o	 amounts	 o w ed	 b y	 r elat ed	 par ties.
Ther e	 w er e	 no	 ot her	 mat erial	 tr ansactions	 betw een	 t he	 g r oup	 and	 its	 associat ed	 under t akings	 or	 joint	 v entur es	 during	 t he	 y ear .
Compensation of key management personnel (including directors)
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Shor t	 t er m	 benefits	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.8 	 2.2
P ost-em plo yment	 benefits	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4 	 0.3
T er mination	 pa yments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2 	 –
Shar e-based	 pa yments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.8 	 0.2
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4.2 	 2.7
30. Post-balance sheet events
A	 cir cular	 t o	 shar eholders	 dat ed	 9	 Ma y	 2007	 set	 out	 det ails	 of	 a	 pr oposed	 r etur n	 of	 cash	 t o	 shar eholders	 of	 2 1 0	 pence	 per	 existing	 or dinar y	 shar e,	 	
t hat	 w as	 appr o v ed	 b y	 shar eholders	 on	 1	 June	 2007 .	
See	 not e	 8	 f or	 det ails	 of	 t he	 disposal	 of	 A q uarion’s	 r egulat ed	 w at er	 business. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 78
Group companies
       Class of Proportion 
      Country of shares of class of 
Principal subsidiary companies      incorporation in issue share held
Water services
Y orkshir e	 W at er	 Services	 Limit ed*	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
A q uarion	 Com pan y	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 	 US	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
A q uarion	 W at er	 Com pan y	 of	 Connecticut	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 	 US	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
A q uarion	 W at er	 Com pan y	 of	 N e w	 Y ork	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 	 US	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
A q uarion	 W at er	 Com pan y	 of	 N e w	 Ham pshir e	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 	 US	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
A q uarion	 W at er	 Com pan y	 of	 Massac husetts	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 	 US	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
A q uarion	 W at er	 Com pan y	 of	 Sea	 Clif f	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 	 US	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
Delt a	 W at er	 Services	 Limit ed	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
Gr am pian	 W ast e	 W at er	 Services	 Limit ed	 	 	 	 	 	 Scotland	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
K elda	 W at er	 Services	 Limit ed*	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
K elda	 W at er	 Services	 (W ales)	 Limit ed	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
Other activities
K e yLand	 De v elopments	 Limit ed*	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
K e yLand	 Inv estment	 Pr oper ties	 Limit ed	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
Loop	 Cust omer	 Manag ement	 Limit ed*	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
Holding and finance companies
F eatur epac k	 Limit ed*	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
K elda	 Gr oup	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 	 US	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
Y orkshir e	 W at er	 Services	 Finance	 Plc	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 1 00%
       Class of Proportion 
      Country of shares of class of 
Principal associated undertakings and joint ventures      incorporation in issue share held
A ber deen	 Envir onment al	 Services	 (Holdings)	 Limit ed	 	 	 	 	 	 Scotland	 Or dinar y	 ‘ A ’	 Nil
	 	 	 	 	 	 Scotland	 Or dinar y	 ‘B’	 1 00%
	 	 	 	 	 	 Scotland	 Or dinar y	 ‘C’	 Nil
Br e y	 Utilities	 Limit ed	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 ‘ A ’	 1 00%
	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 ‘B’	 Nil
	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 ‘C’	 Nil
Br e y	 Services	 Limit ed	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 ‘ A ’	 1 00%
	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 ‘B’	 Nil
	 	 	 	 	 Eng land	 &	 W ales	 Or dinar y	 ‘C’	 Nil
Dalriada	 W at er	 Services	 Ltd	 	 	 	 	 Nor t her n	 Ir eland	 Or dinar y	 ‘ A ’	 Nil
	 	 	 	 	 Nor t her n	 Ir eland	 Or dinar y	 ‘B’	 1 00%
*	 Shar es	 held	 b y	 par ent	 com pan y Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 79
Five year financial summary
                          IFRS                        UK GAAP
    2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Turnover: Group and share of associates and joint ventures 	 	 £m 978.3 929.6 806.2 822.6 838.1
W at er	 Services
–	 UK	 r egulat ed	 	 	 £m 741.1 693.8 640.1 604.4 567.0
–	 US	 oper ations	 	 	 £m 99.4 104.2 92.2 94.1 93.7
Ot her	 activities	 	 	 £m 91.5 85.6 30.7 27.0 29.8
Associat es	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 	 	 £m 46.3 46.0 43.2 97.1 147.6
Operating profit: Group and share of associates and joint ventures 	 £m 384.7 352.9 304.2 292.2 277.1
W at er	 Services
–	 UK	 r egulat ed	 	 	 £m 332.7 312.7 272.1 252.5 233.7
–	 US	 oper ations	 	 	 £m 41.6 32.8 25.6 31.6 34.9
Ot her	 activities	 	 	 £m 9.9 6.5 4.8 4.7 2.6
Associat es	 and	 joint	 v entur es	 	 	 £m 5.1 5.6 6.6 8.2 11.8
Corpor at e	 costs	 	 	 £m (4.6) (4.7) (4.9) (4.8) (5.9)
Profit before taxation and exceptional items 	 	 	 £m 300.9 248.2 218.6 191.6 175.2
Profit before taxation 	 	 £m 255.4 248.2 206.9 206.2 164.3
Earnings per share 	 	 p 42.3 46.9 40.5 47.1 32.7
Adjusted earnings per share (excluding deferred tax) 	 p 61.4 54.0 52.1 46.2 42.4
Dividend per share –	 int erim	 	 	 p 9.25 8.75 8.34 8.10 7.86
	 –	 final	 	 	 p 23.0 21.60 20.66 18.73 18.19
    2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Assets employed
Non-cur r ent	 assets	 	 	 £m 4,581.9 4,451.1 4,222.7 3,996.3 3,988.6
N et	 cur r ent	 assets/(liabilities)	 and	 non-cur r ent	 liabilities	 ex cluding	 bor r o wings	 £m (1,015.1) (1,040.5) (996.2) (558.6) (550.3)
	 	 	 £m 3,566.8 3,410.6 3,226.5 3,437.7 3,438.3
Financed by
Shar eholders’	 funds	 	 	 £m 1,462.5 1,457.0 1,443.0 1,731.3 1,717.3
Minority	 int er ests	 	 	 £m	 – – – 0.6 0.6
N et	 debt	 	 	 £m 2,104.3 1,953.6 1,783.5 1,705.8 1,720.4
	 	 	 £m 3,566.8 3,410.6 3,226.5 3,437.7 3,438.3
Yorkshire Water regulated investment
Capit al	 expenditur e	 	 	 £m 311.4 270.3 282.2 246.4 263.3
Infr astructur e	 r ene w als	 	 	 £m 51.3 60.3 67.0 55.9 56.2
	 	 	 £m 362.7 330.6 349.2 302.3 319.5
Employees (a v er ag e	 number)
W at er	 services
–	 UK	 r egulat ed	 	 	 No. 2,198 2,129 2,158 2,157 2,147
–	 US	 oper ations	 	 	 No. 584 568 592 589 490
Ot her	 activities	 	 	 No. 1,061 972 682 715 621
Group total 	 	 	 No. 3,843 3,669 3,432 3,461 3,258
Regulatory accounts
The	r egulat or y	accounting	inf or mation	of	Y orkshir e	W at er	Services	Limit ed	f or	t he	y ear	ended	3 1	Mar c h	2007	published	in	accor dance	wit h	Condition	F	
of	t he	Instrument	of	Appointment,	can	be	obt ained	fr ee	of	c har g e	b y	writing	t o	t he	Com pan y	Secr et ar y ,	W est er n	House,	Halif ax	R oad,	Br adf or d	BD6	2SZ.
IFRS and UK GAAP
The	 amounts	 disclosed	 f or	 2004	 and	 earlier	 periods	 ar e	 st at ed	 on	 t he	 basis	 of	 UK	 GA AP	 because	 it	 is	 not	 pr acticable	 t o	 r est at e	 amounts	 f or	 periods	
prior	 t o	 t he	 dat e	 of	 tr ansition	 t o	 IFRS. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 80
Auditor’s report on the company financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the Members of Kelda Group Plc 
W e	 ha v e	 audit ed	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	
st at ements	 of	 K elda	 Gr oup	 plc	 f or	 t he	 y ear	
ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 whic h	 com prise	 t he	
com pan y	 balance	 sheet	 and	 t he	 r elat ed	 not es	
1	 t o	 1 2.	 These	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	
st at ements	 ha v e	 been	 pr epar ed	 under	 t he	
accounting	 policies	 set	 out	 t her ein.	 W e	 ha v e	
also	 audit ed	 t he	 inf or mation	 in	 t he	 dir ect ors’	
r emuner ation	 r epor t	 t hat	 is	 described	 as	 	
ha ving	 been	 audit ed.
W e	 ha v e	 r epor t ed	 separ at el y	 on	 t he	 g r oup	
financial	 st at ements	 of	 K elda	 Gr oup	 plc	 f or	 	
t he	 y ear	 ended	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007 .
This	 r epor t	 is	 made	 solel y	 t o	 t he	 com pan y’s	
members,	 as	 a	 body ,	 in	 accor dance	 wit h	 Section	
235	 of	 t he	 Com panies	 A ct	 1 985.	 Our	 audit	 w ork	
has	 been	 under t ak en	 so	 t hat	 w e	 might	 st at e	 t o	
t he	 com pan y’s	 members	 t hose	 matt ers	 w e	 ar e	
r eq uir ed	 t o	 st at e	 t o	 t hem	 in	 an	 audit ors’	 r epor t	
and	 f or	 no	 ot her	 purpose.	 T o	 t he	 fullest	 ext ent	
per mitt ed	 b y	 la w ,	 w e	 do	 not	 accept	 or	 assume	
r esponsibility	 t o	 an y one	 ot her	 t han	 t he	 com pan y	
and	 t he	 com pan y’s	 members	 as	 a	 body ,	 f or	 our	
audit	 w ork,	 f or	 t his	 r epor t,	 or	 f or	 t he	 opinions	
w e	 ha v e	 f or med.
Respective responsibilities of directors  
and auditors
The	 dir ect ors	 ar e	 r esponsible	 f or	 pr eparing	 	
t he	 Annual	 R epor t,	 t he	 dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	
r epor t	 and	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	
st at ements	 in	 accor dance	 wit h	 applicable	 	
Unit ed	 Kingdom	 la w	 and	 A ccounting	 S t andar ds	
(Unit ed	 Kingdom	 Gener all y	 A ccept ed	
A ccounting	 Pr actice)	 as	 set	 out	 in	 t he	 	
S t at ement	 of	 dir ect ors’	 r esponsibilities.
Our	 r esponsibility	 is	 t o	 audit	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	
financial	 st at ements	 and	 t he	 par t	 of	 t he	
dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	 r epor t	 t o	 be	 audit ed	 in	
accor dance	 wit h	 r ele v ant	 leg al	 and	 r egulat or y	
r eq uir ements	 and	 Int er national	 S t andar ds	 on	
A uditing	 (UK	 and	 Ir eland).
W e	 r epor t	 t o	 y ou	 our	 opinion	 as	 t o	 whet her	
t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	 st at ements	 giv e	 a	
true	 and	 f air	 vie w ,	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	
st at ements	 and	 t he	 par t	 of	 t he	 dir ect ors’	
r emuner ation	 r epor t	 t o	 be	 audit ed	 ha v e	 been	
pr operl y	 pr epar ed	 in	 accor dance	 wit h	 t he	
Com panies	 A ct	 1 985	 and	 t hat	 t he	 inf or mation	
giv en	 in	 t he	 dir ect ors’	 r epor t	 is	 consist ent	 wit h	 	
t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	 st at ements.	
The	 inf or mation	 giv en	 in	 t he	 dir ect ors’	 r epor t	
includes	 t hat	 specific	 inf or mation	 pr esent ed	 	
in	 t he	 business	 r e vie w	 t hat	 is	 cr oss	 r ef er r ed	 	
fr om	 t he	 business	 r e vie w	 section	 of	 t he	
dir ect ors’	 r epor t.	
W e	 also	 r epor t	 t o	 y ou	 if,	 in	 our	 opinion,	 	
t he	 com pan y	 has	 not	 k ept	 pr oper	 accounting	
r ecor ds,	 if	 w e	 ha v e	 not	 r eceiv ed	 all	 t he	
inf or mation	 and	 explanations	 w e	 r eq uir e	 f or	
our	 audit,	 or	 if	 inf or mation	 specified	 b y	 la w	
r eg ar ding	 dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	 and	 ot her	
tr ansactions	 is	 not	 disclosed.
W e	 r ead	 ot her	 inf or mation	 cont ained	 in	 t he	
Annual	 R epor t	 and	 consider	 whet her	 it	 is	
consist ent	 wit h	 t he	 audit ed	 par ent	 com pan y	
financial	 st at ements.	 The	 ot her	 inf or mation	
com prises	 onl y	 t he	 unaudit ed	 par t	 of	 t he	
dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	 r epor t,	 t he	 c hair man’s	
st at ement	 and	 t he	 oper ating	 and	 financial	
r e vie w .	 W e	 consider	 t he	 im plications	 f or	 our	
r epor t	 if	 w e	 become	 a w ar e	 of	 an y	 appar ent	
misst at ements	 or	 mat erial	 inconsist encies	 wit h	
t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	 st at ements.	 	
Our	 r esponsibilities	 do	 not	 ext end	 t o	 an y	 	
ot her	 inf or mation.
Basis of audit opinion
W e	 conduct ed	 our	 audit	 in	 accor dance	 wit h	
Int er national	 S t andar ds	 on	 A uditing	 (UK	 and	
Ir eland)	 issued	 b y	 t he	 A uditing	 Pr actices	 Boar d.	
An	 audit	 includes	 ex amination,	 on	 a	 t est	 basis,	
of	 e vidence	 r ele v ant	 t o	 t he	 amounts	 and	
disclosur es	 in	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	
st at ements	 and	 t he	 par t	 of	 t he	 dir ect ors’	
r emuner ation	 r epor t	 t o	 be	 audit ed.	 It	 also	
includes	 an	 assessment	 of	 t he	 significant	
estimat es	 and	 judgments	 made	 b y	 t he	 dir ect ors	
in	 t he	 pr epar ation	 of	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	
financial	 st at ements,	 and	 of	 whet her	 t he	
accounting	 policies	 ar e	 appr opriat e	 t o	 t he	
com pan y’s	 cir cumst ances,	 consist entl y	 applied	 	
and	 adeq uat el y	 disclosed.
W e	 planned	 and	 per f or med	 our	 audit	 so	 as	
t o	 obt ain	 all	 t he	 inf or mation	 and	 explanations	
whic h	 w e	 consider ed	 necessar y	 in	 or der	 t o	
pr o vide	 us	 wit h	 suf ficient	 e vidence	 t o	 giv e	
r easonable	 assur ance	 t hat	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	
financial	 st at ements	 and	 t he	 par t	 of	 t he	
dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	 r epor t	 t o	 be	 audit ed	
ar e	 fr ee	 fr om	 mat erial	 misst at ement,	 whet her	
caused	 b y	 fr aud	 or	 ot her	 ir r egularity	 or	 er r or .	
In	 f or ming	 our	 opinion	 w e	 also	 e v aluat ed	
t he	 o v er all	 adeq uacy	 of	 t he	 pr esent ation	 of	
inf or mation	 in	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	
st at ements	 and	 t he	 par t	 of	 t he	 dir ect ors’	
r emuner ation	 r epor t	 t o	 be	 audit ed.
Opinion
In	 our	 opinion:
•	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	 st at ements	 	
giv e	 a	 true	 and	 f air	 vie w ,	 in	 accor dance	
wit h	 Unit ed	 Kingdom	 Gener all y	 A ccept ed	
A ccounting	 Pr actice,	 of	 t he	 st at e	 of	 t he	
com pan y’s	 af f airs	 as	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007;	
•	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 financial	 st at ements	 and	
t he	 par t	 of	 t he	 dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	 r epor t	
t o	 be	 audit ed	 ha v e	 been	 pr operl y	 pr epar ed	
in	 accor dance	 wit h	 t he	 Com panies	 A ct	 1 985;	
and
•	 t he	 inf or mation	 giv en	 in	 t he	 dir ect ors’	 r epor t	
is	 consist ent	 wit h	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	
financial	 st at ements.
Er nst	 &	 Y oung	 LLP
R egist er ed	 A udit or
Leeds
1 4	 June	 2007	 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 81
Company balance sheet
At 31 March 2007
       2007 2006 
      Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Inv estments	 	 	 	 	 	 4 	 2,459.8 	 1,722.0
Current assets
Debt ors	 	 	 	 	 	 5 59.9 	 85.3
Financial	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 12 – 27.8
Cash	 at	 bank	 and	 in	 hand	 	 	 	 	 	 	 95.7 	 78.6
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 155.6 	 191.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Shor t	 t er m	 bor r o wings	 	 	 	 	 	 7 (293.6) (433.4)
Ot her	 cr edit ors	 	 	 	 	 	 6 	 (351.3) (173.0)
Net current liabilities       (489.3) (414.7)
Total assets less current liabilities 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,970.5 	 1,307.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Long	 t er m	 bor r o wings	 	 	 	 	 	 7 	 (439.7) (439.5)
Ot her	 cr edit ors	 	 	 	 	 	 6 	 – (2.0)
Net assets 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,530.8 	 865.8
Capital and reserves
Called	 up	 shar e	 capit al	 	 	 	 	 	 12 55.8 	 57.0
Shar e	 pr emium	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 16.7 	 16.7
Ot her	 r eserv es:
	 	 Capit al	 r edem ption	 r eserv e	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 147.9 	 146.7
	 	 R eserv e	 f or	 o wn	 shar es	 	 	 	 	 	 8	 	 (6.7) (9.8)
	 	 Shar e-based	 pa yment	 r eserv e	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 4.9 	 3.8
Pr ofit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 8 	 1,312.2 	 651.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,530.8 	 865.8
Appr o v ed	 b y	 t he	 boar d	 of	 dir ect ors	 on	 1 4	 June	 2007	 and	 signed	 on	 t heir	 behalf	 b y:
Martin Towers, Group Finance Director Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 82
Notes to the company accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
1. Company accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The	 com pan y’s	 financial	 st at ements	 ar e	
pr epar ed	 under	 t he	 hist orical	 cost	 conv ention,	
modified	 t o	 include	 r e v aluation	 of	 all	 financial	
instruments	 as	 described	 belo w ,	 in	 accor dance	
wit h	 applicable	 Unit ed	 Kingdom	 A ccounting	
S t andar ds	 (UK	 GA AP).
The	 accounting	 policies	 of	 t he	 com pan y	 ha v e	
been	 consist entl y	 applied	 o v er	 bot h	 t he	 cur r ent	
and	 pr eceding	 period.	 The	 going	 concer n	 	
basis	 has	 been	 applied	 in	 t hese	 accounts.
Foreign currencies
Individual	 tr ansactions	 denominat ed	 in	 f or eign	
cur r encies	 ar e	 tr anslat ed	 int o	 functional	 cur r ency	
at	 t he	 actual	 ex c hang e	 r at es	 ruling	 at	 t he	
dat es	 of	 t he	 tr ansactions.	 Monet ar y	 assets	 and	
liabilities	 denominat ed	 in	 f or eign	 cur r encies	
ar e	 tr anslat ed	 int o	 functional	 cur r ency	 at	 t he	
r at es	 ruling	 at	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 dat e.	 Pr ofits	
and	 losses	 on	 bot h	 individual	 f or eign	 cur r ency	
tr ansactions	 during	 t he	 y ear	 and	 monet ar y	
assets	 and	 liabilities	 ar e	 dealt	 wit h	 in	 t he	 	
pr ofit	 and	 loss	 account.
Depreciation
Depr eciation	 is	 pr o vided	 on	 all	 t angible	 fix ed	
assets	 at	 r at es	 calculat ed	 t o	 writ e-of f	 t he	 cost,	
less	 estimat ed	 r esidual	 v alue,	 of	 eac h	 asset	
e v enl y	 o v er	 its	 expect ed	 useful	 lif e.
Useful	 economic	 liv es	 ar e	 principall y	 as	 f ollo w s:
Plant and equipment
Fix ed	 plant	 5	 –	 40	 y ears
V ehicles,	 mobile	 plant	 	
and	 com put ers	 3	 –	 1 0	 y ears
Taxation
The	 t ax ation	 c har g e	 is	 based	 on	 t he	 r esult	 f or	
t he	 y ear	 as	 adjust ed	 f or	 disallo w able	 and	 non-	
t ax able	 it ems	 using	 cur r ent	 r at es	 and	 t ak es	
int o	 account	 t ax ation	 def er r ed	 because	 of	
timing	 dif f er ences	 betw een	 t he	 tr eatment	 of	
cer t ain	 it ems	 f or	 t ax ation	 and	 f or	 accounting	
purposes.	
Def er r ed	 t ax	 is	 r ecognised	 in	 r espect	 of	
all	 timing	 dif f er ences	 t hat	 ha v e	 originat ed	
but	 not	 r e v ersed	 at	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 dat e	
wher e	 tr ansactions	 or	 e v ents	 t hat	 r esult	 in	 an	
oblig ation	 t o	 pa y	 mor e	 or	 a	 right	 t o	 pa y	 less	
t ax	 in	 t he	 futur e	 ha v e	 occur r ed	 at	 t he	 balance	
sheet	 dat e,	 subject	 t o	 t he	 f ollo wing:
•	 pr o vision	 is	 made	 f or	 g ains	 on	 disposals	
of	 fix ed	 assets	 t hat	 ha v e	 been	 r olled	 o v er	
int o	 r eplacement	 assets	 onl y	 wher e,	 at	 t he	
balance	 sheet	 dat e,	 t her e	 is	 a	 commitment	
t o	 dispose	 of	 t he	 r eplacement	 assets;
•	 def er r ed	 t ax	 assets	 ar e	 r ecognised	 onl y	 t o	
t he	 ext ent	 t hat	 t he	 dir ect ors	 consider	 t hat	 	
it	 is	 mor e	 lik el y	 t han	 not	 t hat	 t her e	 will	
be	 suit able	 t ax able	 pr ofits	 fr om	 whic h	 t he	
futur e	 r e v ersal	 of	 t he	 underl ying	 timing	
dif f er ences	 can	 be	 deduct ed.
Def er r ed	 t ax	 is	 calculat ed	 at	 t he	 r at es	 at	 	
whic h	 it	 is	 estimat ed	 t hat	 t ax	 will	 arise	 based	
on	 t ax	 r at es	 and	 la w s	 t hat	 ha v e	 been	 enact ed	
or	 subst antiv el y	 enact ed	 b y	 t he	 balance	 	
sheet	 dat e.
Investments in subsidiaries
I n v e s t m e n t s 	 i n 	 s u b s i d i a r i e s 	 a r e 	 s t a t e d 	 a t	 	
c o s t 	 a n d 	 r e v i e w e d 	 f o r 	 i m p a i r m e n t 	 i f 	 t h e r e	 	
a r e 	 i n d i c a t i o n s 	 t h a t 	 t h e 	 c a r r y i n g 	 v a l u e 	 m a y	 	
n o t 	 b e 	 r e c o v e r a b l e .
Financial instruments
Trade debtors and creditors
T r a d e 	 d e b t o r s 	 d o 	 n o t 	 c a r r y 	 a n y 	 i n t e r e s t 	 a n d	 	
a r e 	 s t a t e d 	 a t 	 t h e i r 	 n o m i n a l 	 v a l u e 	 a s 	 r e d u c e d 	 b y	
a p p r o p r i a t e 	 a l l o w a n c e s 	 f o r 	 e s t i m a t e d 	 i r r e c o v e r a b l e	
a m o u n t s . 	 T h e r e 	 i s 	 n o 	 i n t e n t i o n 	 t o 	 t r a d e 	 t h e	
d e b t o r s . 	 T r a d e 	 c r e d i t o r s 	 a r e 	 n o t 	 i n t e r e s t 	 b e a r i n g	
a n d 	 a r e 	 s t a t e d 	 a t 	 t h e i r 	 n o m i n a l 	 v a l u e .
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
A l l 	 l o a n s 	 a n d 	 b o r r o w i n g s 	 a r e 	 i n i t i a l l y 	 r e c o g n i s e d	
a t 	 f a i r 	 v a l u e 	 l e s s 	 d i r e c t l y 	 a t t r i b u t a b l e 	 t r a n s a c t i o n	
c o s t s . 	 A f t e r 	 i n i t i a l 	 r e c o g n i t i o n , 	 i n t e r e s t -
b e a r i n g 	 l o a n s 	 a n d 	 b o r r o w i n g s 	 a r e 	 s u b s e q u e n t l y	
m e a s u r e d 	 a t 	 a m o r t i s e d 	 c o s t 	 u s i n g 	 t h e 	 e f f e c t i v e	
i n t e r e s t 	 m e t h o d . 	 G a i n s 	 a n d 	 l o s s e s 	 a r i s i n g 	 o n 	 r e -
p u r c h a s e , 	 s e t t l e m e n t 	 o r 	 o t h e r w i s e 	 c a n c e l l a t i o n	
o f 	 l i a b i l i t i e s 	 a r e 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 r e s p e c t i v e l y 	 i n	
i n v e s t m e n t 	 i n c o m e 	 a n d 	 f i n a n c e 	 c o s t s .
Derivative financial instruments
The	 com pan y	 uses	 deriv ativ e	 financial	
instruments	 suc h	 as	 f or eign	 cur r ency	 contr acts	
and	 int er est	 r at e	 sw aps	 t o	 hedg e	 its	 risks	
a s s o c i a t e d 	 w i t h 	 i n t e r e s t 	 r a t e 	 a n d 	 f o r e i g n 	 c u r r e n c y	
f l u c t u a t i o n s . 	 S u c h 	 d e r i v a t i v e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 i n s t r u m e n t s	
ar e	 st at ed	 at	 f air	 v alue.
The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 f or w ar d	 ex c hang e	 contr acts	 	
is	 calculat ed	 b y	 r ef er ence	 t o	 cur r ent	 f or w ar d	
ex c hang e	 r at es	 f or	 contr acts	 wit h	 similar	
maturity	 pr ofiles.	 The	 f air	 v alue	 of	 int er est	 r at e	
sw ap	 contr acts	 is	 det er mined	 b y	 r ef er ence	 t o	
mark et	 v alues	 f or	 similar	 instruments.
F o r 	 t h e 	 p u r p o s e s 	 o f 	 h e d g e 	 a c c o u n t i n g , 	 h e d g e s	
a r e 	 c l a s s i f i e d 	 a s 	 e i t h e r 	 f a i r 	 v a l u e 	 h e d g e s 	 w h e r e	
t h e y 	 h e d g e 	 t h e 	 e x p o s u r e 	 t o 	 c h a n g e s 	 i n 	 t h e	
f a i r 	 v a l u e 	 o f 	 a 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 a s s e t 	 o r 	 l i a b i l i t y 	 a n d	
u n r e c o g n i s e d 	 f i r m 	 c o m m i t m e n t s , 	 o r 	 c a s h 	 f l o w	
h e d g e s 	 w h e r e 	 t h e y 	 h e d g e 	 e x p o s u r e 	 t o 	 v a r i a b i l i t y	
i n 	 c a s h 	 f l o w s 	 t h a t 	 i s 	 e i t h e r 	 a t t r i b u t a b l e 	 t o 	 a	
p a r t i c u l a r 	 r i s k 	 a s s o c i a t e d 	 w i t h 	 a 	 r e c o g n i s e d	 	
a s s e t 	 o r 	 l i a b i l i t y 	 o r 	 a 	 f o r e c a s t e d 	 t r a n s a c t i o n .
In	 r elation	 t o	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg es	 t o	 hedg e	
highl y	 pr obable	 f or ecast ed	 tr ansactions	 whic h	
meet	 t he	 conditions	 f or	 hedg e	 accounting,	
t he	 por tion	 of	 t he	 g ain	 or	 loss	 on	 t he	 hedging	
instrument	 t hat	 is	 det er mined	 t o	 be	 an	
ef f ectiv e	 hedg e	 is	 r ecognised	 dir ectl y	 in	 eq uity	
and	 t he	 inef f ectiv e	 por tion	 is	 r ecognised	 in	 net	
pr ofit	 or	 loss.
When	 t he	 hedg ed	 highl y	 pr obable	 f or ecast ed	
tr ansaction	 r esults	 in	 t he	 r ecognition	 of	 a	
non-monet ar y	 asset	 or	 a	 liability ,	 t hen,	 at	 t he	
time	 t he	 asset	 or	 liability	 is	 r ecognised,	 t he	
associat ed	 g ains	 or	 losses	 t hat	 had	 pr e viousl y	
been	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 ar e	 included	 in	
t he	 initial	 measur ement	 of	 t he	 acq uisition	
cost	 or	 ot her	 car r ying	 amount	 of	 t he	 asset	
or	 liability .	 F or	 all	 ot her	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg es,	 t he	
g ains	 or	 losses	 t hat	 ar e	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	
ar e	 tr ansf er r ed	 t o	 t he	 income	 st at ement	 in	
t he	 same	 period	 in	 whic h	 t he	 hedg ed	 fir m	
commitment	 af f ects	 t he	 net	 pr ofit	 and	 loss,	 f or	
ex am ple	 when	 t he	 futur e	 sale	 actuall y	 occurs. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 83
F or	 deriv ativ es	 t hat	 do	 not	 q ualify	 f or	 hedg e	
accounting,	 an y	 g ains	 or	 losses	 arising	 fr om	
c hang es	 in	 f air	 v alue	 ar e	 t ak en	 dir ectl y	 	
t o	 net	 pr ofit	 or	 loss	 f or	 t he	 period.
Hedg e	 accounting	 is	 discontinued	 when	
t he	 hedging	 instrument	 expir es	 or	 is	 sold,	
t er minat ed	 or	 ex er cised,	 or	 no	 long er	 q ualifies	
f or	 hedg e	 accounting.	 A t	 t hat	 point	 	
in	 time,	 an y	 cumulativ e	 g ain	 or	 loss	 on	 t he	
hedging	 instrument	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 is	
k ept	 in	 eq uity	 until	 t he	 f or ecast ed	 tr ansaction	
occurs.	 If	 a	 hedg ed	 tr ansaction	 is	 no	 long er	
expect ed	 t o	 occur ,	 t he	 net	 cumulativ e	 g ain	 	
or	 loss	 r ecognised	 in	 eq uity	 is	 tr ansf er r ed	 	
t o	 net	 pr ofit	 or	 loss	 f or	 t he	 period.
The	 dir ect ors	 ha v e	 t ak en	 adv ant ag e	 of	 t he	
ex em ption	 in	 FRS	 25	 and	 ha v e	 ex cluded	
disclosur es	 r elating	 t o	 financial	 instruments	
fr om	 t he	 financial	 st at ements	 on	 t he	 basis	
t hat	 t he	 financial	 instruments	 of	 t he	 com pan y	
ar e	 included	 wit hin	 t he	 consolidat ed	 financial	
st at ements	 of	 t he	 g r oup.
Pensions
The	 com pan y’s	 em plo y ees	 par ticipat e	 in	 a	
number	 of	 g r oup	 defined	 benefit	 sc hemes	
as	 described	 in	 not e	 2 1	 in	 t he	 consolidat ed	
financial	 st at ements.	 The	 com pan y	 is	 unable	 	
t o	 identify	 its	 shar e	 of	 t he	 underl ying	 assets	
and	 liabilities	 in	 t he	 sc hemes	 on	 a	 consist ent	
and	 r easonable	 basis	 and	 t her ef or e	 accounts	
f or	 t he	 sc hemes	 as	 if	 t he y	 w er e	 defined	
contribution	 sc hemes.	 Det ails	 of	 t he	 defined	
benefit	 sc hemes	 of	 t he	 g r oup	 (account ed	 f or	
i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 g r o u p ’ s 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 p o l i c i e s )	
can	 be	 f ound	 in	 not e	 2 1	 of	 t he	 consolidat ed	
financial	 st at ements.
Share-based payment
The	 com pan y	 oper at es	 a	 sa vings	 r elat ed	 shar e	
option	 sc heme	 under	 whic h	 options	 ha v e	 	
been	 g r ant ed	 t o	 em plo y ees.	 The	 f air	 v alue	 	
of	 options	 g r ant ed	 in	 ex c hang e	 f or	 em plo y ee	
services	 r ender ed	 is	 r ecognised	 as	 an	 expense	
in	 t he	 pr ofit	 and	 loss	 account	 insof ar	 as	 it	
r elat es	 t o	 t he	 shar es	 issued	 t o	 em plo y ees	 of	
t he	 com pan y	 wit h	 a	 cor r esponding	 cr edit	
t o	 eq uity .	 The	 shar e-based	 pa yment	 c har g e	
r elating	 t o	 shar es	 issued	 t o	 em plo y ees	 of	
subsidiar y	 com panies	 is	 t ak en	 t o	 inv estments	
wit h	 a	 cor r esponding	 cr edit	 t o	 eq uity .
The	 t ot al	 amount	 whic h	 is	 expensed	 o v er	 t he	
v esting	 period	 is	 det er mined	 b y	 t he	 f air	 v alue	
of	 t he	 option	 at	 t he	 dat e	 of	 t he	 g r ant.	 The	 f air	
v alue	 of	 t he	 option	 calculat ed	 is	 det er mined	 b y	
use	 of	 mat hematical	 modelling	 including	 t he	
Blac k	 Sc holes	 option	 pricing	 model.
The	 com pan y	 r e-assesses	 its	 estimat es	 of	
t he	 number	 of	 options	 t hat	 ar e	 expect ed	 t o	
become	 ex er cisable	 at	 eac h	 balance	 sheet	
dat e.	 An y	 adjustments	 t o	 t he	 original	 estimat es	
ar e	 r ecognised	 in	 t he	 income	 st at ement	
(and	 eq uity).	 No	 expense	 is	 r ecognised	 f or	
a w ar ds	 t hat	 do	 not	 ultimat el y	 v est,	 ex cept	 f or	
a w ar ds	 wher e	 v esting	 is	 conditional	 upon	 a	
mark et	 condition,	 whic h	 ar e	 tr eat ed	 as	 v esting	
ir r espectiv e	 of	 whet her	 or	 not	 t he	 mark et	
condition	 is	 satisfied,	 pr o vided	 t hat	 all	 ot her	
per f or mance	 conditions	 ar e	 satisfied.
A w ar ds	 under	 t he	 Long	 T er m	 Incentiv e	 Plan	
ha v e	 tw o	 separ at e	 v esting	 conditions,	 bot h	
of	 whic h	 ar e	 dependent	 on	 mark et-based	
conditions	 (K elda	 shar eholder	 r etur n	 ag ainst	
a	 com par at or	 g r oup	 and	 ag ainst	 t he	 mark et).	
The	 mark et-based	 conditions	 of	 t he	 a w ar d	
ar e	 t ak en	 int o	 account	 in	 v aluing	 t he	 a w ar d	 at	
t he	 g r ant	 dat e.	 A t	 eac h	 subseq uent	 balance	
sheet	 dat e	 t he	 com pan y	 r e vises	 its	 estimat e	
of	 t he	 number	 of	 em plo y ees	 who	 will	 r eceiv e	
a w ar ds.	 It	 r ecognises	 t he	 im pact	 of	 t he	 r e vision	
of	 original	 estimat es,	 if	 an y ,	 in	 t he	 income	
st at ement,	 and	 a	 cor r esponding	 adjustment	 	
t o	 eq uity	 o v er	 t he	 r emaining	 v esting	 period.
The	 pr o visions	 of	 FRS	 20	 ha v e	 been	 applied	 t o	
options	 g r ant ed	 af t er	 7	 No v ember	 2002	 and	
not	 v est ed	 bef or e	 1	 Januar y	 2005.
Reserve for own shares
The	 com pan y	 has	 an	 em plo y ee	 shar e	 trust	
(ESO T)	 f or	 t he	 g r anting	 of	 com pan y	 shar es	
t o	 ex ecutiv es	 and	 senior	 em plo y ees.	 Shar es	
in	 t he	 com pan y	 held	 b y	 t he	 em plo y ee	 shar e	
trust	 ar e	 tr eat ed	 as	 r eserv e	 f or	 o wn	 shar es	 and	
pr esent ed	 in	 t he	 balance	 sheet	 as	 a	 deduction	
fr om	 eq uity .
The	 finance	 costs	 and	 administr ation	 costs	
r elating	 t o	 t he	 ESO T	 ar e	 c har g ed	 t o	 t he	 pr ofit	
and	 loss	 account.	 Dividends	 ear ned	 on	 shar es	
held	 in	 t he	 T rust	 ha v e	 been	 w aiv ed.	 The	 shar es	
ar e	 ignor ed	 f or	 t he	 purposes	 of	 calculating	 t he	
com pan y’s	 ear nings	 per	 shar e.
Corresponding amounts
The	 com pan y	 com plies	 wit h	 FRS	 28	
“Cor r esponding	 amounts”.	 FRS	 28	 sets	
out	 t he	 r eq uir ements	 f or	 t he	 disclosur e	 of	
cor r esponding	 amounts	 f or	 it ems	 sho wn	 in	 	
an	 entity’s	 primar y	 financial	 st at ements	 and	
t he	 not es	 t o	 t he	 financial	 st at ements.
Dividends receivable
Dividends	 r eceiv able	 ar e	 r ecognised	 when	 	
t he	 shar eholders’	 right	 t o	 r eceiv e	 t he	 r e v enue	
is	 est ablished.
Dividends payable
Int erim	 and	 final	 dividends	 pa y able	 ar e	
r ecognised	 on	 pa yment	 of	 t he	 dividend.
2. Profit attributable to parent company
The	 pr ofit	 of	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y ,	 w as	
£829.8m	 (2006:	 £278.6m).	 A dv ant ag e	 has	
been	 t ak en	 of	 t he	 ex em ption	 a v ailable	 under	
section	 230	 of	 t he	 Com panies	 A ct	 1 985	 not	
t o	 pr esent	 a	 pr ofit	 and	 loss	 account	 f or	 t he	
com pan y	 alone.	 The	 par ent	 com pan y	 pr ofit	
and	 loss	 account	 w as	 appr o v ed	 b y	 t he	 boar d	
on	 1 4	 June	 2007 .
3. Tangible fixed assets
The	 assets	 of	 t he	 par ent	 com pan y	 com prise	
plant	 and	 eq uipment.	 A t	 bot h	 1	 April	 2006	
and	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 bot h	 t he	 cost	 and	
accumulat ed	 depr eciation	 of	 t he	 fix ed	 assets	
w as	 £0.4m,	 lea ving	 a	 net	 book	 v alue	 of	 £nil.
The	 com pan y	 does	 not	 ha v e	 an y	 assets	 held	
under	 finance	 leases. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 84
Notes to the company accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
4. Investments
        Total 
       Loans investments 
      Shares in group to group in group 
      undertakings undertakings undertakings 
      £m £m £m
Cost
A t	 1	 April	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 935.0 787.0 1,722.0
Incr ease	 in	 funding	 	 	 	 	 – 737.4 737.4 	
Ot her	 mo v ements	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4 – 0.4
At 31 March 2007 	 	 	 	 	 935.4 1,524.4 2,459.8
A	 list	 of	 t he	 ma jor	 subsidiaries	 of	 t he	 com pan y	 can	 be	 f ound	 on	 pag e	 78.
5. Debtors
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Amounts	 o w ed	 b y	 subsidiar y	 under t akings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 34.3 	 33.3
Pr epa yments	 and	 accrued	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.4 	 20.1
Def er r ed	 t ax	 asset	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3 	 0.4
T ax	 debt or	 	 	 	 	 	 	 22.7 	 30.2
Ot her	 debt ors:
R eceiv able	 wit hin	 one	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.2 	 1.3
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 59.9 	 85.3
Deferred tax asset
        £m
A t	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4
Decr ease	 during	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.1)
At 31 March 2007 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3
Def er r ed	 t ax	 in	 t he	 com pan y	 is	 in	 r elation	 t o	 a	 shor t	 t er m	 timing	 dif f er ence.	 Def er r ed	 t ax	 assets	 ar e	 r ecognised	 t o	 t he	 ext ent	 t hat	 it	 is	 pr obable	 t hat	
suit able	 t ax able	 pr ofit	 will	 be	 a v ailable	 ag ainst	 whic h	 t he	 deductible	 timing	 dif f er ences	 can	 be	 utilised.
6. Other creditors
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts	 o w ed	 t o	 subsidiar y	 under t akings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 317.6 	 117.6
Ot her	 cr edit ors	 	 	 	 	 	 	 33.7 	 55.4
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 351.3 	 173.0
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Ot her	 cr edit ors	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 2.0
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 2.0 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 85
7. Borrowings
 
Short term borrowings 
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 	 293.6 	 4.4
5.25%	 Eur obond	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 429.0
	 	 	 	 	 	 293.6 	 433.4
Long term borrowings
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
6.625%	 bond	 203 1	 	 	 	 	 	 240.3 	 240.2
6.875%	 guar ant eed	 bonds	 20 1 0	 	 	 	 	 	 	 199.4 	 199.3
	 	 	 	 	 	 439.7 	 439.5
Long	 t er m	 bor r o wings	 ar e	 r epa y able	 as	 f ollo w s:
In	 mor e	 t han	 one	 y ear	 but	 not	 mor e	 t han	 tw o	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 	 – 	 –
In	 mor e	 t han	 tw o	 y ears	 but	 not	 mor e	 t han	 fiv e	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 	 199.4 	 –
Af t er	 mor e	 t han	 fiv e	 y ears	 	 	 	 	 	 240.3 	 439.5
	 	 	 	 	 	 439.7 	 439.5
6.625% bond 2031
The	 bonds	 ar e	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 sum	 on	 1 7	 April	 203 1 .	 Int er est	 is	 c har g ed	 at	 6.625%.
6.875% guaranteed bond 2010
The	 bonds	 ar e	 r epa y able	 in	 one	 sum	 on	 23	 April	 20 1 0.	 Int er est	 is	 c har g ed	 at	 6.875%.
8. Movement on reserves
   Share Capital Reserve  
   premium redemption  for own Hedging Share-based Profit and 
   account reserve shares reserve payment reserve loss account 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Shar eholders’	 funds	 at	 1	 April	 2005	 	 	 16.7 145.3 (13.4) 0.1 2.2 555.5
Pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	 	 	 – – – – – 278.6
Shar e	 buy	 bac k	 	 	 – 1.4 – – – (72.9)
Dividends	 appr o v ed	 and	 paid	 	 	 – – – – – (109.4)
T r easur y	 shar es	 disposed	 of	 t hr ough	 v esting	 of	 shar e	 sc hemes	 	 – – 3.6 – – –
Losses	 on	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg es	 	 	 – – – (0.1) – –
Shar e-based	 pa yment	 c har g es	  – – – – 1.6 –
R etr anslation	 of	 US	 dollar	 loan	  – – – – – (0.4)
Shar eholders’	 funds	 at	 1	 April	 2006	  16.7 146.7 (9.8) – 3.8 651.4
Pr ofit	 f or	 t he	 y ear	  – – – – – 829.8
Shar e	 buy	 bac k	  – 1.2 – – – (59.3)
Dividends	 appr o v ed	 and	 paid	  – – – – – (109.7)
T r easur y	 shar es	 disposed	 of	 t hr ough	 v esting	 of	 shar e	 sc hemes	 – – 3.1 – (0.8) –
Shar e-based	 pa yment	 c har g es	 	 – – – – 1.9 –
Closing shareholders’ funds at 31 March 2007   16.7 147.9 (6.7) – 4.9 1,312.2
Of	 t he	 £1 ,3 1 2.2m	 (2006:	 £65 1 .4m)	 pr ofit	 and	 loss	 r eserv e,	 £1 , 1 99.4m	 (2006:	 £524.1m)	 is	 distribut able	 and	 £1 1 2.8m	 (2006:	 £1 27 .3m)	 is	 non-distribut able.
Inv estments	 in	 o wn	 shar es	 consists	 of	 2,066,306	 (2006:	 2,947 ,8 1 2)	 or dinar y	 shar es	 of	 t he	 com pan y	 wit h	 a	 nominal	 v alue	 of	 £0.3m	 (2006:	 £0.5m)	 	
at	 1 5
5
/
9 p	 per	 shar e	 whic h	 ar e	 held	 in	 ESO T .	 The	 mark et	 v alue	 of	 t he	 shar es	 held	 b y	 t he	 ESO T	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 w as	 £1 9.4m	 (2006:	 £23.2m)	 and	 t he	 	
net	 book	 v alue	 w as	 £6.7m	 (2006:	 £9.8m).	 The	 mark et	 v alue	 of	 t he	 shar es	 held	 b y	 t he	 ESO T	 on	 1 4	 June	 2007	 w as	 £1 9.7m. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 86
Notes to the company accounts
Year ended 31 March 2007
9. Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
Shar eholders’	 funds	 at	 1	 April	 	 	 	 	 	 	 865.8 	 764.8
Pr ofit	 attribut able	 t o	 shar eholders	 	 	 	 	 	 	 829.8 	 278.6
Shar e	 buy	 bac k	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (59.3) 	 (72.9)
Dividends	 appr o v ed	 and	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (109.7) (109.4)
T r easur y	 shar es	 disposed	 of	 t hr ough	 v esting	 of	 shar e	 sc hemes	 	 	 	 	 	 2.3 	 3.6
Losses	 on	 cash	 f lo w	 hedg es	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.1)
Shar e-based	 pa yment	 c har g es	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.9 1.6
R etr anslation	 of	 US	 dollar	 loan	 	 	 	 	 	 	 – (0.4)
Shar eholders’	 funds	 at	 3 1	 Mar c h	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,530.8 	 865.8
10. Share-based payments
Det ails	 of	 shar e-based	 pa yments	 sc hemes	 oper at ed	 b y	 t he	 com pan y	 ar e	 disclosed	 in	 not e	 25	 of	 t he	 g r oup	 accounts.	 The	 c har g e	 f or	 shar e-based	
pa yments	 w as	 £0.1m	 (2006:	 £0.1m).
11. Directors and employees
       2007 2006 
       £m £m
W ag es	 and	 salaries	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.1 	 1.9
Social	 security	 contributions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2 	 0.2
Ot her	 pension	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4 	 1.0
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.7 	 3.1
On	 a v er ag e	 t he	 com pan y	 had	 25	 em plo y ees	 during	 t he	 y ear	 ending	 3 1	 Mar c h	 2007	 (2006:	 28).	 Det ails	 of	 dir ect ors’	 emoluments	 ar e	 set	 out	 in	 t he	
dir ect ors’	 r emuner ation	 r epor t.	 No	 elements	 r elat ed	 specificall y	 t o	 t heir	 w ork	 in	 t he	 com pan y .
12. Other information
Disclosur e	 not es	 r elating	 t o	 called	 up	 shar e	 capit al,	 shar e	 r e-pur c hases,	 audit ors'	 r emuner ation	 and	 financial	 instruments	 ar e	 included	 wit hin	 t he	 financial	
st at ements	 of	 t he	 g r oup.
The	 com pan y	 has	 guar ant eed	 cer t ain	 subsidiar y	 under t akings’	 bor r o wings	 of	 £789.8m	 (2006:	 £7 63.4m).
The	 com pan y	 has	 t ak en	 adv ant ag e	 of	 t he	 ex em ption	 g r ant ed	 b y	 par ag r aph	 3c	 of	 FRS	 8,	 not	 t o	 disclose	 tr ansactions	 wit h	 ot her	 g r oup	 com panies. Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 87
General information
Payment of dividends to mandated accounts
Shar eholders	 who	 do	 not	 cur r entl y	 ha v e	 t heir	
dividends	 paid	 dir ectl y	 t o	 a	 bank	 or	 building	
society	 account	 and	 who	 wish	 t o	 do	 so	 should	
com plet e	 a	 mandat e	 f or m	 obt ainable	 fr om	
t he	 r egistr ar .	 T ax	 v ouc hers	 ar e	 sent	 t o	 t he	
shar eholder’s	 r egist er ed	 addr ess	 under	 t his	
ar r ang ement	 unless	 r eq uest ed	 ot her wise.
Share price information
The	 lat est	 K elda	 Gr oup	 plc	 shar e	 price	 is	
a v ailable	 at	 www .k eldag r oup.com,	 Ceef ax,	
T elet ext	 and	 also	 on	 t he	 FT	 CityLine,	 t elephone	
0 9 0 6 	 0 0 3 	 5 4 9 2 	 ( c a l l s 	 c h a r g e d 	 a t 	 6 0 p 	 p e r 	 m i n u t e ) .
Information on gifting your shares
T o	 tr ansf er	 y our	 shar es	 t o	 anot her	 member	 of	
y our	 f amil y	 as	 a	 gif t,	 please	 ask	 t he	 com pan y’s	
r egistr ar	 f or	 a	 gif t	 tr ansf er	 f or m.	 The	 com plet ed	
tr ansf er	 f or m	 and	 r ele v ant	 shar e	 cer tificat e(s)	
should	 be	 r etur ned	 t o	 t he	 r egistr ar	 t o	 r ecor d	 	
t he	 c hang e	 in	 o wnership.
The	 com pan y	 suppor ts	 a	 sc heme	 wher eb y	
shar eholders	 wit h	 small	 holdings	 of	 shar es,	
whose	 v alue	 mak es	 t hem	 uneconomic	 t o	 sell,	
can	 donat e	 t hem	 t o	 W at erAid.	 Det ails	 can	 be	
obt ained	 fr om	 t he	 shar eholder	 inf or mation	
of fice.	 F ur t her	 inf or mation	 about	 W at erAid	 is	
a v ailable	 at	 www .w at er aid.or g.uk.
Share dealing service
Inf or mation	 on	 a	 lo w	 cost	 shar e	 dealing	 service	
of f er ed	 b y	 our	 r egistr ar	 is	 a v ailable	 fr om	 Capit a	
on	 0870	 458	 4577	 or	 at	 www .capit adeal.com.
Report on cassette tape
F or	 t he	 benefit	 of	 blind	 and	 par tiall y	 sight ed	
shar eholders	 t he	 t ext	 of	 t he	 Annual	 R epor t	 	
2007	 is	 a v ailable	 on	 audio	 cassett e	 t ape	 fr ee	 	
of	 c har g e	 fr om	 t he	 shar eholder	 inf or mation	
of fice.	 An y one	 kno wing	 a	 shar eholder	 who	
could	 benefit	 fr om	 t his	 service	 is	 ask ed	 t o	 	
dr a w	 it	 t o	 t heir	 att ention.
Avoiding unsolicited mail
The	 com pan y	 is	 leg all y	 oblig ed	 t o	 mak e	
its	 r egist er	 of	 members	 a v ailable	 t o	 ot her	
or g anisations	 on	 pa yment	 of	 a	 pr escribed	
f ee.	 This	 ma y	 r esult	 in	 shar eholders	 r eceiving	
unsolicit ed	 mail.	 If	 y ou	 wish	 t o	 limit	 t he	 amount	
of	 unsolicit ed	 mail,	 y ou	 should	 writ e	 t o	 Mailing	
Pr ef er ence	 Service,	 FREEPOST	 29	 L ON2077 1 ,	
London	 W1	 EOZT	 T el:	 0845	 703	 4599,	 or	 y ou	
can	 r egist er	 online	 at	 www .m psonline.or g.uk.
Financial calendar
Announcement	 of	 pr eliminar y	 r esults	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7 June 2007
Annual	 g ener al	 meeting	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1 August 2007
Ex	 dividend	 dat e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 18 June 2007
R ecor d	 dat e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15 June 2007
Final	 dividend	 pa yment	 dat e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 31 August 2007
Announcement	 of	 int erim	 r esults	 	 	 	 	 	 	 28 November 2007
Ex	 dividend	 dat e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5 December 2007
R ecor d	 dat e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7 December 2007
Int erim	 dividend	 pa yment	 dat e	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 January 2008
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 31 March 2007 by size of account and category
     Number of Number of % of total 
     holders shares held share
1	 –	 500	 	 	 	 	 20,327 4,784,727 1.33
50 1	 –	 1 ,000	 	 	 	 	 11,978 8,942,663 2.49
1 ,00 1	 –	 1 0,000	 	 	 	 	 14,102 29,449,083 8.21
1 0,00 1	 –	 1 00,000	 	 	 	 	 581 18,466,983 5.15
1 00,00 1	 –	 500,000	 	 	 	 	 255 156,740,518 43.73
500,00 1	 +	 	 	 	 	 13 140,141,422 39.09
	 	 	 	 	 47,256 358,525,396 
     Number of Number of % of total 
     holders shares held share
Individuals	 	 	 	 	 43,488 51,280,051 14.30
Nominee	 com panies	 	 	 	 	 3,194 300,402,826 83.79
Banks	 &	 insur ance	 com panies	 	 	 	 	 33 730,358 0.20
P ension	 funds	 	 	 	 	 52 1,716,917 0.48
Ot her	 corpor at e	 bodies	 	 	 	 	 489 4,395,244 1.23
	 	 	 	 	 47,256 358,525,396 Kelda Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 88
Our contact details
Secretary and Registered Office
S tuar t	 McF arlane
K elda	 Gr oup	 plc
W est er n	 House
Halif ax	 R oad
Br adf or d
BD6	 2SZ
T el:	 0 1 27 4	 600	 1 1 1
Registrar
Capit a	 R egistr ars
Nor t her n	 House
W oodsome	 P ark
F ena y	 Bridg e
Huddersfield
HD8	 OL A
T el:	 0870	 1 62	 3 1 3 1
www .capit ar egistr ars.com
e-mail:	 shar eholder .services @ capit ar egistr ars.com
Auditor
Er nst	 &	 Y oung	 LLP
PO	 Bo x	 6 1
Clot h	 Hall	 Cour t
1 4	 King	 S tr eet
Leeds
L S1	 2JN
Principal Bankers
N ational	 W estminst er	 Bank	 plc
City	 Of fice
P ark	 R o w
Leeds
L S1	 2QS
Financial Advisers
Gr eenhill	 &	 Co
R eg ent	 Gat e
56–58	 Conduit	 S tr eet
London
W1S	 2YZ
Joint Stockbrokers
UBS
1	 Finsbur y	 A v enue
London
EC2M	 2PP
JPMor g an	 Cazeno v e
20	 Moor g at e
London
EC2R	 6D A
Shareholder Information Office
F r eephone:	 0800	 9 1 9	 303
Water Supply and General Enquiries
Cust omer	 helpline:	 0845	 1	 24	 24	 24
Waste Water Enquiries
Cust omer	 helpline:	 0845	 1	 24	 24	 29
Billing Enquiries
Cust omer	 helpline:	 0845	 1	 24	 24	 20
www .k eldag r oup.com
www .y orkshir e w at er .com
www .aq uarion.com
www .loop.co.uk By taking our wider 
responsibilities seriously 
we can make a real 
difference
Our people generate new 
ideas to deliver service 
improvements
Kelda’s customers  
enjoy some of the highest 
service levels in the UK
To create a sustainable 
business, we balance 
economic, social and 
environmental needs
This report is produced on material which 
contains 50% recycled and de-inked pulp from 
post-consumer waste. The remaining 50% is 
made up of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
virgin fibre and pulp.
Designed and produced by salterbaxter 
Printed by CTD Annual Report 
and Accounts
2007
Kelda Group plc
Western House 
Halifax Road
Bradford BD6 2SZ
www.keldagroup.com
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
