 Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Proud to be Kier
KIER GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Kier Group plc 
Tempsford Hall, Sandy 
Bedfordshire SG19 2BD
Tel: 01767 640111 
Fax: 01767 640002 
www.kier.co.uk
KIE0671_Kier_Cover2_REV.indd   1 29/09/2011   14:05 Directors
P M White CBE FCA Chairman
M P Sheffield BSc CEng FICE Chief Executive
S Bowcott BSc
I M Lawson FCIOB
H J Mursell BA ACA
R W Simkin BSc MRTPI (retired 30 June 2011)
R C Bailey BA ACA
C V Geoghegan BA FRAeS
N P Winser CEng FIET FIGEM
H E E Raven BA Secretary
Headquarters and Registered Office
Kier Group plc
Tempsford Hall
Sandy
Bedfordshire
SG19 2BD
Telephone: 01767 640111
www.kier.co.uk
Registered Number
England 2708030
Financial calendar
16 November 2011
Annual general meeting
30 November 2011
Payment of final dividend for 2010/11
February 2012
Announcement of half-year results
and interim dividend for 2011/12
May 2012
Payment of interim dividend
September 2012
Announcement of preliminary full-year results
and final dividend for 2011/12
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5GL
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland PLC
280 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4RB
HSBC
Metropolitan House
321 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2GA
Santander Corporate Banking
2 Triton Square
Regent’s Place
London
WM1 3AN
Lloyds Banking Group plc
10 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7AE
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire
HD8 0LA
Stockbrokers
J. P. Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
Designed and produced by JohnstonWorks www.johnstonworks.com
Corporate information
Contents
Kier Group plc is a leading construction, services 
and property group specialising in building and 
civil engineering, support services, residential 
and commercial property development and 
infrastructure project investment. The Group 
employs 10,700 people worldwide and has 
an annual revenue of £2.2bn.
Overview Financial statements
44 Directors’ report
47 Corporate governance statement
51 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of directors’ 
 responsibilities 
61 Independent auditors’ report to 
 the members of Kier Group plc 
62 Consolidated income statement
63 Consolidated statement 
 of comprehensive income 
63 Consolidated statement 
 of changes in equity
64 Consolidated balance sheet
65  Consolidated cash flow 
statement
66  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
99 Company balance sheet
100  Notes to the Company 
financial statements
102  Principal operating subsidiaries 
and business units
103  Principal joint arrangements 
and joint ventures 
104  Financial record
IBC  Corporate information
Operating review
1 Group highlights
2 Kier at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s review
 12 Kier Construction
 18 Kier Services
 22 Kier Property
 26 Kier Homes 
30 Corporate responsibility
34 Financial review 
39 Business risks
42 Board of Directors
Kier Annual Report online
We have now enhanced the online version 
of the Kier Annual Report. You can access 
the Report by visiting the web address 
below after 17 October, 2011.
Visit kier.co.uk/ar2011
Front cover image
There are many routes through which Kier trains and develops its workforce. 
Our mentoring programme provides site-based trainees with the opportunity to get 
real-life hands-on experience under the watchful eye of suitably qualified personnel. 
Trainee engineer Holly Brunt, who is currently undergoing the mentoring programme, 
is pictured with general foreman Jimmy Stanley at St Catherine’s & Firwood  
Academy site in Bolton.
KIE0671_Kier_Cover2_REV.indd   2 26/09/2011   08:14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
1
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
* Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets
** Excluding Homes 2010 one-off land transaction profit of £7.1m
Kier Construction revenue (£m) p12
2011 2010
1,445
1,417
+2%
Kier Services revenue (£m) p18
2011 2010
484
471
+3%
Kier Property revenue (£m) p22
2011 2010
97
53
+83%
Kier Homes revenue (£m) p26
2011 2010
153
158
–3%
£2,179m
(2010: £2,099m)
Revenue
Financial highlights
Earnings per share*
Net cash balances 
(at 30 June 2011)
Dividend per share
Order books for Kier Construction and 
Kier Services
Profit before tax*
£165m
(2010: £175m)
£68.9m
(2010: £55.5m* *)
148.4p
(2010: 117.7p**)
64.0p
(2010: 58.0p)
£4.3bn
(2010: £4.2bn)
Group highlights
1  
2
 
Whatever a customer requires at any stage of the built environment 
life-cycle, one or more of our businesses can bring them solutions, 
individually or combined, locally or nationally. Our network of regional 
offices and our strong local relationships ensure that we can supply 
both the skills and the resources to meet customer demands,  
anytime, anywhere. 
Our market
“Kier has had another successful year in a tough 
economic environment; underlying revenue and 
profit before tax are well ahead of last year and 
cash generation has been very strong, with average 
month-end cash balances at a high level.
Our diverse skills and integrated business model 
have provided greater resilience during these 
challenging economic conditions. We are encouraged 
by the prospects we see in markets such as power 
and waste, in mixed-use regeneration and in the 
growth we see in public sector outsourcing.
Kier continues to benefit from its long-term client 
relationships and the numerous frameworks in  
which we are involved. Our network of local 
offices allows us to respond to the ever-widening 
requirement of customers for local capability to 
deliver ‘bundled’ services.
We have announced a full-year dividend of 64  
pence per share, a 10% increase on last year.  
This demonstrates the strength of our financial 
position and the confidence we have in our  
business going forward.
Although we expect the next 12 months to be 
challenging, we remain confident that our positioning 
across a wide spectrum of service areas, coupled 
with our committed and professional staff, will enable 
us to deliver a good performance in the new  
financial year.”
Paul Sheffield 
Chief executive
Our divisions 
Kier has the financial strength, the ability and 
the resources to adapt its offering of services 
to meet any customer’s requirements in 
the built environment. Whether through 
acquisition or through creating and developing 
new areas of expertise and resources within 
the Group, we are proactive in providing 
solutions where a customer’s need has 
been identified. 
Kier Homes
Kier Construction
£1,445m
Revenue
The Construction division 
encompasses our UK regional 
contracting, civil engineering 
and overseas businesses.
(2010: £1,417m)
Kier at a glance
p12
£39.3m
Operating profit
(2010: £36.2m)
£153m
Revenue
The Homes division brings 
together our social housing 
contracting business with our 
private house building business.
* Excluding 2010 one-off land transaction   
 profit of £7.1m
(2010: £158m)
£4.2m
Operating profit
(2010: £2.8m)*
p26
Kier Property
The Property division comprises 
two main businesses: 
commercial, industrial, 
retail, mixed-use property 
development and structured 
property financing (PFI).
p22
£97m
Revenue
(2010: £53m)
£11.1m
Operating profit
(2010: £4.5m)
Kier Services
£484m
Revenue
The Services division manages 
and delivers support services 
to both public and private 
sector clients.
* Before amortisation of intangible assets
(2010: £471m)
£21.7m
Operating profit*
p18
(2010: £21.4m)  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
3
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
By providing our customers with the highest 
possible quality of service and through 
sustainable, profitable growth, our vision is 
to be the most highly respected company in 
the industry. By maintaining our core values 
and remaining focused on improvement and 
delivery, our vision will become reality. 
Our built environment life-cycle
Whatever a customer requires at any stage  
of the built environment life-cycle, one or more 
of our businesses can bring them solutions, 
individually or combined, locally or nationally. 
At the heart of everything we do is a concern 
for the environment, social responsibility, 
health and safety and sustainability. 
One Kier
Kier’s integrated built 
environment solution
Feasibility studies
Planning appraisals
Local property mapping
Development use
Community engagement
Grants and funding
Construction
Major capital works
Civil and infrastructure
Design and build
Supply chain management
Traditional contracting
Turnkey projects
Civil engineering
UK
Overseas
Site remediation
Site regeneration
Land reclamation
Soil mechanics
Contamination 
 management
Soil investigations
Site preparation
Mining
Strategy and planning
Property policy
Accommodation strategy
Space planning
Working patterns
Estate modelling
Property / asset 
management
Asset strategy and consultancy
Building surveying
Statutory compliance
Acquisition and disposal
Estate, asset data, rural estate 
 and lease management
Compulsory purchase orders
Rating and variation
Energy strategy
Design and technical 
services
Design
3D modelling
Technical services
Building information 
 modelling (BIM)
Repairs and maintenance
Planned maintenance
Cyclical maintenance
Reactive maintenance
Repairs and upgrades
Building fabric maintenance
‘Greening’ of existing assets
FM and managed services
Cleaning, waste  
 management and recycling
Pest control
M&E maintenance
Street services
Reception and help desk
Catering
Grounds maintenance
Post room
Security
Refurbishment and 
upgrading
Building ‘greening’
Energy management
Property refits
Small works
Decant management
Minor repairs
Development
Investment appraisals
Development appraisals
Life-cycle costs and 
 management
PFI and PPP arrangements
End user engagement
Development partnerships
Local asset partnership
Lease/leaseback 
 arrangements
Urban regeneration  
 and rural development
Social housing and 
 care homes 4
 
The Group’s cash performance has remained exceptionally 
strong, particularly within our Construction and Services 
divisions, with average Group month-end net cash of 
£129m (2010: £95m). 
Chairman’s statement
Net cash 
(at 30 June 2011)
£165m
(2010: £175m)
Olaf Kier arrives in Britain after graduating with honours  
from the Copenhagen University of Engineering
1922
J Lotz and Kier contracting firm established 1928
J L Kier & Co Ltd partnership incorporated 1932
Lotz returns to Denmark and Ove Arup takes his 
place as a director of J L Kier
1934
Wimbledon office destroyed by bombing 1940
Contract awarded to a joint venture of Nuttall, Kier 
and some of the leading Dutch contractors for 
 the rebuilding of Rotterdam Harbour
1945
Turnover rapidly increased when the company went public 1963
Charles Brand & Son Limited, a heavy civil engineering and 
 mining contractor, becomes part of Kier
1971
Robert Marriott and Company Limited joins the Group 1972
Kier and W & C French merge to form French Kier  
Holdings Limited
1973
William Moss Group PLC acquired by French Kier 1984
Kier Group plc becomes Britain’s first major contractor to 
 be employee-owned
1992
Kier floated on the stock market 1996
Kier launches Services division 2001
Kier signs building maintenance partnership with  
Sheffield City Council
2003
Kier forms joint venture with Network Rail to develop  
stations in SE London
2008
Kier starts work on £600m outsourcing contract for  
North Tyneside Council
2009
Kier acquires property portfolio from Lloyds for £91m 2011
Kier historic milestones
Phil White 
Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
5
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
I am pleased to report impressive results  
for Kier Group plc for the year ended  
30 June 2011. Underlying profit before tax, 
before the amortisation of intangible assets 
and exceptional items, improved 24% to 
£68.9m (2010: £55.5m excluding Homes 
land transaction) and earnings per share on 
the same basis increased 26% to 148.4p 
(2010: 117.7p), enhanced by a 2% reduction 
in the effective tax rate.
Overall, revenue increased to £2,179m 
(2010: £2,099m) displaying underlying 
growth in all four divisions of the Group 
and the strength of our business.
Particularly pleasing were the operating 
margins, which increased in our Construction 
division to 2.7% (2010: 2.6%) and remained 
strong in our Services division at 4.5% 
(2010: 4.5%). The Homes and Property 
divisions also saw an increase in underlying 
operating margin.
There were exceptional items that totalled 
a net credit before tax of £7.0m (2010: 
charge of £2.0m). These comprised inflation 
changes to the Kier Group Pension Scheme, 
a reduction in the fine levied by the Office of 
Fair Trading, a write-down in the value of land 
and work in progress following recent land 
sales and a further review, and external costs 
relating to two acquisitions in the year.
The Group’s cash performance has remained 
exceptionally strong, particularly within our 
Construction and Services divisions, with 
average Group month-end net cash of £129m 
(2010: £95m). In our Property division, 
following the £35m first-stage payment for 
the property portfolio from Lloyds, we were 
pleased to see the early sale of two assets 
recoup much of that outlay and support a 
Group net cash position at 30 June of £165m 
(2010: £175m).
Taking into account the performance of the 
Group and its cash position, and continuing 
the Group’s progressive dividend policy, 
the Board proposes to increase the total 
dividend for the year by 10% to 64p (2010: 
58p), which is more than twice covered by 
adjusted earnings per share and reflects the 
Board’s confidence in the business going 
forward. The final dividend of 44p will be paid 
on 30 November 2011 to shareholders on the 
register on 23 September 2011 and there will 
be a scrip dividend alternative.
Board changes
As we announced at the time of our interim 
results in February, Dick Simkin, the executive 
director for the Property division, retired at 
the end of the 2011 financial year and Ian 
Lawson, executive director for the Services 
and Homes divisions, has taken over the role 
from 1 July 2011. We would like to thank Dick 
for his excellent contribution to the Group and 
we wish him well in his retirement.
In September 2010, we announced that 
Simon Leathes, non-executive director and 
chairman of the Audit Committee, would 
also be stepping down from the Board at the 
Company’s 2010 annual general meeting 
after nearly ten years. Richard Bailey, who 
joined the Board on 1 October 2010, has 
succeeded him.
Recently there has been debate generally 
about board diversity and, in particular,  
the representation of women in the 
boardrooms of FTSE companies. The Board 
acknowledges the recommendations from 
Lord Davies of Abersoch’s report entitled 
‘Women on Boards’, which highlights the 
value of effective diversity policies. As 
a Board, we are considering how best to 
implement the key recommendations of this 
report, whilst recognising the importance 
of maintaining an appropriate balance of 
independence, skills and experience. In 
addition, the Group’s corporate responsibility 
committee, which is chaired by the chief 
executive and reports regularly to the Board, 
is currently reviewing the Group’s diversity, 
equality and inclusion policies.
Outlook
Over the last few years, we have positioned 
ourselves to capitalise on what we perceive 
as the growth markets. Whilst market 
conditions in 2012 will remain challenging, 
our order books in the Construction and 
Services divisions were at a healthy level 
of £4.3bn. The Construction order book 
(secured and probable) stood at £2.3bn (June 
2010: £2.1bn) and represented 95% of the 
division’s targeted revenue for 2012 and 
46% of its targeted revenue for 2013, which 
was slightly ahead of normal, and we expect 
our operating margins to remain firmly above 
2%. Our order book in Services stood at 
£2.0bn (2010: £2.1bn), giving good forward 
visibility of workload which, coupled with a 
strong pipeline of further opportunities, will 
translate into revenue growth for the division 
in the year to June 2013. Moreover, we expect 
our operating margins to be maintained at 
a resilient 4.5%.
The Property division remains a key generator 
of integrated opportunities for the Group. 
With increased scale, particularly following 
the acquisition of the property portfolio 
from Lloyds, the division is actively working 
on a variety of development schemes. 
When coupled with the recent disposals 
of three of our Private Finance Initiative 
(PFI) investments, in line with our strategy 
of selectively disposing of our mature PFI 
investments, it now means that the Property 
division is, and will continue to be, one of the 
key contributors to the Group’s performance.
Our refocused Homes division is continuing 
to pursue the growing opportunities in 
the mixed tenure market and we remain 
committed to developing and disposing of 
parcels of land over time in order to reduce 
the disproportionate size of our land bank 
and to realise cash, which will be invested 
in the Group’s future growth.
Our integrated business model continues 
to provide a good breadth of opportunities 
and, with our strong track record of delivery, 
the Group is well placed to make further 
progress in the new financial year.
Phil White
Chairman
Phil White (Chairman) and Paul Sheffield (Chief 
Executive) at our Epsom Station site, a Solum 
Regeneration project being delivered by Kier. 6
 
We remain a robust and 
sustainable business, with 
committed and professional 
staff in whom we have 
confidence and their 
abilities will underpin further 
progress by the Group in 
the new financial year.
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
Kier has had another successful year to 
30 June 2011, with underlying revenue and 
profit before tax ahead of last year. This 
good performance has been supported by 
strong cash generation, with an average 
Group month-end net cash balance of 
£129m (June 2010: £95m).
Much hard work has produced these strong 
results. Our broad skill base and integrated 
business model continue to provide Kier with 
a wide range of opportunities across our 
different divisions. Our diversity and flexibility, 
when combined with our track record of 
delivery and customer service, ensures that 
we are in a position to significantly benefit 
from the varying market opportunities and 
be the partner of choice for our customers.
Financial performance
Total  
revenue
£m
Operating 
profit *  
£m
Construction 1,445 39.3
Services 484 21.7
Property 97 11.1
Homes 153 4.2
Centre – (5.2)
2,179 71.1
*  Before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangible assets
Revenue for the year at £2,179m was slightly 
higher than last year (£2,099m). Underlying 
growth was achieved in all divisions, most 
notably in Property following the acquisition 
of the property portfolio from Lloyds; 
however, it is the quality of our revenue that 
is most pleasing.
Operating profit for the Group, before the 
amortisation of intangible assets, was 23% 
ahead of last year at £71.1m (2010: £57.7m 
excluding Homes land transaction) principally 
because of the significant operating margin 
of 2.7% in Construction and the resilient 
operating margin of 4.5% in Services,both 
of which were underpinned by strong cash 
generation.
Exceptional items amounted to a net credit 
before tax of £7.0m for the year (2010: net 
charge of £2.0m), as follows:
•   a gain of £25.7m arising from inflation 
changes (RPI to CPI) announced in the 
2010 Budget which have been applied 
to the Kier Group Pension Scheme;
•   a reduction in the fine levied by the Office 
of Fair Trading (OFT), from £18.0m to 
£1.7m, with associated costs of £0.7m 
incurred in relation to our appeal;
•   a charge of £33.5m relating to a 
write-down of our land and work in 
progress following a further review and 
in light of the values received from recent 
land sales; and 
•   external costs of £0.8m relating to the 
acquisitions of Beco Limited (Beco) 
and the property portfolio from Lloyds.
Profit before tax*
£68.9m
(2010: £55.5m **)
*   Before exceptional items and amortisation of 
intangible assets
**  Excluding Homes 2010 one-off land transaction  
profit of £7.1m
Paul Sheffield 
Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
7
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
The strengths of our 
integrated business model
By providing our customers with the highest 
possible quality of service and through 
sustainable, profitable growth, our vision is 
to be the most highly respected company in 
the industry. By maintaining our core values 
and remaining focused on improvement and 
delivery, our vision will become reality. 
1.  Managing responsibility
We believe profoundly that by managing 
our corporate responsibilities, our brand, 
business risks, governance, ethics and 
finances, we manage responsibly.
2.  Delivering quality
What Kier and its constituent parts do as a 
business is to provide a full range of quality 
services to plan, invest in, build, manage, 
maintain and service the built environment 
nationwide and overseas.
3.  Nurturing stakeholder relationships
We value customers and aim to deliver 
the highest quality of services in all we 
do and therefore our supply chain partners, 
subcontractors and suppliers alike, are key 
to enabling us to deliver the best quality of 
product and service.
Profit before tax, before the amortisation 
of intangible assets and exceptional items, 
for the year was 24% ahead of last year at 
£68.9m (2010: £55.5m excluding Homes land 
transaction). On the same basis, earnings per 
share was 26% ahead at 148.4p (2010: 117.7p 
excluding Homes land transaction).
The trading result for the year was 
underpinned by strong cash generation, 
with high average Group month-end net cash 
balances of £129m (June 2010: £95m) after 
investment of approximately £50m during 
the year including the property portfolio from 
Lloyds, deferred land payments, further 
investment in Pure Recycling, and the 
acquisition of Beco.
Group structure and strategic developments
Four divisions support our integrated business 
model: Construction, Services, Property and 
Homes. The Group’s management structure 
and segmental analysis for reporting purposes 
for the year to 30 June 2011 are based on 
these four divisions.
We are able to offer integrated solutions 
through the provision of a range of services 
including investment, planning and design, 
construction, maintenance, soft and hard 
facilities management, waste, energy and 
environmental services and regeneration. 
This is a combination of services, which few 
other organisations can offer and makes 
us resilient during the current challenging 
economic environment. 
How we are managed
Kier Group is managed through a short, 
clear and efficient structure that gives a fully 
integrated and coordinated approach which 
remains both adaptable and agile to meet 
rapidly changing market requirements.
Divisional Boards
Construction
Board of Directors
Executive Board
Executive Management Team
Homes
Epsom Station
Work progressing at Epsom Station – one of 
several stations in the south-east and London 
that are the subject of redevelopment by Solum 
Regeneration, a joint venture between Network Rail 
and Kier Property. As part of the project, Kier is 
undertaking the building and civil engineering works 
for a mixed-use scheme to deliver improvements to 
the station and provide retail space, a hotel, parking 
and 124 high quality apartments.
Services Property
One 
Kier
Full range
of services
Customers                        Supply chain partners                  Investment analysts                         Employees
 
        Other stakeholders                             The media                       Communities and the public                   Shareholders  
           
Business 
risks
Corporate
responsibility
Corporate
governance
Brand
management
Business
ethics
Integrated
financial
management
1
2
3 8
 Chief Executive’s review
continued
  Kier project locations in UK
  CCS National Awards won in 2011
  Kier office locations
1
2
3
4
6
M25
M25
5
National presence, 
local focus
Kier has a long-established network of 
65 regional offices across the country 
enabling us and our supply chain to 
be truly local everywhere. Delivering 
through this nationwide network of 
local offices means we can create work 
for local SMEs which in turn can offer 
local employment and apprenticeship 
opportunities. This is coupled with 
the robust national buying power and 
resources available to a major company 
like Kier enables us to offer any scale 
of work to our customers, anywhere.
Considerate Constructors Scheme 
National Awards
Kier has been awarded more CCS National Awards 
in 2011 than any other company in the scheme
42
(2010: 29)
Local subcontractors
Subcontractors used across the UK by our Construction division
c. 6,500
Employees in UK
The Group employs 10,700 people worldwide
10,700
(2010: 11,600)
UK projects
We currently have projects underway in approximately 
250 towns and cities throughout the UK and participate 
in over 70 frameworks across the UK
250
Kier participated in the 2011 BITC Mayday Journey. Reporting 
through the Prince’s Mayday Network enables us to track our 
progress along the Mayday Journey – from reducing costs, 
engaging employees, building resilience to climate change 
and transforming our business strategy. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
9
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
1 2 3
Bexhill High School, East Sussex
Kier designed and built the 12,000sq m Bexhill 
High School responding to the unique demands of a 
transformational curriculum focused on project-based 
learning. Sixteen learning pods provide facilities 
for up to 90 students surrounding the heart space. 
The £32m project received a BREEAM Very Good 
rating and was nominated in the British Council 
for School Environments annual awards under the 
category of Excellence in Design for Teaching and 
Learning: Secondary Schools. 
4 5 6
Kris McGough and Paul Menton, Sheffield
Kris McGough and Paul Menton at work in Sheffield 
where Kier designs, supplies, installs, refurbishes 
and provides a responsive repairs service to lifts and 
stairlifts. This service is offered to clients in both 
the public and private sector.
Josephine Butler Academy, Northumberland 
Kier signed a £46m contract with Northumberland 
County Council to deliver three new buildings for 
the Northumberland Church of England Academy, 
sponsored by the Duke of Northumberland and 
the Church of England Diocese of Newcastle. 
The Josephine Butler Academy in Ashington will 
be one of the biggest and most ambitious Academy 
buildings in the north of England and is scheduled 
to open by Easter 2012.
Photovoltaic panels, Nottingham
Solar-powered energy generation is one of the 
most exciting sustainable energy opportunities for 
the housing and construction sectors and one of 
the key ways in which we can help the UK towards 
its climate change targets. Wayne Bullement is 
pictured installing photovoltaic panels in Nottingham. 
Kier worked in partnership with Eon to install the 
panels on 600 homes for Nottingham City Homes. 
Sainsbury Laboratory, Cambridge
Kier was involved with the construction of a 
new research laboratory for the study of plant 
development situated in the Botanic Garden at 
Cambridge University. 
The building provides a home for the University 
Herbarium, which contains over one million pressed 
and dried plant specimens from all over the world, 
including those collected by Charles Darwin on 
the Beagle voyage. The £68.3m scheme also 
houses 120 scientists, supported by more than 
30 additional staff.
Adanac Park, Southampton
The new Ordnance Survey head office, sited 
alongside the M271, is a flagship corporate building 
at the gateway to Southampton. Developed as a joint 
venture between four Kier companies, the turnkey 
development is another example of Kier offering 
innovative solutions to customers seeking alternative 
funding methods by capitalising on the integrated 
expertise of the Group. 10
 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Our strategy is to continue to focus on growth 
areas in each of our divisions, leveraging the 
many opportunities that arise through our 
integrated model. Our diversity enables us 
to find work in a wide range of sectors, and 
allows us to respond to and strengthen our 
relationships with both private and public 
sector customers.
In the overall construction market conditions 
remain challenging in the short term because 
of the budgetary constraints on many of 
our public sector clients and the difficult 
economic conditions for our private sector 
clients. There has been a contraction, over 
the past couple of years in the UK, in the level 
of construction activity and it is unlikely there 
will be any improvement until at least 2013. 
This means new schemes are attracting a 
larger number of bidders and are being very 
competitively contested.
However, our network of local offices, coupled 
with our diverse set of capabilities, enable 
us to pursue a wide range of opportunities. 
This is evident in this division by our move 
away from public sector work and into the 
private sector whilst growing revenues, 
particularly in areas of non-discretionary, 
economic infrastructure investment, such as:
•   power, where we are a leading player in 
the provision of civil engineering works;
•   waste, a growing market which includes 
recycling and power generation 
opportunities; and
•  transport, both in the UK and overseas.
Other growth areas include:
•   commercial, primarily in London and 
the south-east;
•  mixed-use and urban regeneration; and
•   overseas, where we are growing in our 
three principal territories: Hong Kong, 
the Middle East and the Caribbean.
In our Services division, we are seeing 
an increase in the number of tender 
opportunities across all sectors, as both 
public sector and private businesses seek 
to outsource more operations to help ease 
their cost pressures. We anticipate that 
this is most likely to translate into revenue 
growth in the year to June 2013. We have 
long-term visible revenues to 2020 and 
beyond, at strong, consistent margins and 
these long-term contracts allow us to expand 
our activities through the involvement of other 
Group businesses as our clients and partners 
seek a one-stop, integrated delivery model 
to service their requirements.
Our Property division, which is a key generator 
of integrated opportunities for the Group, 
is in a strong position to expand its portfolio 
and to contribute an increasing proportion 
of the Group’s results in the next few years. 
We will continue our strategy of pursuing 
largely non-speculative development, together 
with identifying innovative funding routes to 
support our growth and making the best use 
of the Group’s cash reserves. 
In our Homes division, we have refocused 
the business towards social and mixed-tenure 
housing, while maintaining a 500 to 600-unit 
private housing business, building on 
Kier-owned land. We will continue to reduce 
our land bank by developing homes for sale, 
or disposing of parts of it, which will unlock 
our cash investment over time. The receipt 
of £12.5m of Affordable Homes Programme 
(AHP) grant funding, our relationships with 
our framework partners and our position 
on the Homes and Communities Agency 
Delivery Partner Panel (HCA DPP) will enable 
us to exploit opportunities in the affordable 
housing market over the next few years.
Sea City Museum, Southampton
The Sea City Museum recently held a topping-out 
ceremony to mark the final stages of construction of 
the new special exhibitions pavilion. Kier operations 
director Martin Orr, site manager Andy Hammerton 
and Southampton’s mayor Cllr Terry Matthews 
attended. Sea City, which has been supported 
with a £4.9m grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund, 
is scheduled to open to the public in April 2012. 
Kier won seven Green 
Apple awards in 2011, 
two Gold awards in 
the Built Environment 
category and five others 
in the Environment Best 
Practice category. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
11
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
 
Global reach
Kier operates in three key areas overseas where 
we have had an established presence for many years: 
Hong Kong, the Middle East and the Caribbean.
Admiralty Station, Hong Kong (MTRC contract 901)
Kier, in joint venture with Laing O’Rourke and Kaden Construction, is working on a four-
year contract valued at £190m for the Mass Transit Railway Corporation to deliver the 
new Admiralty Integrated Station in Hong Kong. The existing station is being significantly 
extended to provide interchange facilities between the existing Tsuen Wan Line, the new 
South Island Line (East) and the proposed Shatin to Central Link.
UK
Jamaica
Trinidad
Abu Dhabi
Saudi Arabia
Hong Kong
Dubai
Hong Kong tunnelling (MTRC contract 824)
Kier, as part of a three-way joint venture in which Kier 
holds a 50% share, is working on a £125m tunnelling 
contract for the Mass Transit Railway Corporation in 
Hong Kong. The project forms part of the Hong Kong 
section of the Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong 
Express Rail Link connecting mainland China and 
Hong Kong.
Global operations 13%
UK operations 87%
Percentage of the value of 
construction contracts awarded 
in the year to 30 June 2011 12
 
56% of our awards were for public sector projects 
(2010: 74%). The transition from public sector to private 
sector is a trend that will continue and we expect to see 
the proportion of public sector work drop to less than 
50% over the next year.
Kier Construction highlights
> 68% of awards sourced through 
frameworks and collaborative 
bidding arrangements
> In the power sector, where we are 
a leading player, we have identified 
£13bn of opportunities in next 
5 – 10 years
>  We are preferred bidder for two 
large waste management and 
waste-to-energy projects valued 
at £95m
> We have been selected to deliver 
up to £110m of healthcare projects 
in the first nine months of the 
NHS ProCure 21+ framework
> In Hong Kong we have secured 
c. £320m of work in JV and have 
£50m of secured and probable 
awards in the Caribbean
Order book
£2.3bn
(2010: £2.1bn)
Construction operating margin
2.7%
(2010: 2.6%)
Frameworks
70
Active on more than 70 frameworks across the UK
Steve Bowcott Executive director
Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Construction
Revenue (£m)
2011 2010
1,445
1,417
+2%
Operating proﬁt (£m) and operating margin 
2011 2010
39.3
36.2
%
2.7
2.6
+9%
2010
Private sector
44%
Public sector
7 4%
Private sector
26%
Public sector
56%
Kier Construction contract awards (%)
2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
13
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
York Hospital
Kier’s project at York Hospital to construct a new 
multi-storey car park consisting of ground, first and 
second floor levels plus an attached accommodation 
block, to be built in five phases. The car park will 
provide parking for 440 cars, and the accommodation 
block will house the car park management team, 
as well as the security department for the hospital 
where a new control room will be built. Kier engineer 
Sam Hill (right) during construction works.
Kier has been 
independently audited 
by Achilles and awarded 
level 5 compliance under 
the Building Confidence 
supplier evaluation 
programme.
Order book (secure and probable) (£bn)
2011 2010
2.3
2.1
+10% 14
 
Kier Construction
The Construction division encompasses our 
UK regional contracting, civil engineering and 
overseas businesses, which are highly skilled 
in the construction of the full range of building 
projects, together with power, waste, nuclear 
and infrastructure facilities and rail and 
mining projects. The division now includes 
a newly formed Process & Engineering 
business which provides mechanical and 
electrical (M&E) design and delivery services 
to grow our in-house M&E capability. Through 
the development of our own 4D building 
information modelling (BIM) processes, 
we are at the forefront of the industry and 
are ready to respond to the Government’s 
Construction Strategy which will require 
the use of this technology in the future.
Construction business review
Revenue in Construction was 2% above last 
year, at £1,445m (2010: £1,417m), with 
modest growth in our UK revenues. Operating 
profit increased to £39.3m from £36.2m, 
at an improved 2.7% margin, ahead of last 
year’s 2.6%. The margin performance was 
underpinned by excellent cash generation with 
a year-end cash balance at a record £423m 
(2010: £418m). Contract awards were 
higher than last year with 68% arising from 
our numerous frameworks and collaborative 
bidding arrangements. These awards have 
provided us with a secured order book 
amounting to £1,386m (2010: £1,320m), 
together with £859m of probable awards, 
comprising contracts on which we are 
preferred bidder or are in one-to-one 
negotiations (2010: £723m). In total, we are 
active on over 70 frameworks across the UK 
through which clients continue to procure a 
significant element of their work with a focus 
on quality and whole life-cycle costs.
56% of our awards were for public sector 
projects (2010: 74%). The transition from 
public sector to private sector is a trend 
that will continue and we expect to see the 
proportion of public sector work drop to less 
than 50% over the next year.
Of the public sector awards, many continue 
to be in the education sector, which 
accounted for 33% of awards (2010: 
41%). Our education projects included six 
completed academies (£150m); another eight 
academies are on schedule to be handed 
over in the next 12 months and a further 11 
academies (£180m) are progressing towards 
financial close. We have responded to the 
Government’s ‘more for less’ initiative with 
innovative design solutions, leaving us well 
placed to target the 70 further academies 
(£1.0bn) approved under the framework.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Construction
1 2
3 4
1. New Sainsbury’s store at Crindau, near Newport 
Kier was contracted by Sainsbury plc to construct 
a new supermarket in Crindau, Newport. The 
£24m design & build project saw the erection of a 
new propped portal framed superstore which was 
completed in time for the 2010 Ryder Cup held 
in Newport.
3. 45 Park Lane, London
Kier is undertaking the conversion of the existing 
building into a hotel extension to provide 50 new 
suites for the Dorchester Hotel. The project includes 
a 120m link tunnel.
2. Sainsbury Laboratory, Cambridge
Comprising laboratories, meeting areas, seminar 
rooms and a public café, the Sainsbury Laboratory 
is home to 120 world-leading botanical scientists. 
The roughly U-shaped building, which wraps around 
a central courtyard, was built by Kier. Apart from 
concrete, the building makes use of a sandy-
coloured limestone sourced from Metz in France. 
The Sainsbury Laboratory was designed to achieve 
a BREEAM Excellent rating which was achieved.
4. St George’s School, Broadstairs 
Kier’s £22m design and build project, as part of 
Building Schools for the Future, has been designed to 
modern standards and includes a central multi- use 
teaching area with multiple house areas. The sports 
hall has been designed to meet the Sport for 
England requirements and also doubles as an 
examination hall which required sufficient additional 
fire escape provision. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
15
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Our health sector revenue continues to grow 
and is approaching £100m per year. The 
sector represented 6% of our 2011 awards 
and a notable milestone was securing a 
position on the successful ProCure 21+ 
framework. In the first nine months of the 
framework, Kier has been selected to deliver 
up to £110m of healthcare projects, with a 
further £200m of opportunities to pursue 
before the end of the 2011 calendar year.
In the private sector, the commercial, power 
and waste sectors are providing us with the 
most significant opportunities, particularly in 
London and the south-east in the case of the 
commercial sector.
During the year, we secured circa £150m of 
commercial building projects, including the 
£45m Howick Place development for Terrace 
Hill and £57m of schemes for Coca-Cola and 
Pontsarn Properties in Uxbridge and Fetter 
Lane, Holborn. We are preferred bidder on 
a further two schemes for the developer, 
Argent, at King’s Cross, with a combined 
value of £110m, and for a £70m medical 
facility for UCL.
Aerial shot showing progress on the house blocks at Featherstone Prison, near Wolverhampton
Kier was selected for a £196m contract by the Ministry of Justice to build a new Category ‘B’ prison 
facility at Featherstone, north of Wolverhampton. The project involves the building of three 480-place 
house blocks and additional associated facilities. Completion is due in the summer of 2012.
Contracts awarded and market predictions
Sector
2010
awards
£1.4bn
Previous
prediction
2011
awards
£1.5bn
Likely impact
2012 & 2013
Education 41%  33% 
Transportation (rail + airports) 3%  13% 
Overseas 1%  13% 
Commercial 4%  10% 
Residential/accommodation 2%  9% 
Health 7%  6% 
Retail 4%  4% 
Industrial 3%  3% 
Hotels/leisure 5%  3% 
Custodial 23%  2% 
Mixed use 1%  1% 
Defence 4%  0% 
Power and waste* 0%  0% 
Other (inc. utilities) 2% N/A 3% N/A
*  Whilst there were no awards in 2011, we have £150m at Preferred Bidder stage: two key waste contracts and expected awards 
in the power sector 16
 Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Construction
and we are preferred bidder for a new £45m 
waste treatment facility at Wakefield and 
have been short-listed in the tender process 
for the Peterborough waste project.
At Hinkley in Somerset, we are the first 
contractor, in joint venture, to commence 
advance works on site for EDF’s planned new 
nuclear power station. Our joint venture is 
short-listed for a number of major packages 
of work on this scheme totalling in excess 
of £400m. In the nuclear market, we also 
continue to deliver projects at Aldermaston 
and Sellafield, and we see a number of other 
opportunities coming to tender in this sector 
with significant barriers to entry.
Overseas, our key markets are growing and 
a number of major awards have been secured 
during the year, representing 13% of the 
division’s total contract awards.
In Hong Kong, we have secured approximately 
£320m of work, in joint venture, for the 
Mass Transit Railway Corporation (MTRC) and 
prospects in the territory remain encouraging. 
A number of further contracts with the MTRC 
are being selectively targeted together with 
other government infrastructure works. 
Our business in the Caribbean has enjoyed 
a particularly good year, winning over £35m 
of work in the period, with a strong pipeline 
of future prospects in its key sectors. 
During the year we have been particularly 
successful in the transport sector, which 
accounts for over 13% of the division’s 
contract awards. We were successful 
in securing contracts on the Crossrail 
programme (in joint venture) winning the 
C300/410 Western Tunnels and Station 
Caverns at Tottenham Court Road and Bond 
Street valued at £500m, and subsequently 
the station enabling works contracts at 
Liverpool Street and Whitechapel, valued 
at approximately £50m. We are continuing 
to tender for major works schemes on the 
Crossrail programme.
We have also secured the station development 
contract at Epsom Station and are named 
preferred bidder at Twickenham Station for 
Solum Regeneration, our joint venture with 
Network Rail, valued at £40m. Our rail project 
to replace the roof at King’s Cross Station, 
a Grade I listed structure, is on track for 
completion ahead of the Olympic Games.
The energy sector remains a key focus for 
our plans and we expect significant activity 
in this area as the UK’s ageing fleet of power 
stations is replaced over the next ten years. 
Our operations in the sector include our 14th 
combined cycle gas turbine power station for 
EDF Energy (EDF) at West Burton (£130m), 
which completed during the year. We have 
also been awarded the £50m contract to 
build an energy-from-waste plant in Plymouth 
for MVV and South Devon Waste Partnership 
Southampton Operational Command Unit 
Standing eight floors high, the 8,500sq m 
Southampton Operational Command Unit (OCU) 
building is a striking landmark at the gateway to the 
city and will provide office accommodation for 500 
police staff, including the crime scene investigation 
and criminal justice units. The new centre now allows 
the Southampton OCU to centralise its operations 
under one roof for the first time. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
17
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
1 2
3 4
5 6
In Saudi Arabia, we have completed two 
years of an eight-year phosphate mining 
contract for our client, Ma’aden. We are 
pursuing further opportunities as the 
Saudi mining sector expands. We are also 
bidding in joint venture for some significant 
railway development projects planned in the 
region. Despite the challenging economic 
environment in the Middle East, we remain 
assured of the longer-term potential in the 
region and anticipate a period of sustained 
and profitable growth.
Construction markets and outlook
Notwithstanding the excellent position we 
are in with a strong forward workload there 
is a significant shift in spending patterns 
from public sector social infrastructure 
projects to private sector and areas of 
regulated spend. Companies like Kier, with a 
broad capability and skills to adapt to these 
growing markets, are well placed to access 
a healthy pipeline of quality opportunities. 
Competition for the declining public sector 
workload is increasing and our focus remains 
on securing quality work through frameworks 
and targeting the power, waste and nuclear 
markets and commercial building projects 
from our long-term customers. The power 
market alone, in which we are a leading 
player, is likely to provide us with over £13bn 
of opportunities over the next ten years and 
we are already winning work in this sector.
Our mix of work has shifted from 74% to 
56% for the public sector in the last year 
and we expect this to continue such that our 
public sector work will decrease to less than 
50% over the next 12 months. However, we 
expect to maintain a good proportion of the 
work from the public sector, as evidenced 
by our appointment in September 2011 as 
sole contractor to deliver up to £1.0bn of 
construction projects over four years on 
behalf of Scape, a local authority alliance. 
It is estimated we will be carrying out over 
2,500 projects in this national framework 
across education, police, leisure, residential 
and other civic services with assistance 
from our Services division.
Overall Kier Construction is well positioned 
in its key markets. The division has a diversity 
of skills, which is one of its key strengths, 
and this has enabled it to grow its order 
book during the current financial year while 
maintaining its selective bidding processes. 
The order book (secured and probable) 
stands at £2.3bn (June 2010: £2.1bn) and 
represents 95% of the division’s targeted 
revenue for 2012 and 46% of its targeted 
revenue for 2013, which is slightly ahead of 
normal, and we expect our operating margins 
to remain firmly above 2%.
1. York Hospital
Kier was chosen by The York Hospitals NHS Trust 
to be Principal Supply Chain Partner (PSCP) for 
the delivery of this project under the NHS ProCure 
21 framework agreement to remodel the day unit. 
Works comprised the complete internal strip-out 
and remodelling of the existing first-floor day unit 
and Ward 12 to form a new six-theatre suite with 
corresponding day and 24-hour support facilities. 
2. Benton Dene School, Newcastle
Kier’s project at Benton Dene School provides a 
building designed to allow fully integrated education 
of mainstream and special needs primary pupils. 
It boasts features such as underfloor heating, 
enhanced acoustics and dedicated areas for language 
and communication therapy. The environmental impact 
of the project was carefully controlled throughout 
with a comprehensive waste management plan. 
5. Colchester Hospital
Kier was appointed by Colchester Hospital University 
NHS Foundation Trust under the P21 framework 
to provide a new two-storey ward block. The new 
building accommodates a new children’s department 
on the ground floor and an elective care centre and 
surgical ward on the upper floor. The short timescale 
of the project resulted in the decision to construct 
the building using off-site modular construction 
techniques.
3. Blossomfield Campus, Solihull
Kier’s project to design & build new facilities at Solihull 
College’s Blossomfield campus was phased over two 
years in order to maintain operation of surrounding 
buildings without disturbance to the users. The 17 
phases included enabling works, refurbishment of 
the existing buildings, major service diversions for 
gas, water, electricity and communications, and the 
demolition of the existing engineering building. 
6. South Gloucestershire Council offices, Yate
Kier’s three-storey office development in Yate for 
South Gloucestershire Council houses a number of 
sustainable features including a biomass boiler, wind 
turbine, enhanced glazing and rainwater harvesting. 
The building exceeded the client’s target of a BREEAM 
Very Good rating, with the Kier team achieving an 
Excellent rating without additional cost to the project.
4. Worth Abbey Church interior, Worth
Kier’s project to refurbish and modernise the Abbey 
Church in Worth involved the internal modernisation 
and upgrade of facilities plus external maintenance to 
the building. The existing flat roofs were overlaid with 
insulation and relaid. The high-level and clerestory 
windows were replaced and exposed concrete was 
repaired and treated. Internally, the choir stalls and 
altar area have been completely reformed and lowered. 18
 
Ian Lawson Executive director
Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Services
The order books are at a healthy £2,030m at 30 
June 2011 (2010: £2,128m); this figure does not 
include potential contract extensions, which could 
add approximately £750m if all were exercised by 
our customers. 
Kier Services highlights
> Stable order book and good 
forward workload visibility
> Invested c. £18m in equipment for 
Pure Recycling, the acquisition of 
Beco and additions to our street 
services and plant equipment
>  Awarded three contracts for Homes 
for Islington to maintain and repair 
29,500 properties in the London 
Borough of Islington
> Operating margin of 4.5% is 
sustainable and we are seeking 
improvement as we increase 
in scale
> PV capability (Beco), 10,000 
homes under contract, valued 
at £30m
Revenue (£m)
2011 2010
484
471
+3%
Operating proﬁt (£m) and operating margin 
2011 2010
* Before amortisation of intangible assets
21.7
21.4
*
4.5 4.5
+1%
%
a Maintenance
b Facilities  
 Management  
 and Environmental 
2010
Facilities Management and Environmental Maintenance
£351m £133m
(2010: £343m) (2010: £128m)
Kier Services revenue 
a 73% 
 £343m
b 27%
 £128m
2011
a 73%  
 £351m
b 27%  
 £133m
Services operating margin
4.5%
(2010: 4.5%)
Order book
£2.0bn
(2010: £2.1bn) Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
19
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Pure Recycling facility, Ettington
Assistant manager Dan Burton is pictured at Kier’s 
materials recycling facility (MRF) at Ettingdon in 
Warwickshire. The MRF, completed in February 
2011, is one of the largest in the UK and one of 
the most technically advanced facilities in Europe. 
Complementing Kier’s existing relationships with 
material processing companies across the UK, the 
MRF is able to process a minimum of 25 tonnes of 
recycled waste per hour.  20
 Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Services
Kier Services
Kier Services comprises five main 
businesses: Maintenance, which provides 
both reactive and planned maintenance 
largely to local authorities and housing 
associations; Facilities Management (FM), 
providing services to public and private sector 
clients; Environmental, offering services for 
domestic and commercial waste collection 
and the management and operation of a major 
recycling facility, street scene and grounds 
maintenance; Asset Management, which was 
formerly within the Property division; and 
Energy Solutions, including our photovoltaic 
production, design and installation business.
Services business review
Revenue increased 3% to £484m 
(2010: £471m) with growth, in particular, 
in Maintenance and Environmental. Operating 
profit, before deducting the amortisation of 
intangibles of £3.4m, increased to £21.7m 
(2010: £21.4m), with a resilient operating 
margin of 4.5% (2010: 4.5%). Cash balances 
were healthy at £28m (2010: £32m), 
underpinning the profit recognition and 
come after approximately £18m of further 
investment in Pure Recycling, the acquisition 
of Beco and additions to our street services 
and plant equipment.
The order books are at a healthy £2,030m 
at 30 June 2011 (2010: £2,128m); this 
figure does not include potential contract 
extensions, which could add approximately 
£750m if all were exercised by our customers. 
Our Maintenance business saw revenues 
increase by 2% to £351m (2010: £344m), 
which highlights the strength of this business 
given the budget restrictions that are now 
affecting local authorities. We currently 
maintain approximately a quarter of a million 
homes, placing us as one of the largest 
providers of housing maintenance services 
in the UK.
We have been successful in negotiating an 
extension to our partnership with Sheffield 
City Council, Kier Sheffield LLP, for a further 
year to 2014, with a value of £64m. We have 
also secured the remainder of Sheffield City 
Council’s Decent Homes Programme for the 
three-year period to 2014, with a value of up 
to £27m over the period.
We were awarded three contracts for 
Homes for Islington (HFI), the arm’s length 
management organisation (ALMO) for 
Islington Council. The contracts, to repair 
and maintain 29,500 properties in the 
London Borough of Islington, are for an initial 
four-year period, extendable up to ten, and 
all commenced in October 2010. This 
contract with Islington Council was first 
secured in 2000 and, therefore, represents 
our first ‘re-win’.
Having been re-awarded a £20m responsive 
repairs contract with Ealing Council over 
five years, we have also secured a £60m 
partnership with Gosport Borough Council 
for ten years, extendable for a further five 
years, and have secured valuable framework 
positions with EMPA, Riverside Group and 
North Bransholme for the next four years.
The Facilities Management business 
generated more than £100m of revenue in 
the year and was successful in renewing key 
contracts of approximately £30m including 
Surrey County Council, Sussex Police and 
London Fire Brigade and adding new customer 
contracts of almost £20m.
Our Environmental business has been 
awarded several significant contracts, 
valued in aggregate at more than £150m. 
An eight-year contract, with a potential 
eight-year extension, for North Norfolk District 
Council and the Borough Council of King’s 
Lynn and West Norfolk, serving 240,000 
homes, and a seven-year contract for East 
Northamptonshire serving 37,600 homes, 
were also awarded. In addition, we have 
secured a £48m waste and recycling services 
contract for London Borough of Waltham 
Forest for eight years, with the potential 
to increase to £90m with extensions.
Our new Pure Recycling materials recovery 
facility (MRF) in Ettington, Warwickshire 
officially opened for business at the end 
of February 2011. The MRF is licensed 
to process 150,000 tonnes of mixed dry 
recyclable materials a year, and is one of 
the largest in the UK. The completion of 
the MRF is an important milestone for our 
Environmental business and we already 
have contracts to process dry recyclables 
for 80,000 tonnes per annum. With councils 
committed to meeting increasingly demanding 
recycling targets over the next few years, 
the MRF offers a fully integrated waste and 
recycling collection solution. 
Plant management
Kier’s specialist plant management business hires 
out equipment from seven depots around the UK to 
both member companies of the Group and external 
clients throughout the UK and overseas. The fleet 
management team offers commercial vehicle 
solutions from standard panel vans, pick-ups and 
tippers through to bespoke conversions designed 
to suit specific needs. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
21
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
The newly formed Energy Solutions business, 
strengthened by the acquisition of Beco in 
November 2010, has provided a stronger 
platform to enter the energy solutions 
marketplace. This business, together with the 
Maintenance business, has secured several 
contracts in the year covering up to 10,000 
properties (£30m) in North Tyneside, Stoke-
on-Trent and Harlow, the latter where we are 
delivering a funded photovoltaic scheme onto 
1,200 rooftops of council housing stock. 
The business has identified a good pipeline 
of opportunities in the retrofit social housing 
market, which will utilise the combined 
strengths of the Maintenance business 
and the structured finance business.
Services markets and outlook
As expected, levels of activity have been 
subdued over the past 12 months. However, 
we are seeing an increasing number of 
outsourcing opportunities as both the public 
and registered provider sectors, in particular, 
seek to alleviate cost pressure and examine 
their current service delivery requirements. 
We anticipate that this increase in activity will 
translate into revenue growth for the division 
in the year to June 2013.
Our order book in the Services division is at 
a healthy level of £2.0bn, giving good forward 
visibility of workload, coupled with a strong 
pipeline of further opportunities. We expect 
our operating margins to be maintained at 
a resilient 4.5%.
The Maintenance business continues to 
offer best value solutions for clients through 
proven partnership and provides long-term 
visible revenues to 2020 and beyond at 
strong, consistent margins. These long-term 
contracts and partnerships allow us to 
expand our activities through the involvement 
of other Group businesses as our clients and 
partners seek a one-stop, integrated delivery 
model to service their businesses, a model 
that we are well placed to deliver.
The cost pressures on local authorities are 
also leading to increasing opportunities for 
us in the waste collection and street scene 
market where we have seen considerable 
success this year and remain optimistic about 
growth. The private sector is also examining 
its cost base and is demonstrably outsourcing 
more of its non-core activities. Our diverse 
offering, covering both hard and soft FM, is 
doing well but we consider it would benefit 
from greater scale in the premium office and 
retail market. This remains a key focus for 
us in the coming years.
1
3
2
4
6 5
1. Street services, Norfolk
Mark Rule at work in Norfolk where Kier is providing 
street services for various councils under an 
eight-year contract that carries the possibility of 
extending for a further eight years. Services include 
waste and recycling collections, street cleaning, 
grounds maintenance and the cleansing of public 
conveniences and buildings. 
2. Homes for Islington, London 
David Bayford in Islington where Kier has been 
delivering repairs and maintenance services plus gas 
servicing to the tenants of Islington Council through 
their arm’s length management organisation, Homes 
for Islington, for over ten years. Kier recently won a 
contract to continue to provide these services for 
29,500 homes managed by Homes for Islington for 
another 7-10 years. 
5. Lifts, Sheffield
Kris McGough and Paul Menton at work in Sheffield 
where Kier designs, supplies, installs, refurbishes 
and provides a responsive repairs service to lifts and 
stairlifts. This service is offered to clients in both the 
public and private sector.
3. Photovoltaic panels, Nottingham
Solar-powered energy generation is one of the most 
exciting sustainable energy opportunities for the 
housing and construction sectors and one of the key 
ways in which we can help the UK towards its climate 
change targets. Employees Peter Ward and Wayne 
Bullement are pictured installing photovoltaic panels 
in Nottingham. Kier worked in partnership with Eon 
to install the panels on 600 homes for Nottingham 
City Homes. 
4. Street Services, Norfolk
Ernie Lawrence in Cromer, one of the team delivering 
under the eight-year contract for councils throughout 
Norfolk to provide a range of street services. The 
project is designed to deliver the most efficient 
service possible, and will see the 180-strong Kier 
team and their 70 vehicles cover almost 2,500sq km, 
taking in much of the Broads, Cromer, King’s Lynn, 
Hunstanton and Downham Market among others. 
6. City Stewardship Scheme, Sheffield
Working in partnership with Sheffield Homes and 
CTS Training, Kier’s ground-breaking City Stewardship 
programme provides learning opportunities for 
teenagers who would not otherwise have the chance 
to engage in employment or mainstream education. 
The scheme includes initiatives such as ‘target 
hardening’ following house break-ins, where new 
security devices are fitted, and has resulted in 
a massive reduction in burglary rates.  22
 
The Property division continues to focus on non-speculative 
projects where we know we can forward sell or pre-let key 
elements of the schemes, thereby reducing the associated 
risk and demands on the Group’s cash reserves. 
Increasingly, we bring together the total skills and expertise 
across the Group to deliver greater value to our schemes. 
Ian Lawson Executive director
Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Property
Kier Property highlights
> £91m acquisition of the property 
portfolio from Lloyds
> Shortlisted for five PFI projects 
valued at £250m
>  Creates annualised £100m 
construction/FM opportunities
> Solum Regeneration JV with 
Network Rail to complete Epsom 
Station in summer 2012, with 
Walthamstow, Twickenham and 
Maidstone East stations to follow
> Working with National Grid to 
redevelop a 20-acre site in 
Sydenham
Revenue (£m)
2011 2010
97
53
+83%
Operating profit (£m)
2011 2010
11.1
4.5
+147%
2010 2011
a Education
b Police facilities 
c Health
d Local authorities 
e Other
Committed investment in PFI schemes (2011)
£21m
(2010: £28m)
Portfolio of PFI projects 
a 51%
e 10%
d 6%
c 15%
b 18%
a 37%
e 11%
d 8%
c 20%
b 24%
Development pipeline
£700m
Over five years, largely pre-let with strong partners
Directors’ valuation of our PFI investment
£38m
(at a discount rate of 7.5%) Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
23
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
6 Cavendish Place, London
Our central London office in Cavendish Place was 
part of the property portfolio acquired from Lloyds 
in April 2011 for £91m and was subsequently sold.
Ordnance Survey, Southampton
Kier Property’s development to create a new head 
office at Adanac Park, Southampton for Ordnance 
Survey. The building has been designed to reflect 
the image of a 21st- century data provider and to 
act as a stimulating, positive and modern working 
environment. The new building comprises a series 
of three-storey ‘fingers’ running from east to west 
with a two-storey business centre at the west side 
of the building. 24
 Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Property
Kier Property
The Property division comprises two main 
businesses: commercial, industrial, retail 
and mixed-use property development and 
structured property financing (PFI). Both 
businesses provide significant opportunities 
for Kier to work with landowners, occupiers 
and the public sector, and offer innovative 
property solutions and services to maximise 
asset values and generate profits. 
The Property division continues to focus on 
non-speculative projects where we know we 
can forward sell or pre-let key elements of the 
schemes, thereby reducing the associated 
risk and demands on the Group’s cash 
reserves. Increasingly, we bring together the 
total skills and expertise across the Group 
to deliver greater value to our schemes, and 
provide a ‘One Kier’ approach for our clients. 
Revenue for the year to 30 June 2011 of 
£97m (2010: £53m) was 83% higher than 
that for last year, with operating profit of 
£11.1m (2010: £4.5m).
Following the acquisition of the property 
portfolio from Lloyds in April 2011 for £91m, 
we sold our retail scheme in Chichester and 
our central London office in Cavendish Place 
thus raising £26m of cash which offset the 
initial £35m consideration paid to Lloyds.
In early 2009, we were selected as 
preferred developer by the University of 
Reading to deliver its 55,000sq ft Science 
and Enterprise Centre. 
The Construction division undertook the 
construction works and the project was 
completed in April 2011. The project 
was externally funded and forward sold. 
Our joint venture with Network Rail, Solum 
Regeneration, is progressing well. We are 
on site at Epsom on a £32m mixed-use 
pre-let scheme with completion due in the 
summer of 2012. Construction is due to 
commence at Walthamstow for a similar 
scheme in October 2011 and we are at an 
advanced stage of the planning process 
on the Twickenham and Maidstone East 
redevelopments worth a combined £107m. 
A testament to the strength of the partnership 
is reflected in the additional schemes added 
to the portfolio with a total development value 
of approximately £500m.
As part of our strategy to work closely with 
large landowners, at Sydenham we are 
working with National Grid on a 20-acre site 
for warehouse and industrial development. 
Pre-let terms are being agreed with several 
large retailers and work on site is forecast 
to start in early 2012, with Kier undertaking 
the construction work. This form of alliance, 
similar to Solum Regeneration, is a key area 
of focus for this division.
University of Reading
Working in partnership with the University of Reading, 
Kier has constructed the new Enterprise Centre on 
the University of Reading campus. The new facility 
offers 55,000sq ft of high - quality space in three - 
and two -storey blocks linked by a central atrium. 
The buildings provide flexible new office/research 
accommodation for innovative and technology-based 
businesses. The building has been designed to 
high environmental standards and aims to achieve 
a BREEAM rating of Very Good. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
25
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
During the year, in our Structured Finance 
business, we continued our strategy 
of selectively disposing of mature PFI 
investments from our portfolio. We disposed 
of three of our investments, Norwich, Oldham 
and Sheffield Schools, for a combined 
value of £13.7m, representing a valuation 
discount rate of around 7%. Whilst Norwich 
and Oldham were sold to an external buyer, 
due to pre-emption rights, our investment in 
Sheffield was transferred to the Kier Group 
Pension Scheme at its market value of 
£4.5m. Over time, we expect to offer further 
PFI assets to this pension scheme as part of 
the pension deficit recovery plan. We believe 
that these assets, with their long-term cash 
flows, are well suited to the pension scheme. 
The construction of the £60m Norfolk and 
Suffolk Police Investigation Centres scheme 
is now nearing completion and, in March 
2011, we achieved financial close on the 
£22m Gloucester Fire project, which is 
now under construction. In addition, we are 
short-listed on a further five projects with 
a combined value of approximately £250m.
Our portfolio of PFI projects following the 
disposals during the year now totals ten. 
Our full equity investment in these schemes 
amounts to £21m (2010: £28m) of which 
£16m has been invested to date. The 
directors’ valuation of our investment at a 
discount rate of 7.5% is £38m. Our Structured 
Finance business continues to seek new 
opportunities by applying its investment and 
finance structuring skills to a broad range of 
schemes such as social housing, residential 
regeneration and student accommodation.
Property markets and outlook
The division continues to focus on expanding 
its portfolio to contribute an increasing 
proportion of the Group’s results. We continue 
to look at innovative funding routes to support 
our growth and make the best use of our 
cash reserves. 
We have recently strengthened and expanded 
our team to increase our focus in the west 
and north of England with the aim of providing 
additional work across the Group in these 
locations.
The Property business is set to deliver 
continued profit growth over the next few 
years with many of its schemes already 
identified and secured. We therefore remain 
confident in our business strategy of acquiring 
development opportunities in well-located and 
marketable areas with significant potential for 
occupier led, pre-let or forward sale solutions. 
1 2
3 4
1. Epsom Station redevelopment
Network Rail and Kier Property have formed a joint 
venture, Solum Regeneration, to redevelop stations 
in the south-east and London. As part of the project, 
Kier Construction is undertaking the building and 
civil engineering works for a mixed-use scheme 
to deliver improvements to Epsom Station and 
provide retail space, a hotel, parking and 124  
high-quality apartments.
2. Natural Environment Research Council, 
Oxfordshire
This design and build project for a new research 
facility in Oxfordshire for the Natural Environment 
Research Council consists of new laboratories and 
office facilities for the Centre for Ecology & Hydrology. 
The centre accommodates a variety of high - grade 
research functions as part of an annex to the existing 
main building. The building achieved a BREEAM 
Excellent rating. 
3. Police Investigation Centre, King’s Lynn
Kier was commissioned to build the Police 
Investigation Centre at King’s Lynn for the Ministry 
of Justice as part of a £60m scheme to design 
and build six police investigation centres across 
Norfolk and Suffolk. The project was built on 
the outskirts of King’s Lynn and includes 24 cells, 
holding areas, interview rooms, forensics, 
a medical centre and offices. 
4. Twickenham Station
A computer generated image of Twickenham Station – 
one of several stations in the south-east and London 
that are the subject of redevelopment by Solum 
Regeneration, a joint venture between Network Rail 
and Kier Property.  26
 
Through our partnerships with key public housing funding 
bodies and registered providers of affordable housing, and 
working with our investment and development specialists 
within the Group, we are well positioned to provide a 
comprehensive delivery solution to the UK’s current 
housing challenges.
Homes delivered
998
(2010: 1,060)
Land bank (book value)
£159m
(2010: £214m)
Land bank (units) with planning consent
4,800
(2010: 5,700)
Ian Lawson Executive director
Chief Executive’s review continued
Kier Homes
Kier Homes highlights
> Secure and probable pipeline  
of c. 1,700 affordable homes
> Affordable Homes Programme’s 
grant of £12.5m will help us deliver 
over 1,000 new affordable homes
> Private homes: £20m (350 plots) 
land sales completed on deferred 
cash terms
>  Will maintain a 500 to 600-unit 
private homes business
Revenue (£m)
2011 2010
153
158
–3%
Operating profit (£m)
2011 2010
4.2
2.8
+50%
* Excluding 2010 one-off land transaction profit of £7.1m
*
2010 2011
a Affordable  
 homes and  
 mixed tenure
b Private homes  
 on Kier-owned  
 land 
Total units 2011
998 
Total units 2010
1,060
Kier Homes unit sales 
b 47%
 466
b 47%
 499 a 53%
 532
a 53%
 561 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
27
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Kier Homes
Kier Homes provides mixed tenure and 
affordable housing, specialising in urban 
regeneration with the skills and experience 
to deliver innovative and environmentally 
sustainable construction and finance 
solutions. These include leveraging multiple 
funding and investment sources and providing 
cross-subsidy options. We have reduced 
the scale of our private sales operation to 
maintain a stable 500 to 600-unit per year 
business focused on the south-east and 
East Midlands area.
Homes business review
There remains uncertainty in the housing 
market although a modest demand for 
newly built homes supported an improved 
underlying performance for the year for the 
Homes business.
In the private sector, the housing market 
continues to be constrained by the lack of 
mortgage availability, which is affecting 
housing demand throughout the country. 
In the affordable housing sector, following 
the Government’s Comprehensive Spending 
Review, the change from social rent to an 
affordable rent structure will transform the 
way that affordable housing is financed. 
Overall, we completed 998 units this year 
(2010: 1,060) a similar mix to last year, with 
466 arising from private development sales 
and 532 through affordable housing sales 
(2010: 499 private and 561 affordable homes).
These unit sales, together with land 
sales, generated revenues of £153m 
(2010: £158m) and operating profits 
improved to £4.2m in 2011 (2010: £2.8m 
excluding Homes land transaction).
Our cash investment in this division has 
slightly increased to £259m (June 2010: 
£248m), reflecting the settlement of deferred 
land payments, which have now been made 
in full, increased investment in work in 
progress on apartment schemes, which have 
a different cash profile to a typical housing 
scheme, partially offset by the first instalment 
proceeds on land sales.
The instalments represent part of a 
committed £20m (350 plots) of completed 
land sales on deferred cash terms. Having 
completed these sales, and following a 
review of our land and work in progress, we 
have written down the value of our land and 
work in progress and it now better reflects 
our strategy for the private housing business 
and the current market conditions. Whilst it 
remains our intent to sell further land over 
time, we do not anticipate realising profit from 
these transactions, the emphasis being on 
cash generation.
Our land bank at 30 June 2011 is carried 
at a value of £159m (June 2010: £214m), 
after the current year’s write-down and is 
represented by 4,800 plots (2010: 5,700 
plots), all with planning consent. Our strategy 
to position our land bank so that it supports 
a 500 to 600-unit business continues with 
the aim of having a land bank equivalent 
to approximately four to five years’ supply. 
This will release cash, which is available for 
investment in the Group’s future growth. All 
new housing is being built primarily on land 
acquired prior to the market correction in 
2008 and we therefore anticipate modest 
margins through this business over the next 
few years.
Housing Association Registered Providers 
(HARPs) have responded positively to the 
challenge of funding future development 
using an affordable rental income stream 
to leverage finance and a strong pipeline of 
development opportunities, to be delivered 
over the next four years, is emerging.
Through our partnerships with key public 
housing funding bodies and registered 
providers of affordable housing, and working 
with our investment and development 
specialists within the Group, we are well 
positioned to provide a comprehensive 
delivery solution to the UK’s current 
housing challenges.
Our membership of the HCA DPP framework 
continues to provide a steady supply of public 
sector land for the development of affordable 
and mixed -tenure housing. All of these types 
of projects involve free land provided by the 
HCA; one such example is our development at 
Balaam Wood, Egg Hill, which has progressed 
well and we have delivered our first sales 
reservations alongside the affordable housing 
on the site. 
Homes market and outlook
Our strategy continues to focus on reducing 
the cash investment in our land bank by 
developing homes for sale, or disposing 
of parts of the land bank as opportunities 
arise. The private homes market remains 
challenging, as mortgage finance still requires 
significant deposits, and there remains a low 
level of public confidence given the current 
economic conditions. We therefore expect 
overall private sales for the year to 30 June 
2012 to be at a similar level to those for this 
year at this stage.
Our focus is the development of mixed-tenure 
affordable housing through our well-established 
relationships with local authorities and 
housing associations. In the recent allocation 
of AHP funding, we were delighted to receive 
the entire allocation of grant requested 
(£12.5m) which will help us deliver in excess 
of 1,000 new affordable homes alongside our 
HARPs over the next four years. This excellent 
result combined with our relationships with 
our framework partners and our position 
on the HCA DPP set us well to exploit 
opportunities in the affordable housing 
market in the medium term. 
We will remain flexible and responsive 
to the uncertain private housing market 
and will pursue growth in our affordable 
housing business and the opportunities 
that it presents.
Midsummer Project Cambourne, Cambridgeshire
Kier Homes’ Midsummer project is a select 
development featuring executive homes located 
within the new town of Cambourne, Cambridgeshire. 
The carefully designed new homes offer spacious 
living with five-bedroom homes and three-bedroom 
bungalows located in an enviable position between 
an eco wildlife park, school playing fields and 
country park. 28
 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Health and safety
Our focus continues to be on our Health and 
Safety Leadership and Behavioural Safety 
Programme, which is now firmly embedded 
within the Construction division and is being 
rolled out across the Group. This programme 
focuses on encouraging active discussions 
with the workforce on health and safety 
issues, with in excess of 41,000 discussions 
recorded during the year, a 66% increase 
on 2010.
Our future focus will encompass all health, 
safety and environmental issues to ensure 
we fully support the Group’s sustainability 
aspirations. A long-term programme of health 
and well-being is currently being developed 
across the business to ensure that health 
is an integral part of the safety, health and 
environment culture.
The commitment of our management teams 
and our supply chain partners has resulted 
in a further reduction in our accident incident 
rate (AIR) from 312 in June 2010 to 300 in 
June 2011; this is significantly lower than 
the current Health and Safety Executive 
benchmark rate of 736. These positive results 
continue to focus and motivate all of us on 
a safety first culture.
Reflecting this outstanding performance, 
Kier projects were awarded 42 national 
awards by the Considerate Constructors 
Scheme in recognition of the standards we 
set ourselves. We also received five Royal 
Society for the Prevention of Accidents 
(RoSPA) President’s Awards and five RoSPA 
Gold medals, in recognition of ten consecutive 
years of Gold Awards. 
Five Islands School, Isles of Scilly (above and below)
Kier’s design & build project at Five Islands School 
has been extremely complex and demanding 
logistically. The company topped out the project this 
spring, marking the milestone in the construction 
programme by guiding the new bell tower into position 
on the roof. HM The Queen took a tour of the school, 
which Kier completed a month ahead of programme, 
during her first visit to the Isles of Scilly in 44 years. 
Site engineer Stephen Payne is pictured above. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
29
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
The Group, with its diverse set of capabilities, 
is able to respond to the changing market and 
position itself in those areas where there is 
most opportunity for growth. This is evident 
in our Construction division by our move away 
from public sector work and into the private 
sector whilst growing revenues.
We are encouraged by the prospects we see 
in the economic infrastructure markets such 
as power, transport and waste, both in the 
UK and overseas, and in improving social 
infrastructure sectors such as affordable 
housing, mixed-use regeneration and 
commercial projects, predominantly in the 
south-east.
Our Services division is beginning to see 
larger opportunities come to market as local 
authorities out source different bundled 
services, and our Property division is in 
a strong position to expand its portfolio 
and seek non-speculative schemes in the 
medium term.
Our Construction and Services order books 
of secure and probable contracts are robust 
with many of the construction awards 
having been secured through frameworks 
and collaborative agreements, providing us 
with confidence that we can sustain good 
operating margins and strong cash flows.
Our integrated business model continues 
to present opportunities across a wide range 
of sectors, right across the country, which 
will provide greater resilience during the 
current challenging economic environment. 
Our strong balance sheet will inevitably 
be seen as increasingly important as 
customers scrutinise the strength of their 
chosen partners.
We remain a robust and sustainable 
business, with committed and professional 
staff in whom we have confidence and their 
abilities will underpin further progress by 
the Group in the new financial year. 
Paul Sheffield 
Chief Executive
People
During the year, we were active on over 330 
construction projects across the UK, were 
responsible for approximately 250,000 
homes and 7,000 commercial premises and 
built 1,000 new homes. All of our people, 
across the UK and overseas, have worked 
hard this year to produce these results.
It is a sign of our professionalism that time 
after time our projects are delivered to 
programme, on budget and to great quality. 
I am continually impressed by the quality and 
professionalism displayed by our people and 
the tremendous effort that goes into all of the 
work that we do.
I am proud to represent Kier, and of the great 
work our teams deliver in the communities 
they represent. I am delighted to announce 
this year that we are establishing a charitable 
trust, the Kier Foundation, to provide a more 
coordinated approach to the huge amount 
of time and financial support we put into our 
communities. This will enable us to better 
manage our corporate giving and to generate 
further value in the areas in which we 
participate.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our 
people at every level throughout our many 
businesses for their continuing support and 
contribution to the continuing success of the 
Group. Whilst I expect 2012 to be challenging, 
I am confident that our teams will meet that 
challenge as they have done so consistently 
in the past.
Markets and prospects
The year to 30 June 2011 has been busy for 
all our businesses in bidding for work in an 
increasingly competitive environment. The 
requirements from our clients for ‘bundled 
services’ has required all our teams to rethink 
and re-engineer the way we bid and deliver 
our work.
The next 12 months will remain challenging 
as the reduction in government spending 
continues to affect levels of construction 
and services activity. Low levels of public 
confidence and therefore uncertainty will 
affect the private housing market.
King’s Mill Education Centre
Kier’s project to provide specialist teaching facilities 
at King’s Mill Hospital Education Centre comprised 
reconfiguring wards and constructing a new lecture 
theatre. The building was also extensively refurbished 
to create a fire escape stairwell, double lift, offices, 
café and reception. Working in a live environment, 
the team met regularly with the client and estates 
department to discuss the programme and adapt 
it according to the hospital’s activities.
Kier has committed to the 
‘Halving Waste to Landfill’ 
initiative by WRAP.
Halving 
Waste to 
Landfill   30
 
Our CR programme is reported and based upon the 
broad framework provided by the BITC CR Index with 
the added industry-specific Considerate Constructors 
Scheme requirement.
The Group has made remarkable progress in managing and improving our 
corporate responsibility (CR) activities in the year to 30 June 2011. A full 
‘Corporate Responsibility Report 2011’ will be posted on our website 
(www.kier.co.uk/responsibility) but a summary report here describes our 
CR governance during the year and some headline achievements. 
Corporate responsibility
A report from each meeting of the committee 
was then placed on the agenda for the full 
Group Board meetings held in August and 
November 2010, and February and May 2011.
The main issues covered in the CR reports 
to the Board in the year have included:
•   BITC CR Index survey results, targets and 
actions 
•   2010 and 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project 
submissions
•   Carbon Reduction Commitment and the 
Climate Change Act 2008
•   Business ethics and code of conduct
•   Bribery Act 2010 and issues concerning 
e-training and awareness campaigns 
across the Group
•   Waste data collection and target 
performance 
•   Equality, diversity and inclusion policies 
and actions
•   Community engagement and the creation 
of The Kier Foundation as a charitable trust
•   The web-based iConnecting CR data 
collection and performance tool initiative
•   The Considerate Constructors Scheme 
monthly performance data and targets
•   Feedback from shareholders on CR issues 
•   Audit for the Group CR report
•   Apprenticeship scheme initiatives across 
the divisions
•   Liaison with national charities
•   Annual Report & Accounts CR section
During the year we entered into dialogue 
with our Group auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, 
with regard to auditing our CR Report 
and associated CR data collection and 
verification. We have now engaged KPMG to 
work with us on this CR Report, to analyse 
our data collection processes and existing 
third-party verification where applicable and 
to advise on the establishment of appropriate 
mechanisms and structures for our 2012 
CR Report. 
The performance and reporting of the Kier 
Group CR programme is benchmarked against 
our competitors and customers through the 
annual Business in the Community (BITC) CR 
Index. This index assesses how we address 
sustainability throughout the business, 
specifically concerning the environment 
and climate change, health and safety, 
employee relations and training, business 
ethics, customer satisfaction, supply chain 
management and community engagement. 
Most importantly, the index enables us to 
identify areas of weakness which we can 
address for ongoing improvement.
In order to ensure that our CR programme is 
constantly reviewed, managed and improved 
year on year, we established a target in 
2010 to achieve 90%, or Gold status, within 
three years, benchmarked against our 2010 
CR Index score of 78.2%, Bronze status. 
We were therefore pleased that in this first 
year, by working closely with the BITC team, 
we achieved a score of 85%, Silver status, 
in the 2011 BITC CR Index.
Having commissioned a full feedback report 
from BITC on our CR Index results for 2011, 
we have identified the management of our 
community engagement, our environmental 
data and our approach to equality, diversity 
and inclusion as key areas to improve in 
the next year. These issues are all being 
addressed by the Group CR Steering 
Committee.
A summary of our CR performance and 
key activities is shown on pages 32 and 
33. Other key issues concerning our CR 
programme in the year are as follows.
Governance and audit
The Group CR Steering Committee (see 
membership list on page 33), chaired by 
Paul Sheffield, chief executive, met four 
times in the year to 30 June 2011. 
iConnecting
During the year a series of workshops were held with 
all iConnecting users to develop this new web-based 
tool for gathering and evaluating our CR activities within 
the Group.
Community 
engagement
Considerate
Constructors 
Scheme
Environment 
& climate 
change
Workplace 
Health & 
safety
Workplace 
Employees 
& training
Marketplace 
Customers 
& suppliers Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
31
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Leadership index score of 77 put us in 
the top 10% of the FTSE 350 in respect of 
carbon disclosure. We have participated in 
the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project and the 
results, when announced in October 2011, 
will be posted on our website at  
www.kier.co.uk/responsibility.
For the second 
successive year Kier 
was a finalist in the 
Construction News 
Awards ‘Sustainability’ 
category. 
AIR v manpower ten-year chart
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
24.7
23.0
23.8 23.6
21.4
22.2
19.4
18.0
18.3
18.0
End of June average manpower (000s)
End of June AIR
300 312
404
588
640
522
598 588
747
699
Considerate Constructors Scheme by month (July 2010 to June 2011) 
Jul
10
Aug
10
Sep
10
Oct
10
Nov
10
Dec
10
Jan
11
Feb
11
Mar
11
Apr
11
May
11
Jun
11
35.1
34.7
34.6
34.8
34.6
34.9
35.0
35.3
34.3
33.9
33.6
34.5
Kier average (marks out of 40)
Industry average (marks out of 40)
32.9
32.8
32.7
32.6 32.6
32.3
32.6
32.5
32.7
32.2 32.2
32.3
A coordinator for The Kier Foundation is 
to be appointed to manage the activities 
and funding opportunities arising.
As part of the The Kier Foundation initiative, 
the Board will establish a formal relationship 
with a national charity on an annual or 
two-year basis through which the Foundation 
can channel and share resources, as well as 
helping deliver tangible projects and activities 
by the Group employees and businesses 
nationwide.
Considerate Constructors Scheme
As well as assessing our CR performance 
through the BITC CR Index’s five main areas 
(environment, health and safety, employees 
and training, customers and supply chain and 
community engagement), we also benchmark 
our industry-specific and operational project- 
based CR performance against the monitoring 
and reporting system of the Considerate 
Constructors Scheme (CCS).
We were very pleased to be awarded an 
exceptionally high number of CCS National 
Awards in 2011. Since becoming an 
Associate Member of the CCS Scheme in 
2008, our National Awards have risen from 
eight in 2008 to 21 in 2009, 29 in 2010 
and a remarkable 42 in 2011. This number 
of awards significantly exceeds the total 
National Awards achieved by any of our 
competitors in the CCS scheme in 2011.
Our average Group monthly scores in this 
scheme judged under eight categories 
(including, safety, cleanliness, environment, 
good neighbour and respectful) also improved 
during the year from 34.30 out of 40 in 2010 
to 34.63 in 2011.
Carbon Disclosure Project
Kier participated in the 2010 Carbon 
Disclosure Project (results announced in 
September 2010) and our Carbon Disclosure 
The intention is for KPMG to undertake a 
first audit of our CR Report in the year ending 
30 June 2012.
The Kier Foundation and community   
engagement
Kier employees and our individual business 
units have exemplary community engagement 
activities across all the Group’s locations 
throughout the UK and overseas. However, 
in order to properly and professionally 
quantify what we do in our communities, 
we now collect data on our direct impact 
upon these communities (fundraising data, 
sponsorship, man-hours donated and working 
with schools or charitable organisations). 
To this end, we have been establishing 
a web-based performance analysis and 
reporting system across the Group under the 
‘iConnecting’ initiative. This was rolled out in 
January 2011 and data collection recorded 
across the Group for the first time for the 
financial year to 30 June 2011 (see summary 
table on pages 32 and 33).
Now that we have been able to access and 
analyse our community engagement activities 
more robustly, the CR Steering Committee 
is determined to improve the focus and 
management of our Group community 
engagement without in any way compromising 
the ongoing good work undertaken locally by 
our businesses wherever they operate among 
their closest communities.
After researching this issue and debating 
it at both the CR Steering Committee and 
at Board level, we have now launched 
The Kier Foundation, a charitable trust 
formally registered as a charity through 
which we can funnel and focus financial 
support to good causes and the community 
activities of our employees wherever they 
are. The Kier Foundation will be managed by 
Trustees and a fund established from both 
Group resources and voluntary employee 
subscriptions. 
Our CR vision
Kier – delivering a brighter future for our 
communities
The Kier Group vision is ‘to be the 
most highly respected company in the 
industry’. To achieve this vision we 
have to build, maintain, protect and 
enhance our reputation among our 
employees, customers, supply chain 
partners, investors and, particularly, 
the communities in which we live and 
work. Supporting this reputation and 
encompassing our responsibilities towards 
the environment, society and governance, 
our corporate responsibility vision is: 
‘Kier – delivering a brighter future for 
our communities’.
FINALIST 32
 
2011
Silver status
85%
(2010: 78.2% Bronze status)
The Group participated in the 2011 BITC CR Index, achieving 
85% (Silver status), up from 78.2% in 2010 (Bronze status)
Performance commentary
•   Kier has entered into a partnership with the 
RSPB to identify opportunities to enhance 
biodiversity on our construction projects
•   Green Apple Awards for the Built Environment 2011 
– Open Academy, Norwich – Gold Award 
–  British Horse Society HQ, Stoneleigh 
– Gold Award
•   Green Apple Awards for Environmental 
Best Practice 2011 
–  Kier Build: Back to Basics – Pollution 
Prevention
 – Kier Eastern: Car Smart Scheme
 –  Kier Eastern: Bird Boxes Project 
(in conjunction with the RSPB)
 –  Kier Northern: Seeing the Light – Site Electrics
 –  Kier Sheffield: Sustainable Waste 
Management
•   Participated in the 2010 Carbon Disclosure 
Project and our leadership index score of 77 
put us among the top 10% of the FTSE 350 in 
respect of carbon disclosure. We participated 
in the 2011 CDP
Key performance indicators
•   Group’s UK scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions 
for 2010 (including mining) increased to 
75,009 tonnes (2009: 71,570 tonnes) but 
intensity decreased to 34.6 tonnes CO2/£m 
revenue (2009: 35.7 tonnes CO2/£m revenue). 
This represents an overall Group reduction of 
3.1% against our target for 2010 (excluding 
mining) for a 10% reduction. A more realistic 
target of 3.0% reduction is set for 2011
•   Construction, demolition and excavation 
(CDE) waste generated by the Construction 
division(excluding Scotland) rose to 48 
tonnes per £100,000 revenue (2009: 45 
tonnes/£100,000) but the CDE waste diverted 
from landfill was up from 64% in 2009 to 72% 
in 2010. The target is to halve waste to landfill 
by 2012 from the 2008 baseline (45%)
Performance commentary
•   AIR  
–  Kier: 300 per 100,000 staff and 
subcontractors (2010: 312)
 –  HSE benchmark: 736 per 100,000 staff and 
subcontractors (2010: 782)
•   Site Supervisors Safety Training Scheme 
(SSSTS) continued from previous years with a 
further 31 courses completed by 78 employees 
(2010: 72) and 292 supply chain supervisors 
(2010: 598)
•   Safe and UnSafe Acts (SUSA) initiative had a 
further 1,255 delegates attending workshops 
(2010: 1,938)
•   Occupational Health – Roadshows have 
continued with focus on noise & hand arm 
vibration (HAV)
Performance commentary
•   879 employees in registered development 
programmes (2010: 890)
•    Over 30 new e-learning modules published 
•    Launch of the site managers technical 
academy – the Residential Business 
Programme
•   Launch of the Kier Construction Team Leader  
apprenticeship
•   Development of the Kier Services Foundation  
Degree programme
Environment & 
climate change
Corporate responsibility
continued
Workplace 
Employees & training
Workplace 
Health & safety
This summary performance table has been based 
broadly on the BITC CR Index sectors of management 
practice used to benchmark, monitor and report on CR.
SMARTWaste data for how waste has been managed:
Number of employees in registered  
development programmes
RoSPA/British Safety Council Awards
  2011 2010
 Day release and FE students 154 180
 Craft apprenticeships 261 210
 Foundation degree 99 79
 NVQ accreditation – plant operatives 26 8
 Construction management NVQs 64 70
 Sponsorships 56 82
 Graduate schemes 219 261
 Total 879 890
 Award 2011 2010
 RoSPA President’s Award    5 4
 RoSPA Gold Medal    5 5
 RoSPA Gold  15 10
 RoSPA Silver    2 2
 RoSPA Bronze    0 1
 British Safety Council National Award  13 12
AIR Kier 
 
300
per 100,000 staff
(2010: 312 per 100,000)
Craft apprenticeships 
 
261
(2010: 210)
AIR HSE 
 
736
per 100,000 staff
(2010: 782 per 100,000)
Foundation degree 
 
99
(2010: 79)
Key performance indicators Key performance indicators
34%
Reused
(2010: 41%)
27%
Recycled
(2010: 17%)
10%
Recovered
(2010: 10%)
29%
Disposed
(2010: 32%) Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
33
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
100%
80%
60%
40%
5. Disclosure
4. Social
Impact
4. Environmental
Impact
3. Marketplace
 Management
3. Workplace
 Management
3. Environment
 Management
3. Community
 Management
2. Integration
1. Corporate Strategy
Avg Score 2010
Avg Score 2011
40% 40%
100%
80%
60%
40%
5. Disclosure
4. Social
Impact
4. Environmental
Impact
3. Marketplace
 Management
3. Workplace
 Management
3. Environment
 Management
3. Community
 Management
2. Integration
1. Corporate Strategy
Avg Score 2010
Avg Score 2011
Summary performance
Performance commentary
•   Monthly average CCS score for Group 
achieved four record highs in this financial 
year with the highest being 35.31 out of 
40.00 in November 2010
•   CCS National Awards won by Kier projects 
up from 29 in 2010 to 42 in 2011 (significantly 
more than any other member of the CCS 
Scheme) including five gold and 19 silver awards
•     Overall Group monthly average up to 34.63 
(2010: 34.30) and points exceeding the 
national average reached 2.25 (2010: 2.31) 
against our target of 2.40, reflecting greater 
improvement across the industry. Target for 
2012 to return to 2.30 
•   Monthly statistics on performance are 
updated monthly on the Kier website and 
intranet, in addition to comprehensive 
bi-annual reviews produced and distributed 
throughout the Group
Performance commentary
•    The Kier Foundation is in the process of being 
created as a registered charity established 
and funded by the company and through which 
much of the Group’s community engagement 
will be channelled and supported in future
•   Through the community programmes we have 
“impacted or touched” 33,000 people
•   Kier has provided 9,271 people with 223,000 
hours of workplace experience, careers advice 
and training through NEET and other activities
•   We believe that this represents an equivalent 
investment in cash terms in excess of £6.77m 
in the year to June 2011
•   Kier has entered into a partnership with 
Construction Skills to develop a programme 
which will deliver 100 construction team leader 
apprentices per annum across all disciplines
•   Kier has rolled out iConnecting, its web-based 
engagement tool and as a result has been able 
to capture the majority of its community impact
†
Performance commentary
•   Kier has rolled out a comprehensive training 
and awareness programme to ensure the 
highest ethical standards are maintained 
and full compliance with latest governance 
legislation (The Bribery Act 2010)
•    Kier has been independently recognised as 
having already met and exceeded many of the 
targets set for industry within the Strategic 
Forum for Construction’s 2012 Construction 
Commitments
•    Kier has been independently audited by 
Achilles and awarded level 5 compliance under 
the Building Confidence supplier evaluation 
programme
•    Kier’s Construction division carried out 1,304 
customer satisfaction surveys throughout the UK 
with 1,138 (87%) of those results exceeding 80% 
satisfaction and 30% giving us perfect scores
*
Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee members
Alan Smith 
Kier Group
Nigel Turner 
Kier Property
Steve Underwood 
Kier Construction
Andrea Walton
Kier Group
Sharon Clark (Secretary)
Kier Group
Chris King 
Kier Homes
Neil Meixner
Kier Construction
Hugh Raven
Kier Group
Carol Simmonds
Kier Construction
Jackie Ducker
Kier Services
Considerate Constructors 
Scheme (CCS)
Marketplace 
Customers & suppliers
Community 
engagement
Time given for community 
engagement activities
154,000
Man-hours
(2010: 8,522)
Total monies raised and 
value of man-hours
£7.37m
Equivalent value of 
man-hours
£6.77m
Direct cash donations 
to charities in the UK
£0.60m
Considerate Constructors Scheme Key performance indicators
*Analysis of customer satisfaction scores 
 (June 2010 – July 2011)
399
416
323
97
48
11
4 5 1
2 3 4 5
Population analysis – Count of scores awarded
6 7 8 9 10
200
150
250
300
350
450
400
100
50
Paul Sheffield (Chair) 
Chief Executive, Kier Group
*   CCS is scored against the following 8 categories: safe, 
a good neighbour, considerate, respectful, responsible, 
cleanliness, accountable, environment
CCS* National Awards  
42
5
19
18
Gold
(2010: 2)
Total
(2010: 29)
Silver
(2010: 10)
Bronze
(2010: 17)
Average Group monthly 
score out of 40
34.63
(2010: 34.30)
†
Key performance indicators 34
 Financial review
 Profit before tax* was 24% ahead of last year at £68.9m, 
supported by a strong cash performance with average 
Group month-end net cash of £129m (2010: £95m).
Revenue
£2,197m
(2010: £2,099m)
Profit before tax*
£68.9m
(2010: £55.5m* *)
*  Before exceptional items and amortisation of 
intangible assets 
**  Excluding Homes 2010 one-off land transaction 
profit of £7.1m
Net Cash
(at 30 June 2011)
£165m
†
(2010: £175m)
†  After investments of approximately £50m   
during the year in the growth of the Group
Haydn Mursell 
Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
35
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
In conjunction with the chairman’s statement 
and the chief executive’s review, this report 
provides further information on the key 
aspects of the financial performance and 
the financial position of the Group. 
Accounting policies
The Group’s annual consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. 
Except as stated below or in the disclosures 
in note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements, there have been no significant 
changes to the accounting policies adopted 
by the Group during the year to 30 June 2011.
During the year, in our Structured Finance 
business, we continued with our strategy 
to regularly dispose of our mature PFI 
investments from our portfolio and recycle 
the capital. The profit on disposal has 
previously been disclosed as an exceptional 
item; however the directors believe this 
presentation is no longer appropriate, as they 
are now expected to be recurring items, and 
have included the profit on disposal in the 
operating profit for the year to 30 June 2011. 
The 2010 comparative figures have been 
restated accordingly.
Financial performance
2011 
£m
2010
£m
% 
change
Revenue: Group and 
share of joint ventures
2,179 2,099 +4%
Operating profit: Group and 
share of joint ventures*
71.1 57.7** +23%
Profit before tax* 68.9 55.5** +24%
p p
Earnings per share* 148.4 117.7** +26%
Dividend per share 64.0 58.0 +10%
£m £m
Average month-end net 
cash balance
129 95 +36%
*  Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets 
**  Excluding Homes 2010 one-off land transaction profit  
of £7.1m
Revenue has increased by 4% (£80m), 
predominantly through organic growth; 
however, the acquisition of Beco Limited 
(Beco) in November 2010 and the early sale 
of two properties from the property portfolio 
acquired from Lloyds, in April 2011, have 
contributed a combined £18m of that amount. 
Underlying growth, excluding the 2010 land 
transaction in the Homes division, is spread 
across all four divisions, which reflects the 
strength and depth of the Group’s activities.
Operating profit including joint ventures, 
before the amortisation of intangible assets, 
was 23% ahead of last year at £71.1m with 
operating margins of 2.7% in our Construction 
division, up on 2.6% in 2010, and good, 
consistent margins in our Services division of 
4.5% (2010: 4.5%). The Homes and Property 
divisions also saw an increase in underlying 
operating margins. Detailed information 
on the operating performance of each of 
the divisions is provided within the Chief 
Executive’s review.
The Group’s net finance cost, analysed  
below, includes interest receivable arising 
from average net cash balances of £129m 
for the year (2010: £95m). The increase in 
interest payable includes the fees following 
the increase and renegotiation of our  
banking facilities. 
Year to 30 June
2011
£m
2010
£m
Group interest receivable 3.7 3.1
Interest payable (2.7) (2.2)
Unwinding of discount  
on long-term liabilities
(1.5) (1.9)
Share of joint venture interest (1.4) (1.3)
(1.9) (2.3)
Profit before tax, amortisation of intangible 
assets and exceptional items increased by 
24% to £68.9m (2010: £55.5m**). This 
includes a joint venture tax charge of £0.3m 
(2010: credit of £0.1m) and is stated before 
minority interests of £0.5m (2010: £0.8m). 
The minority interest relates to the share of 
profits of our Maintenance business which  
are attributable to contracts it has with  
local authorities.
The Group’s effective tax rate, including 
joint venture tax on joint venture profits, has 
reduced from 21% last year to 19% mainly as 
a consequence of the increase in the profit 
on disposal of the PFI investments and the 
reduction in the standard corporation tax rate.
Earnings per share before amortisation of 
intangible assets and exceptional items was 
26% ahead of last year at 148.4p (2010: 
117.7p**), benefiting from the reduction in 
the effective tax rate.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items amounted to a net credit 
before tax of £7.0m, as follows:
£m
Pension credit arising from changes 
to the Kier Group Pension Scheme
25.7
Reduction in the provision in respect 
of the OFT fine and associated costs
15.6
Write-down of land and work in progress (33.5)
Acquisition costs (0.8)
Total exceptional items 7.0
Proﬁt before tax (£m)*
2011 2010
68.9
55.5
**
+24%
Earnings per share (p)*
2011 2010
148.4
117.7
**
+26%
Dividend (p)
2011 2010
64
58
+10%
*  Before exceptional items and amortisation  
of intangible assets 
**  Excluding Homes 2010 one-off land transaction  
profit of £7.1m 36
 
The £25.7m credit in the income statement 
and corresponding improvement in the 
funding position of the Kier Group Pension 
Scheme (the Pension Scheme) has arisen 
from changes announced in the 2010 
Budget which apply to private sector pension 
schemes. These changes will result in 
future pensions increasing at the rate of the 
Consumer Price Index (CPI) rather than at the 
Retail Price index (RPI) and, therefore, reduce 
pension scheme liabilities.
On 22 September 2009, Kier, along with 
102 other construction companies, was 
fined in respect of the OFT investigation into 
cover-pricing in the construction industry. 
We appealed against the quantum (£17.9m) 
of the fine and established an exceptional 
provision of £18.0m in 2010. In May 2011 the 
Competition Appeals Tribunal concluded the 
appeal process and the quantum of the fine 
was reduced to £1.7m. The resulting £15.6m 
exceptional credit reflects the reduction in the 
fine and £0.7m of external costs incurred in 
relation to the appeal process.
As a result of the values received from a 
number of land sales during the second half 
of the year and following a review of our land 
bank, we have written down the value of our 
land and work in progress by £33.5m. It now 
better reflects the current market conditions 
and our strategy to downsize our land bank 
and maintain a 500 to 600-unit private 
housing business.
We have incurred external costs relating to 
the acquisitions of Beco and the property 
portfolio from Lloyds which totalled £0.8m.
Cash performance
The cash performance has remained very 
strong, with average Group month-end net 
cash of £129m (2010: £95m). Following 
the initial payment, in April 2011, of £35m 
for the property portfolio from Lloyds, the 
subsequent early sale of two assets recouped 
£26m of that outlay which supported a 
net cash position at 30 June 2011, after 
deducting £30m relating to loan notes, 
of £165m (2010: £175m). 
Overall the Group has invested approximately 
£50m during the year in its own growth, 
including land payments, mining equipment, 
further investment in Pure Recycling, the 
acquisition of Beco and the property portfolio 
from Lloyds.
The Group’s cash balances at 30 June 2011 
include £73m (2009: £52m) which is held in 
joint contracting agreements, overseas bank 
accounts and other cash arrangements and 
is therefore not readily available to the Group. 
The liquid cash position is also affected by 
seasonal, monthly and contract-specific cycles.
Dividend policy
We continue to maintain our progressive 
dividend policy and, taking into account the 
performance of the Group and its strong 
cash position, the Board has recommended 
a final dividend of 44p, making the full-year 
dividend 64p, an increase of 10% on the total 
paid in respect of 2010 (58p) reflecting the 
confidence in the business going forward. 
This is 2.3 times covered by underlying 
earnings per share.
Treasury facilities and policies
The Group has a number of committed 
bilateral facilities, which amount to £90m, 
an uncommitted £10m overdraft facility and 
long-term debt of £30m, all managed by the 
centralised treasury function.
The bilateral facilities were renewed during 
the year and extend to February 2014. A 
small number of relationship banks provide 
these facilities which support the Group and 
its future growth plans. The long-term debt 
of £30m represents a 10-year UK and US 
private placement and is due to be repaid 
in February 2013.
The Group’s financial instruments comprise 
cash and liquid investments. The Group, 
largely through its PFI and Property joint 
ventures, enters into derivatives transactions 
(principally, interest rate swaps) to manage 
interest rate risks arising from the Group’s 
operations and its sources of finance. We do 
not enter into speculative transactions.
There are minor foreign currency risks arising 
from operations. The Group has a limited 
number of overseas operations in different 
currencies. Currency exposure to overseas 
assets is hedged through inter-company 
balances and borrowings, so that assets 
denominated in foreign currencies are 
matched, as far as possible, by liabilities. 
Where there may be further exposure to 
foreign currency fluctuations, forward 
exchange contracts are entered into to 
buy and sell foreign currency.
Balance sheet and capital structure
Total equity at 30 June 2011 is £164m 
(2010: £104m).
Acquisitions and intangible assets
The balance sheet at 30 June 2011 includes 
intangible assets of £27m (2010: £28m) of 
which £11m relates to building maintenance 
contracts.
During the year, we made two acquisitions 
as follows:
•   In November 2010, we acquired Beco for 
a total consideration of £2.4m. £1.3m 
has been paid in the year to 30 June 2011 
with the remainder contingent upon the 
completion of certain events, together 
Financial review
continued
Average month-end net cash (£m)
2011 2010
129
95
+36%
Net assets
(at 30 June 2011)
£164m
(2010: £104m) Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
37
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
with the results of the business through 
to 2013. The net present value of the 
deferred consideration is £1.0m.  
•   In April 2011, we acquired Lloyds Banking 
Group’s 50% interest in our jointly owned 
portfolio of property assets. The aggregate 
consideration was £91m, of which £35m 
was paid in cash on completion, £30m 
will be paid in cash in October 2012 and 
£26m will be paid in cash in October 2013. 
The net present value of the deferred 
consideration is £52m. 
Inventories
An analysis of inventories is given below:
Year to 30 June
2011
£m
2010
£m
Residential land 159 214
Residential work in progress 133 126
Property land and work in progress 87 19
Other work in progress 52 48
431 407
 
The review of our land bank, which resulted in 
a write-down of the value of the land and work 
in progress by £33.5m, accounts for much of 
the decrease in the residential land balance 
above, with the remainder due to unit and 
land sales.
The increase in residential work in progress 
highlights an increase in investment on 
apartment schemes, which have a different 
cash profile to a typical housing scheme.
Property land and work in progress has 
increased as it now includes the property 
assets acquired as part of the property 
portfolio transaction with Lloyds.
Pensions
The Group participates in two principal 
schemes: the Kier Group Pension Scheme, 
which includes a defined benefit section, and 
a defined benefit scheme on behalf of its 
employees in Kier Sheffield LLP. The financial 
statements reflect the pension scheme 
deficits calculated in accordance with IAS 19. 
Steel frame, Buckfast Winery site 
The £3m Buckfast Abbey winery project in Devon will facilitate the continued success of this 
important local brand and support the Abbey’s charitable work in the area. The project, which must 
be built within the grounds of the Abbey to protect the Buckfast name, will comprise the construction 
of a new 1,300sq m winery together with drainage, external works and a new access road. 38
 Financial review
continued
The triennial valuation of the Kier Group 
Pension Scheme, dated 1 April 2010, was 
completed during the year and showed a 
funding position of 88%. Following discussion 
with the trustees, a funding plan has been 
agreed that maintains the current annual 
£8m additional deficit funding. This will 
also be supplemented with transfers of the 
Group’s PFI assets as they become available 
and are suitable for the Scheme. The Group 
is committed to continuing to support the 
funding position of the Scheme.
At 30 June 2011, the net deficit under the 
Kier Group Pension Scheme was £23m 
(2010: £57m). The net deficit position is after 
taking into account the exceptional credit of 
£25.7m arising from changes announced in 
the 2010 Budget which apply to private sector 
pension schemes. These changes will result 
in future pensions increasing at the rate of 
CPI rather than RPI and, therefore, reduce 
the Scheme liabilities.
The market value of the Pension Scheme’s 
assets was £680m (2010: £611m) and the 
net present value of the liabilities was £711m 
(2010: £690m). The increase in the assets 
during the year is because equity and other 
return-seeking assets increased more than 
previously assumed, while bond markets 
remained relatively flat. 
The increase in the liabilities during the 
year is primarily the result of the increase in 
RPI to 3.6% (2010: 3.2%), the hardening of 
mortality assumptions offset by the increase 
in discount rate to 5.5% (2010: 5.3%) and the 
change in inflation assumptions (RPI to CPI) 
described earlier.
At 30 June 2011, the scheme relating to Kier 
Sheffield LLP showed a net surplus position 
of £1m (2010: net deficit £6m).
Note 8 of the consolidated financial 
statements on page 77 includes a sensitivity 
analysis that highlights the impact of changes 
to the key assumptions to the Kier Group 
Pension Scheme and the Kier Sheffield LLP 
pension scheme.
Net pension charges of £4.8m (before the 
exceptional credit of £25.7m) (2010: £11.9m) 
have been made to the income statement 
in accordance with IAS 19. The lower charge 
reflects the higher return on scheme assets.
Going concern
The directors’ report states that appropriate 
enquiries have been made regarding the 
level of resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future and 
the chief executive’s review highlights the 
activities of the Group with factors likely 
to affect the Group’s future development, 
performance and financial position. 
The Group has considerable financial 
resources, committed banking facilities, 
long-term contracts and a strong order 
book, and for this reason the directors have 
continued to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Group’s financial statements.
Haydn Mursell
Finance Director
Maidstone Prison 
This project at Maidstone Prison comprised 
construction of a new kitchen facility using precast 
floors and walls with a structural steel roof and 
composite panel roof structure. The new kitchen is 
based on NOMS standard design adjusted to fit within 
the layout and topography of the site. The building 
was designed to sit on the area of the existing kitchen 
to make use of existing foundations. Rainwater 
recycling was incorporated within the project to 
assist in meeting a BREEAM Excellent target. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
39
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Business risks
How we manage risk and assurance
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
system of risk management and internal 
control and the Group risk management 
framework sets out the mechanism and 
reporting structure to ensure that key risks 
are continually monitored and any action 
plans to mitigate the risks are reviewed.
The Board has delegated to the Audit 
Committee the responsibility for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls 
including the systems established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risk. In addition 
to the ongoing monitoring of risk and controls, 
a report detailing the key risks together with 
an assessment of the controls in place to 
mitigate these risks and any action plans is 
prepared annually and reviewed by the Audit 
Committee. The last report was prepared 
in March 2011 and reviewed at the June 
2011 Audit Committee meeting. The Board 
has concluded that the Group maintained 
sound risk management and internal control 
systems throughout the year to June 2011.
Other processes of assurance are managed 
through Group Standing Orders (updated 
in January 2011) the Board, the Executive 
Management Team, a range of Group policies 
and several central function committees 
including the Group Corporate Responsibility 
steering committee and the Group Health, 
Safety and Environment steering committee, 
both being chaired by the Chief Executive 
Officer and reporting regularly to the Board.
Principal risks
The nature of the industry and the business 
environment in which the Group operates is 
inherently risky and a number of risks and 
uncertainties exist. Although it is recognised 
that it is not possible to eliminate all such 
risks and uncertainties, the Group has well 
established risk management and internal 
control systems to manage them.
The Group’s established risk management 
and internal control systems have helped 
it to respond to the changing business 
environment and the challenges presented 
during the year.
The key to the continued success of our business 
strategy is our ability to identify and effectively manage 
the risks to our businesses and their operations. 
The Group’s approach is to identify the key risks and 
then assess the effectiveness of controls to mitigate 
the impact and likelihood of these risks occurring.
Our risk management process
The Group’s risk management framework requires all Divisions and 
operating companies within them to identify and assess the key risks 
facing their business which could impact on their ability to deliver their 
objectives. The Group, divisions and each operating company maintains 
a risk register which is used to document the keys risks facing the 
business together with an assessment of the likelihood and impact of 
that risk occurring as well as an assessment of the effectiveness of the 
key controls in place to mitigate the risk. Actions plans are developed 
and put in place to mitigate unwanted exposures. These risk registers are 
regularly reviewed to identify new risks as they arise and to monitor the 
action plans.
– risks analysed 
 as to likelihood 
 and impact
– controls and   
 assessment of   
 effectiveness recorded
– risks identified at   
 operating company,   
 division and Group level
– risks recorded in risk  
 registers
– risk registers and 
 action plans subject 
 to regular review
– key issues elevated   
 through reporting   
 structure
– risks analysed as to   
 likelihood and impact
– controls and 
 assessment of 
 effectiveness 
 recorded
Our 
process
     1. Identify  
 
                     2. Diagnose and qualify
        5. Report and monitoring by Board                                    4. Reassess post mitigation                                    3. Develop action for mitigation  
               40
 Business risks
continued
Macro-economic climate
Risk
The order books for our Construction and 
Services divisions are dependent upon the 
level of expenditure in the public sector and 
the availability of credit for private sector 
expenditure. Instability in global exchange rates 
could significantly escalate material and fuel 
prices, thereby putting pressure on some project 
cost forecasts.
Mitigation
  The Group has created a structure to manage 
and mitigate risk with the following key 
components:
•  A wide geographic regional network of offices 
across the UK providing strong integration into 
local communities, our client base and our 
supply chain
•  A strong level of framework agreements 
and partnerships with government, local 
authorities and the private sector
•  An ability to react to evolving opportunities 
in the marketplace and to maintain a focus 
on cost reduction and efficiency. 
We also carry out monthly and quarterly reviews 
of our workload and forecast our overhead 
levels as a percentage of future work in order 
to maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs 
to revenue. Fuel and other materials that are 
in high demand, such as steel, are hedged or 
forward-purchased when deemed necessary. 
In addition our terms and conditions include 
inflation and/or escalation clauses as standard.
Contract and build
Risk
The Group carries out several hundred contracts 
annually and the risks to which the Group is 
exposed are dependent upon the nature of the 
work, the duration of the contract and the legal 
form of the contract.
Mitigation
The Group’s appetite for very long-term, large, 
competitively tendered construction contracts 
is limited, driven by the desire to maintain 
quality of workload and manage risk. Tenders for 
contracts are subject to approval by the Board, 
chief executive and finance director or divisional 
directors depending upon the value and nature 
of the contract. Contracts in progress are 
controlled and managed through the Group’s 
operating structure and procedures including 
rigorous and regular review of the forecast 
revenue and costs to complete.
Land and property 
development acquisition
Risk
The cost and quality of property and land is 
fundamental to the profitability of a property 
development and housing business.
Mitigation
Site evaluation is a key process and site 
appraisals are carried out in detail, including 
using external advice where appropriate. Land 
and development acquisitions are subject to 
approval by the Board, chief executive and 
finance director or divisional directors depending 
upon the value of the land. Developments in 
progress are controlled and managed through 
the Group’s operating structure and procedures 
including rigorous and regular review of the 
forecast financials and sales activity. 
In the case of the Property division, development 
risk is controlled by ensuring construction 
generally commences once the division has 
either pre-sold or pre-let key elements of  
the development.
Health, safety and 
environmental
Risk
The Group’s activities require the continuous 
monitoring and management of health, safety 
and environmental risks. Failure to manage 
these risks could cause injury to our employees 
and subcontractors and could expose the  
Group to significant potential liability and 
reputational damage.
Mitigation
Detailed HSE policies and procedures exist to 
minimise such risks and are subject to review 
and monitoring by the operating companies and 
Group. All operating companies have a director 
responsible for HSE; however it is recognised 
that all of our directors and employees are 
responsible for health and safety.
Information technology
Risk
The efficient operation of the Group is 
increasingly dependent upon the proper 
operation, performance and development of 
its IT systems. Failure to manage or integrate 
IT systems or failure to successfully implement 
changes in IT systems could result in a loss of 
control over critical business information and/or 
systems. This, in turn, could impact the Group’s 
ability to fulfil its contractual obligations.
Mitigation
Group IT centrally manages the majority of 
systems across the Group. Other IT systems are 
managed locally by experienced IT personnel. 
Significant investments in IT systems are 
subject to Board review and approval.
Pensions
Risk
The Group is exposed to funding risks arising 
from changes in longevity, inflation and 
investment assumptions in relation to its 
defined benefit schemes. These changes could 
result in an additional funding requirement.
Mitigation
Steps have been taken over time to eradicate 
our calculated deficit including the closure of 
the Group’s pension scheme to new entrants in 
2002, the composition of a cap on pensionable 
salary increases, taken in 2009 and the change 
in inflation assumption, from RPI to CPI, taken 
in 2011. Other measures to mitigate liabilities 
are under continuous review by the Group. 
The performance of the Group’s pension 
scheme is regularly monitored by the  
Group and the Trustees of the pension  
scheme who, as appropriate, take advice  
from external consultants. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
41
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Legal and regulatory
Risk
The Group is subject to a number of complex, 
demanding and evolving tax, legal and regulatory 
requirements. A breach of laws and regulations 
could lead to legal proceedings, investigations 
or disputes resulting in a disruption of business 
ranging from additional costs incurred on a 
project to civil and/or criminal penalties as well 
as reputational damage. The recent Bribery Act 
2010 also has the potential to impact upon the 
business, especially given its international remit 
for UK corporates.
Mitigation
The Group monitors and responds to legal and 
regulatory developments in the areas in which it 
operates. It is the Group’s policy to require that 
all of its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and 
subcontractors comply with applicable laws, 
regulations and standards. Training courses are 
provided, including e-learning courses, to keep 
all parties fully aware of their responsibilities. 
The Group has a zero tolerance policy to bribery 
and corruption and has undertaken a Group-
wide training programme to raise awareness 
of the Bribery Act 2010.
Investment
Risk
The Group recognises there are risks associated 
with PFI investment.
Mitigation
The Group is selective in the PFI projects it bids 
for, primarily concentrating on the sectors where 
we have established construction and facilities 
management expertise.
People
Risk
The Group is dependent on members of its 
senior management team and on a flexible, 
highly skilled and well-motivated workforce 
and believes its future success will depend, 
in part, on its ability to attract, develop and 
retain its people. If the Group does not succeed 
in attracting, developing and retaining skilled 
people it may not be able to grow the business 
as anticipated.
Mitigation
The Group monitors staff turnover closely 
and pay and conditions are reviewed regularly 
against the prevailing market and benchmarked 
to ensure that we remain competitive.
Succession planning and staff development 
are key at all levels in the Group.
Reputation
Risk
The Group’s ability to tender for new 
business and our relationship with our range 
of customers, supply chain partners, our 
employees and other stakeholders greatly 
depends on the good reputation that we have 
established and how we are perceived by others.
Mitigation
In order to protect and enhance our reputation 
we have a robust series of business ethics, 
sustainability and compliance policies together 
with a range of mechanisms that help deliver the 
Group’s corporate responsibility programme, 
including health and safety, environmental 
impact, climate change, employees, customers 
and supply chain and community engagement.
Counterparty
Risk
The Group depends, for its success, on the 
stability of its customers, joint venture partners, 
suppliers, subcontractors, funders, bondsmen 
and insurers. Failure in these counter parties 
could result in non-collection of amounts owed 
or disruption and delays to contract progress. 
Mitigation
Considerable efforts are made to assess the 
financial strength of counter parties before 
entering into contract and to structure payments 
so as to mitigate our financial exposure to 
them for the duration of our relationship. Where 
the Group is particularly dependent upon the 
continued financial strength of the providers 
of key financial services to the Group, we take 
steps to spread this exposure across a range 
of counter parties so as to diversify risk. 
Availability of finance and 
bonding facilities
Risk
The Group’s long-term business is dependent 
upon cash resources, facilities and the ability 
to provide performance and other bonds as 
necessary.
Mitigation
Cash forecasts and balances are prepared 
regularly (weekly and daily). Bank facilities are 
in place which have been recently renegotiated 
and extended. The Group has strong, long-
term relationships with its bondsmen and has 
an in-house team which monitors headroom 
and advises on bond terms and conditions. 42
 
Name: Hugh Raven
Position: Company secretary
Age: 39
Joined the Group in April 2010 from 
Eversheds’ London corporate/commercial 
department. He brings significant experience 
of corporate transactions and regulatory 
issues, having worked for top city firms during 
his career with considerable exposure to the 
construction sector. He is responsible for 
corporate governance within the Group and, 
as general counsel, oversees the Group’s 
legal affairs.
Name: Phil White CBE 
Position: Non-Executive Chairman
Age: 62
Appointed non-executive chairman of the 
Group in November 2007 having joined as 
non-executive director in July 2006. He 
served as chief executive of National Express 
Group plc from January 1997 to September 
2006. He is a chartered accountant and 
has extensive experience of both listed 
and private companies. He is currently 
chairman of Lookers plc and The Unite 
Group plc, and a non-executive director of 
Stagecoach Group plc. He is chairman of the 
Nomination Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Name: Paul Sheffield
Position: Chief Executive
Age: 50
Appointed chief executive in April 2010. 
He joined the Group as a graduate engineer 
in 1983. He has extensive knowledge of 
both UK and overseas contracting and 
was appointed managing director of Kier 
Construction in 2001, and joined the 
Construction division Board in 2004. He was 
appointed to the Board in October 2005 and 
in November 2008 he assumed responsibility 
for all of the Group’s construction activities. 
He holds the position of director with 
overall responsibility for safety, health 
and environmental matters and is a 
member of the Nomination Committee.
Name: Richard Bailey
Position: Non-executive
Age: 60
Appointed to the Board in October 2010. 
He is a chartered accountant and a partner 
in Rothschild, the leading global financial 
advisory business. He is currently executive 
chairman of Rothschild’s mid-cap business 
having worked for the bank for 29 years. 
He has been involved in a range of private 
and public company work with a focus on 
mergers, acquisitions, private equity and 
capital raising. He is chairman of the Audit 
Committee and member of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees.
Board of Directors
Audit Committee
Richard Bailey (chair)
Chris Geoghegan
Nick Winser
Nomination Committee
Phil White (chair)
Paul Sheffield
Richard Bailey
Chris Geoghegan
Nick Winser
Remuneration Committee
Chris Geoghegan (chair)
Phil White
Richard Bailey
Nick Winser Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
43
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Name: Haydn Mursell
Position: Finance Director
Age: 40
Joined Kier in August 2010 as Group finance 
director designate and took over the role of 
Group finance director in November 2010. 
He joined Kier from Balfour Beatty plc where 
he held the position of deputy Group finance 
director. He is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants, having trained and 
qualified at KPMG in London. From 2001 until 
2008, he held a number of roles at Bovis 
Lend Lease, the last of which was as chief 
financial officer of its UK business.
Name: Ian Lawson
Position: Executive Director
Age: 54
Rejoined the Group in November 2000 
as managing director of the Group’s 
Infrastructure Investment operations. 
His knowledge of major overseas and UK 
contracting was established early in his 
career within the Group. He has served on 
both the Kier Regional board as well as the 
Services board. In October 2005 he was 
appointed main board director responsible for 
Services and in July 2008 his responsibilities 
were extended to include the Homes division, 
and in July 2011 further extended to include 
the Property division.
Name: Chris Geoghegan
Position: Non-executive
Age: 57
Appointed to the Board in July 2007. 
He joined the Board of BAE Systems plc 
in July 2002 as chief operating officer with 
responsibility for all European joint ventures 
and UK defence electronics assets. He is 
non-executive chairman of e2v technologies 
plc, a non-executive director of Hampson 
Industries, a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical 
Society and a past President of the Society 
of British Aerospace Companies. He is the 
senior independent director, chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and a member 
of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Name: Nick Winser
Position: Non-executive
Age: 51
Appointed to the Board in March 2009. 
He joined the Board of National Grid in April 
2003 and is responsible for the company’s 
business in the UK. He was previously chief 
operating officer of US transmission for 
National Grid Transco plc. He joined National 
Grid Company plc in 1993, becoming director 
of engineering in 2001. He is co-chair of the 
Energy Research Partnership and chairman  
of the IET’s Power Academy. He is a  
member of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
Name: Steve Bowcott
Position: Executive Director
Age: 56
Appointed an executive director of the  
Group on 1 July 2010. He rejoined the  
Group in January 2007 to head up its  
Scottish and northern businesses, which 
are part of the Construction division. He 
subsequently became deputy managing 
director and, in April 2010 he was appointed 
managing director of the whole of the 
Construction division. 44
 
Introduction
The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements 
as at, and for the year ended, 30 June 2011.
This directors’ report should be read in conjunction with the chairman’s 
statement, the chief executive’s review, the corporate governance 
statement and the directors’ remuneration report, each of which is 
incorporated by reference in (and shall be deemed to form part of) this 
directors’ report to the extent required by applicable law or regulation.
Principal activities
The Group’s principal activities during the course of the year were 
construction, services, property and housing.
A review of the Group’s business and progress during the year is 
included within the chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5 and the chief 
executive’s review on pages 6 to 29.
Results and dividends
The Group's profit for the year after taxation and exceptional items was 
£62.3m (2010: £40.5m).
An interim dividend of 20p per share (2010: 18.5p), amounting to £7 .5m 
(2010: £6.8m), was paid on 6 May 2011. The directors propose a final 
dividend of 44.0p per share (2010: 39.5p per share), amounting to £16.6m 
(2010: £14.6m), payable on 30 November 2011 to shareholders on the 
register of members at the close of business on 23 September 2011.
Directors
Biographical details of the directors of the Company as at 14 September 
2011 are shown on pages 42 and 43. 
Details of directors’ interests, including interests in the Company’s 
shares, are disclosed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 
51 to 59.
Qualifying third party indemnities
The articles of association of the Company (the Articles) entitle the 
directors of the Company, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 
2006 and other applicable legislation (together, the Companies Acts), to 
be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in the event that they 
suffer any expenses in connection with certain proceedings relating to 
the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
In addition, and in common with many other companies, the Company 
has insurance in favour of its directors and officers in respect of certain 
losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed due to their office.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
A statement on the Group’s corporate governance is set out on pages 
47 to 50.
Going concern
The Group has considerable financial resources, together with long-term 
contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across its business 
activities. As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business risks effectively.
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Group’s financial statements.
Further information relating to the financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities is given in the 
financial review on pages 34 to 38.
Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Group’s donations to charity in the United Kingdom 
were £64,000 (2010: £97,000), principally to local charities serving the 
communities in which it operates. The Group has considerable involvement 
in such communities, as described in the corporate responsibility report 
on pages 30 to 33. No political donations were made during the year 
(2010: nil).
Financial instruments
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the 
Group, together with its exposure to material financial risks, are set out 
in notes 1 and 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
Research and development
The Group undertakes research and development activity in creating 
innovative construction techniques and design integral to the delivery of 
its projects. The direct expenditure incurred is not separately identifiable, 
as the investment is usually contained within the relevant project.
Employees
The companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers. The Group 
gives consideration to applications for employment made by disabled 
persons (having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities) and 
encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, training, 
career development and promotion of disabled people and the retention 
of, and appropriate training for, those who become disabled during the 
course of their employment and who can be employed in a safe working 
environment. The Group’s approach to employee involvement, equal 
opportunities, health and safety and the environment is set out in the 
corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 33.
The Group provides relevant information on matters of concern to 
employees through newsletters, video addresses, the Group’s intranet, 
social media and formal and informal meetings with various groups of 
employees and management. These arrangements also aim at achieving 
a common awareness on the part of employees of matters affecting the 
performance of the Group. The Group also consults with employees so 
as to ascertain their views in relation to decisions which are likely to 
affect their interests. 
The Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme 
(the Sharesave Scheme), which was approved by shareholders on  
25 November 2006, for eligible employees and makes available a dealing 
service to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with a minimum of 
formality and on attractive commission terms. The Group also operates 
an all employee share ownership plan (the AESOP) for all employees, 
which includes a share-matching element.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors
The Group agrees payments with its suppliers and subcontractors on 
an individual contract basis rather than following a code or standard on 
payment practice. The Group’s policy is to abide by these agreed terms 
whenever the relevant Group company is satisfied that the suppliers or 
subcontractors have provided the goods or services in accordance with 
the contract terms and conditions. The aggregate amount owed to trade 
creditors by the Company at 30 June 2011 was nil (2010: nil).
Subsidiary trading companies within the Group, acting in accordance 
with the above policy, exhibit creditor days averaging 30 days  
(2010: 32) in respect of suppliers of invoiced goods and services and  
16 days (2010: 17) in respect of certified amounts due to subcontractors. 
These figures exclude amounts not currently due for payment but which 
are included within trade creditors.
Directors’ report Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
45
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Share capital
As at 30 June 2011, the issued share capital of the Company comprised 
a single class of ordinary shares of 1 pence each. As at 30 June 2011, 
38,160,025 shares in the capital of the Company were in issue. During 
the year, 661,054 shares were issued in relation to the scrip dividend 
alternative and 21,585 shares were issued in connection with the 
Sharesave Scheme. No other shares were issued during the year. Details 
of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 22 of the consolidated 
financial statements.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and the Companies Acts, 
shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company 
may by ordinary resolution determine or, if the Company has not so 
determined, as the directors may decide.
Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, 
except:
•  that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by law or 
regulation (for example, insider trading laws); and
•  pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (the 
Listing Rules), whereby certain employees of the Company require the 
approval of the Company to deal in the Company’s shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company.
Substantial voting rights
As at 14 September 2011, the Company had been notified of the following 
interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, pursuant to Rule 
5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
Standard Life Investments Limited 8.0 %
Schroder Investment Management Limited 7.3 %
BlackRock Inc 3.6 %
Legal and General Group Plc 3.5 %
Norges Bank 3.5 %
Securities carrying special rights
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with 
regard to control of the Company.
Rights under employees’ share schemes
As at 30 June 2011, The Royal Bank of Canada, as trustee of the 
Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust which was established 
for the purposes of the Kier Group 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan  
(the 1999 LTIP) and the Kier Group 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  
2010 LTIP), which were approved by shareholders on 27 November 1999 
and 12 November 2010, respectively, held 522,664 shares (approximately 
1.4% of the issued share capital of the Company as at such date) on 
trust for the benefit of the directors and certain senior managers of the 
Group. The Royal Bank of Canada waives the dividends payable in respect 
of these shares.
As at the same date, Computershare Investor Services PLC held 
904,364 shares (approximately 2.4% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at 30 June 2011) on trust for the benefit of staff and former 
staff who are members of the AESOP.
Voting
Subject to any terms upon which the relevant shares may have been 
issued or are subject and to the Articles, every member present in person 
or by proxy at a general meeting and entitled to vote has, upon a show 
of hands, one vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every share held. In 
the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a 
vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of 
the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall 
be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in 
respect of the joint holding.
Restrictions on voting rights
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled 
to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by it unless 
all calls or other sums then payable by it in respect of that share have 
been paid or if that member has been served with a disenfranchisement 
notice (as defined in the Articles) after failure to provide the Company 
with information concerning interests in that share required to be provided 
under the Companies Acts.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The directors shall be not less than three and not more than 12 in number. 
The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum and/or 
maximum number of directors.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution 
or by the Board. A director appointed by the Board holds office only until 
the next annual general meeting of the Company after his appointment 
and is then eligible to stand for election.
Pursuant to the Articles, at every annual general meeting of the 
Company, one-third of the directors who are subject to the requirement to 
retire by rotation (which shall not include any director who was appointed 
by the Board and is standing for election) shall retire from office and may 
offer themselves for re-election by the members. The directors to retire 
by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office since their last 
election. The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice 
has been given remove any director before the expiry of the director’s 
period of office. The office of a director shall be vacated if: (i) the director 
becomes bankrupt or the subject of an interim receiving order or makes 
any arrangement or composition with his creditors generally or applies to 
the court for an interim order in connection with a voluntary arrangement 
under the Insolvency Act 1986; (ii) the director is certified as having 
become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may 
remain so for more than three months; (iii) the director ceases to be a 
director by virtue of the Companies Acts or becomes prohibited by law 
from being a director; (iv) the director receives written notice from not 
less than three-quarters of the other directors removing the director 
from office; or (v) in the case of a director who holds executive office, the 
director ceases to hold such office and the majority of the other directors 
resolve that the relevant director’s office be vacated.
However, at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, 
notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, each of the directors 
will offer himself for re-election in accordance with The UK Corporate 
Governance Code.  46
 
Amendment of Articles
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by 
the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be 
managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing its shares
The directors were granted authority at the annual general meeting on  
12 November 2010 to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £124,928, together with shares with an aggregate 
nominal amount of £249,885 in connection with a rights issue. This 
authority will expire on the date of this year’s annual general meeting and 
a resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting. A special resolution will also be proposed to 
renew the directors’ power to make non-pre-emptive issues of shares 
for cash.
Powers in relation to the Company buying back its shares
The Company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit it 
from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from shareholders 
in general meeting. Although the Articles do not contain any such 
prohibition, the Company did not request any such authority at its last 
annual general meeting and does not propose to do so at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting.
Change of control
The Company has entered into certain agreements that may take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a 
takeover bid. The significant agreements in this respect are the Group’s 
main credit facility agreements and certain of its employee share schemes.
The Group’s main credit facility agreements include a provision such 
that, in the event of a change of control, the relevant lender may cancel 
all or any part of the relevant facility and/or declare that all amounts 
outstanding under the relevant facility are immediately due and payable 
by the Company.
Outstanding options granted under the Sharesave Scheme may be 
exercised within a period of six months from a change of control of the 
Company following a takeover bid taking place (or will lapse upon the 
expiry of such a period).
Awards granted under the 1999 LTIP or the 2010 LTIP may vest on 
a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid and the 
maximum number of shares in the Company to be awarded upon such 
vesting may become immediately due.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors 
providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result of 
a takeover bid.
Auditors
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution 
for the reappointment of the Group’s auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, will be 
proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Each director who holds office at the date of approval of this directors’ 
report confirms that, so far as each such director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware; and the 
directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as 
directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Annual general meeting
The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at the Brewery, 
Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4SD on 16 November 2011 at 12 noon. The 
notice of annual general meeting accompanies this document.
This report was approved by the Board on 14 September 2011 and signed 
on its behalf by:
H E E Raven
Company Secretary
Tempsford Hall
Sandy
Bedfordshire
SG19 2BD
Directors’ report 
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
47
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
The principal matters considered by the Board during the year included:
•  the Group’s budgets, strategy, structure and financial requirements;
•  the Group's annual and interim financial statements (taking into account 
the views of the Audit Committee);
•  the Group's interim management accounts;
•  the implications of prevailing economic conditions (including the 
comprehensive spending review and its potential impact on public sector 
expenditure) and the appropriate strategy relating to them;
•  the Group’s pension scheme;
•  potential acquisitions;
•  material operational opportunities;
•  health and safety issues and strategies;
•  the procedures required to be implemented by the Group as a result of 
the Bribery Act 2010;
•  corporate responsibility matters;
•  the implications of and proper approach to the issues relating to the 
Castlepoint Shopping Centre car park, Bournemouth; and
•  presentations as to strategic issues from the senior management of a 
number of the divisions.
The Group’s chairman is Mr P M White, who leads the Board. The chairman 
is responsible for the Board’s effectiveness and sets its agenda, ensuring 
that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information. The 
chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executive 
directors and ensures a positive and constructive relationship between 
the executive and non-executive directors. The chairman is responsible 
for effective communication with shareholders and for ensuring that the 
directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and familiarity 
with the Group, as required to fulfil their roles. Mr P M White’s other 
significant commitments are his roles as chairman of The Unite Group plc 
and Lookers plc and as a non-executive director of Stagecoach Group plc.
The Group’s chief executive is Mr M P Sheffield, who is responsible 
for the operational management of the Group and is accountable to the 
Board for the implementation of the Group’s strategy. In order to facilitate 
this, the chief executive meets monthly with a management committee 
comprising the other executive directors (focusing on a variety of matters, 
including strategy, material issues facing the Group and succession 
planning) and also chairs regular management meetings with each of 
the divisions. The chief executive also meets regularly with the Group’s 
human resources director and the Group’s health and safety director.
The senior non-executive director is Mr C V Geoghegan. The senior 
non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns 
which contact through the normal channels of the chairman, the chief 
executive or the other executive directors has failed to resolve or for 
which such contact is inappropriate. In addition, the senior non-executive 
director is responsible for the appraisal of the chairman’s performance. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate 
conduct and is committed to managing the Group’s operations in 
accordance with the principles of corporate governance set out in The 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The Company has complied 
with the Main Principles of the Code throughout the year. The Board has 
also complied with the Code Provisions set out in the Code throughout 
the year, except as explained below.
Throughout the year, independent non-executive directors comprised 
less than half of the Board. As at the date of this document, the Board 
comprises four executive directors and three independent non-executive 
directors, together with the chairman. However, the Board believes that, 
although the current Board structure does not comply with the Code, it 
is satisfactorily balanced in practice, with the independent non-executive 
directors having a substantial presence in Board debate, constructively 
challenging the executive directors and assisting in the development 
of strategy.
Board of directors
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the success of the Company. 
The Board sets the strategic and financial policies of the Group, monitors 
and reviews business performance and controls risk. The Board has put in 
place standing orders which are designed to ensure that it is provided with 
relevant information on a timely basis, which set authorisation limits and 
which reserve certain matters for the Board or its committees, including:
• strategy and financial policy;
• the approval of financial statements;
• risk management;
• major capital expenditure;
• major project approval;
• acquisitions and disposals; and
•  certain aspects of human resources policy, including senior 
appointments, general salary reviews, employee share plans and 
pensions.
Corporate governance statement 48
 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive directors. With 
effect from 1 October 2010, Mr R C Bailey, a chartered accountant with 
recent and relevant financial experience, has been the chairman of the 
Committee, replacing Mr S W Leathes who retired from the Board with 
effect from 12 November 2010.
The Committee met four times during the year, in July, September, 
February and June. These meetings were also attended by the finance 
director and the head of internal audit. The KPMG audit engagement 
director attended the meetings in September and February and then met 
with the Committee without management being present. The chairman 
and the executive directors have an open invitation to attend the meetings 
of the Committee.
The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which outline 
its objectives and responsibilities relating to financial reporting, internal 
controls, risk management and the application of appropriate accounting 
policies and procedures. Specific responsibilities include reviewing and 
recommending for approval the annual and interim financial statements, 
reviewing the Group’s accounting policies, reviewing the effectiveness 
of internal controls and risk management processes and reviewing the 
scope and results of the external audit.
The Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the Group's 
internal audit function, including approval of the annual risk-based audit 
plan and monitoring the work, recommendations and effectiveness of 
the function. The head of internal audit reports directly to the chairman 
of the Committee.
At each of its meetings, the Committee received and reviewed a report 
from the head of internal audit which highlighted the internal audit activity 
against the approved plan, together with the key findings from internal 
audits. The chairman of the Committee has separate meetings with 
the head of internal audit and the Committee has met with the head of 
internal audit without management being present. The Committee reviews 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function annually, with the latest 
review having been completed in June 2011. In addition, an independent 
external review is scheduled to be carried out in October 2011.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence and 
objectivity of KPMG, the external auditors, and agreeing the level of 
remuneration and extent of non-audit services. The Committee received 
a presentation from KPMG on its audit strategy and the scope of work 
at the February meeting, which was agreed. It also discussed the firm’s 
professional ethical standards.
The Committee reviewed the performance of KPMG and the fees 
for non-audit services paid to them during the year, details of which 
are set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. The 
provision of non-audit services, other than tax compliance and routine 
taxation advice, must be referred to and agreed by the Committee 
over a predetermined cost threshold and any work costed below that 
threshold must be pre-approved by the Group finance director. These 
controls enable the Committee to be satisfied that KPMG’s objectivity 
and independence as auditors had not been impaired, notwithstanding 
the provision of non-audit services in the year.
The Committee agreed and approved KPMG’s overall audit fee 
following discussions between relevant Group management and KPMG.
The Committee’s terms of reference were last updated in August 
2011 (to reflect the most recent guidance of the Institute of Chartered 
Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA)) and are available on the Company’s 
website and on request from the company secretary.
 
Board of directors continued
The Board considers Mr C V Geoghegan, Mr N P Winser and Mr R C Bailey 
to be independent directors. The chairman of the Board, Mr P M White, 
was also considered to be independent on his appointment.
A table of attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and 
its committees is set out on page 49. Outside the formal schedule of 
meetings, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors 
on a number of occasions during the year.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company 
secretary and the directors are also able to seek independent professional 
advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense. Training is available for 
new directors and subsequently as necessary. All directors are subject 
to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following 
their appointment. Pursuant to the Articles, each director is subject to 
re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years. However, at 
the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, notwithstanding 
the provisions of the Articles, each of the directors will offer himself 
for re-election in accordance with the Code. Executive directors are 
required to seek approval from the Board before accepting any external 
non-executive positions, although no such positions are currently held. 
The executive directors’ service agreements and the letters of 
appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office and will be on display prior to and at 
the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Board evaluation
The Board has engaged Independent Board Evaluation (IBE) to facilitate 
the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and the 
individual directors. IBE does not have any other connection with the Group. 
The evaluation process, which began during the course of the financial 
year, comprises IBE observing the performance of the Board and the 
individual directors at a meeting of the Board, individual meetings with 
each of the directors to discuss their views and to solicit their opinions, 
and meetings with senior management below Board level to ascertain 
their views on the effectiveness of the Board and the directors.
IBE will produce reports with respect to the performance of the Board, 
the chairman, the committees and the individual directors. The report 
relating to the Board is scheduled to be discussed at the Board meeting to 
take place in October 2011. The reports relating to the Board committees 
will be discussed with the chairmen of these committees, the chairman 
of the Board will provide feedback to each individual director, using 
development plans, and the senior non-executive director will provide 
feedback to the chairman of the Board on the chairman’s performance.
In addition to the externally facilitated evaluation process, throughout 
the year, the chairman of the Board held regular discussions with members 
of the Board and the company secretary to assess the performance of 
the Board, its committees and the individual directors. Actions arising 
from these discussions were implemented throughout the year.
Corporate governance statement
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
49
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the chairman and the 
non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Mr C V Geoghegan.
Information about the workings of this Committee is contained in 
the directors’ remuneration report on page 51. The Committee makes 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s framework of executive 
remuneration and determines, on its behalf, specific remuneration 
packages for each of the executive directors. In doing so, it takes the 
advice of independent external consultants. The Committee’s terms of 
reference were last updated in August 2011 (to reflect ICSA’s most recent 
guidance) and are available on the Company’s website and on request 
from the company secretary.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee presently comprises the Group’s chairman, 
the chief executive and the non-executive directors. It is responsible 
for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board, making 
recommendations to the Board on new Board appointments and 
succession planning. In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee 
is required to consider whether open advertising or the services of external 
advisers may be necessary to facilitate the search. The Committee’s 
terms of reference were last updated in August 2011 (to reflect ICSA’s 
most recent guidance) and are available on the Company’s website and 
on request from the company secretary.
Board and Committee meetings
Details of the number of meetings of the full Board and the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and attendance at such 
meetings, during the year are set out in the table below.
Name of director Board (11) Audit (4) Remuneration (6) Nomination (1)
R C Bailey
1
8 3 4 1
S Bowcott 11 – – 1
C V Geoghegan 10 3 6 1
I M Lawson 11 – – 1
S W Leathes
2
3 1 1 –
D E Mattar
3
4 2 – 1
H J Mursell
4
10 3 1 –
M P Sheffield 11 2 4 1
R W Simkin 11 – – 1
P M White 11 3 6 1
N P Winser 11 2 5 1
1
 Mr R C Bailey became a member of the Board and chairman of the Audit Committee with effect 
from 1 October 2010, but also attended the Board meeting and the Audit Committee meeting 
in September 2010.
2
 Mr S W Leathes retired from the Board and as chairman of the Audit Committee with effect 
from 12 November 2010.
3
 Miss D E Mattar retired from the Board with effect from 12 November 2010.
4
 Mr H J Mursell became a member of the Board with effect from 12 November 2010, but also 
attended the Board meetings in August, September and October 2010 and the Audit Committee 
meeting in September 2010.
Any non-attendance at meetings was due to other business commitments 
or reasons of ill health. When a director was unable to attend, he reviewed 
the papers circulated prior to the meeting and provided any comments to 
the chairman of the meeting.
Risk management and internal control
The Code requires that the directors review the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal control systems and that this review 
cover all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls. The directors are satisfied that procedures are in place to ensure 
that the Group complies with the Turnbull Committee guidance published 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and that 
the procedures have been applied during the year.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. 
The Board considers that the Group’s systems and controls, which 
have been developed and refined over many years, are appropriately 
designed to ensure that the Group’s exposure to significant risks is 
properly managed. However, such systems are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement. In reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, the 
directors have considered the key risks and exposures within the Group. 
The Group has entered into a number of joint ventures, which are not 
controlled by a member of the Group. These joint ventures are not included 
for the purposes of the assessment of the Group’s internal controls.
The key features of the Group’s system of risk management and 
internal controls are:
•  an established management structure operating throughout the Group 
with clearly defined levels of responsibility and delegation of authority; 
•  clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation 
limits set at appropriate levels. These are set out in the Group and 
divisional standing orders;
•  a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place which is 
regularly reviewed and updated;
•  a formal quarterly review of each division’s year-end forecast, business 
performance, risk and internal control matters which is carried out by 
the directors of each division with the chief executive and finance 
director in attendance;
•  monthly management reporting, including regular comparison of actual 
results against latest forecasts;
•  established policies and procedures governing the Group’s investment 
in land, property and other significant assets, including acquisitions and 
disposals. These include detailed appraisals, appropriate authorisation 
levels and Board approval depending on value or perceived exposure;
•  investment decisions, including Private Finance Initiative (PFI) projects, 
and tenders for contracts being subject to approval by the Board, the 
chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending on 
the value and nature of the investment or contract. Individual tender 
and project review procedures are in place prior to bidding and before 
contract award;
•  internal audits carried out to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of 
internal controls. The scope of the internal audit work is planned to cover 
the key risks faced by the business and is supplemented by cyclical 
reviews of the core financial process. Internal audit findings are reported 
to the Audit Committee and the executive directors on a regular basis;
  50
 
Risk management and internal control continued
•  risk registers in place for each business unit highlighting key risks facing 
that business, together with an assessment of the effectiveness of 
controls to mitigate those risks. The risk registers are updated regularly 
and at 31 March;
•  an annual process of risk and control self assessment requiring all 
operating companies to review and confirm that appropriate internal 
controls are in place and operating effectively across the key risk areas 
identified in individual company risk registers. This assessment was 
carried out as at 31 March 2011 and the findings reviewed by the Audit 
Committee;
•  reviewing and reporting of safety, health and environmental matters; 
and
•  the provision of a confidential method of reporting any suspected fraud 
or other misfeasance to the head of internal audit.
The Board receives regular reports from all operating units to monitor 
their performance and all business unit management teams are briefed 
on relevant issues arising at Board meetings.
During the course of a year, members of the Board visit a number of 
the Group’s significant business units and the Board also monitors the 
control framework of each business. The Audit Committee reviews the 
appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls. The 
Audit Committee did not consider that any significant internal control 
failings or weaknesses were identified by the review conducted during 
the course of the year.
Relations with shareholders
The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with 
shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation. The 
chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are 
available to answer questions from shareholders. 
The Company has a programme of regular communication and 
meetings with investors, analysts and brokers (including site visits), 
with presentations being made to investors, analysts and the press at 
the time of the announcement of the full-year and half-year results, so 
that the investment community can be kept informed as to the Group’s 
performance and its objectives. The Board uses this programme of 
communication and meetings to develop an understanding of the views 
of major shareholders about the Group. In addition, the Board is provided 
with independent feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Company’s website is also maintained to aid communication 
with investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public. 
Corporate governance statement
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
51
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Introduction
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee (the 
Committee) on behalf of the Board. This report complies with the 
Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and 
the Listing Rules.
Shareholder consultation
Despite the challenging recent economic environment, particularly within 
the construction sector, the Group has continued to deliver a strong 
financial performance, with aggregate order books for the Construction 
and Support Services divisions of £4.3bn as at 30 June 2011. This 
performance demonstrates the continued strength of the Group, the 
commitment and hard work of its employees and the effective leadership 
of its executive team.
However, the Committee remains concerned that the levels of the 
Group’s executive directors’ total remuneration (in particular, the level 
of performance-related pay) are lower than others in the market. The 
Committee is keen to ensure that the structure of executive pay is aligned 
with the delivery of the Group’s strategy and its culture, which includes 
ensuring that the executive directors are appropriately incentivised and 
that the Group can continue to attract, retain and motivate management 
to run the Group successfully, but at a reasonable cost to the Group. 
Accordingly, the Committee is in the process of consulting with the 
Group’s major institutional shareholders with respect to the executive 
directors’ annual bonus arrangements for the financial year ending 30 
June 2012 and the weighting between the earnings per share (EPS) and 
total shareholder return (TSR) elements of the awards to be made under 
the 2010 LTIP during the financial year. In summary, the proposals are to: 
•  increase the maximum potential bonus for each executive director to 
100% of basic salary, with the additional 25% relating to the Group’s 
cash performance; and
•  increase the TSR element of the awards to two-thirds of the total award 
and to reduce the EPS element of the awards to one-third.
The Committee considers cash to be an important performance measure 
for the Group and others in the construction sector and, therefore, the 
Committee believes that it would be appropriate to reward sustained and 
effective cash management in the annual bonus. The Committee also 
believes that a maximum potential bonus of 100% of basic salary would 
be more appropriately competitive, supporting the attraction and retention 
of talent, as it is in line with the market median for both sector peers and 
companies of a similar size. The Committee will maintain the levels of 
maximum potential payout with respect to each of the other performance 
measures (relating to pre-tax profits and corporate responsibility and 
health and safety targets) which applied to the bonus payable with respect 
to the financial year ended 30 June 2011, reflecting the continued relative 
importance of these measures.
The Committee also considers that TSR and EPS growth continue to be 
key measures of long-term performance for the Company. Following a 
review of multiple reference points, the Committee does not, therefore, 
propose to change the performance targets (or the percentage vesting 
levels relative to TSR and EPS performance) from those applicable to the 
2011 award. However, the Committee is concerned that the trading and 
economic environment during the performance period for the awards to be 
made in the financial year ending 30 June 2012 is likely to be uncertain. 
Given this concern, and with due regard to shareholder feedback, the 
Committee feels that the awards would be more appropriately aligned with 
shareholders’ interests if the emphasis on TSR performance is increased.
The Remuneration Committee
The Committee is a committee of the Board consisting of the non-executive 
directors and the chairman of the Board. The following directors were 
members of the Committee during the year ended 30 June 2011:
C V Geoghegan (chairman)
R C Bailey
S W Leathes
P M White
N P Winser
Mr R C Bailey became a director of the Company and a member of the 
Committee with effect from 1 October 2010. Mr S W Leathes retired as 
a director of the Company and a member of the Committee with effect 
from 12 November 2010.
The secretary of the Committee is Mr H E E Raven, the company 
secretary.
The Committee has complied with the Main Principles of the Code 
relating to directors’ remuneration throughout the year. The Committee 
has also complied with the Code Provisions set out in the Code throughout 
the year, except as explained in this document. The terms of reference of 
the Committee are available on the Group’s website and on request from 
the company secretary. The Committee meets when necessary, but not 
less than once a year. Details of the number of times that the Committee 
met, and the number of meetings attended by each director, during the 
year ended 30 June 2011 are set out on page 49. The Committee consults 
the chief executive concerning its proposals (except in relation to his own 
remuneration) and takes external professional advice as appropriate. 
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2011, the Committee was advised 
by its independent remuneration advisers, Kepler Associates. Kepler 
Associates provides no other advice, or services, to the Company.
Directors’ remuneration report 52
 
Remuneration policy
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on its executive 
remuneration policy, for adoption by the Board, and determines specific 
remuneration packages for each of the executive directors on behalf of 
the Board. The Committee also monitors the remuneration packages of 
other senior members of management within the Group.
The Committee’s policy is to maintain an appropriate balance between 
fixed elements of remuneration (basic salary, benefits in kind and 
pension) and performance-related elements (annual bonus and long-term 
incentives) and to place an increasing emphasis on rewarding executives 
by reference to the Group’s long-term performance by incentivising 
sustainable profit growth and the creation of long-term value.
The Committee reviews the executive directors’ remuneration on an 
annual basis. At each review, the Committee considers an individual’s 
experience and performance in their role over the year (as well as over the 
period since being given the role) against a number of key performance 
indicators relating to both individual and corporate measures of 
performance. The individual’s experience and performance are then 
considered against the market positioning of pay for the role, based 
on an analysis of external reference points provided by the Group’s 
independent remuneration advisers. The Committee’s key objective is 
to ensure executive pay is aligned with shareholders’ interests, taking 
into account the need to:
•  attract, retain and motivate talent, but at a reasonable cost to the Group; 
•  maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related 
elements of remuneration; and
•  place an increasing emphasis on rewarding executives by reference to 
the Group’s long-term performance by incentivising sustainable profit 
growth and the creation of long-term value.
During the year, the executive directors’ salaries were benchmarked 
against salaries at companies of a similar size (both in terms of market 
capitalisation and revenue) and companies operating in the same industry 
sectors as the Group. Comparisons were made with executive directors’ 
salaries within the construction, services, property and house building 
sectors in respect of each Board position.
The Committee also takes into account pay and employment 
conditions across senior management within the Group when determining 
the executive directors’ remuneration.
The executive directors’ remuneration consists of a basic salary, an 
annual bonus, awards under long-term incentive plans, pension-related 
benefits and benefits in kind. Further information on each of the elements 
is set out below.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by 
the Board and reflects the anticipated time commitment to fulfil their 
duties. Non-executive directors do not receive bonuses, long-term 
incentive awards, pension provision or compensation on termination of 
their appointments. 
Basic salary
The Committee determined that the executive directors’ basic salaries 
would increase as follows with effect from 1 July 2011:
 From From
1 July 2011 1 July 2010
 £000 £000 % increase
S Bowcott 330 310 6.5
I M Lawson 385 375
1
2.7
H J Mursell
2
310 310 –
M P Sheffield 460 430
3
7.0
1
 With effect from 1 November 2010. From 1 July 2010 to 31 October 2010, Mr I M Lawson’s 
basic salary was £330,000.
2
 Mr H J Mursell was appointed to the Board with effect from 12 November 2010.
3
 With effect from Mr M P Sheffield’s promotion to chief executive in April 2010.
The increases for Mr M P Sheffield and Mr S Bowcott reflect the significant 
progress of both individuals in these roles, together with the strong 
performances of both the Group and the Construction division, since 
their appointments to their current roles in 2010. The Committee believes 
that the overall market positioning of salary for both individuals, however, 
remains below the market median. 
Mr I M Lawson received an increase in salary during 2010 from 
£330,000 to £375,000 reflecting the fact that he would be assisting 
the chief executive to implement the Group’s strategy. Mr I M Lawson’s 
salary increase with effect from 1 July 2011 is in line with the average 
salary increases across the Group. 
Mr H J Mursell was appointed to the Board with effect from 12 November 
2010 and the Committee believes that it would be appropriate to review 
his salary on the first anniversary of his appointment. 
Mr R W Simkin retired from the Board with effect from 30 June 2011 
and, accordingly, has not been referred to in the above table.
The Committee believes that these changes are consistent with its 
stated aim of attracting, retaining and maintaining talent at a reasonable 
cost to the Group. 
Having reviewed the level of fees paid to the non-executive directors 
alongside those paid by the Group’s peers, it was decided that the fees 
payable to the non-executive directors would be increased as follows 
with effect from 1 July 2011:
 From From
 1 July 2011 1 July 2010
 £000 £000
R C Bailey
1
52 50
C V Geoghegan
2
54 53
P M White 158 155
N P Winser 43 42
1
 The fees payable to Mr R C Bailey include an amount in respect of his position as chairman 
of the Audit Committee.
2
 The fees payable to Mr C V Geoghegan include an amount in respect of his position as 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
53
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Annual bonus arrangements
During the year ended 30 June 2011, executive directors were eligible 
to receive a cash bonus of up to 75% of basic salary. Of this, 80% was 
payable if the Group achieved certain pre-tax profit performance targets. 
The remaining 20% was payable if corporate responsibility and health and 
safety performance targets, which are considered to be key non-financial 
measures for the Group, were achieved. 
Based on the Committee’s review of the Group’s performance against 
its targets, it determined that a bonus of 52% of basic salary would be 
payable to each of the executive directors during the year, as shown in 
the table on page 56, and was satisfied that this was commensurate with 
the Group’s overall performance for the year. Although the precise targets 
cannot be published externally for reasons of commercial confidentiality, 
the Group exceeded its budgeted pre-tax profit and has achieved its 
health and safety and corporate responsibility targets. 
One-third of any annual bonus is satisfied by Kier Group plc shares 
and is subject to clawback in certain circumstances. A similar approach 
is applied to the annual bonus arrangements for members of the senior 
management team. The Committee believes that part satisfaction of the 
annual bonus in Kier Group plc shares further strengthens the alignment 
of interests of the executive directors, and of the divisional directors, 
with those of shareholders.
Long-term incentives
Following approval of the 2010 LTIP at the 2010 annual general meeting, 
the Committee made contingent awards to executive directors of 100% 
of salary on 15 November 2010. 
Individual award sizes under the 2010 LTIP may be up to 200% of 
salary, which provides the Committee with the flexibility to increase the 
long-term variable elements of the executive directors’ remuneration 
package. However, the Committee does not intend to make awards in 
excess of 100% of salary in the financial year ending 30 June 2012 and, 
in the future, proposes to consult with shareholders in advance of making 
any awards which are significantly in excess of 100% of salary. 
Participation in the 2010 LTIP has been extended to the senior 
management team and other key employees, which the Committee 
believes will further strengthen alignment with shareholders’ interests.
The awards made in November 2010 are subject to the satisfaction 
of performance criteria which relate to the Group’s EPS and TSR over a 
three-year period ending 30 June 2013, as follows:
The Committee believes that EPS continues to be a key measure of 
long-term performance for the Group and that measuring EPS targets 
on a cumulative basis provides robust performance targets. By way of 
illustration, cumulative EPS growth of 15% over a three-year performance 
period against a previous year EPS of 100p would be achieved if cumulative 
EPS over the performance period is at least 399p.
None of the EPS element of the awards made in November 2010 will 
vest if the Group’s cumulative EPS growth over the performance period is 
less than 5% per annum, 25% of the EPS element will vest for cumulative 
EPS growth of 5% per annum and 100% will vest for cumulative EPS growth 
of 15% per annum or higher. Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for 
cumulative EPS performance between these two points. 
For each new award cycle, the Committee will set EPS targets which it 
considers to be stretching but achievable, based on a number of external 
reference points (including brokers’ earnings forecasts for the Group and 
its peers), together with internal forecasts. 
TSR outperformance is measured on a multiplicative basis relative 
to a revenue weighted index based on the FTSE ASX Construction index 
and the FTSE ASX Support Services index. For each award cycle, the 
revenue weightings are fixed based on the Group’s prior year revenue 
mix and disclosed in the remuneration report after the award has been 
made. Such a weighted index is intended to provide a better reflection 
of the Group’s overall business mix and therefore provide a more robust 
measure of management’s contribution to long-term value creation. For 
the awards made in November 2010, these weightings were 75% on the 
Construction index and 25% on the Support Services index. For example, 
over the three-year period, if Construction index TSR is 16% and Support 
Services index TSR is 12%, the Group’s TSR will need to be at least 15% 
((75% x 16%) + (25% x 12%)) for this element of the LTIP award to vest.
If TSR performance is in line with the weighted index, 25% of the TSR 
element of the awards will vest and 100% of the TSR element will vest 
for 12% per annum outperformance of the weighted index or higher. 
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between these 
two points. At the date of the awards, 12% per annum outperformance 
of the weighted index was consistent with levels of historical levels of 
upper quintile performance.
The Committee will also review the TSR performance targets for new 
award cycles to ensure that they continue to be appropriately stretching 
but achievable. 
At the end of each performance cycle, the Committee will undertake to 
ensure that any payout from either the 1999 LTIP or the 2010 LTIP, as the 
case may be, reflects the long-term underlying performance of the Group.
There were no variations to either the 1999 LTIP or the 2010 LTIP 
during the year.
 
EPS element of the award
5% 15%
0
50—
25—
75—
100—
Cumulative EPS growth from 30 June 2010 to 
30 June 2013 (equivalent to CAGR)
% vesting
TSR element of the award
0% 12%
0
50—
25—
75—
100—
TSR % outperformance 2010-13 
of weighted index (p.a.)
% vesting 54
 
Long-term incentives continued
Outstanding awards made to those persons who, during the year ended 30 June 2011, have served as a director of the Company under the 1999 
LTIP and the 2010 LTIP are in the form of a deferred contingent right to acquire, at no cost, the following maximum number of ordinary shares in the 
Company:
Cumulative Cumulative
total total
 2009 award 2010 award 2011 award 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
S Bowcott 8,974 6,635 24,218 39,827 19,011
I M Lawson 34,871 25,781 29,296 89,948 71,363
D E Mattar
1
36,021 17,501 – 53,522
2
77,297
H J Mursell – – 24,218 24,218 –
3
M P Sheffield 34,871 25,781 33,593 94,245 71,363
R W Simkin
4
34,871 17,187 8,583 60,641 72,648
Date of award 17 November 2008 13 October 2009 15 November 2010  
Share price at the time of award 780p 1,055p 1,271p  
End of performance period 30 June 2011 30 June 2012 30 June 1013  
1
 The maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company to which the 2009 and 2010 awards granted to Miss D E Mattar relate was reduced from 37,051 and 27,393, respectively, to reflect 
the time length of service with the Group of Miss D E Mattar during the performance periods for such awards.
2
 As at 31 May 2011, being the date on which Miss D E Mattar ceased to be an employee of the Group.
3
 As at 12 November 2010, being the date on which Mr H J Mursell became a member of the Board.
4
 The maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company to which the 2010 and 2011 awards granted to Mr R W Simkin relate was reduced from 25,781 and 25,750, respectively, to reflect 
the length of service with the Group of Mr R W Simkin during the performance periods for such awards.
In relation to the 2009 and 2010 awards, 25% of the award vests if 5% per annum EPS growth is achieved over the relevant performance period, 
increasing on a sliding scale to 100% if EPS growth is at least 15% per annum over the period. The performance criteria relating to the 2011 award 
are set out on page 53. The performance criteria relating to the 2012 award, as described on page 51, will be confirmed in next year’s directors’ 
remuneration report.
The Committee has decided that the 2009 award will not vest and it has therefore lapsed.
As further described in note 1 to the financial statements, disposals of PFI investments are no longer to be included as exceptional items in the 
Group’s income statement. Therefore, any such PFI sales will be included for the purposes of calculating the vesting of the 2010 and 2011 awards 
and all future awards under the 2010 LTIP, both in relation to establishing the opening EPS position with respect to an award and in assessing the 
Group’s performance during the relevant performance period.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
55
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Directors’ pensions
Executive directors participate in the Kier Group Pension Scheme (the Pension Scheme) which has both a defined benefit section and a defined 
contribution section. 
Executive directors accrue pension up to the value of the lifetime allowance. Where the value of pension benefits exceeds the lifetime allowance, 
future pension accrual ceases and a cash supplement is paid. Following changes to the taxation of UK pensions and, in particular, the reduction 
in the annual allowance, the trustees of the Pension Scheme and the Company have agreed that an executive director’s annual pension provision 
may be replaced partly by a cash supplement. 
The level of cash supplement is 20% of that salary which is no longer pensionable (or, in the case of Mr I M Lawson, 30%, as the cost of his 
current membership of the pension scheme is higher than for the other directors). The Committee has determined the level of cash supplement 
for each individual with a view to maintaining the Group’s pension-related costs at their current level. An assessment has been carried out by the 
pension scheme actuary of the cost to the Group of the current benefit provision and the individual supplements have been set at levels which are 
commensurate with the value of the pension benefit foregone. The Committee believes that the levels of supplement are in line with market practice.
Only the basic salary of directors is pensionable. Any cash supplement is excluded in determining annual bonus and long-term incentive 
entitlements.
Pension benefits earned by those persons who have served as a director during the year ended 30 June 2011 and are members of the defined 
benefit section of the Pension Scheme are as follows:
Accumulated Transfer Transfer
Increase Increase Transfer total value of value of
in accrued in accrued value of accrued accrued accrued
pension pension increase in pension at pension at Increase pension at
over the over the accrued 30 June 30 June in transfer 30 June
year year
1
pension
2
2011 2010 value 2011
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
I M Lawson 11 8 114 75 961 176 1,137
D E Mattar
3,4
10 7 89 69 686 183 869
M P Sheffield
5
6 – – 140 1,715 182 1,897
R W Simkin
6
(33) (37) (832) 80 2,425 (658) 1,767
1
 The figures in this column represent the difference between the total accrued benefit at the end of the year and the equivalent amount at the beginning of the year. The figures shown have been 
adjusted to allow for the Retail Prices Index measure of inflation during the year.
2
 The figures in this column are the transfer values of the increases in the directors’ benefits during the year ended.
3
 Miss D E Mattar ceased to be employed by the Company on 31 May 2011 and became entitled to a deferred pension at that date.
4
 Miss D E Mattar’s accrued pension value and the transfer value of her accrued pension at 30 June 2010 have each been restated to take account of the treatment of pension accruals on 
leaving the Pension Scheme before normal retirement date.
5
 Mr M P Sheffield opted out of the Pension Scheme with effect from 30 June 2010 and became entitled to a deferred pension on that date. Mr M P Sheffield receives a cash allowance of 20% 
in lieu of continued pension accrual.
6
 Mr R W Simkin elected to receive his pension from 6 September 2010. The pension figure shown at 30 June 2011 is the annual pension which Mr R W Simkin was entitled to receive at that 
date. Upon retirement, Mr R W Simkin opted to surrender £32,374 of pension in return for a pension commencement lump sum of £450,000. In addition, he surrendered a further £3,685 of his 
pension in order to pay a lifetime allowance charge of £73,705.
The above transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice from the Pension Scheme actuary in accordance with UK legislation.
Members also have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions. Neither these contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in 
the above table. 56
 
Directors’ pensions continued
Contributions paid to the defined contribution section of the Pension Scheme on behalf of the directors during the year ended 30 June 2011 were 
as follows:
Contributions 
over the year
 £000
S Bowcott 70
H J Mursell 58
The above contributions are inclusive of contributions paid by the employer on behalf of the employee via a salary sacrifice arrangement.
All member contributions to the defined benefit section and the defined contribution section of the Pension Scheme are payable via a salary 
sacrifice arrangement. 
Benefits in kind
Benefits in kind comprise membership of a private health insurance scheme and the provision of a company car or a car allowance.
Directors’ emoluments
The value of all emoluments receivable by those persons who have served as a director during the year ended 30 June 2011 (together with the value 
of all amounts paid to former directors during the year) was as follows:
Salary Pension
1
Pension
1
  Total Total
and fees salary sacrifice supplement Benefits Bonus 2011 2010
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
R C Bailey
2
38 – – – – 38 –
S Bowcott
3
310 (12) 3 9 160 470 –
J Dodds
4
– – – – 92 92 700
C V Geoghegan 53 – – – – 53 51
I M Lawson 360 (25) 10 23 186 554 439
S W Leathes
5
39 – – – – 39 91
D E Mattar
6
321 (25) – 14 166 476 465
H J Mursell
7
270 (10) 3  10 139 412 –
M P Sheffield 430 – 86 15 222 753 476
R W Simkin 330 (7) 49 13 170 555 428
P M White 155 – – – – 155 150
N P Winser 42 – – – – 42 41
R W Side
8
– – – – – – 30
 2,348 (79) 151 84 1,135 3,639 2,871
1
 The pension salary sacrifice and pension supplement are explained in the pensions section on pages 55 and 56.
2
 Mr R C Bailey became a member of the Board with effect from 1 October 2010.
3
 In addition to the above amounts, the Group paid Mr S Bowcott £95,252 (gross of tax) in respect of relocation expenses.
4
 Mr J Dodds retired from the Board with effect from 31 March 2010. The bonus referred to above as having been paid to Mr J Dodds represents his entitlement for the year ended 30 June 2011.
5
 Mr S W Leathes retired from the Board with effect from 12 November 2010. The emoluments referred to above as having been paid to Mr S W Leathes include £18,000 (2010: £42,000) in 
respect of his position as chairman of the Pension Scheme during the period from and including 1 July 2010 to and including 12 November 2010. Mr S W Leathes remains the Chairman of the 
Pension Scheme.
6
 Miss D E Mattar retired from the Board with effect from 12 November 2010. Of the salary referred to above as having been paid to Miss D E Mattar, £185,000 was paid in respect of the notice 
period under her service agreement, which concluded on 31 May 2011.
7
 Mr H J Mursell became a member of the Board with effect from 12 November 2010. Of the amounts referred to above as having been paid to Mr H J Mursell, £76,000 was paid in respect of the 
period from the date on which he joined the Group as an employee (18 August 2010) to 12 November 2010. In addition to the above amounts, the Group paid £90,320 (gross of tax) in respect 
of relocation expenses to Mr H J Mursell or on his behalf.
8
 Mr R W Side retired from the Board on 8 November 2008. The amount referred to above represents his bonus entitlement for the year ended 30 June 2009, which was paid during the year 
ended 30 June 2010.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
57
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Service contracts
Name
1
Effective Date Notice Period
2
R C Bailey 1 October 2010 1 month
S Bowcott 1 July 2010 12 months
C V Geoghegan 1 July 2007 1 month
I M Lawson 1 October 2005 12 months
H J Mursell 12 November 2010 12 months
M P Sheffield 1 October 2005 12 months
P M White 2 January 2008 1 month
N P Winser 1 March 2009 1 month
1
 During the year, Miss D E Mattar, Mr R W Simkin and Mr S W Leathes each retired from the Board, with effect from 12 November 2010 (in the case of Miss D E Mattar and Mr S W Leathes) and 
30 June 2011 in the case of Mr R W Simkin.
2
 Notice may be served by either party.
No term is included in any of the executive directors’ service agreements or the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment. However, each director 
is subject to re-election, in accordance with the Articles, further details of which are set out on page 45. At the forthcoming annual general meeting, 
each of the directors will offer himself for re-election to the Board.
The executive directors’ service agreements do not contain any provisions for compensation for loss of office. These service agreements contain 
provisions relating to early termination and, in such cases, the Committee will consider the specific circumstances, the Company’s commitments 
under the service agreement and the director’s obligations to mitigate.
The Committee believes that its policy in relation to notice periods and early termination payments under the directors’ contracts is fair and 
reasonable in the interests of the Group and the individual concerned.
As indicated above, the Company has entered into letters of appointment with each of the non-executive directors. The letters of appointment 
do not include any provisions for the payment of predetermined compensation in the case of wrongful termination by the Company.
Shareholding guidelines
The Committee encourages executive directors to build up a shareholding in the Company equal to at least one year’s salary over a period of up to 
five years. Executive directors are encouraged to retain any annual bonus shares and 50% of vested LTIP awards (net of tax) until this shareholding 
has been achieved. 58
 
Directors’ interests
The directors of the Company at 30 June 2011 had the following beneficial interests (including interests of connected persons) in the ordinary shares 
of the Company:
1 July 2010
(or date of 
appointment, 
 30 June 2011 if later)
R C Bailey – –
S Bowcott 2,451 2,234
C V Geoghegan 5,000 5,000
I M Lawson 21,031 19,854
H J Mursell 5,321 5,000
M P Sheffield 39,698 37,820
P M White 2,540 2,540
N P Winser 3,500 3,500
The holdings of Mr S Bowcott, Mr I M Lawson and Mr H J Mursell include the matching shares purchased, at no cost to the individual, on their behalf 
pursuant to the AESOP.
Mr R W Simkin, who retired as a director on 30 June 2011, had a beneficial interest in 313,004 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company 
as at that date (1 July 2010: 313,004).
The executive directors, as potential beneficiaries of the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust), are deemed along with certain 
other UK employees to have an interest in 522,664 (2010: 522,664) ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £5,227 (2010: £5,227), 
representing approximately 1.4% of the issued share capital of the Company, held by the Trust as at 14 September 2011.
At 14 September 2011, the following directors had acquired beneficial interests in further ordinary shares in the capital of the Company: 
Mr S Bowcott, 46 shares; Mr I M Lawson, 46 shares and Mr H J Mursell, 47 shares. There have been no changes in the interests of the other 
directors (or their connected persons) in the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company since 30 June 2011.
The Sharesave Scheme
The Sharesave Scheme is a save as you earn option scheme, approved by HM Revenue & Customs under Schedule 3 of the Income Tax (Earnings and 
Pensions) Act 2003. All eligible employees and executive directors are entitled to participate in the Sharesave Scheme. Performance conditions do 
not apply. There has been no variation of the terms and conditions of such options.
The following directors hold options under the Sharesave Scheme in respect of the following number of ordinary shares in the capital of the 
Company:
Awarded Exercised Lapsed
Number at during during during Number at
 Date granted 1 July 2010 the year the year the year 30 June 2011 Exercise price Exercise period
S Bowcott 17 April 2009 1,120 – – – 1,220 £7.50 1 July 2012 – 1 January 2013
H J Mursell 28 April 2011 – 784 – – 784 £11.50 1 July 2014 – 1 January 2015
I M Lawson 17 April 2009 1,220 – – – 1,220 £7.50 1 July 2012 – 1 January 2013
M P Sheffield 17 April 2009 1,220 – – – 1,220 £7.50 1 July 2012 – 1 January 2013
The preceding table assumes that the relevant directors continue to participate in the Sharesave Scheme until the commencement of the relevant 
exercise period.
Share prices
The market price of a Kier Group plc share at close of business on 30 June 2011 was £13.60. The highest and lowest market prices of a Kier Group 
plc share during the year ended 30 June 2011 (in each case, at the close of business on the relevant day) were £14.18 and £8.87, respectively.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
59
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
TSR  FTSE All-Share Index 
  Kier
TSR  FTSE All-Share  
Support Services Index
  Kier 
  FTSE All-Share  
Construction Index
30 Jun 06 30 Jun 07 30 Jun 08 30 Jun 09 30 Jun 10 30 Jun 11
0—
150—
100—
50—
200—
Source: Bloomberg
Value (£)
Value (£)
30 Jun 06 30 Jun 07 30 Jun 08 30 Jun 09 30 Jun 10 30 Jun 11
0—
150—
100—
50—
Source: Bloomberg
200—
Total shareholder return
The following graphs chart cumulative TSR of the Company over the last five financial years. The graphs show the value, on 30 June 2011, of £100 
invested in shares in the capital of the Company on 30 June 2006 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index, the FTSE 
All-Share Construction Index and the FTSE All-Share Support Services Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
 
Audited information 
The information on pages 54 to 56, and page 58 have been audited by the Company’s auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
Approval of report
Mr C V Geoghegan, the chairman of the Committee, will attend the forthcoming annual general meeting and will be available to answer any questions 
shareholders may have concerning the Group’s policy on directors’ remuneration. This directors’ remuneration report will be submitted for approval 
by the Company at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 14 September 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
C V Geoghegan
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 60
 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare the Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, they 
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU 
(IFRS) and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit 
or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS;
•  for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial 
statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible 
for preparing a directors’ report, a directors’ remuneration report 
and a corporate governance statement that comply with that law and 
those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole; and
•  the operating and financial review, which forms part of the directors’ 
report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Signed on behalf of the Board by:
M P Sheffield
Chief Executive
H J Mursell
Group Finance Director
Statement of directors’ responsibilities Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
61
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
We have audited the financial statements of Kier Group plc for the year 
ended 30 June 2011 set out on pages 62 to 103. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial 
statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IRFS) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial 
statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 June 2011 and 
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
•  the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for 
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
•  the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on 
pages 47 to 50 with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share 
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or
•  a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the 
Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 
•  the directors’ statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going 
concern; 
•  the part of the corporate governance statement on page 47 relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and
•  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ 
remuneration.
Andrew Marshall (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5GL
14 September 2011
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of Kier Group plc 62
 
  2011  2010
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items* Total items items* Total
restated restated
 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue       
Group and share of joint ventures 2 2,178.8 – 2,178.8 2,098.7 – 2,098.7
Less share of joint ventures (55.8) – (55.8) (42.7) – (42.7)
Group revenue 2,123.0 – 2,123.0 2,056.0 – 2,056.0
Cost of sales (1,911.5) (33.5) (1,911.5) (1,847.0) – (1,847.0)
Gross profit 211.5 (33.5) 178.0 209.0 – 209.0
Administrative expenses (151.8) (0.8) (152.6) (151.2) – (151.2)
Credits on retirement benefit obligations – 25.7 25.7 – 16.0 16.0
Movement in provision for fine imposed 
by the Office of Fair Trading – 15.6 15.6 – (18.0) (18.0)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 14 0.4 – 0.4 (1.3) – (1.3)
Profit on disposal of joint venture 28b 5.9 – 5.9 4.2 – 4.2
Profit from operations 2 66.0 7.0 73.0 60.7 (2.0) 58.7
Finance income 5 3.7 – 3.7 3.1 – 3.1
Finance cost 5 (4.2) – (4.2) (4.1) – (4.1)
Profit before tax 2 65.5 7.0 72.5 59.7 (2.0) 57.7
Income tax 9a (12.3) 2.1 (10.2) (12.7) (4.5) (17.2)
Profit for the year 53.2 9.1 62.3 47.0 (6.5) 40.5
Attributable to:       
Equity holders of the parent 52.7 9.1 61.8 46.2 (6.5) 39.7
Minority interests 12 0.5 – 0.5 0.8 – 0.8
  53.2 9.1 62.3 47.0 (6.5) 40.5
Earnings per share 11      
   – basic 141.7p 166.1p 125.9p 108.2p
   – diluted 139.8p 163.9p 124.9p 107.3p
Adjusted earnings per share
(excluding the amortisation of intangible assets) 11      
  – basic 148.4p  131.6p  
  – diluted 146.4p  130.5p  
*  Exceptional items as detailed in note 4 relate to: 
• movement in the provision for a fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading; 
• property, land and work in progress write-downs; 
• acquisition costs; and 
• pensions past service credits.
All results are derived from continuing operations.
For the year ended 30 June 2011
Consolidated income statement Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
63
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
2011 2010
 Notes £m £m
Profit for the year 62.3 40.5
Other comprehensive income/(loss)   
Cash flow hedge movements realised on sale of joint ventures 10.1 2.2
Share of joint venture fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments (4.7) (5.1)
Fair value movements in Group cash flow hedging instruments – 0.9
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 12.6 (10.2)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) before taxation 18.0 (12.2)
Deferred tax on items recognised directly in equity (including effect of change in tax rate)   
Share of joint venture cash flow hedging instruments (1.7) 0.8
Group cash flow hedging instruments – (0.3)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes (7.8) 2.9
Taxation on other comprehensive income/(loss) 9b (9.5) 3.4
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 8.5 (8.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year 70.8 31.7
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent 70.3 30.9
Minority interests 0.5 0.8
  70.8 31.7
Attributable
Capital Cash flow to equity
Share Share redemption Retained hedge Translation holders of Minority Total
capital premium reserve earnings reserve reserve the parent interest equity
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 30 June 2009 0.4 36.1 2.7 59.1 (9.8) 0.2 88.7 0.6 89.3
Profit for the year – – – 39.7 – – 39.7 0.8 40.5
Other comprehensive loss for the year – – – (7.3) (1.5) – (8.8) – (8.8)
Dividends paid – – – (20.4) – – (20.4) (0.5) (20.9)
Issue of own shares – 2.7 – – – – 2.7 – 2.7
Share-based payments charge – – – 1.4 – – 1.4 – 1.4
At 30 June 2010 0.4 38.8 2.7 72.5 (11.3) 0.2 103.3 0.9 104.2
Profit for the year – – – 61.8 – – 61.8 0.5 62.3
Other comprehensive income for the year – – – 4.8 3.7 – 8.5 – 8.5
Dividends paid – – – (22.1) – – (22.1) (0.5) (22.6)
Issue of own shares – 8.1 – – – – 8.1 – 8.1
Share-based payments charge – – – 2.7 – – 2.7 – 2.7
Tax on share-based payments – – – 1.0 – – 1.0 – 1.0
At 30 June 2011 0.4 46.9 2.7 120.7 (7.6) 0.2 163.3 0.9 164.2
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 June 2011
Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
For the year ended 30 June 2011 64
 
2011 2010
 Notes £m £m
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 12 27.0 27.7
Property, plant and equipment 13 96.0 84.4
Investment in joint ventures 14 9.1 23.9
Retirement benefit asset 8 1.5 –
Deferred tax assets 15 34.4 24.4
Trade and other receivables 18 17.6 15.3
Non-current assets 185.6 175.7
Current assets   
Inventories 16 430.9 406.8
Trade and other receivables 18 329.9 330.1
Income tax receivable 3.0 –
Other financial assets 25 0.2 –
Cash and cash equivalents 19 195.1 205.5
Current assets 959.1 942.4
Total assets 1,144.7 1,118.1
Current liabilities   
Other financial liabilities – (0.2)
Trade and other payables 20 (799.2) (811.5)
Tax liabilities – (0.8)
Provisions 21 (10.0) (5.5)
Current liabilities (809.2) (818.0)
Non-current liabilities   
Long-term borrowings 19 (30.3) (30.3)
Other financial liabilities 25 – (0.1)
Trade and other payables 20 (68.3) (19.6)
Retirement benefit obligations 8 (31.1) (87.2)
Provisions 21 (41.2) (55.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 15 (0.4) (3.2)
Non-current liabilities (171.3) (195.9)
Total liabilities (980.5) (1,013.9)
Net assets 2 164.2 104.2
Equity   
Share capital 22 0.4 0.4
Share premium 46.9 38.8
Capital redemption reserve 2.7 2.7
Retained earnings 120.7 72.5
Cash flow hedge reserve 22 (7.6) (11.3)
Translation reserve 22 0.2 0.2
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 163.3 103.3
Minority interests 12 0.9 0.9
Total equity 164.2 104.2
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 14 September 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
M P Sheffield
H J Mursell
Directors
At 30 June 2011
Consolidated balance sheet Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
65
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
2011 2010
 Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before tax 72.5 57.7
Adjustments for exceptional items    
  Credits on retirement benefit obligations (25.7) (16.0)
  Movement in provision for fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading (15.6) 18.0
  Acquisition costs 0.8 –
  Property, land and work in progress write-downs 33.5 –
Other adjustments   
  Share of post-tax trading results of joint ventures 14 (0.4) 1.3
  Normal contributions to pension fund in excess of pension charge (6.8) (0.5)
  Equity settled share-based payments charge 23 2.7 1.4
  Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 12 3.4 6.8
  Depreciation charges 13 14.5 14.7
  Profit on disposal of joint ventures  (5.9) (4.2)
  Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (4.3) (0.7)
  Net finance expense 5 0.5 1.0
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 69.2 79.5
Special contributions to pension fund (12.5) (21.2)
Payment of acquisition costs (0.8) –
Payment of fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading (1.7) –
Payment of restructuring costs – (1.2)
Decrease in inventories 19.9 17.8
Decrease in receivables 4.2 1.0
(Decrease)/increase in payables (24.1) 30.1
Increase in provisions 7.7 5.4
Cash inflow from operating activities 61.9 111.4
Dividends received from joint ventures 14 0.1 0.8
Interest received 2.7 3.9
Income taxes paid (11.4) (1.1)
Net cash generated from operating activities 53.3 115.0
Cash flows from investing activities   
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 14.8 2.2
Proceeds from sale of joint ventures 28b 13.7 7.3
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (28.4) (11.0)
Purchase of intangible assets (1.4) (1.4)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 28a (37.7) (8.1)
Net investment in joint ventures 14 (6.8) (0.6)
Net cash used in investing activities (45.8) (11.6)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Issue of shares 0.2 –
Interest paid (3.4) (2.4)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (14.2) (17.7)
Dividends paid to minority interests (0.5) (0.5)
Net cash used in financing activities (17.9) (20.6)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (10.4) 82.8
Opening cash and cash equivalents 205.5 122.7
Closing cash and cash equivalents 195.1 205.5
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds   
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (10.4) 82.8
Increase in long-term borrowings – (0.1)
Opening net funds 175.2 92.5
Closing net funds  164.8 175.2
Net funds consist of:    
Cash and cash equivalents  195.1 205.5
Long-term borrowings  (30.3) (30.3)
Net funds 19 164.8 175.2
For the year ended 30 June 2011
Consolidated cash flow statement 66
 
1 
Significant accounting policies
Kier Group plc (the Company) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom 
(UK). The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 30 June 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together 
referred to as the Group) and the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities.
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the directors 
on 14 September 2011.
Statement of compliance
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared and 
approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (IFRS). The Company has 
elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP). These are 
presented on pages 99 to 101.
Basis of preparation
The Group has considerable financial resources, together with long-term 
contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across its business 
activities. As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business risks effectively.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the 
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Group’s financial statements.
Profits on the disposal of Private Finance Initiative (PFI) investments 
have previously been disclosed as exceptional items. However as a result 
of the ongoing strategy to make regular disposals of PFI investments the 
directors believe that it is no longer appropriate to include such disposals 
as exceptional items in the Group’s income statement as they are now 
expected to be recurring items. Disposals in the year to June 2011 have 
been reported within profit from operations before exceptional items and the 
results for the prior year to June 2010 have also been restated accordingly. 
The impact of this restatement was to increase profit after taxation before 
exceptional items for the year ended 30 June 2010 by £3.8m to £47.0m 
and decrease exceptional items by £3.8m to a charge of £6.5m. There was 
no impact on the Group’s consolidated total profit for the year. In addition 
to the income statement notes 4, 9, and 11 have been restated.
Other than detailed above the following accounting policies have been 
applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material 
in relation to the Group’s financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling. They have 
been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial 
instruments which are stated at their fair value, certain inventories that 
are valued at net realisable value and certain payables on extended terms 
which are stated at discounted cost.
The following amendments to standards or interpretations are 
mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended 30 June 2011:
IAS 32  ‘Amendments to financial instruments – classification of rights 
issues’
IFRS 1  ‘Amendment – additional exemptions for first time adopters’
IFRS 1  ‘Amendment – exemption from IFRS 7 comparatives’
IFRS 2  ‘Amendments to share-based payments – group cash settled’
IFRIC 17  ‘Distributions of non-cash assets to owners’
IFRIC 18  ‘Transfer of assets from customers’
IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments’ 
Improvements to IFRS’s (2009)
The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has not resulted 
in changes to the Group’s accounting policies and has not had a material 
impact on amounts reported for the current or prior years.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations 
have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year ended 30 
June 2011:
IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures (revised 2009)’
IAS 27 ‘Separate financial statements (revised 2011)’
IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures (revised 2011)’
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’
IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interest in other entities’
IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’
IFRIC 14 ‘Amendment – prepayments of a minimum funding requirement’ 
Improvements to IFRS’s (2010)
The directors have considered the impact of these new standards and 
interpretations in future periods and no significant impact is expected. 
The Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards and 
interpretations early.
Basis of consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements 
of the Company and subsidiaries controlled by the Company drawn up to 
30 June 2011. Control exists when the Group has direct or indirect power 
to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
economic benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control transfers to 
the Group until the date that control ceases.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting 
rights that currently are exercisable.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures 
goodwill at the acquisition date as:
•  the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus 
•  the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; 
plus
•  if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the 
existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
•  the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. 
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to 
the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally 
recognised in profit or loss. Costs related to the acquisition, other than 
those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the 
Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
67
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
1 
Significant accounting policies continued
as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair 
value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified 
as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within 
equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
(b) Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group undertakes 
an economic activity that is subject to joint control with third parties.
The Group’s interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted 
for using the equity method. Under this method the Group’s share of 
the profits less losses of jointly controlled entities is included in the 
consolidated income statement and its interest in their net assets is 
included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet. Where the 
share of losses exceeds the Group’s interest in the entity and there is 
no obligation to fund these losses the carrying amount is reduced to nil 
and recognition of further losses is discontinued; future profits are not 
recognised until unrecognised losses are extinguished. Interest in the 
entity is the carrying amount of the investment together with any long-term 
interests that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the entity.
Where a Group company is party to a jointly controlled operation, 
that company accounts for the assets it controls, the liabilities and 
expenses it incurs and its share of the income. Such joint arrangements 
are reported in the consolidated financial statements on the same basis.
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
consideration over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity at the date 
of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment 
at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Negative goodwill 
is recognised in the income statement immediately. On disposal of a 
subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, the attributable carrying amount of 
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 July 2004, being the date of 
transition to IFRS, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
at 1 July 2004 subject to being tested for impairment. Goodwill written 
off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and 
is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets which comprise contract rights are stated at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation 
is charged to cost of sales in the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the relevant contract period.
Exceptional items
Items which are significant by their size and nature to require separate 
disclosure are reported separately in the income statement in the column 
headed ‘Exceptional items’.
Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group. It also includes the Group’s proportion 
of work carried out under jointly controlled operations.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
a) Construction contracts
Revenue arises from increases in valuations on contracts and is normally 
determined by external valuations. It is the gross value of work carried out 
for the period to the balance sheet date (including retentions) but excludes 
claims until they are actually certified.
Profit on contracts is calculated in accordance with accounting 
standards and industry practice. Industry practice is to assess the 
estimated final out-turn of each contract and recognise the profit based 
upon the percentage of completion of the contract at the relevant date. 
The assessment of the final out-turn of each contract focuses on detailed 
and regular review procedures designed to forecast the revenues and 
costs to complete a contract on an individual contract basis. Consistent 
contract review procedures are in place in respect of contract forecasting.
The general principles for profit recognition are as follows:
•  profits on short duration contracts (generally less than 12 months) are 
taken when the contract is complete;
•  profits on other contracts are recognised on a percentage of completion 
basis when the contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably;
•  provision is made for losses incurred or foreseen in bringing the contract 
to completion as soon as they become apparent; and
•  claims receivable are recognised as income when received or certified 
for payment except that, in preparing contract forecasts to completion, 
a prudent and reasonable evaluation of claims receivable may be 
included to mitigate foreseeable losses but only to the extent that 
there is reasonable certainty of recovery.
Percentage completion is normally calculated by taking certified value to 
date as a percentage of estimated final value unless the internal value 
is materially different in which case the internal value is used.
b) Services
Revenue and profit from services rendered is recognised when the service 
is provided.
c) Private housing and land sales
Revenue from housing sales is recognised at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable on legal completion, net of incentives. 
Revenue from land sales and land exchanges is recognised on the 
unconditional exchange of contracts. Profit is recognised on a site-by-site 
basis by reference to the expected out-turn result from each site. The 
principal estimation technique used by the Group in attributing profit on 
sites to a particular period is the preparation of forecasts on a site-by-
site basis. These focus on revenues and costs to complete and enable 
an assessment to be made of the final out-turn on each site. Consistent 
review procedures are in place in respect of site forecasting. Provision 
is made for any losses foreseen in completing a site as soon as they 
become apparent.
d) Property development
Revenue in respect of property developments is taken on unconditional 
exchange of contracts on disposal of finished developments. Profit taken is 
subject to any amounts necessary to cover residual commitments relating 
to development performance. Provision is made for any losses foreseen 
in completing a development as soon as they become apparent. 68
 
1 
Significant accounting policies continued
Where developments are sold in advance of construction being 
completed, revenue and profit are recognised from the point of sale and 
as the significant outstanding acts of construction and development are 
completed. If a development is sold in advance of the commencement 
of construction, no revenue or profit is recognised at the point of 
sale. Revenue and profit are recognised in line with the progress on 
construction based on the percentage of completion of the construction 
and development works. If a development is sold during construction but 
prior to completion, revenue and profit are recognised at the time of sale 
in line with percentage completion of construction and development works 
at the time of sale and thereafter in line with the percentage of completion 
of the construction and development works.
If a development is sold after construction and development works are 
completed revenue and profit are recognised in full at the point of sale.
e) PFI service concession agreements
Revenue relating to construction or upgrade services under a service 
concession arrangement is recognised based on the stage of completion 
of the work performed, consistent with the Group’s accounting policy on 
recognising revenue on construction contracts (see (a) above). Operation 
or service revenue is recognised in the period in which the services were 
provided by the Group. When the Group provides more than one service in 
a service concession agreement, the consideration received is allocated 
by reference to the relative fair values of the services delivered.
Pre-contract costs
Costs associated with bidding for contracts are written off as incurred 
(pre-contract costs). When it is probable that a contract will be awarded, 
usually when the Group has secured preferred bidder status, costs 
incurred from that date to the date of financial close are carried forward 
in the balance sheet as other receivables.
When financial close is achieved on Private Finance Initiative (PFI) or 
Public Private Partnership (PPP) contracts, costs are recovered from the 
special purpose vehicle and pre-contract costs within this recovery that 
were not previously capitalised are credited to the income statement, 
except to the extent that the Group retains a share in the special purpose 
vehicle. The amount not credited is deferred and recognised over the life 
of the construction contract to which the costs relate.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
Depreciation is based on historical or deemed cost, less the estimated 
residual value, and the estimated economic lives of the assets concerned. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other tangible assets are depreciated 
in equal annual instalments over the period of their estimated economic 
lives, which are principally as follows:
Freehold buildings 25-50 years
Leasehold buildings and improvements Period of lease
Plant, equipment and vehicles 3-12 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the 
term of the lease or the expected useful life of the asset.
Leases
Operating lease rental charges are charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the life of each lease.
Employee benefits
(a) Retirement benefit obligations
For defined contribution pension schemes operated by the Group, amounts 
payable are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits 
is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit 
credit method. The charge to the income statement reflects the current 
and past service costs of such obligations, and the interest cost on 
scheme liabilities less the expected return on plan assets.
The retirement benefit obligation represents the difference between 
the fair value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme 
liabilities. It is determined biannually by independent actuaries and 
recognised in full in the balance sheet. Differences between the actual 
and expected returns on assets and experience gains and losses arising 
on scheme liabilities during the year, together with differences arising 
from changes in assumptions, are recognised in full directly in reserves 
via the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
The recognised pension asset is limited to the present value of any 
future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the 
plan expected at the balance sheet date.
The Group’s contributions to the schemes are paid in accordance 
with the rules of the schemes and the recommendation of the actuary.
(b) Share-based payments
Share-based payments granted but not vested, are valued at the fair value 
of the shares at the date of grant. This affects the Sharesave and LTIP 
schemes. The fair value of these schemes at date of award is calculated 
using the Black-Scholes model.
The cost to the Group of awards to employees under the LTIP scheme 
is spread on a straight-line basis over the relevant performance criteria 
period. The scheme awards to senior employees a number of shares 
which will vest after three years if particular criteria are met. The Group 
has the option to make the awards either as shares or as a combination 
of shares and cash, based on the share price prevailing when the shares 
vest. The cost of the share-based payment element of the scheme is 
based on the fair value of the shares at the date the options are granted, 
and the cost of the cash-based payment element is based on the market 
value of the share options at the balance sheet date.
Shares purchased and held in trust in connection with the Group’s 
share schemes are deducted from retained earnings. No gain or loss is 
recognised within the income statement on the market value of these 
shares compared to the original cost.
Finance income and costs
Interest receivable and payable on bank deposits is credited or charged 
to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs are capitalised where the Group constructs qualifying 
assets. All other borrowing costs are written off to the income statement 
as incurred.
Borrowing costs incurred within the Group’s jointly controlled entities 
relating to the construction of assets in PFI and PPP projects are 
capitalised until the relevant assets are brought into operational use.
Notional interest payable, representing the unwinding of the discount 
on long-term liabilities, is charged to finance costs.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
69
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Inventories
Inventories and work in progress, including land held for and in the course 
of development, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where appropriate, labour and 
production overheads which have been incurred in bringing the inventories 
and work in progress to their present location and condition. Cost in certain 
circumstances also includes notional interest as explained in the accounting 
policy for finance income and costs. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs 
to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Construction work in progress is included within inventories in the 
balance sheet. It is measured at cost plus profit less losses recognised to 
date less progress billings. If payments received from customers exceed 
the income recognised, the difference is included within trade and other 
payables in the balance sheet.
Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised; 
generally after exchange of unconditional contracts.
Property inventory, which represents all development land and work in 
progress, is included at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and 
disposing of the development less any amounts received or receivable 
as progress payments or part disposals. Where a property is being 
developed, cost includes cost of acquisition and development to date, 
including directly attributable fees, expenses and finance charges 
net of rental or other income attributable to the development. Where 
development property is not being actively developed, net rental income 
and finance costs are taken to the income statement.
Share capital
The ordinary share capital of the Company is recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of directly attributable incremental issue costs.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is probable 
that an outflow will be required to settle the obligation and the amount 
can be reliably estimated.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. The principal financial assets and liabilities 
of the Group are as follows:
(a) Trade receivables and trade payables
Given the varied activities of the Group it is not practicable to identify a 
common operating cycle. The Group has therefore allocated receivables 
and payables due within 12 months of the balance sheet date to current 
with the remainder included in non-current.
Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their initial 
value reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated 
at their nominal value. Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in 
respect of land purchases, are discounted and recorded at their present 
value.
1 
Significant accounting policies continued
Taxation
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised 
in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised directly in equity, in which case it is also recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for the year, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is 
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the 
carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the 
exchange rates in effect when they take place. Resulting foreign currency 
denominated assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from foreign 
currency transactions are reflected in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings are 
translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 
Trading profits or losses are translated at average rates prevailing 
during the accounting period. Differences on exchange arising from the 
retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings at 
the year-end rates are recognised in the translation reserve. All other 
translation differences are reflected in the income statement.
Mining assets
Opencast expenditure incurred prior to the commencement of operating 
opencast sites is capitalised and the cost less the residual value is 
depreciated over the coaling life of the site on a coal extraction basis. 
The total cost of restoration is recognised as a provision as soon as 
the mine becomes operational. The amount provided represents the 
present value of the anticipated costs. Costs are charged against the 
provision as incurred and the unwinding of the discount is included within 
interest costs. A tangible asset is created for an amount equivalent to 
the initial provision and depreciated on a coal extraction basis over the 
life of the asset. Where there is a subsequent change in the estimate 
of restoration costs or discount rate, the present value of the change is 
recognised in the cost of the tangible asset with a corresponding change 
to the restoration provision. The resulting impact on the unwinding of the 
discount is recognised in the year of change. 70
 
1 
Significant accounting policies continued
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement comprise cash at 
bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original maturities of three 
months or less, net of bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included within 
financial liabilities in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
(c) Bank and other borrowings
Interest-bearing bank and other loans are recorded at the proceeds received, 
net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable on 
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an 
accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method 
and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
(d) PFI assets
Under the terms of a PFI or similar project, where the risks and rewards of 
ownership remain largely with the purchaser of the associated services, 
the Group’s interest in the asset is classified as a financial asset and 
included at its amortised cost within investment in joint ventures.
(e) Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the 
contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured in future periods 
at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting change in fair 
value is dependent on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 
instrument and whether the hedging relationship is effective.
The effective part of the change in fair value of these derivatives 
is recognised directly in equity. Any ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity 
are recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged 
items will affect profit or loss. The fair value of interest rate derivatives 
is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate 
the derivatives at the balance sheet date.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs.
The Group also enters into forward contracts in order to hedge against 
transactional foreign currency exposures. In cases where these derivative 
instruments are significant, hedge accounting is applied as described 
above. Where hedge accounting is not applied, changes in fair value of 
derivatives are recognised in the income statement. Fair values are based 
on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
a) Revenue and profit recognition
The estimation techniques used for revenue and profit recognition in 
respect of private housing and land sales, property development and 
construction contracts.
b) Valuation of land and work in progress
As a result of the values received from a number of land sales during 
the year to June 2011 the Group conducted a review of land and work 
in progress and write-downs have been made where the carrying value 
exceeded the lower of cost and net realisable value. The review was 
conducted on a site by site basis, using valuations that incorporated 
selling price reductions, based on the directors’ assessment of market 
conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
The key judgements and estimates in determining the net realisable 
value of land and work in progress were:
• an estimation of costs to complete;
• an estimation of the remaining revenues; and
• an estimation of selling costs.
These assessments include a degree of inherent uncertainty and therefore 
if the key judgements and estimates change, further impairments of land 
and work in progress may be necessary.
c) Determination of fair values of identifiable net assets on acquisitions
The accounting for the Kier Developments Limited acquisition involved 
identifying and determining the fair values to be assigned to the existing 
50% interest in the joint venture, as well as the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and the cost of acquisition. 
The determination of fair values involved some key judgements and 
estimates, particularly in relation to the fair value of the property portfolio. 
The key judgements and estimates made in determining the fair value of 
the property portfolio were:
• the appropriate yields;
• an estimation of costs to complete;
• assumptions around planning permissions; and
• an estimation of likely rentals, or forecast sales prices.
Full details of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in the 
acquisition are presented in note 28.
d) Defined benefit pension scheme valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme assets 
and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been made. The key 
assumptions, which are given below, are largely dependent on factors 
outside the control of the Group:
• expected return on plan assets;
• inflation rate;
• mortality;
• discount rate; and
• salary and pension increases.
Details of the assumptions used are included in note 8.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
71
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
2 
Segmental reporting
The Group comprises four divisions: Construction, Services, Property and Homes and it is on this basis that the Group reports its segmental information.
Segment information is based on the information provided to the chief executive who is the chief operating decision maker. The segments are 
strategic business units with separate management and have different core customers and offer different services. The segments are discussed 
in the chief executive’s review on pages 6 to 29.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies on pages 
66 to 70. The Group evaluates segment information on the basis of profit or loss from operations before exceptional items, interest and income 
tax expense. The segment results that are reported to the chief executive include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that 
can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Construction Services Property Homes Centre Group
Year to 30 June 2011 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
1
      
Group and share of joint ventures 1,444.5 483.8 97.4 153.1 – 2,178.8
Less share of joint ventures (1.9) – (53.9) – – (55.8)
Group revenue 1,442.6 483.8 43.5 153.1 – 2,123.0
Profit      
Group operating profit 39.3 18.3 3.2 4.1 (5.2) 59.7
Share of joint ventures’ operating profit – – 2.0 0.1 – 2.1
Profit on disposal of joint ventures – – 5.9 – – 5.9
Group and share of joint ventures 39.3 18.3 11.1 4.2 (5.2) 67.7
Share of joint ventures – finance cost – – (1.4) – – (1.4)
– tax – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Profit from operations before exceptional items 39.3 18.3 9.4 4.2 (5.2) 66.0
Exceptional items      
  Past service credit on retirement benefit obligation – – – – 25.7 25.7
  Movement in provision for fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading 15.6 – – – – 15.6
  Property, land and work in progress write-downs – – (1.9) (31.0) (0.6) (33.5)
  Acquisition costs – – (0.6) – (0.2) (0.8)
Profit from operations 54.9 18.3 6.9 (26.8) 19.7 73.0
Finance income/(cost)
2
15.3 (0.4) 0.7 (12.6) (3.5) (0.5)
Profit before tax 70.2 17.9 7.6 (39.4) 16.2 72.5
Balance sheet      
Investment in joint ventures 0.1 – 9.0 – – 9.1
Other assets 332.0 121.5 120.8 340.9 25.3 940.5
Liabilities excluding long-term debt (618.2) (117.2) (76.0) (30.3) (108.5) (950.2)
Net operating (liabilities)/assets (286.1) 4.3 53.8 310.6 (83.2) (0.6)
Cash, net of debt 422.8 27.8 (34.0) (259.0) 7.2 164.8
Net assets 136.7 32.1 19.8 51.6 (76.0) 164.2
Other information      
Inter-segmental revenue 3.6 35.7 0.2 5.9 – 45.4
Amortisation of intangible assets – 3.4 – – – 3.4
Capital expenditure 9.6 15.7 – 0.1 3.2 28.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4.9 6.7 0.1 0.1 2.7 14.5
1
 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue.
2
 Interest was (charged)/credited to the divisions at a notional rate of 4.5% and 4.0% respectively. 72
 
2 
Segmental reporting continued
Construction Services Property Homes Centre Group
Year to 30 June 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
1
      
Group and share of joint ventures 1,417.0 470.7 53.3 157.7 – 2,098.7
Less share of joint ventures (1.7) – (41.0) – – (42.7)
Group revenue 1,415.3 470.7 12.3 157.7 – 2,056.0
Profit      
Group operating profit 36.2 18.5 0.4 9.9 (7.2) 57.8
Share of joint ventures’ operating profit – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Profit on disposal of joint ventures – – 4.2 – – 4.2
Group and share of joint ventures 36.2 18.5 4.5 9.9 (7.2) 61.9
Share of joint ventures – finance cost – – (1.3) – – (1.3)
Share of joint ventures – tax – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Profit from operations before exceptional items 36.2 18.5 3.3 9.9 (7.2) 60.7
Exceptional items      
Past service credit on retirement benefit obligation – – – – 16.0 16.0
Movement on provision for fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading (18.0) – – – – (18.0)
Profit from operations 18.2 18.5 9.9 3.3 8.8 58.7
Finance income/(cost)
2
14.0 0.3 0.2 (13.2) (2.3) (1.0)
Profit before tax 32.2 18.8 3.5 (3.3) 6.5 57.7
Balance sheet      
Investment in joint ventures 0.1 – 23.8 – – 23.9
Other assets 322.2 125.6 28.1 368.2 44.6 888.7
Liabilities excluding long-term debt (631.9) (129.3) (18.6) (39.4) (164.4) (983.6)
Net operating (liabilities)/assets (309.6) (3.7) 33.3 328.8 (119.8) (71.0)
Cash, net of debt 417.8 32.3 (19.8) (248.5) (6.6) 175.2
Net assets 108.2 28.6 13.5 80.3 (126.4) 104.2
Other information      
Inter-segmental revenue 12.0 42.9 1.9 3.6 – 60.4
Amortisation of intangible assets – 2.9 – – – 2.9
Capital expenditure 1.6 6.2 – – 2.8 10.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6.5 6.4 – 0.2 1.6 14.7
1
 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue.
2
 Interest was (charged)/credited to the divisions at a notional rate of 4.5% and 4.0% respectively.
Inter-segmental pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
Net operating assets represent assets excluding cash, bank overdrafts, long-term borrowings and interest-bearing inter-company loans.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
73
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
3 
Profit for the year
Profit before taxation is stated after charging:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Auditors’ remuneration:  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the annual accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:  
  Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6
  Taxation services – –
  Other services 0.3 0.1
Hire of plant and machinery 20.5 16.7
Operating lease rentals:  
  Land and buildings 4.1 3.5
  Plant and machinery 13.0 9.1
4
 Exceptional items
2011 2010
restated
 £m £m
Past service credits on retirement benefit obligations 25.7 16.0
Movement in provision for fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading 15.6 (18.0)
Property, land and work in progress write-downs:  
Land and work in progress held for development (32.6) –
Property (0.9) –
 (33.5) –
Acquisition costs (0.8) –
Exceptional items before tax 7.0 (2.0)
Taxation 2.1 (4.5)
Exceptional items after tax 9.1 (6.5)
Exceptional items for the prior year have been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy to include profits on disposal of PFI investments 
within profit from operations before exceptional items as detailed in note 1.
The pension credits arose as a consequence of the announcement by the UK Government that the inflation index to be used to derive statutory 
pension increases would be changed from the Retail Prices Index (RPI) to the Consumer Prices Index (CPI). These changes were announced for 
public sector pension schemes in June 2010 and for private sector schemes in July 2010.
The credits arising in the prior year and the current year have been accounted for following the guidance set out in UITF48 ‘Accounting implications 
of the replacement of RPI with CPI for retirement benefits’. As the Group had a pre-existing constructive obligation under both the Kier Sheffield 
LLP scheme and the Kier Group Pension Scheme, and the changes from RPI to CPI were notified to scheme members, the past service credits have 
been accounted for as a change in benefits and recognised in the income statement in both years.
The gain of £25.7m in the current year reflects the impact of this change on the Kier Group Pension Scheme. This change only affects certain 
elements of the increase in pensions payable by the scheme. Deferred revaluation and the majority of increases to pensions in payment continue 
to be based in RPI. The gain in the prior year of £16.0m reflects the impact of this change on the pension scheme in which the employees of Kier 
Sheffield LLP participate. 74
 
4
 Exceptional items continued
On 22 September 2009 the Group was fined £17.9m in respect of The Office of Fair Trading’s investigation into cover pricing in the construction 
industry. An exceptional provision of £18.0m was made in the prior year to reflect this potential fine. The Group appealed this fine to the Competition 
Appeals Tribunal, which on 11 March 2011 announced its decision to reduce the original fine imposed from £17.9m to £1.7m. The exceptional credit 
in the current year reflects the write-back of the original provision of £18.0m less the fine paid of £1.7m and the external legal costs of £0.7m.
During the current year the carrying value of properties, and land and work-in-progress have been written down to their net realisable value as 
a result of the current market conditions and following the values received from recent land sales.
During the current year external costs of £0.8m have been incurred and expensed on the acquisition of Beco Limited (£0.2m) in November 2010 
and Kier Developments Limited (£0.6m) in April 2011. Further details of these acquisitions are provided in note 28.
5 
Finance income and cost
2011 2010
 £m £m
Finance income  
Interest receivable on bank deposits 1.3 1.2
Interest receivable on loans to joint ventures 2.4 1.9
 3.7 3.1
Finance cost  
Interest payable on bank overdrafts and loans (0.7) (0.2)
Interest payable on long-term borrowings (2.0) (2.0)
Unwinding of discount on long-term liabilities (1.5) (1.9)
 (4.2) (4.1)
6 
Information relating to employees
 2011 2010
 Note No. No.
Average number of persons employed during the year including executive directors was:   
United Kingdom 10,128 10,319
Rest of world 557 1,287
  10,685 11,606
  £m £m
Group staff costs are as follows:   
United Kingdom 373.6 372.4
Rest of world 8.4 8.9
  382.0 381.3
Comprising:
Wages and salaries 333.6 326.4
Social security costs 28.9 28.9
Defined benefit pension scheme costs 4.8 11.9
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 11.6 12.6
Share-based payment plans 23 3.1 1.5
  382.0 381.3
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
75
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
7 
Information relating to directors
Information relating to directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and LTIP interests appears in the directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 51 to 59.
8 
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a number of pension schemes for eligible employees as disclosed below.
Kier Group Pension Scheme
This is the principal scheme and includes a defined benefit section and a defined contribution plan. The assets of the Scheme are held under trust 
separately from those of the Group; the Trustees are responsible for investing the assets and delegate day-to-day decisions to independent professional 
investment managers.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 January 2002; existing members continue to accrue benefits for future 
service.
An actuarial valuation of the Scheme was undertaken by the trustees’ independent actuaries as at 1 April 2010 using the projected unit method. The 
market value of the Scheme’s assets at that date were £622.0m which represented approximately 88% of the benefits that had accrued to members 
at that date, after allowing for future increases in salaries. The contributions paid during the year were £22.8m (2010: £32.5m) which include special 
contributions of £12.5m (2010: £21.2m) to fund the past service deficit.
Going forward contributions will include an allowance for funding the past service deficit identified at the 2010 valuation date. The Group expects to 
pay contributions for future service of £9.6m, being 20.5% of pensionable pay, plus £8.0m for funding the past service deficit in the year to June 2012.
The Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy is payable in addition to the above contributions.
Following closure of the defined benefit section of the Scheme to new entrants most new employees are offered membership of the defined contribution 
section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme. The Group is required to pay contributions in respect of those employees in accordance with the rates 
specified in their contracts of employment. The contributions paid during the year, and the pension charge, amounted to £6.7m (2010: £6.0m).
Kier Sheffield LLP
The Group participates in this defined benefit scheme through its subsidiary Kier Sheffield LLP which has participated as an admitted body in the 
South Yorkshire Pension Fund since 1 April 2003. As an admitted body it was granted a fully funded past service position at that date, with assets 
and ongoing past service liabilities of £65.0m.
The scheme covers 1,146 employees who transferred from Sheffield Council’s employment to Kier Sheffield LLP upon the start of the contract. 
New employees are offered membership of the defined contribution section of the Kier Group Pension Scheme. Kier Sheffield LLP is required to pay 
contributions in respect of these employees in accordance with the rates specified in their contracts of employment.
Kier Sheffield LLP’s pension costs in respect of the defined benefit scheme are assessed on the advice of an independent qualified actuary using the 
projected unit method. The contributions paid during the year were £1.3m (2010: £1.1m). Going forward Kier Sheffield LLP expects to pay contributions 
for future service at the rate of 11.3% of pensionable pay which the fund’s actuary has determined is sufficient to meet ongoing benefits.
Other schemes
Contributions are also made in respect of hourly paid operatives to an industry-wide stakeholder pension scheme, and in respect of employees who 
are members of a local government pension scheme. The pension costs for these have been taken as the actual contributions paid during the year. 76
 
8 
Retirement benefit obligations continued
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ disclosures
Kier has adopted immediate recognition of any actuarial gains or losses through the statement of comprehensive income as permitted under IAS 19.
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries and the expected rate of return on assets in providing the IAS 19 position as 
detailed below were:
Kier Group Pension Scheme
2011 2010 2009
 % % %
Rate of general increases in salaries 3.4 3.0 3.3
Rate of increase to pensions in payment liable for Limited Price Indexation 3.4 3.1 3.2
Discount rate 5.5 5.3 6.2
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.6 3.2 3.3
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.7 n/a n/a
The mortality assumptions adopted estimate life expectancies from age 60 for men and women of 27.4 years and 27.9 years respectively for a 
future pensioner.
Long-term rate of return expected Value
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
 % % % £m £m £m
Land   13.8 13.8 –
Equities, property and other return-seeking assets   527.6 477.1 415.6
PFI assets   4.5 – –
Government bonds, cash, swaps and collateral   134.3 120.3 82.8
Total market value of assets 7.0 6.8 7.2 680.2 611.2 498.4
Present value of liabilities   (711.3) (689.8) (594.5)
Deficit   (31.1) (78.6) (96.1)
Related deferred tax asset   8.1 22.0 26.9
Net pension liability   (23.0) (56.6) (69.2)
Kier Sheffield LLP
2011 2010 2009
 % % %
Rate of general increases in salaries 4.6 4.2 4.8
Rate of increase to pensions in payment liable for Limited Price Indexation 2.7 2.5 3.3
Discount rate 5.5 5.3 6.2
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.6 3.2 3.3
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.7 2.5 n/a
The mortality assumptions adopted estimate life expectancies from age 60 for men and women of 27.5 years and 30.6 years respectively for a 
future pensioner.
Long-term rate of return expected Value
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
 % % % £m £m £m
Equities and property   120.9 99.6 81.4
Corporate bonds   11.2 11.1 9.7
Government bonds   27.4 24.4 25.0
Total market value of assets 7.0 6.7 6.8 159.5 135.1 116.1
Present value of liabilities   (158.0) (143.7) (134.7)
Surplus/(deficit)   1.5 (8.6) (18.6)
Related deferred tax (liability)/asset   (0.4) 2.4 5.2
Net pension asset/(liability)   1.1 (6.2) (13.4)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
77
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
8
 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Pension sensitivity
The assumption considered to be the most significant is the discount rate adopted. If the discount rate were to increase by 0.1% the Kier Group 
Pension Scheme deficit would decrease by £11.0m, and the Kier Sheffield LLP deficit would decrease by £3.0m.
Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:
 
2011 2010
Kier Group Kier Kier Group Kier
Pension Sheffield Pension Sheffield
Scheme LLP Total Scheme LLP Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
(Charged)/credited to operating profit in the income statement      
Current service cost (8.4) (2.7) (11.1) (8.5) (2.3) (10.8)
Expected return on scheme assets 41.0 9.0 50.0 35.7 7.9 43.6
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (36.1) (7.6) (43.7) (36.3) (8.4) (44.7)
Past service credits 25.7 – 25.7 – 16.0 16.0
 22.2 (1.3) 20.9 (9.1) 13.2 4.1
Amount recognised in statement of comprehensive income      
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 31.1 15.9 47.0 71.3 11.5 82.8
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (28.6) (5.8) (34.4) (77.2) (15.8) (93.0)
 2.5 10.1 12.6 (5.9) (4.3) (10.2)
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets      
Fair value at 1 July 611.2 135.1 746.3 498.4 116.1 614.5
Expected return on scheme assets 41.0 9.0 50.0 35.7 7.9 43.6
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 31.1 15.9 47.0 71.3 11.5 82.8
Contributions by the employer 22.8 1.3 24.1 32.5 1.1 33.6
Contributions by scheme participants 0.1 1.3 1.4 0.1 1.1 1.2
Net benefits paid out (26.0) (3.1) (29.1) (26.8) (2.6) (29.4)
Fair value at 30 June 680.2 159.5 839.7 611.2 135.1 746.3
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation      
Fair value at 1 July (689.8) (143.7) (833.5) (594.5) (134.7) (729.2)
Current service cost (8.4) (2.7) (11.1) (8.5) (2.3) (10.8)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (36.1) (7.6) (43.7) (36.3) (8.4) (44.7)
Past service credits 25.7 – 25.7 – 16.0 16.0
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (28.6) (5.8) (34.4) (77.2) (15.8) (93.0)
Contributions by scheme participants (0.1) (1.3) (1.4) (0.1) (1.1) (1.2)
Net benefits paid out 26.0 3.1 29.1 26.8 2.6 29.4
Fair value at 30 June (711.3) (158.0) (869.3) (689.8) (143.7) (833.5)
Amounts included in the balance sheet      
Fair value of scheme assets 680.2 159.5 839.7 611.2 135.1 746.3
Net present value of the defined benefit obligation (711.3) (158.0) (869.3) (689.8) (143.7) (833.5)
Net (deficit)/surplus (31.1) 1.5 (29.6) (78.6) (8.6) (87.2)
Related deferred tax asset/(liability) 8.1 (0.4) 7.7 22.0 2.4 24.4
Net pension (liability)/asset (23.0) 1.1 (21.9) (56.6) (6.2) (62.8) 78
 
8
 Retirement benefit obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses for defined benefit schemes in aggregate
 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
 £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets 839.7 746.3 614.5 669.4 643.4
Net present value of the defined benefit obligation (869.3) (833.5) (729.2) (716.1) (662.1)
Restriction on pension surplus – – – – (5.1)
Net deficit (29.6) (87.2) (114.7) (46.7) (23.8)
Related deferred tax asset 7.7 24.4 32.1 13.1 6.8
Net pension liability (21.9) (62.8) (82.6) (33.6) (17.0)
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 47.0 82.8 (103.3) (15.5) 9.5
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (34.4) (93.0) 0.1 18.1 18.1
The Group has made the following special cash contributions to the Kier Group Pension Scheme:
•  in December 2009 £13.2m which was settled through the transfer of residential land at market value as determined by DTZ, an independent firm 
of chartered surveyors; and
•  in June 2011 £4.5m which was settled through the transfer of the Group’s 50% interest in Sheffield Schools PFI project (Academy Services (Sheffield) 
Holdings Limited). These amounts have been included as a contribution received by the scheme.
The past service credits arose due to changes announced by the Government to use the CPI in place of the RPI to determine pension increases. 
These has been accounted for as a change in benefits and recognised in the income statement as exceptional credits. Further details of these credits 
are provided in note 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
79
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
9 
Income tax
a) Recognised in the income statement
2011 2010
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
restated restated
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax expense      
UK corporation tax 13.0 (5.8) 7.2 8.7 – 8.7
Overseas tax (0.1) – (0.1) 0.1 – 0.1
Adjustments for prior years 0.5 – 0.5 (0.3) – (0.3)
Total current tax 13.4 (5.8) 7.6 8.5 – 8.5
Deferred tax expense      
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.8 3.7 6.5 3.6 4.5 8.1
Effect of change in tax rate (1.8) – (1.8) – – –
Adjustments for prior years (2.1) – (2.1) 0.6 – 0.6
Total deferred tax (1.1) 3.7 2.6 4.2 4.5 8.7
Total income tax expense in the income statement 12.3 (2.1) 10.2 12.7 4.5 17.2
Reconciliation of effective tax rate      
Profit before tax 65.5 7.0 72.5 59.7 (2.0) 57.7
Adjust: tax on joint ventures included above 0.3 – 0.3 (0.1) – (0.1)
Adjusted profit before tax 65.8 7.0 72.8 59.6 (2.0) 57.6
Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 27.5% (2010: 28%) 18.1 1.9 20.0 16.7 (0.6) 16.1
Non-deductible expenses 0.7 (4.0) (3.3) 1.2 5.1 6.3
Tax relief on expenses not recognised in the income statement (0.4) – (0.4) (4.5) – (4.5)
Effect of change in tax rate (1.8) – (1.8) – – –
Profits attributable to minority interest not taxable – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Capital gains not taxed (2.3) – (2.3) (0.8) – (0.8)
Tax losses utilised not recognised as a deferred tax asset – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
(Over)/under provision in respect of prior years (1.6) – (1.6) 0.3 – 0.3
Total tax (including joint ventures) 12.6 (2.1) 10.5 12.6 4.5 17.1
Tax on joint ventures (0.3) – (0.3) 0.1 – 0.1
Group income tax expense 12.3 (2.1) 10.2 12.7 4.5 17.2 80
 
9 
Income tax continued
b) Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
2011 2010
 £m £m
Deferred tax expense (including effect of change in tax rate)  
Fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments:  
  Group – 0.3
  Joint ventures 1.7 (0.8)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 7.8 (2.9)
Total income tax charge/(credit) in the statement of comprehensive income 9.5 (3.4)
c) Factors that may affect future tax charges
The Chancellor has announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 23% over a period of four years by April 2014. The first 
reduction from 28% to 26% was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and is effective from 1 April 2011. This has had the effect of reducing the 
net deferred tax asset included in the above figures by £2.8m, with £1.8m being credited to the income statement and £4.6m being charged directly 
to the statement of comprehensive income.
The reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 25% was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011 and is effective from 1 April 2012. This will 
reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly.
If the rate change from 26% to 25% had been substantively enacted at 30 June 2011 it would have had the effect of reducing the net deferred tax 
asset of £29.9m (Group £34.0m asset, joint ventures £4.1m liability) held at this date by £2.0m, with £0.3m being credited to the income statement 
and £2.3m being charged directly to the statement of comprehensive income.
It has not been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the further 2% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the Group’s future tax 
charge and reduce the deferred tax assets accordingly.
d) Tax losses
At the balance sheet date the Group has unused income tax losses of £10.9m (2010: £2.5m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred 
tax asset has been recognised in respect of £8.4m (2010: £nil) of income losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the 
remaining losses, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams against which these losses could be offset. Under present tax legislation, these 
losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
10 
Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2010 of 39.5 pence (2009 of 37.0 pence) 14.6 13.6
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2011 of 20.0 pence (2010 of 18.5 pence) 7.5 6.8
 22.1 20.4
The proposed final dividend of 44.0 pence (2010: 39.5 pence) bringing the total dividend for the year to 64.0 pence (2010: 58.0 pence) had not been 
approved at the balance sheet date and so has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. The dividend totalling £16.6m will be paid 
on 30 November 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 September 2011. A scrip dividend alternative will be offered.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
81
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
11 
Earnings per share
A reconciliation of profit and earnings per share, as reported in the income statement, to adjusted profit and earnings per share is set out below. The 
adjustments are made to illustrate the impact of exceptional items and the amortisation of intangible assets.
2011 2010
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
restated restated
 £m £m £m £m
Earnings (after tax and minority interests), being net profits attributable to
equity holders of the parent 61.8 61.8 39.7 39.7
Exclude: exceptional items (7.0) (7.0) 2.0 2.0
Tax thereon (2.1) (2.1) 4.5 4.5
Earnings excluding exceptional items 52.7 52.7 46.2 46.2
Add: amortisation of intangible assets 3.4 3.4 2.9 2.9
Less: tax on amortisation of intangible assets (0.9) (0.9) (0.8) (0.8)
Adjusted earnings 55.2 55.2 48.3 48.3
 million million million million
Weighted average number of shares 37.2 37.2 36.7 36.7
Weighted average impact of LTIP and Sharesave Scheme – 0.5 – 0.3
Weighted average number of shares used for earnings per share 37.2 37.7 36.7 37.0
 pence pence pence pence
Earnings per share 166.1 163.9 108.2 107.3
Earnings per share (excluding exceptional items) 141.7 139.8 125.9
1
124.9
1
Adjusted earnings per share (excluding exceptional items and the 
amortisation of intangible assets) 148.4 146.4 131.6
1
130.5
1
1
 The figures for the prior year have been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy to include profits on disposal of PFI investments within the 
profit from operations before exceptional items as detailed in note 1. 82
 
12 
Intangible assets
Building
maintenance Other
contract contract
Goodwill rights rights Total
 £m £m £m £m
Cost    
At 1 July 2010 10.7 29.1 3.3 43.1
Acquired on acquisitions 2.7 – – 2.7
At 30 June 2011 13.4 29.1 3.3 45.8
Amortisation    
At 1 July 2010 – 15.4 – 15.4
Charge for the year – 3.1 0.3 3.4
At 30 June 2011 – 18.5 0.3 18.8
Net book value    
At 30 June 2011 13.4 10.6 3.0 27.0
At 30 June 2010 10.7 13.7 3.3 27.7
Cost    
At 1 July 2009 5.2 18.5 – 23.7
Acquired on acquisitions 5.5 6.5 7.2 19.2
Additions – 4.1 – 4.1
Impairments – – (3.9) (3.9)
At 30 June 2010 10.7 29.1 3.3 43.1
Amortisation    
At 1 July 2009 – 12.5 – 12.5
Charge for the year – 2.9 – 2.9
At 30 June 2010 – 15.4 – 15.4
Net book value    
At 30 June 2010 10.7 13.7 3.3 27.7
At 30 June 2009 5.2 6.0 – 11.2
Goodwill at 1 July 2010 relates to the acquisition of Kier Partnership Homes Limited (£5.2m), Kent LEP (£0.7m) and Pure Recycling Limited (£4.8m). 
The goodwill on acquisitions during the year relates to the acquisition of Beco Limited (£2.6m) and Kier Developments Limited (£0.1m) (see note 
28). These balances have been subject to an annual impairment review based upon projected profits of each business.
Building maintenance contract rights relate to the acquisition by the Group of the business and assets of the construction and building services 
operations of Sheffield City Council (£19.9m), Harlow Council (£0.8m), Stoke-on-Trent City Council (£1.9m) and North Tyneside Council (£6.5m). These 
are being amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining lives of the contracts. These contracts are in partnership with the respective councils 
who have retained a participatory ownership interest and the rights for a minority share of the profits. These profit shares are reflected in the income 
statement as attributable to minority interests. The amounts for the year to June 2011 are, Sheffield City Council £nil (2010: £0.3m), Harlow Council 
£0.2m (2010: £0.3m), Stoke-on-Trent City Council £0.2m (2010: £0.1m) and North Tyneside Council £0.1m (2010: £0.1m).
Other contract rights relate to the acquisition of the Kent LEP (£1.3m) and Pure Recycling Limited (£2.0m). These balances are being amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the lives of the contracts.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
83
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
13 
Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and vehicles Mining
buildings and fixtures assets Total
 £m £m £m £m
Cost    
At 1 July 2010 42.6 106.7 23.3 172.6
Acquired on acquisitions 9.0 0.1 – 9.1
Additions 2.0 18.5 8.1 28.6
Disposals (9.6) (9.7) – (19.3)
Currency realignment – (0.4) – (0.4)
At 30 June 2011 44.0 115.2 31.4 190.6
Accumulated depreciation    
At 1 July 2010 3.5 65.1 19.6 88.2
Charge for the year 0.8 11.3 2.4 14.5
Disposals (0.3) (8.5) – (8.8)
Write-downs 0.9 – – 0.9
Currency realignment – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 30 June 2011 4.9 67.7 22.0 94.6
Net book value    
At 30 June 2011 39.1 47.5 9.4 96.0
At 30 June 2010 39.1 41.6 3.7 84.4
Cost    
At 1 July 2009 39.4 104.7 22.6 166.7
Acquired on acquisitions 2.5 0.2 – 2.7
Additions 0.7 9.2 0.7 10.6
Disposals – (8.3) – (8.3)
Currency realignment – 0.9 – 0.9
At 30 June 2010 42.6 106.7 23.3 172.6
Accumulated depreciation    
At 1 July 2009 2.8 60.6 16.4 79.8
Charge for the year 0.7 10.8 3.2 14.7
Disposals – (6.8) – (6.8)
Currency realignment – 0.5 – 0.5
At 30 June 2010 3.5 65.1 19.6 88.2
Net book value    
At 30 June 2010 39.1 41.6 3.7 84.4
At 30 June 2009 36.6 44.1 6.2 86.9 84
 
14 
Investment in joint ventures
a) Movements in year
2011 2010
 £m £m
Investment in joint ventures  
  At 1 July 23.9 30.4
  Additions 6.8 0.8
  Loan repayments – (0.2)
  Disposals (25.6) (2.9)
  Share of trading results after taxation 0.4 (1.3)
  Net expense recognised directly in equity 5.4 (2.9)
  Deferred tax on items recognised directly in equity (1.7) 0.8
  Dividends received (0.1) (0.8)
  At 30 June 9.1 23.9
During the year to June 2011 the Group disposed of its interest in three PFI joint ventures with a book value of £7.3m. In addition the Group increased 
its interest in Kier Developments Limited from 50% to 100% and as a consequence the £18.3m book value of its existing investment has been treated 
as a disposal from investment in joint ventures. Further details of these disposals are provided in note 28.
b) Analysis of investment
2011 2010
Kier
Developments Other joint
Total Limited ventures Total
 £m £m £m £m
Investment in joint ventures    
  Property, plant and equipment 3.0 8.7 3.6 12.3
  Deferred tax assets 2.8 2.6 4.4 7.0
  Other non-current assets 167.0 – 209.7 209.7
  Current assets 28.0 72.5 31.7 104.2
  Gross assets 200.8 83.8 249.4 333.2
  Payables – current (14.4) (3.3) (20.4) (23.7)
  Long-term borrowings (174.7) (82.4) (215.3) (297.7)
  Financial instruments (10.3) (0.7) (15.0) (15.7)
  Deferred tax liabilities (6.9) – (6.7) (6.7)
  Net external liabilities (5.5) (2.6) (8.0) (10.6)
Loans provided to joint ventures 14.6 20.3 14.2 34.5
Total investment in joint ventures 9.1 17.7 6.2 23.9
The Group has provided a guarantee of £7.5m to support a £15.0m borrowing facility of a joint venture, Solum Regeneration LP. Borrowings of £3.9m 
were outstanding on this facility at 30 June 2011. Other than as disclosed above the liabilities of the joint ventures are without recourse to the Group. 
Details of the Group’s interests in joint ventures are given on page 103.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
85
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
15 
Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year.
Property, Short-term Retirement
Intangible plant and temporary benefit
assets equipment differences obligations Tax losses Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2009 – (2.8) (3.5) 32.1 2.8 28.6
Acquired on acquisitions (1.3) – – – – (1.3)
(Charge)/credit to income 0.4 1.7 2.6 (10.6) (2.8) (8.7)
Credit/(charge) direct to comprehensive income – – (0.3) 2.9 – 2.6
At 30 June 2010 (0.9) (1.1) (1.2) 24.4 – 21.2
Acquired on acquisitions – – 20.0 – 2.2 22.2
(Charge)/credit to income 0.1 0.6 5.6 (8.9) – (2.6)
Charge direct to comprehensive income – – – (7.8) – (7.8)
Share-based payments charged to equity – – 1.0 – – 1.0
At 30 June 2011 (0.8) (0.5) 25.4 7.7 2.2 34.0
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributed to temporary differences relating to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets – – (0.8) (0.9) (0.8) (0.9)
Property, plant and equipment 3.8 2.9 (4.3) (4.0) (0.5) (1.1)
Inventories 19.1 2.3 – (0.1) 19.1 2.2
Payables 19.7 14.5 (16.0) (18.9) 3.7 (4.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 8.1 24.4 (0.4) – 7.7 24.4
Share-based payments 2.6 1.0 – – 2.6 1.0
Tax losses 2.2 – – – 2.2 –
Total 55.5 45.1 (21.5) (23.9) 34.0 21.2
Set-off tax (21.1) (20.7) 21.1 20.7 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 34.4 24.4 (0.4) (3.2) 34.0 21.2
16 
Inventories
2011 2010
 £m £m
Raw materials and consumables 4.8 6.3
Construction contracts in progress 38.2 33.2
Land and work in progress held for development 379.1 359.0
Other work in progress 8.8 8.3
 430.9 406.8
Land and work in progress held for development at 30 June 2011 is shown after making a write-down of £32.6m (2010: £nil) to reduce the values 
on certain sites to net realisable value. 86
 
17 
Construction contracts
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date comprise contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less losses of £7,202.5m (2010: £7,046.8m), 
less progress billings received and receivable of £7,317.0m (2010: £7,144.8m).
The net balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Inventories 38.2 33.2
Trade and other payables (152.7) (131.1)
 (114.5) (97.9)
18 
Trade and other receivables
2011 2010
 £m £m
Current:  
Trade receivables 233.8 248.7
Construction contract retentions 44.2 44.7
Amounts receivable from joint ventures 2.0 1.3
Other receivables 22.2 12.9
Prepayments and accrued income 27.7 22.5
 329.9 330.1
Non-current:  
Construction contract retentions 17.6 15.2
Other receivables – 0.1
 17.6 15.3
19 
Cash, cash equivalents and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s bank balances, interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information 
about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 25.
2011 2010
 £m £m
Bank balances and cash in hand 144.4 186.8
Bank deposits with a maturity of less than three months 50.7 18.7
Cash and cash equivalents 195.1 205.5
Long-term borrowings (30.3) (30.3)
Net funds in the statement of cash flows 164.8 175.2
Long-term borrowings comprise a ten-year private placement of loan notes made in February 2003. The borrowings are unsecured and fixed at an 
interest rate of 6.4% per annum for ten years. Further information on these borrowings is detailed in note 25.
Cash and cash equivalents include £19.8m (2010: £4.9m) being the Group’s share of cash and cash equivalents held by joint arrangements and 
£52.8m (2010: £46.8m) of cash that cannot be offset against other Group bank balances.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
87
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
20 
Trade and other payables
2011 2010
restated
 £m £m
Current:  
Payments received on account 2.0 0.3
Trade payables 518.8 552.6
Construction contract balances 152.7 131.1
Deferred consideration on acquisitions 2.4 1.8
Other taxation and social security costs 26.4 27.1
Other payables 12.7 15.6
Accruals and deferred income 84.2 83.0
 799.2 811.5
Non-current:  
Trade payables 7.1 7.8
Deferred considerations on acquisitions 57.8 6.3
Accruals and deferred income 3.4 5.5
 68.3 19.6
As a result of the acquisition of Kier Developments Limited the amount due by the Group for deferred consideration on acquisitions at 30 June 2011 
is material. Consequently the deferred consideration has now been separately disclosed in the above note and the position at 30 June 2010 has been 
restated accordingly. The impact of this restatement was to separately disclose £1.8m of current deferred consideration and £6.3m of non-current 
deferred consideration and reduce trade payables by the same amounts.
21 
Provisions
Captive
insurance Restoration of Other
company mining sites provisions Total
 £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2010 17.3 6.6 37.1 61.0
Reversed – – (16.4) (16.4)
Utilised (5.3) (0.2) (11.9) (17.4)
Unwinding of discount – 0.7 – 0.7
Additions 6.1 0.2 17.0 23.3
At 30 June 2011 18.1 7.3 25.8 51.2
Due to the nature of the liabilities in the Group’s captive insurance company, the timing of any potential future outflows in respect of these liabilities 
is uncertain.
Future outflows in respect of the restoration of mining sites are expected to occur over the next five years.
It is anticipated that the amounts provided will be utilised as follows:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Due within one year 10.0 5.5
Due after one year 41.2 55.5
 51.2 61.0 88
 
22 
Share capital and reserves
Share capital
The share capital of the Company comprises:
2011 2010
 Number £m Number £m
Issued and fully paid shares of 1p each 38,160,025 0.4 37,477,386 0.4
During the year 682,639 ordinary shares were issued at a total premium of £8,067,000, of which 661,054 were issued as a scrip dividend alternative 
at a premium of £7,903,000 and 21,585 were issued under the Sharesave Scheme at a premium of £164,000.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of 
the Company.
Cash flow hedge reserve
This reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged 
transactions that have not yet occurred, together with any related deferred taxation.
Translation reserve
This reserve comprises the cumulative difference on exchange arising from the retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 this reserve was set to nil at July 2004.
23 
Share-based payments
Options and awards over the Company’s ordinary shares at 30 June 2011 were as follows:
Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave LTIP LTIP LTIP
 Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme 2009 award 2010 award 2011 award Total
Date of grant 1 May 17 April 30 April 28 April 17 November 13 October 15 November
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010  
Awards outstanding at 
30 June 2011        
  – directors – 3,660 – 784 149,608 92,885 119,908 366,845
  – employees 83,794 989,834 248,050 272,884 277,199 185,829 493,450 2,551,040
 83,794 993,494 248,050 273,668 426,807 278,714 613,358 2,917,885
Sharesave Scheme
Options were granted on 28 April 2011 at an exercise price of 1,150p. These are exercisable at the holders’ discretion from 1 July 2014 until  
1 January 2015.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
89
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
23 
Share-based payments continued
LTIP
Awards made under the scheme are normally able to vest following the third anniversary of the date of the grant. Vesting may be in full or in part (with 
the balance of the award lapsing), and is subject to the Group achieving specific performance targets.
The awards which are taken as shares are intended to be satisfied from the following shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust 
rather than from the issue of new shares. These shares are accounted for as a deduction from retained earnings.
2011 2010
 Number of shares £m Number of shares £m
At 1 July 522,664 9.2 525,837 9.3
Acquired during the year – – 848 –
Issued in satisfaction of awards – – (4,021) (0.1)
At 30 June 522,664 9.2 522,664 9.2
The market value of these shares at 30 June 2011 was £7.1m. The dividends on these shares have been waived.
A description of these schemes and the terms and conditions of each scheme are included in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 53 and 54.
Value of share schemes
The fair value per option granted has been calculated using the following assumptions. These calculations are based on the Black-Scholes model for 
all options apart from the TSR element of the LTIP which is based on a stochastic model.
LTIP LTIP
LTIP LTIP 2011 2011
Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave 2009 2010 award award
 Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme award award (EPS element) (TSR element)
Date of grant 1 May 17 April 30 April 28 April 17 November 13 October 15 November 15 November
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2010
Share price at grant 1,166.0p 907.0p 1,140.0p 1,330p 780.0p 1,055.0p 1,271p 1,271p
Exercise price 1,400.0p 750.0p 1,025.0p 1,150p nil nil nil nil
Option life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 34.7% 42.1% 42.4% 38.5% N/A N/A N/A 41.3%
Dividend yield 5.0% 6.1% 4.9% 4.5% 7.1% 5.1% 4.6% 4.6%
Risk-free interest rate 4.4% 2.2% 1.7% 1.6% N/A N/A N/A 1.2%
Value per option 173.0p 237.0p 291.0p 325.0p 627.0p 928.0p 1,108.5p 684.1p
The value per option represents the fair value of the option less the consideration payable.
The fair value of the TSR element incorporates an assessment of the number of shares that will be awarded, as the performance conditions are 
market conditions under IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’.
The performance conditions of the EPS element are non-market conditions under IFRS 2. The fair value therefore does not include an assessment 
of the number of shares that will be awarded. Instead the amount charged for this element is based on the fair value factored by a ‘true-up’ for the 
number of awards that are expected to vest.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government 
bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 90
 
23 
Share-based payments continued
The total charge for the year relating to share-based payment plans was:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Equity-settled 2.7 1.4
Cash-settled including employer’s national insurance 0.4 0.1
Total charge recognised as employee costs 3.1 1.5
Included in the other payables is an amount of £0.6m (2010: £0.2m) relating to provisions for employer’s national insurance and cash-settled share-
based payments.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below:
2011 2010
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number exercise Number exercise
 of options price of options price
Outstanding at 1 July 2,351,826 529.0p 2,236,491 563.3p
Forfeited (329,306) 342.5p (504,118) 607.4p
Exercised (21,585) 762.1p (8,455) 393.3p
Granted 916,950 345.2p 627,908 468.0p
Outstanding at 30 June 2,917,885 490.6p 2,351,826 529.0p
Exercisable at 30 June – – – –
The options outstanding at 30 June 2011 have a weighted average contractual life of 1.7 years (2010: 2.2 years).
24 
Guarantees and contingent liabilities
There are contingent liabilities in respect of performance bonds, guarantees and claims under contracting and other arrangements, including joint 
arrangements and joint ventures, entered into in the normal course of business.
25 
Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group and Company manage their capital to ensure their ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital structure to 
reduce the cost of capital. The capital structure of the Group and Company comprises: equity attributable to equity holders of Kier Group plc, consisting 
of issued share capital; reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity; and cash, cash equivalents 
and borrowings as disclosed in note 19.
The Group and Company maintain or adjust their capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders, issue of new shares and issuing 
or repaying borrowings. The Group’s policy is to carry no significant debt, other than the non-recourse debt of joint ventures engaged in commercial 
property and PFI projects.
The Group’s overall capital risk management strategy remains unchanged from 2010.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
91
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
25 
Financial instruments continued
Financial risk management
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. In the course of its business, the Group is exposed primarily to 
credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk. The overall aim of the Group’s financial risk management policies is to minimise potential adverse effects 
on financial performance and net assets.
The Group’s treasury department manages the principal financial risks within policies and operating parameters approved by the Board. Treasury is 
not a profit centre and does not enter into speculative transactions. Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in 
interest and exchange rates.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as trade receivables, short-term bank deposits and interest rate and currency hedges.
Policies and procedures exist to ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history.
Short-term bank deposits and hedging transactions are executed only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties based on ratings issued 
by the major ratings agencies. Counterparty exposure positions are monitored regularly so that credit exposures to any one counterparty are within 
predetermined limits. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Trade and other receivables included in the balance sheet are stated net of a bad debt provision which has been estimated by management following 
a review of individual receivable accounts. There is no Group-wide rate of provision, and provision made for debts that are overdue is based on 
prior default experience and known factors at the balance sheet date. Receivables are written off against the bad debt provision when management 
considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables is set out below.
2011 2010
 £m £m
Provision as at 1 July 7.4 3.6
Increase in provision during the year 0.2 4.2
Provision utilised during the year (0.1) –
Provision released during the year (2.1) (0.4)
Provision as at 30 June 5.4 7.4
There are £50.7m (2010: £53.8m) of trade receivables that were overdue at the balance sheet date that have not been provided against, of which 
£35.6m (2010: £40.2m) had been received by the end of August 2011. There are no indications as at 30 June 2011 that the debtors will not meet their 
payment obligations in respect of the amount of trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are overdue and unprovided. The proportion 
of trade receivables at 30 June 2011 that were overdue for payment was 22% (2010: 21%). Credit terms vary across the Group; the average age of 
trade receivables was as follows:
Construction 43 days (2010: 50 days)
Services 25 days (2010: 29 days).
Overall, the Group considers that it is not exposed to a significant amount of credit risk. 92
 
25 
Financial instruments continued
Market risk
Interest rate risk
The Group has hedged part of its exposure to interest rate movements through a private placement of £30.3m of loan notes for ten years from 
February 2003, which bear interest on a fixed rate basis at 6.4% p.a. The Group has bank deposits which are subject to floating rates of interest 
linked to the UK base rate. The Group has borrowing facilities to finance short-term working capital requirements. Such borrowings are subject to 
floating rates of interest linked to LIBOR.
In addition, a number of the Group’s PFI joint ventures have entered into interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates primarily within the UK such that its exposure to currency risk is not considered to be significant.
Where foreign currency exposures are identified these are hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient borrowing facilities are available to fund ongoing operations without the need to carry 
significant net debt over the medium term. The Group’s principal borrowing facilities are provided by a group of core relationship banks in the form of 
unsecured committed borrowing facilities. The quantum of committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is reviewed regularly and is designed 
to exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
Derivative financial instruments
Current
assets
At 30 June 2011 £m
Fuel price forward contracts 0.2
Fuel price forward contracts have been accounted for as derivatives held at fair value through the income statement. The fair value of these contracts 
have been determined based on a level 2 valuation method, using valuation techniques that include inputs that are based on observable market data.
In addition to the above, a number of the Group’s PFI joint ventures have entered into interest rate derivatives as a means of hedging interest rate 
risk. Interest-bearing debts and associated interest rate derivatives within these joint ventures have a typical term of between 25 and 30 years and 
are without recourse to the Group. At 30 June 2011 the aggregate amount outstanding on these interest-bearing debts against which interest rate 
derivatives are held is £145.1m. The Group’s share of the total net fair value liability of these interest rate derivatives at 30 June 2011, based on 
quoted prices in active markets, amounted to £10.3m which, together with the related deferred tax asset of £2.7m, have met the criteria for hedge 
accounting and as a result have been recognised directly in equity.
Financial assets – analysis by currency and maturity dates
At 30 June 2011 the Group had cash, and short-term deposits denominated in the following currencies:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Currency:  
Sterling 171.7 200.1
US dollar 1.3 0.6
Euro 1.1 1.2
Hong Kong dollar 14.6 –
UAE dirhams 5.9 –
Other 0.5 3.6
Total 195.1 205.5
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
93
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
25 
Financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities – analysis of maturity dates
At 30 June 2011 the Group had the following financial liabilities together with the maturity profile of their contractual cash flows:
Deferred Derivative
Trade consideration Long-term financial
payables on acquisitions borrowings instruments Total
 £m £m £m £m £m
30 June 2011     
Carrying value 525.9 60.2 30.3 – 616.4
Contractual cash flows     
Less than one year 518.8 2.4 – – 521.2
One to two years 7.1 32.6 30.3 – 70.0
Two to three years – 27.8 – – 27.8
Three to four years – 0.8 – – 0.8
Four to five years – 0.6 – – 0.6
 525.9 64.2 30.3 – 620.4
30 June 2010     
Carrying value 560.4 8.1 30.3 0.3 599.1
Contractual cash flows     
Less than one year 552.6 1.8 – 0.2 554.6
One to two years 7.9 2.0 – 0.1 10.0
Two to three years – 1.9 30.3 – 32.2
Three to four years – 1.8 – – 1.8
Four to five years – 0.8 – – 0.8
More than five years – 0.6 – – 0.6
 560.5 8.9 30.3 0.3 600.0
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of the Group’s financial liabilities. The carrying value is calculated by 
discounting expected future cash flows.
The long-term borrowings represent a £17.0m UK sterling loan and a £13.4m US dollar loan, net of £0.1m of capitalised finance costs, from the 
private placement of loan notes made in February 2003. The loans are repayable in one payment in February 2013. The UK sterling loan is at a fixed 
interest rate of 6.4% for the term of the loan. The Group has entered into interest payment and repayment swaps for the US dollar loan, which give 
an effective 6.4% fixed interest rate for the term of the loan. 94
 
25 
Financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities
The Group has £90.0m (2010: £67.5m) of unsecured committed borrowing facilities due for renewal in February 2014.
These facilities are subject to certain covenants linked to the Group’s financing structure, specifically regarding the ratios of debt to interest and 
profit, and consolidated tangible net worth. The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the period.
In addition the Group has £10.0m (2010: £10.0m) of unsecured overdraft facilities repayable on demand.
26 
Financial and capital commitments
2011 2010
 £m £m
Commitments for capital expenditure in subsidiaries 7.1 6.9
Commitments for equity and subordinate debt in PFI joint ventures 5.0 11.9
 12.1 18.8
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2011 2010
Plant and Plant and
Property machinery Property machinery
 £m £m £m £m
Within one year 3.9 10.0 3.0 10.8
Between one and five years 10.9 12.2 8.0 16.8
Over five years 5.7 – 7.4 –
 20.5 22.2 18.4 27.6
The Group leases properties and vehicles for operational purposes. Property leases vary considerably in length up to a maximum period of 99 years. 
Vehicle leases typically run for a period of four years. None of the leases includes contingent rentals.
27 
Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its joint arrangements, joint ventures, key management personnel and pension schemes in which its 
employees participate.
Transactions with key management personnel
The Group’s key management personnel are the executive and non-executive directors as identified in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 
51 to 59.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to directors and contributes to a post-employment defined benefit plan on 
their behalf.
Key management personnel also participate in the Group’s share option programme (see note 23).
Key management personnel compensation comprised:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Total emoluments as analysed in the directors’ remuneration report 3.8 3.3
Employers’ national insurance contributions 0.6 0.4
Total short-term employment benefits 4.4 3.7
Share-based payment charge – 0.3
 4.4 4.0
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
95
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
27 
Related parties continued
Transactions with pension schemes
In June 2011 the Group transferred its 50% interest in Sheffield Schools PFI Project (Academy Services (Sheffield) Holdings Limited) to the Kier Group 
Pension Scheme. Further details of this transaction and all other transactions between the Group and pension schemes in which its employees 
participate are detailed in note 8.
Transactions with joint arrangements and joint ventures
2011 2010
 £m £m
Construction services and materials 75.9 91.5
Staff and associated costs 0.6 0.3
Management services 2.2 1.7
Interest on loans to joint ventures 2.4 1.9
 81.1 95.4
Amounts due from joint ventures are analysed below:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Academy Services (Norwich) Limited – 1.7
Academy Services (Oldham) Limited – 2.5
Academy Services (Sheffield) Limited – 2.7
ASK (Greenwich) Limited 0.8 0.8
Information Resources (Bournemouth) Limited 0.7 0.7
Information Resources (Oldham) Limited 0.9 0.9
Justice Support Services (North Kent) Limited 1.7 1.7
Kent PFI Company 1 Limited 7.8 –
Prospect Healthcare (Hinchingbrooke) Limited 1.2 1.2
Prospect Healthcare (Ipswich) Limited 1.4 1.4
Prospect Healthcare (Reading) Limited 1.7 1.7
Kier Developments Limited – 20.3
Saudi Comedat Co. – 0.2
Solum Regeneration LP 0.4 –
 16.6 35.8 96
 
28 
Acquisitions and disposals
a) Summary of consideration paid for acquisitions during the year net of bank balances, overdrafts and loans acquired
2011 2010
 £m £m
Beco Limited 1.8 –
Kier Developments Limited 33.9 –
Construction and building services operations of North Tyneside Council 1.0 3.4
Kent LEP – 2.2
Pure Recycling 1.0 2.0
Hugh Bourn Developments (Wragby) Limited – 0.5
Total 37.7 8.1
External costs of £0.8m have been incurred and expensed during the year to 30 June 2011 on the acquisition of Beco Limited (£0.2m) and Kier 
Developments Limited (£0.6m).
Acquisition of investment in Beco Limited
On 22 November 2010 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Limited, purchased the entire issued share capital of Beco Limited (Beco). The 
consideration representing the fair value of the net assets acquired is payable wholly in cash.
The total of the consideration for the purchase was £2.4m, of which £1.3m was paid in cash in November 2010. The balance of £1.1m is due in 
instalments by November 2013. £0.7m of this balance is contingent on the results of the business acquired. It has been discounted to its present 
value of £1.0m.
The fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired and the goodwill arising from the transaction are as follows:
Fair value
 £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Inventories 0.4
Receivables 0.8
Payables (1.1)
Bank overdraft and loans (0.5)
Identifiable net assets (0.3)
Goodwill 2.6
Total consideration 2.3
The acquisition of Beco resulted in £2.6m of goodwill. This goodwill was paid as the acquisition gave the Group immediate access to the solar 
photovoltaic market through Beco’s industry accreditation and the knowledge and experience of its staff.
The cash outflow in respect of this acquisition during the year ended 30 June 2011 was £1.8m, being £1.3m of consideration and £0.5m for the 
repayment of bank overdrafts and loans acquired.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
97
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
28 
Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisition of investment in Kier Developments Limited
On 14 April 2011 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Property Limited, acquired from Lloyds Banking Group its 50% interest in the jointly owned 
Kier Developments Limited incorporating a portfolio of real estate assets.
As a result of the transaction, Kier Property Limited now owns the entire issued share capital of Kier Developments Limited.
The total amount payable to Lloyds Banking Group for the purchase was £91.0m, of which £35.0m was paid in cash in April 2011. The balance of 
£56.0m is due in two instalments of £30.0m in October 2012 and £26.0m in October 2013. It has been discounted to its present value of £52.1m.
This transaction has been accounted for as a step acquisition under IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’.
The carrying value of the Group’s existing 50% interest in Kier Developments Limited on 14 April 2011 was £18.3m, comprising a shareholder loan 
of £20.3m net of £2.0m for the Group’s share of the retained losses of Kier Developments Limited at the date of acquisition.
The directors determined that the fair value of the pre-existing interest in the joint venture was the same as its carrying value of £18.3m, and 
therefore no gain or loss has been recognised within the income statement to reflect the deemed disposal of the interest in the joint venture. The 
total consideration due to the Lloyds Banking Group for the remaining 50% interest is £91.0m. The level of consideration in comparison to the fair 
value for the previous 50% interest reflects the debt-free state in which the entity is being bought as existing bank debt and shareholder loans are 
being capitalised into equity as part of the transaction.
The fair value of the existing 50% interest has been calculated on a value in use basis, incorporating knowledge of the current development sites and 
access to clients and employees of the business.
The fair values of the identifiable net assets of the whole of Kier Developments Limited and the goodwill arising from the transaction are as follows:
Fair value
 £m
Property, plant and equipment 9.0
Deferred tax asset 22.2
Inventories 76.2
Receivables 5.7
Bank balances 1.1
Payables (8.9)
Identifiable net assets 105.3
Goodwill 0.1
Total fair value 105.4
The gross contractual amount of receivables was £13.8m. The fair value of these receivables was £5.7m as it is estimated that £8.1m will not be 
received.
The total fair value of the whole of Kier Developments Limited, on increasing the Group’s ownership from 50% to 100%, is made up as follows:
 £m
Payable to Lloyds Banking Group for their existing 50% equity interest and outstanding bank loans: 
  Cash paid in April 2011 35.0
  Deferred consideration of £56.0m discounted to present value 52.1
 87.1
Fair value of the previous 50% interest in Kier Developments Limited 18.3
Total fair value 105.4
The cash outflow in respect of this acquisition during the year ended 30 June 2011 was £33.9m, being £35.0m paid to Lloyds Banking Group net of 
£1.1m of bank balances acquired. 98
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
28 
Acquisitions and disposals continued
In the period from 14 April 2011 Kier Developments Limited contributed revenue of £15.1m and profit before tax of £4.2m.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2010, the directors have estimated that consolidated revenue would have been £59.4m, and consolidated 
profit before tax for the year would have been £4.1m. In determining these amounts, it has been assumed that the fair value adjustments, determined 
provisionally, that arose on the acquisition date would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2010.
Acquisition of the business and assets of the construction and building services operation of North Tyneside Council
On 6 September 2009 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier North Tyneside Limited, acquired the business and assets of the building services 
operation of North Tyneside Council. The consideration, payable wholly in cash, was £6.9m, representing the value of the net assets acquired.
The consideration is payable as follows:
 £m
Total consideration payable 6.9
Paid at 30 June 2010 (3.4)
Paid during the year to 30 June 2011 (1.0)
Unwinding of discount 0.2
Deferred at 30 June 2011 2.7
The deferred consideration is a fixed payment due in instalments by March 2014. It has been discounted to its present value.
Acquisition of investment in Pure Recycling
On 14 May 2010 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Services Limited, purchased the entire issued share capital of Pure Recycling Warwick Limited 
and Pure Buildings Limited. The consideration, payable wholly in cash, was £6.4m, representing the fair value of the net assets acquired.
The consideration is payable as follows:
 £m
Total consideration payable 6.4
Paid at 30 June 2010 (2.0)
Paid during the year to 30 June 2011 (1.0)
Unwinding of discount 0.4
Deferred at 30 June 2011 3.8
The deferred consideration is contingent on the completion of certain events and on the results of the business acquired and is due in instalments 
by October 2016. It has been discounted to its present value.
b) Disposal of investments in joint ventures
During the year the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Project Investment Limited, sold its investments in three PFI projects, for combined consideration 
of £13.7m (Sheffield Schools £4.5m, Oldham Schools £5.4m and Norwich Schools £3.8m).
Oldham Schools and Norwich Schools were sold externally and the cash consideration was received in full. Sheffield Schools was transferred to the 
Kier Group Pension Scheme. Further details of this transfer are provided in note 8.
During the prior year the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Project Investment Limited, sold its investment in two PFI projects, Waltham Forest Schools 
and Tendring Schools, for a combined cash consideration of £7.3m, received in full in December 2009.
The disposal proceeds can be reconciled to the profits on disposal as follows:
2011 2010
 £m £m
Sales proceeds 13.7 7.3
Book value of net assets and loans of joint ventures (7.3) (2.9)
Sale costs and loan interest receivable included in sales proceeds (0.5) (0.2)
Profit on disposal 5.9 4.2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
99
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
2011 2010
 Notes £m £m
Fixed assets   
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 5 90.3 105.3
Current assets   
Debtors 6 6.2 4.6
Cash at bank and in hand 196.5 187.8
  202.7 192.4
Current liabilities   
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 7 (173.5) (206.6)
Net current liabilities 29.2 (14.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 119.5 91.1
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (30.3) (30.3)
Net assets 89.2 60.8
Capital and reserves   
Share capital 8 0.4 0.4
Share premium 9 46.9 38.8
Merger relief reserve 9 1.2 1.2
Capital redemption reserve 9 2.7 2.7
Sharescheme reserve 9 (5.1) (8.5)
Profit and loss account 9 43.1 26.2
Shareholders’ funds 10 89.2 60.8
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 14 September 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
M P Sheffield
H J Mursell
Directors
99
Company balance sheet
At 30 June 2011 (registered company number 2708030) 100
 
1 
Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing 
with items which are considered material.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention and in accordance with UK GAAP.
A cash flow statement has not been presented as permitted by FRS 1 
(revised) ‘Cash flow statements’.
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the balance sheet 
at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Deferred taxation
In accordance with FRS 19 ‘Deferred tax’, deferred taxation is provided 
fully and on a non-discounted basis at expected future corporation tax 
rates in respect of timing differences between profits computed for 
taxation and accounts purposes.
Own shares
The cost of the Company’s investment in its own shares, which comprises 
shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose 
of funding the Company’s share option plans, is shown as a reduction in 
shareholders’ funds in retained earnings.
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments under the 
Sharesave and LTIP schemes. The fair value of these schemes at the date 
of grant is expressed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based 
on the estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Share-based payments 
are charged wholly to the ultimate parent company, which makes internal 
recharges to subsidiaries for these services as appropriate.
Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities are cash at bank 
and borrowings. Cash at bank is carried in the balance sheet at nominal 
value. Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
at amortised cost.
The consolidated financial statements include disclosures in note 25 under 
IFRS 7 which comply with FRS 29 ‘Financial Instruments and Disclosures’. 
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of certain exemptions 
in FRS 29 from the requirement to present separate financial instrument 
disclosures for the Company.
2 
Profit for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 
has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
The auditors’ remuneration for audit services to the Company was £4,337 
(2010: £4,265). No other services were provided to the Company.
3 
Information relating to directors and employees
Information relating to directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, share 
options and LTIP interests appears in the directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 51 to 59. The Company has no other employees other than 
the directors.
4 
Dividends
Details of the dividends paid by the Company are included in note 10 of 
the consolidated financial statements.
5 
Fixed assets – investments
 £m
Cost at 1 July 2010 and 30 June 2011 105.3
Provision for diminution in value 
At 1 July 2010 –
Movement during the year (15.0)
At 30 June 2011 (15.0)
Net book value at 
30 June 2011 90.3
30 June 2010 105.3
6 
Debtors
2011 2010
 £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Other debtors 5.6 4.0
Corporation tax 0.6 0.6
 6.2 4.6
 
7 
Creditors
2011 2010
 £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Bank overdrafts and loans 149.0 181.7
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 19.0 20.2
Other creditors 5.5 4.7
 173.5 206.6
Amounts falling due after one year:  
Long-term borrowings 30.3 30.3
Long-term borrowings due after more than one year comprise borrowings 
in respect of a ten-year private placement of loan notes made in February 
2003. The borrowings are unsecured and fixed at an interest rate of 6.4% 
per annum for ten years.
Notes to the Company financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
101
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
8 
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company are included in note 22 of the consolidated financial statements.
9 
Reserves
The movement in reserves is as follows:
Merger Capital
Share relief redemption Sharescheme Profit
premium reserve reserve reserve & loss
 £m £m £m £m £m
At 30 June 2009 36.1 1.2 2.7 (10.0) 18.6
Issue of shares 2.7 – – – –
Decrease in investment in own shares – – – 0.1 –
Movement in provision for share-based payments – – – 1.4 –
Profit for the year – – – – 28.0
Dividends paid – – – – (20.4)
At 30 June 2010 38.8 1.2 2.7 (8.5) 26.2
Issue of shares 8.1 – – – –
Movement in provision for share-based payments – – – 2.7 –
Transfer of provision for share-based payments on expired schemes – – – 0.7 (0.7)
Profit for the year – – – – 39.7
Dividends paid – – – – (22.1)
At 30 June 2011 46.9 1.2 2.7 (5.1) 43.1
The balance on the sharescheme reserve comprises the investment in own shares of £9.2m (2010: £9.2m), and a credit balance on the  
sharescheme reserve of £2.9m (2010: reserve of £0.7m).
Details of the shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust and of the share-based payment schemes are included in note 23 of the 
consolidated financial statements.
10 
Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
2011 2010
 £m £m
Opening shareholders’ funds 60.8 49.0
Profit for the year 39.7 28.0
Dividends paid (22.1) (20.4)
Issue of shares 8.1 2.7
Increase in investment in own shares – 0.1
Movement in provision for share-based payments 2.7 1.4
Closing shareholders’ funds 89.2 60.8 102
 
Construction Kier Regional Limited
 Kier Build
 Kier Eastern
 Kier London
 Kier Marriott
 Kier Moss
 Kier Northern
 Kier Scotland/Kier North East
 Kier Southern
 Kier Western
 Kier Construction Limited
 Kier Technical Services
Services Kier Services Limited
 Maintenance
  Kier Harlow Limited
  Kier Islington Limited
  Kier North Tyneside Limited
  Kier Sheffield LLP
  Kier Stoke Limited
 Facilities Management
  Kier Facilities Services Limited
 Environmental
  Pure Buildings Limited
  Pure Recycling Warwick Limited
 Asset Management
  Kier Asset Partnership Services Limited
 Energy Solutions
  Beco Limited
 Insurance Management
  Kier Insurance Management Services Limited
 Plant and Fleet Management
  Kier Plant Limited
Property Kier Property Limited
 Kier Developments Limited
 Kier Ventures Limited
 Kier Project Investment Limited
Homes Kier Homes Limited
 Kier Partnership Homes Limited
Group Services Kier Limited
 
Notes:
i) Each company is registered in England and Wales and operates 
principally within the United Kingdom. Kier Construction Limited also 
operates in Hong Kong, the Middle East and the Caribbean.
ii) The Group has entered into partnership agreements with Harlow 
Council, North Tyneside Council, Sheffield City Council and Stoke-on-
Trent City Council whereby the respective councils have a participating 
ownership interest and receive a minority share of the profits of Kier 
Harlow Limited, Kier North Tyneside Limited, Kier Sheffield LLP and 
Kier Stoke Limited.
iii) The ordinary share capital of all other companies is wholly owned. Kier 
Group plc holds directly all the shares of Kier Limited and Kier Homes 
Limited. The shares of the other companies are held by subsidiary 
undertakings.
iv) A full list of all the subsidiaries of Kier Group plc is available from the 
registered office of the Company.
Principal operating subsidiaries and business units Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Kier Group plc
103
Operating review
Financial statements
Overview
Joint arrangements
Construction
The following joint arrangements, in which the Group participation 
is between 30% and 50%, operate in the United Kingdom:
KMI Plus  a joint arrangement between Kier Construction, 
J Murphy & Sons Limited, Interserve Project 
Services Limited and Mouchel Limited
KMI  a joint arrangement between Kier Construction, 
J Murphy & Sons Limited and Interserve Project 
Services Limited
Crossrail a joint arrangement between Kier Construction,
Contracts BAM Nuttall Limited and Ferrovial Agroman
300/410 (UK) Limited
 
The following joint arrangements, in which the Group participation 
is between 30% and 50%, operate overseas in the territory 
indicated:
Hong Kong
MTRC a joint arrangement between Kier Construction,
Contract 824   Kaden Construction Limited and Obras 
Subterráneas S.A.
MTRC a joint arrangement between Kier Construction,
Contract 901  Laing O’Rourke Hong Kong Limited and Kaden 
Construction Limited
Joint ventures
 Interest held
Construction
 Incorporated and operating in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia:
 Saudi Comedat Co. 25%
Long-term concession holding under
the Private Finance Initiative
 ASK (Holdings) Limited 50%
 Blue 3 (Gloucester Fire) (Holdings) Limited 70%
 Information Resources (Holdings) Limited 50%
 Information Resources (Oldham) Holdings Limited 50%
 Justice Support Services (North Kent) Holdings Limited 42.5%
 Justice Support Services (Norfolk and Suffolk)
 Holdings Limited   42.5%
 Kent LEP1 Limited   64%
 Kent PFI Holdings Company 1 Limited 71.8%
 Prospect Healthcare (Hinchingbrooke) Holdings Limited 50%
 Prospect Healthcare (Ipswich) Holdings Limited 50%
 Prospect Healthcare (Reading) Holdings Limited 50%
Commercial property development
 Solum Regeneration LP 50%
Notes:
i) Joint arrangements are contracted agreements to co-operate on a 
specific project which is an extension of the Group’s existing business. 
Joint ventures are ongoing businesses carrying on their own trade.
ii) Except where otherwise stated the companies are incorporated and 
operate in the United Kingdom.
iii) Interests in the above joint ventures are held by subsidiary undertakings.
iv) The joint ventures where the Group has an interest in excess of 50% 
are still considered joint ventures as the Group still has joint control.
Principal joint arrangements and 
joint ventures 104
 
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Year ended 30 June £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures 2,178.8 2,098.7 2,145.6 2,374.2 2,127.9
Group operating profit 59.7 57.8 50.1 82.9 74.9
Joint ventures – share of operating profit 2.1 (0.1) 1.0 4.4 7.3
Profit on disposal of joint ventures 5.9 4.2 - 16.2 -
Total finance cost net (1.9) (2.3) (0.2) 0.9 (3.2)
Joint venture tax (0.3) 0.1 (0.3) (1.1) (1.4)
Profit before tax before exceptional items 65.5 59.7 50.6 103.3 77.6
Exceptional items 7.0 (2.0) (25.8) (39.9) –
Profit before tax 72.5 57.7 24.8 63.4 77.6
Income tax (10.2) (17.2) (7.9) (15.2) (21.3)
Profit for the year 62.3 40.5 16.9 48.2 56.3
Earnings per share     
– undiluted 166.1p 108.2p 44.1p 130.7p 155.0p
Dividend per share 64.0p 58.0p 55.0p 55.0p 50.0p
At 30 June     
Shareholders’ funds £164.2m £104.2m £92.5m £183.1m £183.0m
Net assets per share 430.3p 278.0p 248.5p 494.6p 500.4p
Financial record Directors
P M White CBE FCA Chairman
M P Sheffield BSc CEng FICE Chief Executive
S Bowcott BSc
I M Lawson FCIOB
H J Mursell BA ACA
R W Simkin BSc MRTPI (retired 30 June 2011)
R C Bailey BA ACA
C V Geoghegan BA FRAeS
N P Winser CEng FIET FIGEM
H E E Raven BA Secretary
Headquarters and Registered Office
Kier Group plc
Tempsford Hall
Sandy
Bedfordshire
SG19 2BD
Telephone: 01767 640111
www.kier.co.uk
Registered Number
England 2708030
Financial calendar
16 November 2011
Annual general meeting
30 November 2011
Payment of final dividend for 2010/11
February 2012
Announcement of half-year results
and interim dividend for 2011/12
May 2012
Payment of interim dividend
September 2012
Announcement of preliminary full-year results
and final dividend for 2011/12
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5GL
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland PLC
280 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4RB
HSBC
Metropolitan House
321 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2GA
Santander Corporate Banking
2 Triton Square
Regent’s Place
London
WM1 3AN
Lloyds Banking Group plc
10 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7AE
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London
E14 5HP
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire
HD8 0LA
Stockbrokers
J. P. Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
Designed and produced by JohnstonWorks www.johnstonworks.com
Corporate information
Contents
Kier Group plc is a leading construction, services 
and property group specialising in building and 
civil engineering, support services, residential 
and commercial property development and 
infrastructure project investment. The Group 
employs 10,700 people worldwide and has 
an annual revenue of £2.2bn.
Overview Financial statements
44 Directors’ report
47 Corporate governance statement
51 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of directors’ 
 responsibilities 
61 Independent auditors’ report to 
 the members of Kier Group plc 
62 Consolidated income statement
63 Consolidated statement 
 of comprehensive income 
63 Consolidated statement 
 of changes in equity
64 Consolidated balance sheet
65  Consolidated cash flow 
statement
66  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
99 Company balance sheet
100  Notes to the Company 
financial statements
102  Principal operating subsidiaries 
and business units
103  Principal joint arrangements 
and joint ventures 
104  Financial record
IBC  Corporate information
Operating review
1 Group highlights
2 Kier at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s review
 12 Kier Construction
 18 Kier Services
 22 Kier Property
 26 Kier Homes 
30 Corporate responsibility
34 Financial review 
39 Business risks
42 Board of Directors
Kier Annual Report online
We have now enhanced the online version 
of the Kier Annual Report. You can access 
the Report by visiting the web address 
below after 17 October, 2011.
Visit kier.co.uk/ar2011
Front cover image
There are many routes through which Kier trains and develops its workforce. 
Our mentoring programme provides site-based trainees with the opportunity to get 
real-life hands-on experience under the watchful eye of suitably qualified personnel. 
Trainee engineer Holly Brunt, who is currently undergoing the mentoring programme, 
is pictured with general foreman Jimmy Stanley at St Catherine’s & Firwood  
Academy site in Bolton.
KIE0671_Kier_Cover2_REV.indd   2 26/09/2011   08:14 Kier Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Proud to be Kier
KIER GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
Kier Group plc 
Tempsford Hall, Sandy 
Bedfordshire SG19 2BD
Tel: 01767 640111 
Fax: 01767 640002 
www.kier.co.uk
KIE0671_Kier_Cover2_REV.indd   1 29/09/2011   14:05
